Praise God from whom all blessings flow. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I want to invite you to our worship experience. It's already in progress. If you know God has been good to you. Come on, give him a praise today. If you know God has kept you, respond by letting him know how grateful you are. If God has secured you. Don't be ashamed to let him know how much you love him today. Amen. I want to just put it out there for a moment. That when you think about the goodness of Jesus and all that he's done for you It's hard to be silent. It's hard not to wave your hands. It's hard not to say, thank you, Jesus. Amen. If not for you, for somebody else who's been going through, let them know I still. Serve a risen Savior. Aren't you glad you have God today? Many things you may not have, but thank God that you got God and that He's on your side. Let's bow before the Lord today. Father, we thank you. We thank you for who you are. And that's why we exalt you. Because you sit high and you look low. Nothing is a surprise to you. You're never caught off guard. Why? Because you're God. And you love us so much that you sent your only son to die for us. We thank you. As we stand today, It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another And we'll give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. What to share from Psalm 46 and 10? It's just one passage, but I found that there's always meat in the Word of God. Forty-six and ten reads, He says, Be still and know that I am God I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Not So Fast. Not so fast. During the past week or two, me and the wife got together away to Cancun, Mexico for a nice week of relaxation. And I did something that I had never done before. I checked the daily activity list. And there were things that you could do while you were staying at the resort. I did not power sell. But it was something that I could have very well done back home, but had never tried it. So I got up the next morning, I grabbed a pair of sandals, I headed downstairs, and folk were gathered there down by the water. Beautiful sight. It don't take much to get me up to come down to a beautiful sunrise. I noticed that they had uh different maps of different colors. And also there were towels, and I was certainly excited. I looked apart like I knew what I was going to do, but I really didn't. If you haven't guessed it by now, I took part in a yoga session I could not always fold my legs correctly, but I again I looked the part. The leader was very kind, do what you can. Don't rush, but it was a time to to just spend with the Lord to pray. We prayed we meditated, but what I did know is that she was not putting anything in my head that was not holy. She had a Bible in her backhold. She's a Christian yoga woman. But I enjoyed it. I stretched. The breeze was coming in. And for that half an hour, I just took my time And said, not so fast. I enjoyed it so much. I told my wife about it. I asked her to come, she couldn't make it, but I came the second day. And by day two, I was like, you know, I can stretch better. But isn't God good? The experience helped me to recognize that we don't have to be in such a hurry. That to take time to sit and thank God that, you know, there was the ocean breeze that all helped out. But I believe in a real way God is saying that to us today Not so fast. Take your time. In the text today, it is really a psalm. And psalms are basically songs or hymns that oftentimes put to a harp. But the bottom line is a psalm is to encourage us. A psalm is to let us know that God is with us. In this case, people of God were facing an enemy. They were facing uncertainty, and just to hear a song. Has that ever helped you out before you were driving along and you just needed a song? And turns out that God put your song on the radio. A dog put your C D or your Bluetooth in so the song that you got was able to lift your burdens. Has it ever happened to you? I mean, everybody got a song. Amen. And sometimes it is a song that will lift you to a new height, bring you joy, and bring you peace. They were facing tough times. And the fact of the matter is that God is long suffering He's not willing that any should perish. He loves us so much that he will send even the method of a song to encourage our hearts today. And God knows we all need some encouragement. But the society in which we live today, it is designed to be a society of quick, you know the rest of it, fast. And in a hurry. If you don't move out this lane, I'm gonna go past you quickly. It's supposed to be an express line, but I don't have time to wait. And nowadays you don't have to. Order online, drive up, pick up your bag of groceries. Just like that. I love the grocery store. But our society has become just that. But you know, there's something about God's timing for our life. God having to slow us down. God having to minister to us. Right where he has us. But to become familiar with this God that we serve, we must know him as the person of God. Be able to follow the plan of God and to recognize the power of God. Person, plan, power. The first part of that verse says, Be still and know that I am God. It's not a suggestion. It really is a command. In other words, I'm I'm kind of telling you so. I'm not giving you an option. You you need to just be still. Maybe you found yourself in life right now that you figure what's like at our church, I'm going 100 miles and I've got 25 things to do. God may be saying to you, take time. And just chill out. He's saying to the people, be still. Habakkuk 2. 20 says, the Lord is in his holy temple. And all earth must keep silent before him. I remember that verse before I even knew it. Growing up in Florida, when a storm would come in, it would rock the house And the one TV we had, you had to unplug it. Amen? Because you might lose that TV. And I would hear our parents say The Lord is in his holy temple. Let everybody, you, June, Bo, everybody, just chill out. And let the Lord do his work. And it may be in us. That's how we get to know the person of God. Is that we've got to be still And realize that God is God alone. Now scholars agree this does not mean to just Tolichiao. You know, it it means not to stop activity, it is but to focus on the goodness of God And to be still before. Let me just ask you: do you ever take time to just stop and pause and reflect? And not rush. It's hard not not to do it, but have you tried it? And then once you left that moment, you realize, you know what I needed that. Just a moment to myself. In this case, a moment with God. A moment just to listen to him, a moment just to reflect on what I've been through, a moment just to reflect his goodness in the land of the living. That's how you get to know the person of God When you spend time with God, you get to know him as a real person, not not somebody up yonder. I can't take, oh I know it's the big guy. Well what do you mean the big guy? You mean God? That's what I'm talking about. That's the one who I serve. It gives us a benefit. Psalm 27, 14. Wait on the Lord. You gotta be still for that. And to be of good courage. And he will strengthen thine heart. Wait. I say on the Lord. Look at that. I I just broke down the preaching to another level. Amen. You know the person of God. But there's also important for us to know the plan of God. He says, I will be exalted among the nations. God has us to be still for the sake of being still. It's so that we might understand what his plan is for us. Now you know God has the plan for your life. He really does. It may not be the cookie cutter five-year plan you wrote down in your planner, but God did not just make you to be making you. He has something for each of us to do. There's a plan For your life. He says, I will be exalted. I will be lifted up. I'll be elevated. Among the nations. Another Bible verse that says, I'll be elevated among the heathens. That's the old King James. In other words, there are those who believe not God. Those who think we're crazy come to church on Sunday. He says, I will be lifted up. In the midst of folk who will even believe me. I'll be lifted up among people who don't give me glory. He says, as long as you are still, I can then be lifted up. in the midst of your challenges. I'll be lifted up in the midst of your troubles. I'll be lifted up in the midst of your Tribulations. That is the plan of God. It's a lifetime plan. I love what 1 Peter 5 and 6 says, humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, and look at this, his plan, that in due time he may, it is again, he may exalt you. Anybody know what it means to be exalted in the Lord? That means that God chooses to lift you up in the midst of what you're going through and to set you in a high place. Amen. Why? Because He's God And so when we slow it down and say not so fast, we can see the plan of God at work for our life. I don't know about you, but I don't know how I got from here to there. Had it not been for the Lord on my side. Had he not kept me and had he not supported me, had he not given me this, I would not be Who I am. Am I by myself this morning? Maybe you had your 30-day plan. But there's a plan that God has for us. But Not so fast. There's the person of God and the plan of God and there's the power of God Another part of that tenth verse says, I will, not I might, not possibly, I will be exalted in the earth. This is not a promise from way back yonder. This is not a promise, you know, back in grandma's days. God is still powerful How do you believe he's got power today? Amen. He didn't run for no office. There's no recount. He's just God. He don't need approval. He's just God. He don't need for you to cast a ballot. He's just God. And he's the God of all. Power. He says, I'll be exalted right in the earth. Yeah, I can take you to heaven, but I can be exalted right where you are. Psalm 24:1, the Lord. The earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof, and those that dwell therein. This power is in our reach. Sometimes we can find God. Tie his arms and make him a Sunday God. Yeah, we try to limit him to just Sunday. Well nobody here. You won't catch him talking about God on Monday. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, or Saturday, but I just serve a Sunday God. He's a God of every day. He's the God of every hour. He's the God of every minute. He's the powerful God of every second his power has reached. Isaiah says what? He giveth power to the faith. And of them we have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary. And the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord. shall renew their spirit. They shall not up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be wary. They shall walk and not faint. There are benefits to being still. Not so fast. Reverend James Cleveland, one of the great gospel singers of our time, wrote these words. He says, I don't feel no ways tired. I've come too far from where I started from. Nobody told me that the road would be easy, but I don't Believe he's brought me this far to lead me. Anybody feel that thing today? I don't believe that he has brought me this far to say, all right now, I'm done with you, but God Is the kind of God that as we get to know him and to serve him, he sticks closer than a brother and a friend. He's the kind of God who will give us The victory. Amen. Here's the proof. He sent his son Because of our sin. He didn't just show up and say, you're lying, no. He he saw a sin for humanity And he had a solution for sin. And that's why he sent Jesus. Aren't you glad about that today? Amen? Oh, you're not glad about that today. How many books are glad today that he sent Christ to wash away my sins and to save me from my sins? So that we might adore him, and that we might believe him, that we might call upon him, that we might Exalt him that we might follow him, that we might honor him and know him and love him and magnify him and praise him and serve him. That's how we get the victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. Victory in Jesus, my Savior forever. He taught me and loved me with his redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew him, and all my love is due him. He plunged me to victory beneath His cleansing flood. Mind get to know the person of God. Get to understand the plan of God. And most of all, to recognize his power. Well, song to this power, wonder working power in the blood of the Lamb. And so I just stopped by to let you know today. It's okay to be still. Stop out and let you know it's okay to take time with the Lord. And you'll find out that once you spend time with Him, You'll be better. You'll be refreshed and you will be able to run this race with patience. When you spend time with him, you'll come away with the knowledge, but also some wisdom When you spend time with him, you're able to give God the real praise that he deserves. But you've got to got to got to make time. Just for him. Not So fast. Wait a minute. Not not not not so fast. But to receive what God has for you. Slow it down in slow motion, so that you might receive All that he has for you and all that he has for me. I'm gonna close out today With a moment for you to reflect. Tammy just plays something for us. I want to hose out in a away. Close your eyes today. Just take a moment to to find that quiet place in your spirit. All those things that cloud your mind, release them today. Fill your mind with the things of Jesus Christ. Get to know him. Get to understand him. Be still and know that I am God. That song. Came from that passage. Somebody took Psalm 46 and you know what? We can make a song out of this. And you're hearing That song. Be still and know that I'm God. Come on, stand today on that song. Amen. All over this place. Be still and know that I am God. Be still. That I be still and know that I come on say it again, you just singing the song. Scripture. Be still. You speak in Psalm 461. Ah. Look at that. Be still. Yes. Let our be still. That's a great place to end right there. As I come before you today, I want to just encourage you this week. Make some time for yourself. It may be I'm early for work and I got ten minutes. I'm gonna use my car just to be still. I got time over my coffee. Wait a minute. I got some time. It's my break. And I don't want to talk to nobody. I just want to take a moment and just slow it down. Take time in your home today. Find that closet. And say, you know what? What you doing? Just chilling. And you will find great joy in just taking it easy. Father, we thank you for your people. And we thank you for your word today. To be still. Not rush. And know who you are. You are God. And we thank you for sending your Son Jesus Christ. You pondered it, but you said it. And I pray today if there's one in this place who knows not you, may they be still long enough to hear your voice. May they pause long enough to say, you know what? I need God in my life. Do it today, God, we pray. Slip in in that quiet moment and let them know that Jesus died for them. Save someone today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Thank you for joining us for this morning's broadcast. You can always listen to this broadcast by way of our website. It's www. comthenumber2harvest. org. You can also download our Harvest app and the Apple Store, it's Harvest Christian Ministries or HCM, and Google Play, it's Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, pastor and founder of Harvard's Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord.