Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. How many know God is good right now? Yes, he is. There's no doubt about it. Let's bow to be all over this place. Father, we come. And we thank you for your goodness and for your mercy. As we stand before your people today, it is your word that we're preaching. May it not return the void. May it uplift a heart today and give someone the encouragement that they need on this journey. May it save someone who is lost and trying to find their way in the tangles of life. We thank you Most of all, we pray that we might be transformed by, we ask it all now, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. This is a great day. It's good just to be able to enjoy the presence of the Lord. Do you since he's here today? I do. I'm always looking for him whenever I go to and for. But he's actually right here. In our hearts, the Bible says that God is the Spirit. Those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. So you're a God carrier. You walking around with God in you. Isn't that pretty amazing? That makes you a powerful person. Amen. We want to share From the Word of God, just the latter portion of Psalm 27, verses 13 and 14. It reads, I remain confident of this I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Verse 14 says, wait on the Lord. Be strong and take heart and wait on the Lord. I want to preach today from the Samonic title very simply, OMG O M G, and really, oh my goodness Uh I I get it. I understand the OMG. I've used it a time or two on social media But what I did not get as a young man growing up was the nickname that was placed upon me. Life can be cruel. Sometimes people will give you a name that you can't shake. But the name that I was given, I didn't really understand it, didn't think that I deserved it, but I had to carry it anyway. It was a name that was given to me within the family, and when you get family names, nobody else knows it, so unless you want to share it. But the name that I was given as a nickname, it it I had to kind of grow into that name. I had to to walk in that name, and it was a name my father gave me. He called me Goody. Yeah, or good boy. It meant good greet. And so for many years he would say, you know what? You're the good one. And I think he was setting me up because I'm the youngest of the bunch and I think he was letting the others know that, you know what? Now there's a good boy But I've spent a lifetime trying to really be the good person that we hear about, but it's all because of a God that we serve. We know that God is good. Amen. Now let's try this. There was a thing that was out there some years ago. I'm gonna say God is good. You're gonna say all the time, okay? God is good? All the time? Oh, y'all heard that. And so we say that so often and we say it as kind of a a chant. But when you boil it all down, God really is good And this mercy endureth forever. If there's anyone who knows that well, it is David. David, shepherd boy, David warrior, David King. He knows about the goodness of the Lord And so he writes really in the form of a prayer kind of what he's going through. David. David takes time and he pins this 27th Psalm. And he starts out saying, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life and whom shall I be afraid? I'm I'm with that David David was laying it out man. David had confidence in God. David said, God, no, you got me. And so those first uh six verses we hear a David who is really not afraid of anything. A David who can walk and challenge the best of them, but somewhere around the seventh verse, something happens. This confident David who asks for the presence of God all of a sudden becomes a fearful David. It was one of the scholars by the name of Phillips who said that fear and faith lived next door to each other. That on any given day you can be fearful, scared half to death, and on the other end, you have faith in God. So David writes this prayer, and the first part is more about him being rah-rah-ra. Have you ever happened in your life there is a season where nothing can knock you? Nothing can hold you down. You're a bad somebody. You're confident, you're faithful, you're believing in God, things are going well, and then something happens in your life, maybe because you're dealing with evil. There's good, but there's also evil. I know you won't think the world is just a nice place, but there are folk who don't like you There are folk who hate you. Can I get way down home? I never understand. Who hate your guts And so we live in the kind of society where people may smile in your face and stab you in your back. Anybody ever been there before? Uh I have an honest house and you thought you really knew that person and next thing you knew they had double cross. Oh no, that never happened to y'all double cross you or put your name in the street to scandalize you and so David is concerned about his enemies Theologians believed one of two things were happening that caused them to shift from the Lord is my light to Lord help me. It may have been King Saul who could not stand him, King Saul who was jealous of him and was out to kill him. That same King Saul, or it may have been Absalom. Absalom was his own son who was trying to kill him. It's one thing to have one person after you, but to have two when you're on their most wanted list, but he takes time to pray to God Ain't no prayer makes it better. Prayer makes the difference in life when you're going through And maybe you can't get a long dissertation now, but has anybody ever just said, Lord, if I could just lift up a small prayer, but right now I need you. David found himself in a tough way. In the case of King Saul, he had run to a cave. This is David. This David who took out the bear, David who took out the lion, David who beat down and took off the head of big bag alive. He was somebody. But now he finds himself scared. finds himself fearful and he turns to God who makes the difference. Who do you turn to when you get in that place? Do you turn to God or do you you turn to the Mother Rose? Or do you, yeah, Mother Rose is still out there. Who do you turn to when you find yourself in that kind of predicament? David turns to God. David looks to the hills which cometh his help. And that's a word for us today and the here and now is that when you face tribulation, when you face troubles, it may seem elementary, but we got to turn to God. But I'm just still amazed by reading that you see life changing for him. And now he finds himself in this dialogue with the Holy God. I love that song. Just have a little talk with Jesus. And tell him all. Do y'all ever talk to Jesus? Tell him all about you. I know he already knows. But to get it off your chest and off your heart and off your mind to talk with a God who's holy. But what I like about what David uh shows us in this text, it is what can help us, is that through this, he never loses his focus. I'm securing my boots, but I'm keeping my focus. I remain confident of this. That while life may be falling apart for me, I will stand on this, that I will see the goodness of the Lord. That no matter what's happening, that I will not lose focus, that I will see the goodness of the Lord. Goodness is really the character of God He he is good. You said it all the time, and all the time God is good. And so he turns to what he knows. He focuses on what can help him through his dilemma and as believers we have to focus on that thing that person in particular who can bring us through. I don't know about you. I've tried a lot of stuff. I ain't need drugs. Or alcohol, I tried other means of solving I thought was my own problem You know, your your your gut feeling, what you thought was the best way to go, only to realize that only what you do for Christ will last or will make a difference And some years ago I didn't have these. And so I could focus real good. But over time, I had to get these. Some of y'all need them now. That allows you to do what? To focus on what's important and oftentimes the enemy will distract us. And we lose our focus. But today, focus on the goodness of the Lord. I know it may sound trite to you, but you know what? It's wrong. But God is good. I know 'em, I'm down and out, but God is good. And lick that the tape that you play Keep keep pressing that play button in your own experience about a God who is good. I thought about that that's really one of his attributes. He's many things, but what he is, he really is good. And I'm glad about that today. Even when I'm not good, God is good. Even when I mess up, God is good. You know, David in the 23rd Psalm, which is well known and we all recited it and learned it, but there in the sixth verse of the 23rd Psalm, it said, Surely Come on, class. Goodness and mercy, those twins, shall follow me all the days of my life And I will dwell in. I felt better just reading that. I might be afraid, but I know that even in the shadows of death, that I got some folks Kind of behind me, I might went someplace and you felt like you were really with somebody who had your back. You strutted a certain kind of way, so yeah There's with me. Note that as you go through life circumstances, OMG, oh my goodness, God is with you. He allows his goodness. He allows his mercy to be your detail, to be your security, to come after you and to look over you. Amen? How many are glad about that I am? Man, I tell you what, I've been to some shady places. I don't know about you. But thank God that goodness and mercy, oh no, no, we we got you. You in the wrong place at the wrong time, but we got you. I did not lose my focus. I'm afraid, but I'm focused. I'm in a bad situation, but I'm gonna stare down those things that would seek to consume me in life. David writes about that in this text. He never loses his focus, but he also never loses his faith. And faith is what you believe about God. Yeah I I believe that God is alive and will. I believe that God sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. He says, I will see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. That's not like somebody said I can make this thing, huh? That my faith, what I believe with is that I'm not going to be done But I believe that I'm going to be able to see his goodness, not over yonder, not after a while, but I'm going to catch his goodness right now. In the land of the living, or some folks say the land of the dying, but right where you are, don't you like a present God? Who's a present help in the time of trouble? He writes and declares this that I will see your goodness not later on, but I want to see your goodness right now. Goodness I can experience and touch and feel and walk in. Do you feel that way today? Well I'm doing a poll. Y'all look a little weary today on me. I see eyes get heavy. I I don't I understand I understand, I understand, that's why I'm coming back at you. It's okay. I'm not hating on you, but I'm gonna tell you that God is good. And that you must stand on what you believe, which is your faith. Amen. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen, and by that faith the elders obtain a good report. How many folk got some faith? I know faith, you can talk a big faith game, but Lord, I don't see a way, but I know you are the way, you're the truth and the life, and no man cometh to the Father except by you. I'm Looking and depending on what I believe. Not just with what someone told me. You gotta stand on your faith Your half a Bible verse. Your one piece of scripture. But most of all, your testimony. I can stand on what I believe. I can tell you what God has done for me. I may not be able to find it in the Bible, but I can tell you he brought me out. I was in the muck in the Maury Quay, He lifted me up Well I'd almost lost my mind. He made a way. Anybody else have happened to you that I can say that my faith has kept me? My faith has sustained me? Thank God that I got somebody to believe in. May not believe in the tooth fairy. I'm sorry, grandkids. I bet I shouldn't say that. Well, uh oops, uh but you may have other peop people you don't b don't tell 'em. Oops to the bag. Anyway, believe. And stand on your faith. I know what to do to get the saints awake in the house. Amen. To God be the glory But I like what there is a tooth fair, yes indeed. Book of Romans. It says in Romans 10, 17, so then We're still talking about faith. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God The story is told of a young boy who unfortunately was caught in a fire. He was on the rooftop. Father kept saying, Come on, son, jump! John, he says, but I can't see you there. There's smoke, there's darkness, I hear your voice, but I can't see you. He says, just jump, son. Come on, jump. Time is running out. And so the boy leaps out. Into nothingness, his father catches him. He says, But then, but I told you I couldn't see, he says, but I could see you As you go through life, you may have cloudy situations and dark nights, but know that God sees you. Aren't you glad he's got his eyes on you that when you are struggling to get through life circumstances? But he's right there saying, You gotta go ahead and jump. And sometimes we don't jump. Can I testify? There have been a million times, oh I'm not gonna jump. But when I decided to jump Didn't God show up on the other end? Didn't God bring you out? Didn't He make a way out of no way in your life? He did not lose his focus. In the midst of his trouble, he could depend on that goodness. O. M. G. did not lose his faith But there's more to this text. And verse 14, he could really follow his future. Now here's somebody, again, who's in a tough place And he has the nerve to encourage somebody. Well, wait for the Lord. How do you heard that? Somebody say, oh, it's gonna be all right, wait for the Lord. Do what? Wait for the Lord. Okay? Alright. And and and be strong. I'm trying. And and and take heart. Take courage. And that's what he realized at the end of that 27th chapter, with all that he had been through, he had the nerve to say, you know what? I get it, God. I'm gonna wait for you. I won't be here always. My enemies won't always be on my track. Circumstances won't always be what they are. I'm gonna look ahead and beyond to what God has for me Aren't that excited to know that God's got something in store for you? And so you can really say, you know what? I'm gonna follow this thing, man. I just know I can follow what God is gonna do in my life. He said, just wait on it Yeah, yeah, wait on him and and be strong while you're waiting. Don't grumble while you're waiting, don't complain, but do what? Wait on him in a strong and powerful way. Why? He's a strong and powerful God I'm glad about that today. The fact that he is available for us and every now and then we need to wait. How many have made decisions? I mean just didn't think a half a minute Didn't consider God, didn't pray, it just felt right. And you did it. Do I have a praying church? No time to wait. I'm gonna wait in the line for ten items. So why am I gonna wait for God? I'm not gonna wait in this traffic. I'm gonna take a detour and go the other come here, Siri. Take me someplace else. We don't want to wait. But to know that God declares that we are to wait for him and to be of good courage. Ever waited on something and then God came through and blessed you because of your faithfulness? Because you waited? Because you didn't jump ahead of him. It makes all the difference. Love what Isaiah says And 40 31 he says, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Isn't that good news? That I can really wait because I know God has my best inter Does He have your best interest Do you could let me just say that? Do you trust him? How many folk really trust God? I know you trust yourself. How many folk have put their trust in God that I'm gonna really trust in him no matter what? No matter what circumstance I'm going through, I will continue to trust him. So as the years would go along, I was a grown man and my dad was still calling me Goody. I'm grown, Daddy. Goodbye. I got a family. Hey, Goody. And then when God took him home I had to turn to my other father, really exemplified what it means to be good. And so I began to communicate in a real way with that God. I heard the voice of Jesus say, Come unto me and rest. Lie down, thy weary one, lie down, thy head upon my breast. I came to Jesus as I was Little beat up, little weary, ego kind of deflated, but I found in him. A resting place, and he has made me glad. Aren't you glad today? I'm glad that he has kept me through seen and unseen dangers. I'm glad he's put running in my feet. I'm glad he's put clapping in my hand. I'm glad he's given me peace that passeth all understanding. I'm glad he's given me love I'm glad he's giving me a sense of ownership to know that I am his all by myself. I'm glad about that today. Anybody glad today that God has made a way for you? And all you can say, you say, I can't really get it out, Reverend. Can I just say, OMG? Oh my goodness. Oh my God. He has made a way for me like no one else did. And so you will see OMG in a new light now. Oh my God. My God, and the no He will keep you. David, thank you. I had to dig deep, man, and try to keep it together. Because even though I was up here, at some point, life got a little shaky. But through it all, I I learned to depend on Jesus. I learned to depend and to trust in God. Oh M G. Come on, stand today. Oh my goodness. You've been good to me. OMG, you brought me out. OMG, you kept me through life's troubles. OM G, you saved my soul. OMG, I was lost, but you found me. OMG. You went to that cross Just for for OU G. You died, but you you rose again. Oh OMG You got up on the third day with all power in your hand. Oh, MC. How do we know that Jesus is the answer? Yes, he is. Jesus is the yesterda for the world today. Without him. Without him no one. Jesus is the way. Jesus is the answer for the world today. Without him there's no other Jesus. Let's just say that one more time if you know it today. Jesus for the world today. Without him, there's no other. Jesus. Jesus is the way OMG, just keep calm and share goodness. I told y'all I was in. Hashtag goodness. Hashtag OMG. As you come today. Perhaps you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. I just start by letting you know he's still in the saving business. He'll still bring you in. The Bible says all you gotta do is confess with your mouth. The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. And the Bible says, Thou shalt love the old King James Version, thou shalt be saved. If you've come today and you're not sure about your salvation, that is not sure whether or not you are saved and whether or not your ultimate destination is heaven, I want you to bow across this room today as you ponder that thought. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your power. We thank you for your examples in the holy book, the Bible, the scriptures. That there are persons who've been through things that we've been through And your word has helped us to understand that we can make it. And to realize that you are good and you're powerful. Oh God, I pray you but not for that lost soul. A soul that may not realize it is lost. Save that person today by their confession of faith. Do it today, God, we pray in Jesus' name. If you've come today and you're not sure that you're saved, right Where you stand, you can whisper that prayer unto the Lord today, and He'll come in and save your soul. Through it all. How many folks have been through some stuff? I mean been through some stuff that turned you from superhero to oh my goodness. I want to tell you. That God is available. He's already bringing you through. Let's take a little bit of that through it all again. That's great. Let's take it together. You gotta say it to yourself to though you get through. What have you learned? I've learned to trust in Jesus. I've learned. I've learned to trust in God. Oh, through. To every mountain, through every valley, who it all I've learned, I'd learn to defend. Those persons whose hands went up and say, you know what, I'm going through. I don't mind. I'll declare it. I ain't shamed. I want to pray for you right where you are today, those who are going through. The old saint would say either you are getting ready to head in into a storm, you in the storm, or you're just getting out. But in life you'll find yourself In one of those circumstances, but you know what? God will bring you through as we bow today I want to pray for you right now for your strength. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And really, all of our hands could have gone up because some things we just learned to live with. We don't even consider it to be going through it. We just say, Well, I'll just accept it. Well, today you don't have to. Because the Bible says he who the Son is set free is free indeed. Allow the chains of life to drop today and know that God. Has not forgotten about you and know that even in the midst of your going through, He's still teaching you in the midst of your struggle. There's a lesson plan in the struggle. God, I pray in the name of Jesus for every person Who's going through? She might remind them that they do not walk alone, but that you're with them. We thank you for your goodness And for your mercy, we declare it in the name of Jesus. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.