We're always grateful. Well we are certainly thankful that you have taken the time to tune in to uh harvest Christian ministries. We're a non-traditional church with traditional values, and we're excited to be used of the Lord. There's a word this morning that comes from the gospel as pinned by John uh John and John is uh there one of the writers chronicling the ministry of Jesus Christ So there you'll find in the ninth chapter of John, the fourth and the fifth verse nine chapter of John verses 4 and 5 when you have found it give me a thumbs up or just say amen in your own house because the word of God is about to be preached Father, we come even now and ask that we might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name, Amen John the 9th chapter, verses 4 and 5, it reads, As long as it is day, we must do the works of him who sent me. Night is coming when no one can work. While I'm in the world, I am the light of the world. I want to preach this morning from this Monday title. Being on the clock. Talking about being on the clock. By this time next week we will have all set our clocks ahead. one hour thanks to daylight saving time. Amen. Imposed many years ago by President Roosevelt as a way during the war to save fuel But today, daylight savings time is rather popular, whether you like it or not, in about 70 different countries. and affecting more than a billion people, folk all over the world, messing with their clocks. And this is the time of year you you hear people say, hey Uh I I lost an hour. You know that I'm I'm gonna lose an hour tonight. I'm just so grateful that God has given me an hour But I don't use those exact terms, but I am glad to come home from work and it's not dark. What about you? Amen Beyond the clock, this is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Glad because he's the one that causes the sun to come up. And he is the one that tells it when to set. This morning we get to spend a part of our day with Jesus. on one of his missionary journeys. Can you put on your imagination caps now and kind of walk with us and we follow Jesus? We catch up with him and his disciples He comes across a man who, it is indicated, was born blind. And Jesus' disciples were curious. They wanted to know, Rabbi, who sinned? this man or his parents. You see, why do you ask that question? It was based on what had been taught in that particular culture, that a person's suffering was connected to something that had been done, some action in their lives. It is what they believe, but Jesus responds to them Neither this man nor his parents. This healing happened so that the works of God might be displayed. God just has a way. Amen. He don't put you on display, but God has a way of showing even the wider community what He can do. There is no secret what God can do, what He's done for others He will do for you. We set that up in the ninth chapter to go right into the next breath, seemingly, where Jesus starts talking about what needs to be done. He was on the clock, on heaven's time, and John 9 and 4. Remember, it says, as long as it is day, we must do the works of him. who sent me. And he says, night is coming when no one can work. While I'm in the world, I am the light of the world. His focus is on reaching someone, causing lives to be changed just by his presence. Keep in mind that the ministry of Jesus was not some long ministry. He only had three pastors' anniversaries, three years in the ministry. But in that time, he turned the world upside down. Earlier in John 4, the fourth chapter, we find Jesus going into a community and meets a woman at the well. There again, he's on the clock. He begins to dialogue with her and she is so changed she goes back into the community saying, I've met a man who told me everything about myself. Aren't you glad? You serve a savior who can peep your whole card. He knows exactly what you've been through. He knows exactly what you will go through. But from her testimony The people left town, came out to where Jesus was, and they wanted to meet this Savior. And Jesus pivots to his disciples and says, look here. Look at the people. Here's the harvest. They're thinking, well, we can do this down the road. You mean when the crops are due? No, no, no. I want you to see that now is the time to declare the good news of Jesus Christ. We've got to be on the clock. Amen? Someone is on the brink of a life-changing experience, and the Lord needs you to be on the clock And on time. Amen. And we learned this morning that with Jesus there is a certain urgency to get it done, a get-it-done approach. There's an understanding he wants to share with those disciples, and there's also a divine utterance Verse 4 says, as long as it is day, we must do the works of him who sent me. This is urgent. It requires immediate action. It requires immediate attention. Amen? As long as it is day, as long as we are in the present, there is work to be done To stay on the clock doing God's work. See, Jesus' newest assignment. He knew why he came He knew why he was sent. It was to let the world know that the Savior lives, to let the world know I'm about God's business. I'm on assignment. There's no time for small talk. People are dying and you and I are on a mission. So don't take an extended break Amen. Don't take a long lunch hour. There is work to be done in ministry. Can I say that enough that God uses us and saves us, not to say we're saved? Rather, it is to be used by him. Later in the Gospel of John 15 and 6, he says, You have not chosen me. But I've chosen you and ordain you that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain that whatsoever you ask. of the Father in my name, he may give it to you. Do you sense the urgency that God is saying, listen, listen, we we need to get some things done here. We need to let folk know uh who it is they need to be trusting in. Amen. To call someone on his behalf. Not after 40 days of Lent. After Lent, I'm going to be more committed. After forty days. No, what can you do even now? There has to be a sense of urgency There is a community, there is an ear that needs to hear about the blood of Jesus, about the ministry of Jesus, about salvation. But then there's also a clear understanding. Jesus is very specific as he's speaking to his followers. He says in verse 4, night is coming. When no one can work. Jesus says that, have you checked your spiritual watch lately? We're on the clock. If we wait much longer, time will run out. It will be dark. In the natural It gets dark and you can't see much of anything. Yeah, work while it's day, but when the night comes, your flashlight will not do. I know some of you work the midnight shift and I've worked a graveyard shift or two myself, but this is the importance of understanding why we need to move Why we need to take a moment to tell somebody about Jesus Christ. Over in John 11, 9 and 10, Jesus is responding. He says, are there not 12 hours? of daylight. Anyone who walks in the daytime will not stumble, for they see by this world's light. Oh my goodness It is when a person walks at night that they stumble. They have no life. This is not a flashlight ministry. Amen. We must be prepared to share in season and out of season, not when we feel like it's somebody needs to hear the word. Amen. That that need to be on the clock. Need to be punched in. Need to be used of the Lord to let someone know that all things are possible. Somebody on your job is down. If somebody is in your home is feeling discouraged and you've got what they need, why hold on to it? Let it out. Share it. Amen. There is this sense of understanding that time is important. Many of you work in industries that have a deadline. Your project is due and your project manager wants to know, is it done yet? Amen. Well, Jesus is on a mission to make sure that you know that there's an understanding that if we delay this, night will overtake us. Discouragement will get in the way of doing what we have to do. And then verse 5, there's a divine utterance. He's saying that it's urgent. He's saying, understand me, it's almost night. But he says in verse 5, while I am in the world I am the light of the world. This was a reminder as to who he is. I am the light, not of the neighborhood. I'm the light not of the ball field. I am the light of the world, the light that will never go out. The light that will never go dim, Jesus is connected, he's plugged into heaven's outlet He's the one who created time and the one who decides when time will be no more He is the light of the world and will always be the light of the world. When you go someplace, folks ought to see your light Shining. Folk ought to say, listen, you're kind of strange, aren't you? What's your name again? They ought to see something in you. There ought to be a light shining. Well, let me just put it down like this Ever been to a place or been around the people when you didn't know the Lord and they uh you know they didn't say a mumbling word, but you felt uncomfortable. Why? It was the light in them that caused you to put on your sunglasses Why? Because you weren't living right. You weren't living right in your own community. You were not living right in your own life, and so someone came along Psalm 94 is very important. It says, a thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by. Or like a watch in the night. Now see, we keep a different time. A thousand years is a long time, but not for God. Why? God is timeless. Amen. God existed before the watch you were wearing. Oh, we got a watch now. And they're quite fancy too. They're telling you everything about what you need to do. And sometimes we don't use it to tell time. We want it to tell us how many steps we've got in, oh Lord And I know that your schedule is busy. Reverend, I want to be on the clock, but you don't understand I got things going on. I'm the busiest person anywhere. But do you have time to go on the clock to tell the greatest story that was ever told? Just saying, not 60 minutes, but 60 seconds To share your testimony. Maybe it's a ride on the elevator. Maybe it's a moment in the express night. Now you all know I would do that at the store just last night. I was trying to get the word in in about 30 or 40 seconds. Person had on the ashes on their uh face. I said, hey, praise God, I put a little something in. Take time to grab the moment and to do what to remain on the clock. See, the Lord won't beg you to punch in He won't hold you, but he don't mind using you. The Lord is in need of workers to till his field today. So kindly he has led me to walk in wisdom's way. I pray for grace to help me with all my heart to say, oh, blessed Savior Count on me. You can count on me. Amen. Count on me for loving-hearted service. Glad and free. Oh, blessed Savior. Count on me. Can the Lord count on you today? To be able to share the good news of Jesus Christ. Can the Lord put you on the clock today? Amen? Can He put you on overtime today? Can He put you on double time today Just because the world needs to hear about the Savior. And the world will hear about the Savior if you're able to be in a mindset that you can tell someone about the Lord. I'm glad today somebody shared with me about Jesus. Amen. I'm glad they took time. I may not want to hear it, but they told me about Jesus. Maybe I was turning a deaf ear, but they told me about Jesus. And I realized now that they saw that it was daytime. And guess what? Night is on the way. But blessed be the God today that we have something that we can say Oh yes, that same God woke me up this morning. I'm glad about that today. That's a light moment that he started me on my way. That's a moment of light, not all that I could be But God has blessed me, and therefore you ought to say something. Amen. Don't freeze up. Don't get silent. It's time to go on the clock Why? There's a need for someone to hear about you. My God, I'm excited about that today. I can't wait to leave here to go someplace and listen, listen, listen, listen Let me tell you about where he brought me from. Let me tell you about what God has done and what you call success. It's just a blessing from the Lord. And folk will hear your story. You got to work it in there. Amen. The weather, whatever it may be, let them know that God is real. Amen. Let them know that He's on the main line, and whatever they need, just go to the Savior. But you can't do that if you're taking a long break. You can't do it if you won't go on the clock. Work. While it's day. We must work. Why? Because nighttime is coming. And perhaps today you might be in a nighttime experience. That you need a light bearer, someone to display Jesus Christ. That's the Word of God today. And it's blessed. I just stopped by to kind of live what I just preached. And that is to be on the clock. Let someone know that it's mighty sweet to be on the Lord's side. Let someone know that God is faithful. And all you have to do today Is make a decision to open your heart. Now keep in mind, nobody can force you, nobody will strong arm you Nobody will get on your last nerve. It's up to you to make the final decision. So I come today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus on assignment. Praying that if there's one person listening to this broadcaster, one person watching who does not have a relationship with you, may you allow some of us to be on the clock today Amen. To let them know, listen, I was lost in sin, didn't know which way I was going, but one day I heard about Jesus, and it made my life so much different. Am I perfect? No. But I'm saved. So I pray today that for that person who has never given their life to Jesus, the Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Amen. So we come today, even now, offering Christ to you. I pray that you might open your heart and your mind and allow him to come in today. We ask it even now in Jesus' name. Amen. To God be the glory. God bless you for the time that you spent. With us here at the Harvest Church and to let you know the mark on your calendar that next Sunday is not just daylight saving time, but next Sunday is our first time for in-person worship in a long time. We want you to come back. Be sure to stay connected so we can give you an opportunity to register. But we're just so grateful to God. Thank you for taking time for being with us to the entire staff. He had harvest Christian ministries. Know that we love you. And guess what? I'm on the clock. Can't wait to get out of here. And tell somebody about Jesus and pray that they might see the light in me. Don't want the sun to go down, and I've not said a mumbling word about the Savior. Want to thank you as always for your Giving, it's worship. Thank you for being a blessing to this ministry. It's because of this that we have a place That we can call home. And God is doing many things to get us to where he wants us to be. And you're giving week in and week out. has been a real blessing. So as I always say, no gift too small, no gift too large. We appreciate you and love you. Go to condoharvest. org slash building fund Have a great day in the Lord. We look forward to seeing you real soon. Be blessed.