Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today. Aren't you glad there's a word from the Lord today? He's always got a word. You know why? He is the word. There in the letter that Paul's writing to the church of Ephesus, fifth chapter, verses fifteen through seventeen, it reads Be very careful. Then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise Making the most of every opportunity because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish. But understand what the Lord's will is. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, One Life to Live. One life to live. In his famous play, Romeo and Juliet, published in fifteen ninety-five. William Shakespeare made reference to a myth of sorts that we've become familiar with during our childhood years And even now as we try to untangle what does it mean when someone says a cat has nine lives? It was a line spoken by Mercutio in that play. And only in recent time do we realize that cats may be agile. They can fall and jump from place to place and are less likely to injure themselves. They don't have nine lives I stopped by to dispel the myth and to say this, we only have one life to live, one that should be lived to the glory of God. Amen. Now I've never been very good at math, and that's why I chose broadcasting. But the last check, if I count today I've been alive twenty-two thousand two hundred and fifty-six days in counting. Each day, much like yourself, When I get up, I try and make the best of the day. I try not to get up complaining. But I get up trying to pray that God might clear the way for the day. But really we have choices to make within our own day. It's easy to blame somebody else. But as you're going into the job or going to the health club or going to the senior center It's about saying I'm going to do the best I can to live out the day that God has given me. You know, a choice really is about selecting or making a decision of sorts that when you're faced with a lot of possibilities, I'm not talking about should I take the caution, like should I go the beltway or should I go to the city? But choices that really impact who we are. I love the scripture, Psalm 118-24, it simply says This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Boy, if I don't want to give one scripture, everybody ought to have one. If it's no more than Jesus' wealth, you ought to have one in your hip pocket. Can I just stop there for a moment? Everybody ought to have a verse or two that you can turn to in the time of need And that's mine. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. In the text today, Paul is writing to the Ephesian church. And he's sharing with them the good, the bad, and the ugly in regards to holy living. He wants them to consider the alternatives as well as the consequences in life. He's raising the red flag. He's issuing a warning. He's sounding the alarm. He's sending out a heavenly alert, saying, and this is in Pastitudin words, you have one life to live. Amen. And the question for us today is, how do we live that one life that we've been given? This one moment in time, this one opportunity that we have. And I think we must be in the place that we need to check ourselves, protect ourselves, and respect ourselves. Verse fifteen says, be very careful then how you live Not as unwise, but as wise. Be be not kinda careful Not if you get around to it, but be very careful how you live on a daily basis. Not just your Sunday best. Because we can put on our Sunday best at a heartbeat and say hallelujah and then get at the light and then we're gonna test somebody up But this sense of living our best Christian life day in and day out. And Paul seems to be saying, as I see it, you better check yourself. That when you think about life decisions, pause long enough to to check yourself. Amen. My father will always say, son, you need to use your head. Now what he meant was think about what you're doing. Well what he meant was use the mind and the brain that God has given you because I've already told you twenty eleven times what to do. Now some of y'all had parents like that. And he said, I'm not going to tell you anymore. But they always say to us, make sure you think about decisions you make when it comes to living and to life. Now nowadays this generation would say check yourself so that you don't wreck yourself. In other words, take a step back to examine your life Examine your speech, examine your actions. Why? You only have one life to live. And some actions can be dangerous if we're not careful. We need the wisdom of God. Not the wisdom of somebody saying, No, I've been around a long time. Yeah, but I made a lot of mistakes in that long time. But when you go to the Word of God It allows you to do as James 1 and 5 says, if any of you lack wisdom, you should ask not Mother Rose. Not not Oprah, not Steve Harvey, not Dr. Phil. Now that they give some good advice, but do what? But ask God who gives generously to all without, look at this, without finding fault. And it will be given to you, Jesus Says in the Gospel of Matthew 724. Therefore, anyone who hears these words, he just taught a lesson, he says, and and you put them into practice, you're like a wise man who builds his crib on a rock. Amen. That we have to make sure that not for somebody else, but check yourself. And check your mode of living and check how you go about in your daily life. But not just that, you've got to protect yourself. Verse 16 says, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. An opportunity is a chance. An opportunity is a set of circumstances that makes it possible to do something. Now let's face it, we've all blown some opportunities. We knew more than what the man knew. And we we we've blown some chances along the way and and we still blow 'em. Why? Because sometimes we don't take it to God in prayer. And sometimes once we get an opportunity, we waste it. Amen. Do I have two witnesses today? If you got something, you oh yeah, I'm I'm here, nada, and then you blow it. How many folks have ever blown an opportunity? Uh-oh. I got about 10 people saying, well, yeah, maybe. I don't see it that way. No, you blew it. And so did I. We can't afford to blow opportunities in life. Why? We only have one life to live. And we gotta protect our opportunities. What God has for you is just for you. But look at how it just sits out there, the end part of verse 16. It says, comma, because the days are evil That's why you gotta be careful. Somebody is always trying to take what God has given to you, trying to mix you up and make you fumble your opportunity. Why? Because they're just hating on you But God has given you life. Live the life the way He's given you to live it. Don't compare yourself with someone else. He said something years ago. Don't tell your kids to be I not nobody's role model. You want to be the role model in your house. Amen. Praise be to God. The days are evil. The enemy wants to take your dream. Your vision, he wants to affect your calling. John 10 and 10. The thief cometh not but to steal, to kill, and to destroy. But I've come that you might have life Oh, there it is again. And have it more abundantly. Ephesians 6 and 11 says, here's how you protect yourself. Put on the whole armor of God. That you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Because what? He will come your way. But I dare you to say, get back, get back, get back. I got two two two two verses Protect what God has given you. He's given you life and life more abundantly. Check yourself. Protect yourself, and here's a key one: respect yourself. Verse 17. Therefore, do not be foolish. Sound like something your grandma would say. Now, don't y'all don't get foolish now. Amen. They were speaking the word, they were speaking the truth. But understand what the Lord's will is. in the present tense. So for this reason, consequently, because of ill-advised, ludicrous, don't be fooled. Foolish means a lack of good sense. Lack of good judgment. Paul says, don't go there. We've all done some foolish things. Not just yesteryear. We did some foolish stuff this week. And once we got in the course, the Lord you love us. That that wasn't very wise what I did and what I said was not a Sunday school moment. Amen. But thank God in the end you gotta respect yourself Amen. Can I do a throwback preaching moment with the right top forty? In nineteen seventy-two, the staple singers put it this way: they say respect yourself. If you don't respect yourself, ain't nobody gonna give a good cahoot. Respect yourself and then respect the Lord The Lord who saved you, respect him. See, we we've just lost respect. Young folk, you you disrespect you, and they say you dissing me. Well, you dissing God. We diss God all the time. When we don't do right, we diss in God. When we don't walk right, we diss in God. You don't talk right, you diss in God. You are losing respect for God, and that's why we can't respect ourselves. Man, you be your best you today. I got one life to live. I'm living for the Lord today. That's so important. It is God's will. In the here and now, that we do not perish, that we have everlasting life That we be born again, that we be saved, that we be converted. It is his will. The Bible says he's long suffering, not willing that any should perish. Oh my what? Come to a savior. He's still waiting. You still in the world, but I'm waiting. You still messing up your life, but I'm waiting. You still messing with other folks' life, but I'm waiting. Amen. Amen. Amen And amen, that you have one life to live It is his will that you be sanctified and filled with the Holy Ghost. John 3. 16 is so true. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son That whosoever believed in them would not perish but have what? Everlasting life. Amen. So so this life on this side of the Jordan is one life, but did you know there's another life? Amen. That is going to prepare a place for you that where he is will be also now that's that's a real life there. In this life you have some burdens. This life you have some disappointments. This life you have some accidents. This life things will but on the other life, there's a difference. You know, as I was sitting at my desk this week, something caught me on the live feed It it was the launch of the Space X Dragon. A thing caught my attention. That was like, you know, okay, they're gonna send a rocket up. uh into orbit and and go to the space station but as I watched it I watched the people put it together they were like oh he's up And now there's been a separation. They were like all excited. Oh, they were excited about the separation. In other words, the power of the rocket had dislodged from what was going into orbit. And sometimes there has to be a separation in this life. Amen. That as you go about life, there ought to be a separation that this Old life will change to a new life because there's eternal life only in Jesus Christ. And so some bright morning when this Life is over. I'll fly away. Amen. To a home on God's celestial shore. I'll fly away Oh glory, I'll fly away. And when I die, hallelujah by and by. Did you know I'm going to be going first class? When I leave here, no need for a baggage check because all of my baggage will be on this end And you know I won't be left behind, and I won't need an ID, and I won't need a pat down, and I won't need TSA because there's a home that he's prepared. That there won't be any more aches in the new life. No more earthly concerns in the new life. And so there's another life to live, and it's lived at the feet of Jesus. That's where you'll find the 20 and 4 elders just around saying, glory to God. In the highest, anybody know there's a new life? Anyone know that this life is just temporary? You have some aches and pains along the way, but there's a new life that's in Jesus Christ. Can't you see yourself now sitting in his presence? There's a new life. Do you want the new life? The life in Jesus. Say yes. And say yes. And say thank you. That I have one life to not not not not to. I'm not a double agent One life. That is the word of God today. It's all come on stand today. All over this place. That causes me to praise him. You don't get a retake, a reboot. I was talking to a friend of mine the other day, I said, you know, heard a preacher say years ago, so you know what? The Lord will forgive you. But sometimes your body won't forgive you. So so take care of this this temple that God has given you. And in that temple, may it be filled with praise. That's what we're praising today. Maybe you've come into this place. You thought you had about two or three, you thought you was that cat. With nine lives? Not so. Come on, praising the day. Praise him. Praise. Come on. Praise of the day. Jesus is worthy to Come on, say it again. Praise them. Praise him Jesus. Blessed Savior. He's worthy to. Listen when you think about where your life is to this point. Reverend I I I've blown some stuff, man. You see my resume and my rapture. You so oh no. You see mine. But if you come to Jesus, he'll he'll he'll like redact that. You hear about redaction, haven't you? Well what was there? It's been blotted out Not with a magic marker, but with the blood of Jesus Christ. And so you get to start anew. A brand new slate, if you would, but Give your heart to him. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's one today in this place, Who has never given you their heart today? May you trouble them in such a way They'll say, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? And this is it. The Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raising him from the dead. The Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. In other words, you have to do it Big mama can't do it, big daddy can't do it for you, preacher can't do it, deacon, deacon that nobody. You've got to say it. And once you speak it and allow him in, he will change your life and give you a new life God touch the day. Throw that person today we pray even now in Jesus' name. Come on, bless the Lord today Amen. Come on, give them a praise today. I dare you to live your best life today. Amen. We're gonna make transition, even if you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. Doors are always open for you. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cometh the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.