Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Amen. How many are glad folk are in the house today? You know, he didn't have to do it. Aren't you glad he did it? Aren't you glad he gave his life for you? Yes That's a good thing. We didn't deserve it. We messed up and we Fell short. But thank God for Jesus. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this opportunity just to share your word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another, and we'll give your name all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Colossians, third chapter, verses one through four. Says, since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Verse 2: Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. Verse 4: When Christ, who is your life, Appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. That's nothing but good news. I want to preach today From the Sammonic title Overcoming Distractions. Overcoming Distractions. The national biotechnology experts tell us that The average attention span of adults is eight seconds. It took me eight seconds to give you that statement We are distracted by many things. And I could say perhaps in part because we live in this age of information. uh the time that we can plug into our technology. It was supposed to make us connected. It was supposed to make us smarter, uh make us uh to a place that we could understand and Google almost anything. I'll I'll just Google anything And sometimes you'll find the right answer. But in the process, it has made our lives more hectic. And more distracted and rushed. I testified today that I have two cell phones. I have two computers. I have two iPads. I've got three or four pairs of earphones. And every now and then, I need to just power down. Am I by myself today? Every now and then your phone will go off in here because you're a busy person. But there are things that distract us. And we have come today to talk about how can we overcome our distractions. In the Bible, Eve was distracted by the serpent. Told her that God said it was okay to eat from that tree when God said he didn't. Adam was distracted because he was not where he should have been. David was distracted when he went to the balcony and looked over and saw another man's wife. Y'all know the story. It's better than the soap operas. Amen. David was distracted. Peter was distracted. He saw the Lord on the water. He began to walk toward him Until he became distracted, and he did what? He sank. Martha, sister of Mary and Lazarus. Became distracted. She was mad at her sister because her sister was sitting at the feet of Jesus. And Martha was all worked up She became distracted. Paul writes to a distracted church, a church that cannot seem to keep its focus. The Church of Colosse. They were being influenced by false teachers. You know they are false teachers even today. Be careful what you listen to and what you say amen to and what you agree to. But he writes this letter to the church. And what we get from this is he wants to help them to overcome their distractions by doing what? By dealing with the facts. By staying focused, by having a funeral, and by looking to the future. Consider the facts, as Paul writes. He says, since then you've been raised with Christ, set your heart on things above. Where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. And to be raised with Christ is to be connected with our faith. Now I know you were not at the tomb, but because of what you believe and because you've accepted Christ As your personal Savior. There is a connection. You are risen with Christ. Amen. In fact, it says in the book of Galatians 2 and 20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless. I live. Yet not I, but Christ who does what? Who liveth in me, in the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. That's a pretty big deal. The fact that I'm so closely aligned that I too am crucified with Christ. No marks to show it, but my life is so uh entwined with that of Jesus Christ himself. He says to set your your hearts And your heart makes up who you are. It is your set of emotions. It is what makes you, he's saying, rather than get uh knocked off course, Set your hearts on things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of the Father. Those are are the facts of our faith. That it it's easy to lose focus It's easy to get thrown off by situations in life. And Paul's just saying, you know, here's how you do it. Keep your heart, keep your person. Focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me ask you, maybe you've never been distracted. Let me just back it up for a second with a uh eight-second survey Maybe you've never been distracted. Maybe you're one of these type people who never have anything to trip you up, to knock you off course. But most of us are not like that. Distractions will come. It's a whole movement about distracted driving and distracted living. Things that seemingly will throw us off course. Verse 2 It says set your mind, so we're talking about focus now, on things above, not on earthly things. Now this can be a challenge in our eight-second world. You think I can really uh set my mind on one thing without checking my text? Or my feed, or my TV. This can be a challenge, but we need to have God's view How does God see things? I've never uh when you fly you you can see a lot of things. How many of a window watchers? Um when I fly I don't like to look out the clouds. My wife, she takes pictures. I said, no, I know we 30,000 feet. I'm gonna take that. She's like No, I'm just gonna say thank you, Lord, let it land, praise you, Jesus. But Philippians Four and eight reminds us that to do what? To think on certain things. Things that are what? That are true. Things that are pure, things that are lovely. Things that are honest, things of a good report, to do what? To set your mind on these things. Now, now we don't walk around all day saying, you know what, praise the Lord. I'm looking above Praise God, praise God. You know some people like that? Always hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. Hallelujah. Well, you know, that's an old saying you can't be so heavenly minded that you're no earthly good So I mean you don't have to walk around and say oh hallelujah but you can be thinking on him having a conversation but you think on how good the Lord has been to you Amen. As you drive to that jump to the Lord, I remember I didn't have a job. I'm thinking about him, but my eyes are on the road That home you live in, God thank you, it could have been the other way. You've been in the hospital, God has healed you. And so, yeah, I'm thinking of Bud, but my mind is stayed on Jesus. In fact, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. And those who dwell within. So you're saying I shouldn't think about earthly things? Yeah, but make sure that your main goal is to have your mind set on the things of God. You know, the mind is a terrible thing to waste. I mean it it it don't take long. You could be thinking about one thing and and the enemy has said a thought like that and throw you off track four seconds in and you tell him get thee behind me, Satan. Well, I know your mind is saved. You put back a throwback song on. See, I'm trying to get y'all going now, y'all. No, I'm talking about you put on something from back in the day And your mind will switch back. That means your mind's working. Amen. Praise God. I love waking folk up in Jesus. So being able to deal with the facts of what I should be doing as it relates to uh being able to overcome distractions and having the focus and there's also a funeral verse 3 says for you die Huh? And your life is now hidden with Christ in God. There was a funeral when you came to Jesus. That there was a eulogy given. There was as a neighbor and as a friend, why it was the old you that God had to transform. For you, the old you, the old me, the the old rascal, we have to crucify him. So that there's a new man and a new woman that comes about. Paul writes to the church at Corinth, therefore, if anyone is in Christ, they're what? They're a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things become new. And there are many things that would distract us, and so you really gotta you really gotta gotta have a funeral for the old youth. Take the old you to the graveyard. Uh tell the old you ashes to ashes and dust to dust. Why? There's a new you emerging right now. Oh, y'all don't feel new today. Amen? Look back at your scrapbook And you'll see where God has brought you from, where he's brought me from. I thank God I had the funeral, it's over, and there's a new tempt. Is there a new you? Yes. Oh Lord, is there a new you? Is there a new you? There's is it do you feel brand new? You make me feel brand new. The Shilites. That's not in the text. But this new life in Christ is a life that is concealed. A life that is hidden from public view. Folk may not see the new you, but do you know that there's a new you? Why? Because you've committed to Christ. Not everyone will notice your change. One pastor said this. He says, you know what? We're dual citizens. One calling, two venues, one purpose, two passports. My God, there's a new you. It helps you to overcome distractions. Facts, focus, funeral, and our future. Verse 4 says, When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you will also appear with him in glory. Isn't it great to have a future in Christ? That that while you may have told your Goddess Counsel one thing, that God continues to work in you for his good purpose, you're not all that you're going to be yet in Jesus. Amen. He has a future for you. It is a guaranteed future. It's not if all the cards are laid right. It's the fact that I'm A child of the king. If anybody asks you who I am, you tell them I'm a child of God. Any children of God in the house today? Ones who know that you have a future And your future is connected to Christ. And so things that used to distract you can no longer distract you. Why? It might mess up your career path. You're a Christ's path because the Lord has taken you somewhere. Ought to be motivation for us. That this is not the end of the story. The credits have not run yet because God is continuing to do something in you. Don't you feel it from time to time that you realize that you know what God thank you for what you've done Thank you for what you brought me. Thank you for what you continue to do as you blow my mind and so people and places and things can't distract me the way they used to. Why? I'm on a mission. Praise God for Jesus. John 14 says, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, also believe in me. What? In my father's house There were many mentions. If it wasn't so, I wouldn't have told you. I ain't kidding. He continues to be the same God. Today, yesterday, can I just feel that for a second? That he's not done with Tim yet. I've got a future. He's not done with you yet. Don't throw the towel in. Don't say, well, you know, if I coulda, shoulda, woulda. How many folk know that God is yet working in you? And through you, and you've got a future, and that future is now. Well, I played baseball back in the day I was a catcher. And I love to distract the banners. Man, I would tell some big ones, man, your your shoes untie. Hoping that he would look and miss Harvey Williams fastball. I would say I think your bat is cracked. He would look while Bruce Randolph came down with a low one for a strike. And you know, the enemy tries to distract you And he tries to distract me say, you know what, uh that you know that that uh don't worry about that word today. It was just, you know, you no you you're all right. Because why? He's the father of lies. The Bible says that when you leave this place he'll try to take it where. He'll hold you about for give me that word you got today. Why? 'Cause some falls on what? On stony ground. And some falls over in the briar patch. But how many folk are committed to say you know what? I got the word today. I'm gonna keep that word. In my heart, I'm gonna meditate on it. Why? Because God has given it to me. I'm more than a conqueror through him that loved me. I mean, Jesus was tempted, yet without sin. The enemy came to him after the baptism and out in the wilderness and said, you know what, you should try this. And what did he tell him? Man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Every time the enemy tries to distract you. Give him a word. That's a black eye. Greater is he that's within me than he that's within the world. Give him a black eye. Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Give him a black eye and let him know that I can do all things through Christ. Who's oh you ain't ready to give him a black eye yet? Every time he comes to distract you, just let him know that I've got the word of God Dwelling in me in the beginning was the word. And the word was God. And the word is. Any word people in the house today? You need the word of God, the sword of the Spirit. To fight off your distractor. Praise God. You armed with that even now. Jesus died so that we might have life and have it more abundantly. Amen. Love the word hymn that says, I have a message from the Lord. Hallelujah. A message unto you I will give. Tis recorded in his word, hallelujah. That only that you look and live. Look and live, my brother. Look and live, my sister. Look and live. My church, look and live my community, look and live my job. Why? It's only that you will look And live. Every time something tries to distract you, so I'm looking to the hills. From what's coming, my help. All of my help coming from the Lord who made heaven and he made earth. And so stay focused today. Stay tied in to what the Lord Hash for you. So when your cell phone goes off, it may have already hit you today. Don't let anything distract you. You can overcome it by the word of God. Amen. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. Deal with the facts. Stay focused. Have a funeral. And know that you have a future in the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm so glad today That Christ has given me a future. I'm so glad today that He's made me new. Are you glad today that the things that used to throw you off, set you off, make you mad, that now They don't have the power. Why? You made a commitment to give your life to Jesus Christ. And so even now we accept the invitation. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jac. Come to Jesus. Just now come to Jean. Come to Je Here's why. He will save you. He will save you. How many believe it today? He will. Just now just he will save you. He will save you. He will say Let me just take a moment and this really is the most important part. Of the worship experience. Why? The word of God has been planted. Bible says one planteth, another watereth, but God gives the increase. Maybe you've come today. And just maybe you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. That's possible. Maybe you've heard a false narrative Just be good. Just treat your neighbor right. Keep buying girls out cookies. And Joe Corby pizzas. Y'all know about that But it's not just being a good person. It's knowing a good God who sent his only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to save you. The Bible says, if you Confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe it is again in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says. Then you'll be saved. Can I pray for you today? I don't know where you are, who you are. Preachers don't have a crystal ball. We don't have any clue. We're guessing But as you bow your head today, begin to ponder this. Lord Jesus, we come standing on your promises. As we come today, God, we come praying that if there's one in this place who has never confessed you as Lord and Savior, that they might do it right now. They may open their mouth, confess that yes, I'm a sinner, in need of a savior. And you said that if I believe that you set your son, if I believe that he died and that he rose again, the Bible says, then you will be saved. Why? Because with the mouth One confesses. With the heart, one believes. Do it today, God. You know, if there's one, even now we are praying, church, for that one soul. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, Go to our website. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's www. comthenumbervest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.