It's now time for the word of God. Let's take a moment just to pray. Father, we come today, and as we come to share your most precious word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and glory In Jesus' name, amen. If you have your Bibles available, let's look at the Gospel of Luke. Gospel simply means good news, and don't we need some good news today? Luke nineteen thirty-seven through verse number forty, and it reads as follows when he came near the place where the road goes down to the Mount of Olives The whole crowd of disciples began joyfully to praise God in loud voices for all the miracles they had seen. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. Verse 39, some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to Jesus, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. I tell you, he replied, if they keep quiet, the stones will cry out I want to preach today on this Palm Sunday from the Samonic title Parade, Palms, and Praises. Parade, Palms. and praises. Can I take you back to my childhood and like most young people, children, I loved Parade. I love to go downtown on the main drag, so to speak, and to hear the bands coming along and marching. And to also to see the floats that of course when you grew up you got to be on a float in somebody's car. You were somebody then And at that point you would also look for those on the floats. Now this is one of my favorite parts to throw out candy. And my God, we almost got hit a couple of times Chasing candy. I'm not sure that's uh something they do nowadays. And of course as the years would go along uh me and my wife would become marching band parents Uh both of our daughters were in marching band and we enjoyed that. And you knew off the bat uh whose uh children were ours, because we screamed the loudest. We knew all the songs But there was something about the parade and we would uh go from town to town and to be there in the crowd sometimes embarrassing them As we screamed out, want to let them know that is my child. But parades are so key. But back in the day, and in case you didn't realize, they're not new There were parades many, many years ago, and they were certainly popular in the day of Jesus Christ. There were no marching bands There were no floats, no candy, but lots of people. As the people showed up there in Jerusalem for the Passover, uh it was predicted anywhere from two hundred thousand to a million people as they came to celebrate and remember what God had done for them. Amen. We can never stop remembering and recognizing where God has brought us from. uh Passover certainly reminded them that on that night when uh God had commanded that the males would be killed, that they would put blood over their door. So the death angel would pass over. What is at your door today? Prayer, thanksgiving. But as we think about where we have come from, These parades were important because those who had achieved great things militarily would come into town on some beast, and sometimes they would be on a chariot and there would be this great celebration. Why? Because of the victory. Kind of sort of like when your child's little league team or soccer team wins the championship or your favorite football, basketball, baseball team wins. There's this celebration And the triumph of entry was just like that. When Jesus came in, he was considered to be a king. So what about the palms uh they have become a part of our Palm Sunday celebration. They symbolize goodness and well-being The palms symbolize peace and victory, and they were often put on coins in important buildings. Of course, think about the topography there. Uh there were trees, palm trees. I'm a Florida boy So I don't know how I know about palms. Now we didn't live far enough south to have a lot of them, but we knew about palm trees. They could grow in that environment. And it was the custom that once the leaders came into town, that persons would cut the palms. and began to wave them, singing Hosanna, excited about what was going to happen, laying those palms along the road where very narrow road where I've talked to persons who've been to Israel and they say, you know what? Uh it's a high place coming down It's not even two lanes. It's very, very close proximity to those who were there. But can you imagine? Can you hear the crowd cheering? Uh can you feel the palm branches waving? Maybe one has waved your way. But as Christians, we have certainly followed the practice of Palm Sunday waving the palms. Palms to raise, but we can't forget about the praises And that's why I want to drop my anchor today. I believe that praises were important. Why? Praises, first of all, have a purpose. But at some point during this time of sharing, praises were also problematic. And they were also permitted. Praise that had a purpose. When they came near the place, that is Jesus and his disciples. And the road goes down to the Mount of Olives. The whole crowd of disciples begin to joyfully praise God in loud voices. That's what the text says. praise God in loud voices. You think you can get loud? They praised them in a loud way. The volume was up, and they did it for all the miracles that they had seen. So, the disciples were not giving half-hearted praise. They were giving joyful praise Joyfully is how they praise the Lord of their salvation. This was praised with great enthusiasm, praise with great pleasure. They were excited to see Jesus. I could just put a pause right there. What is it that gets you excited? What is it that gets you saying, Lord, I thank you? And get this. Why were they praising God? by way of Christ in the first place. And it says it in the text, for all the miracles They had seen. That that's the why. They had seen some things following Jesus. They had seen him raise the dead. They had seen him turn water and the wine, his very first miracle there in Cana of Galilee. They had watched them heal the blind. They had watched them along the way Why do you give God the praise? Can I get in your business? Is it because of the miracles that you've seen Is it because of what the Lord has done for you? Why is it that you praise him? In this case, they praised them based on what they had seen. And there's something that we have to think about is every now and then you need to have a praise break. Amen I don't know if they still get breaks on jobs or not. Sometimes people just take breaks. You know that was part of your if you were big time, you got a break on your job. But think about life day-to-day. We need to have a praise break. Amen. To take a moment, whether you're in your car, whether you're in your home, to just give God the praise for all the great things. He has done. And guess what? He deserves all the praise. He inhibits the praises of his people. He can get by without them, but bring them on. And that's why I love Psalm 150. And then we just take one of those passages. It says, let everything that has breath praise the Lord. If you read that whole passage, it talks about ways and instruments that you can use To praise him. And so that's the purpose. I want to praise him for everything he has done for me. I want to praise him for getting me up this morning. I want to praise him for starting me on my way. I want to praise him because in my right they didn't have a miracle things we look for stuff to come in the mayor of looking for a similar check. You ought to just give God the praise. As you think about all that He's done for you. I mean I was thinking the other day, I was talking to my wife, we were talking about then you got your own testimony where God has brought you from. How when we were uh didn't have many funds then uh we would uh we would rent a used car. Amen. I know I I didn't go by some of the major companies. I got whatever Brother Joe had on the corner. Can I borrow your used car with miles already on it? Amen. And and credit was so bad until you got a car that only had so much oh I think some of y'all feel me today has so much on there and once you went over that they'll kick you out of the hotel. But think about why you can praise them. You are still in your right mind. Praise with a purpose. But also praise that was problematic. And let's look at this. Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. This is what they were shouting. Yes, they shouted, Hosanna. But they shouted some other things as well. And what the people were shouting about made reference to a king coming in, riding on a colt. They had followed this type of narrative from the time that they were held captive, and then when the Lord allowed them to be released, they never forgot that you know one day we're gonna have a king. Amen But I think when you look at this, their praise was a little problematic. Why? Because they were thinking of some other things. Let's look at Zechariah It says, Behold your king is coming to you, a righteous and having a salvation, is he, humble, mounted on a donkey or a colt. So when they saw uh Jesus coming in not on a big stallion but coming in on the colt they they put the pieces together. Wait a minute. We're looking for this national leader We're looking for this earthly king. That was a big problematic because he would not be crowned an earthly king. He would become the king of kings. And the Lords of Lords, and that became so important. Do you see the similarities to Hawaii that praise was a little off When you think about how you praise God, why are you praising Him? Sometimes we are praising in a way that may be a little uh little magnified, that may be a little misguided, but think of what the Lord has done for you. This praise uh lacked something because their mindset was strictly on earthly things. Oh Lord have mercy When you think about where you are, we can be so what uh we can be so focused on what's happening here that we forget that he's already gone to prepare a place for us And here's why it became problematic. When they continued to lift up the dare he is, uh, you know, uh Hosanna, but sometime later. The same crowd said, crucify him. Crucify him. People will turn on you, or you know somebody who turned on you and then you turned on somebody along the way. But just knowing that what persons may say now, what is the motive of their praise? They quoted this. They were certainly pushing this whole, let's make you a king. And Jesus had to constantly remind them that this is not what you think it is, that my father's already gone to prepare a place for me that where I am, you will be also. Don't don't don't open up no palace for me. Don't don't try to get me a security. Don't try to get me a palace. Why? that this is much deeper. Their praise was problematic. Their praise had a purpose, but also Their praises were permitted. I like this particular text. It says that some of the Pharisees, these were uppity religious folk who were always following Jesus, always starting trouble. They look into the clause as Jesus, teacher, rebuke your disciples. Tell them to be quiet. These were critics. These were haters. These were dead be downlers who were trying to keep it down. Anybody ever told you It don't take all that. I've seen people shout in the store. I've seen them shop in the restaurants. I've seen them shop uh shout wherever they were. Why? Because when they think of the goodness of Jesus and all that He's done for them, they go they don't care who is saying, uh, can you keep it down? I think about sometimes and this is a a different type of praise you're praising your child when they tell you at graduation the police hold man after almost saw some fights break out You're gonna tell me that the June bull barely got through and I can't praise? They couldn't hold back down, you know. Little Susie just barely got across the stage. Hallelujah. And so this sense of praise is permitted. But these Pharisees wanted to spoil the moment. They wanted Jesus to tell them to hold it down. Is this one tried to hold your praise? Jesus has given them permission to praise. And that's the way he says in verse 40, I tell you, he replied. that if these shall hold their peace, the very rocks will cry out. Amen. If you tell me to to stop If you tell me to pause them and tell them not to praise the Lord, creation will start shouting. Amen. The stones will begin to cry out uh uh my uh existence, my trees will begin to give God the praise. Amen. He doesn't need or want for praise. That becomes so important. And then Psalm 34, I love what David says, I will bless the Lord. When at all times his praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord, and the humble shall here they are, oh magnify the Lord with me And let us exalt his name together. Can I get a couple of praises on the internet? I know you're watching. My God, I can't see you, but you ought to just put your hands in the air and say, Lord, thank you for getting me to this day. I praise you. For who you are, I praise you for what you've done. Today you've got permission to praise him You've got a license to praise the Lord. If you get pulled over, profiled for praising, just give God the praise. Amen The song says, we bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord. Reverend, I'm not back in my church yet. No, where you are is the house of the Lord. Because you take the presence of the Lord with you. You are the body of Christ. So you've got permission. In your own home that you pay rent for a mortgage to give him praise. Hallelujah. Don't make me have to push you right on TV right now, but you want to give him some praise because why? That is a right that you have Amen. It's not just for things, but it's the cost of all that God has done for you. And to praise Him. Is to boast about him and to praise him is to brag about my lord, to praise him is to rave, amen. To praise him is to commend, to praise him is to speak Well, the same Jesus who died on an old rugged cross, I praise him. The same mother got up on the third day morning. with all power in his hand. And can I say this? Oh oh oh what he has done for me. I never shall forget what he's done for me. And you know you don't need a crowd to praise the Lord I've said it before. Appraisal just break out. You'll be in a moment and you'll think about all that he's done. You might put your palm and tie it on your rearview mirror, if you got that good, it ought to remind you of the price that was paid. That the same folk who were waving were saying, Oh y'all ought to get him. But thank be to God today. I can praise him. Amen. You can't praise him anywhere. But think about the countries you may visit, they'll say keep it down. But right now, take a moment to praise him. Glory. Parades Palms, but don't forget about the praises of the Lord. I just believe there's a praise chip in you that needs to be activated. Amen. Come on, put the code in. Got me up this morning. Praise. When I was down, he lifted me. Praise. There ought to be an activation in your spirit to think about God. You didn't have to do it, but you did. Can I direct those disciples? They said they praised in a loud voice. I got a big voice. I don't mind praising him with that voice. Thank you. The same voice that said things that were not holy is the same voice. That will praise God, the fruit of your lips. Well. Oh, give him praise today. That is the word of God. Hallelujah. It is already Bless. They're on this day, don't worry so much about the palms But keep in mind who it is that you're praising. And guess what? He is worthy of all praise and all glory. He's worthy. He's worthy. He's worthy. Yes, he is. He's worthy. There's no doubt about that. You don't have to consult anybody. He's this worthy. Oh, thank you, Lord, for being a worthy Lord. As we think about this week and as we come to that place in our faith. That you took so much, beaten, lied on, and they really murdered On the old rugged cross. Can't you see the crime tape? Gotha? This is the crime scene. But from that, oh God can give you victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus with a choice to make. Filling the blank, I decided to follow Jesus. Not the world, not the stock market, not my best friend, not my life coach. But to follow Jesus as we come today, we know that there maybe is one who has never given their life to you My deal choice today is that I'm gonna get on board for Holy Week. That I gave my life to Jesus over the internet On Palm Sunday, the Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says Thou shalt be saved. Come today and give your life to Jesus.