Good day, my dear friend. Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. But this week I'm coming to you from Live Oak, Florida, my hometown here in North Florida, where I'm in revival this week. And today I want to provide to you part one of our preaching series, leading by example. Hear ye the word of the Lord. There's a word from the Lord tonight that comes from the Gospel of Mark. And Mark just simply means good news. That's what gospel means. It reads there in the 35th verse, very early in the morning, while it was still dark. Jesus got up, left the house, and went off to a solitary place where he prayed. Simon and his companions went to look for him, and when they found him, they exclaimed, Everyone is looking for you. Jesus replied, Let us go somewhere else to the nearby villages so I can preach there also. That is why I have come. So he traveled through Galilee. Preaching in their synagogues and driving out demons. I want to preach tonight and during the course of this week from the Samonic title, Leading by Example, Part 1. Leading by example part one. The story is told of five college students who show up in London specifically to listen to the great preacher Charles Spurgeon. And they got there early, I guess, to get a seat, and they were greeted by a gentleman who says, Great to have you. Uh why don't you come take a tour of the building? I want to take you to an area that's called the heating plant. And they're thinking, it's July. Why would I want to go to a heating plant? Uh this gentleman took them downstairs beneath the church and when they got downstairs they came to a door and he whispered as he opened the door And there were 700 people praying, bowing. He says to these five college students, this is our heating plant. This is what happens that allows the power of God to move above. It turns out that nice tour guide was Charles Spurgeon himself. If you come this week, I want to believe God that this place will turn into a heating plant. So much so that it might overheat. So much so that souls might be delivered. So much so that healing might take place So much so that lives might be transformed. Why? Because of the power of prayer. You know, I'm believing God for signs and wonders as I took a moment to pray today. And I I encourage you to pray every day at noon this week. Just whisper a prayer for the revival. And what God gave me was simply don't get in the way of what I want to say. Don't you block the word, just preach the word. Jesus took time to empower those he selected. Oh, you know the story. He comes along there by the Sea of Galilee. And he really recruits a couple of misfits. Roughnicks of folk who would go on to help him to turn the world upside down. They were followers of Jesus Christ. They left their homes. They left their occupations all to follow Jesus. Now I know you love the Lord. He's heard you cry, but how many folk would say, you know what? Tell my boss I won't be in Monday I've gone to follow Jesus. Tell him to go ahead and just tear up my timesheet. Many of us would not do that, but what a commitment to go and to follow He who is the Savior of the world. By the time we get to our text tonight in the Gospel of Mark, and I love Mark's Gospel because it's believed to be the first gospel written. And Matthew and Luke came along and kind of duplicated it. They can write to their different audiences. But he really talks about Jesus who spent a long day handpicking his disciples, but also preaching and teaching And driving out demons. Let me just put this into perspective. There is still demonic activity in the world that we live in. Oh yes there is. Don't think for a moment it's something out of the movies. You have to be able to plead the blood of Jesus Christ. We know that the enemy is always busy, but the Bible says, greater is he that's within me than he that is within the world. So the victory is already won. And by the time he gets now to Capernaum, he's already making headlines. Because of what he does. Aren't you glad you serve a Savior who's always looking out for us? Oh my God, don't let me push you tonight. If I were to get close to you and ask you about your week, you would tell me what God has done for you. If I were to check your resume, you would tell me how he brought you out, how he healed your body, how he regulated your mind. My God, if there are two witnesses, you know better than I do what the Lord have oh I'm getting excited all with that He goes through from place to place spreading the good news. He is leading by example. In fact, when they find him, he's praying. He's on his knees praying to his father in heaven. Have you ever been caught praying Did somebody caught you in a moment where you were praying? Amen. Ever had somebody walk by your room? Have your children ever caught you praying? Devil burnt into you when you've been praying when they had to send you to college and didn't have the money and they were praying. Had to take care of you and they were praying. They caught him praying To his father in heaven. And there's some things that take place that I think will help us tonight to understand what it means to live by example. First of all, there was a private connection. Verse 35 says, very early in the morning. My wife kids me now. She said, you know what? You Florida folk get up too early for me. I'm still early rising time and thinking it's gonna be the truck coming by to pick me up for tobacco. It's in my DNA To get up early. There's something about getting up early in the morning while the dew is still on the roses. Amen. I can't sleep late. I'll start thinking. But Jesus, I believe, sets the tone by getting up early in the morning. It says, while it was still dark. In other words, they hadn't been broken. He was already up. Ahead of the ruckus. Ahead of those who might be criticizing him. He got up as holy man, left the house. Don't you love the detail of the text? It gives you step by step. He woke up He got up and he went to a place, uh-huh, to a solitary place, to a private place, and he prayed. That that's something that we ought to look at today. Maybe in the morning. You don't need an alarm clock, but but find yourself saying, I need to make a connection with my father. And prayer is how he stayed connected. Prayer is how he contacted his father in heaven. You know, you may think that prayer is old fogy. It don't take all that and you know somebody praying too long. Why can't we just say God is good, God is great, but good God Isn't it great that folk still pray until times get better? I know without a shadow of a doubt it was the prayers of the righteous that have availed my oh yeah, I got two witnesses tonight Oh, you know you weren't that smart. It was somebody praying for you. Ask yourself, am I being connected to the Savior? My God, mirror, mirror on the wall. Have I been in contact lately with God? Can I just raise the question? When was the last time you had a good old prayer? When was the last time you didn't rush it? When was the last time you got down for one thing and God had you praying for something else? Amen. And that's what takes place. He didn't let an active day. Throw him off schedule. And you know he was busy. This was another nine to five. He got up early, and it doesn't say when he went to bed, but he kept getting up early. And we have to pattern our own lives to make sure we don't lose the connection. Now some of us remember the days when we had the party line. It was the Tutans and the Sneeds. You might pick up somebody else, excuse me. But now we have the internet. And now we get mad if we can't get a signal. And now we get mad at Syria if somebody's not acting right. Amen But there is a way to still connect to the Father just by praying to him. Amen. My God, isn't it great just to take time to pray? How many folk pray behind the wheel? Man years ago I had an old Buick Stylock and I called her Bessie. But that Buick had a broken radio. I never tried to figure out what was the problem. May have been a fuse. But I just said, this is a praying car. Because there was no radio, I would use that time to pray back and forth to work. Amen. I don't know who got that cover, but my God, that was prayer. Oh, listen, that car. Take time to pray wherever you are. To try and get a signal, to try and get a connection with He who has already set the example about what we ought to do. We serve a Savior who prayed. And it got along to a private place. Don't tell all your business. A private place. Don't let folk know where you're going. A private place. It may be on your break at work. Amen. But lose the crowd and make a connection with the Savior. Matthew six and five tells us Don't pray in public like the hypocrites do. But my God go and find you a closet. And I mean I how many fucking have used a literal closet Is there a place in your house you can go to and say, I know nobody won't bother me here and just get one up? Oh God, you ought to find you a place and designate it as your prayer closet. Why? You've seen God work in and through you. There was a private connection, but also there was personal direction. Verse 36 says, Simon and his companions went to look for him. And when they found him, they exclaimed, Everyone is looking for you. And Jesus replied, don't you love the text? Let's go somewhere else to the nearby villages so I can preach there also. That is why I have come. Simon Peter knew where to find him. Everybody is looking for him, but he does not take instructions from a disciple. Because he's been praying, he comes up with a clear mind of what God has told him to do. And folk may give you all kind of advice and what they think you ought to do But what you pray unto the Lord, you come away with a fresh perspective. Lord, what would you have me to do? It was not based on the disciples because they were saying, Man, we're making the headlines. Come on. I mean, people look at what are you ready to go? He says, no, no, no, no. We're going somewhere else. Anybody ever been in that crowd that you went against the grain and folk may have talked about you? You say, you know what? I don't feel led to do that I'm gonna do this. They called you that you were independent-minded. But isn't it great when you follow the Lord? There's no secret what God can do, what He's done for others, He will do for you. And they find Him He didn't leave because Simon Peter found him. He left because it was time for him to go. In fact, he was getting those directions from his father. You know, isn't it great to hear the voice of God? And you know, he does speak. He does speak. He speaks by way of his word. Ever come across a passage and you say I've read that 20 times in Sunday school, but today I needed that one. He speaks He may have spoken through a Holy Spirit that comes along and gives you this quiet, still voice, and you thought it was your idea, but it was the Spirit of God speaking to you. Oh, I know it's happened to you a time or two. Amen He's spoken through your circumstances. Amen. You say this is the worst thing that can happen to me. But don't you know all things work together for good to them who love God and who are the called according? Oh, let me testify then. Amen He put me out of work so he could speak. I was playing Sunday school boy until I lost my job. Then I got real with the Lord. Sometimes circumstances will cause you to hear the voice of God loud and clear. And he speaks through people. Ain't got to be a bishop or moderator or prophet or pastor. It may be the guy on the corner saying, Help me, and you take time to hear him, you tell me God can't speak through him. I know it might be something on his breath, but God can use anybody. Won't he do it today? He takes his directions from his father Psalm 32 and 8 says, I will instruct you and teach you the way you should go. I will counsel you with my loving eye on you. That's personal connection. Personal connection, private direction, but finally public manifestation. Verse 39 says, So he traveled. Throughout Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and driving out demons. Devils, folk who were full of evil. And manifestation really is a public demonstration of power and of purpose. Jesus' ministry was an indication that he had gone public. It was proof that when he said something, something happened. Amen. When he spoke Things happened. When he healed, folk were able to leave from that and tell people, I've been touched by the hand of Jesus. His public ministry was an indication he had been in private with the master. Let me just challenge you even now. I dare you to get private tonight. I dare you to find a half a closet before you go to bed tonight and see if you won't wake up with a fresh perspective on the thing you plan to do on tomorrow. Ask the Lord to direct you He will give you power to preach and to teach and to witness and to live godly lives and to serve the master, my God. Something ought to happen from your life. If we say we are saved and filled with the Holy Ghost and love the Lord Jesus and go to church every Sunday and treat our name, something ought to happen for you. There ought to be some fruit in your life. Somebody ought to be able to say, you know what? There's something I see in you that's blessed me. Your life ought to be an indication of what God is doing on the inside. John 15, 7 says, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you. You will ask whatever you want, and it shall be. How many folk believe that today? I dare you to ask him. Ask him to come into your heart. I dare you to ask him to empower you for the better good. Leading by example. Can I testify that I've been led by example by the Lord Himself? And here's how I know. Oh him says, I'm weak, and I need thy strength and power to help me over my weakest hour, and we all have weak hours. Amen. Lord, lead me through the darkness, thy face to see. Lead me, O Lord, lead me. Lead me, guide me, along the way, for if you lead me, I shall not stay. Lord Let me walk each day with thee. Lead me, oh Lord, lead me. How many folk want to be led by the Lord today? Not you lead the Lord, but let him lead you. Not you get in front of the Lord, but let him lead you. Not you telling what you want to do, but let him lead you We started out tonight talking about Simon Peter and how he found Jesus leading by example. But you know what? Long before I knew the Simon in the Bible, I remember the Live Book version of Simon Sayus. Some of y'all remember that. Amen. Even if the person's name was Tim or Tommy or Katha or Katie, you had to follow command. Simon says, wave your hands. Simon says, shout for joy. Simon says, walk like this. Simon says, do this. And you have to follow the command of Simon. I don't know Simon, but you had to be able to be in the game. Oh, some of y'all played it. I know you got candy crushed and And you've got PlayStation. How many folk remember the old Simon says? My God Simon says this and Some folk got crazy. Simon says, look out your tongue. Simon said, oh, crazy. But you did what Simon says. But can I tell you today what Jesus says? He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father except by me. Jesus says the thief only comes to kill, to steal, and to destroy. But I've come that you might have life and have it more abundantly. Amen. Jesus says Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Jesus says, I lay down my life on my own accord. I'll lay it down and I'll oh you're bad somebody. I'll pick it up as well Jesus says no man knows the day nor the hour when the Son of Man shall come. That's what he says. But in the meantime, while we're waiting, we ought to just lift him up tonight. Amen. How to reach the masses? Men of every birth, for an answer, Jesus gave the key. And if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men unto me All the world is hungry for the living bread. Lift him up. So others might see. Don't you know that he wants you to lift him up today? Amen. Can I say this? Don't exalt the preacher. Don't exalt the few. Preach the gospel. Some for foolish. And men were glad to want to know what is it that you follow? Lift them up. How many folk have come to lift him up? You know, he led by example. Why? He lifted his father up. Come on, lift him up today Lift him up today. Lift him up today. He'll draw all men under you. If you just take time to lift him Lift him when you're down. Lift him when you're depressed. Lift him when you're going through life's excuse Lifting when you find yourself looking for an answer. Lifting when you need peace. Lifting when you need joy. Can somebody help me lift up the name of Jesus? At the name of Jesus. Every knee Shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord unto the glory of God. Do you feel like lifting him? I've come today just to lift him up Why? He's been good to me. And that's why I lift him up. He brought me out of a tough situation. I can't help but lift him up. And you know why? He says, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men under me. Won't he do it today? Won't he do it today? If you would just take time and lift him, I feel like lifting And my Jesus. I feel like lifting him up. I feel like saying, Father, I stretch my hand to thee. No help I know if thou Withdraw thyself from thee. Oh whether I can help it. I'm trying to lift him. I'm trying to lift him leading by example. Lift him. He has set the model. Everything you want to be, he displays that. He led by example. Praying and providing for his people. Maybe you come tonight as you stand in this place. This is the heating plan. My God, the temperature in the spirit has risen tonight. And so we come tonight looking for a pattern. Used to watch my mother soul and she would get a pattern. Oma call pattern and she would just I used to watch that thing and Yeah, and Jesus has given us a pattern. Giving us a place in which we are to go if we're willing to follow him. I've decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. Though no one joined me Still, I will follow. I want to thank you for joining us and tuning in for this broadcast. Stay tuned for parts two and three this week. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministry. in Baltimore County, Maryland, this week in the town of Live Oak, Florida. Have a great day in the Lord and stay tuned.