Good day, my friends, Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ. the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now today's message Amen. How many folk believe that there's no one greater than our Heavenly Father? How many folk believe that there's no one greater? Now I know you know great people, you have rubbed shoulders with folk who are important, but there's none like our God. Do you believe that today? I mean you try some other folks, other methods, but you come back to say God there's none like you. I feel like I'm kind of pushing y'all today. Is that true? Is that true? Is there anyone who's greater than God? There is not. As we come today, let us bow before the Lord. Father, we do thank you. And we acknowledge that there's no one greater than you. As we come today and we declare your truth, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give you. Your name, the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We are thankful as always to be able to share the riches of the word of God. There is a word that comes today from the Psalm 78 and 1 through 8. I'll read those passages. I'm using the New Living Translation just because it reads a little different. And there in the first verse it says, O my people, listen to my instructions. Open your ears to what I am saying, for I will speak to you in a parable. I will teach you hidden lessons from our past. Stories we have heard and known, stories of our ancestors, handed down to us. We will not hide these truths from our children. We will teach the next generation about the glorious deeds of the Lord, about his power. and his mighty wonders. For he issued his laws to Jacob. He gave his instructions to Israel. He commanded our ancestors ancestors to teach them to their children, so the next generation might know them, even the children not yet born And they in turn will teach their own children. So each generation should set its hope anew on God, not forgetting his glorious miracle and obeying his commands. Then they will not be like their ancestors stubborn, rebellious, and unfaithful, refusing to give their hearts to God. That's a mouthful, but that's some good meat in there. Amen. I'm going to preach today on this Father's Day from the text. Pass it on. Pass it on. Oh, last evening I received a text message from my sister Pauline and in that text message was uh image of a letter that she had found and shared with me. I blew it up. I made it big. It was dated on June 27, 1978. It was a letter that was written to Pauline from my great uncle, Uncle L. T. Lott Sanders. He was a pastor, a moderator. and someone on my mother's side who just loved to spend time with us. And right away my mind was taken back to that image. He was asking her uh for my address at 78, I'm a southern Moore College And apparently I hadn't written him a letter, but he was trying to figure out how I can get a hold of Timothy. This is a distinguished Uh man. Uncle Lot would come down from Georgia in the finest car. He had wonderful white hair. That's on the Tutans And he would light his pipe up and would spend time talking with each of us, trying to pass along something. I've tried to duplicate that in past years of my nieces and nephews. Come talk to Uncle Tim for a minute. They may give you some wisdom, no pipe, but I gave them some wisdom about that. Life. But as I looked at that, I realized that this was something that was important. I blew that letter up and brought it today because he was such a great henman And a great encourager in the Lord. You know, we love keepsakes. We love things that remind us of people and places and things. For you it may be a piece of jewelry. from someone who's gone on. It may be a photograph that you cherish. It may be something that reminds you Of a loved one. A memento, but we keep that because it takes us back. It's something we can touch and reflect upon. But we hold that so near and dear to our hearts. I want to suggest this morning that we have to pass along our faith to the next generation. We're obligated to pass along that we know. It may not be a keepsake, but may it be a saying that in the midnight hour they can remember the teaching. And the sayings of mom and dad and grandmother and grandfather, those things that are worth passing alone. Some of you this morning are witnesses that you're Parents may not have left you a trust fund, but they left you something to hold on to. They spoke God in your presence, whether you want to hear it or not You gotta snatch those earbuds out every now and then and let folk know I'm talking about something that's important. Can I get amen? Sometimes we're afraid to tell them to turn their their box down. We're afraid to can I talk to you? No, no. Take them out. It's gonna be an old-fashioned sermon today And speak the word of God in their presence. There's nothing wrong with that. Call it old fashioned, call it old fogy In the 78th Psalm, we hear from one who is writing, and usually we think about King David, but he did not write all of the Psalms There was one by the name of Osap. He was one who was a Levite. He was one who played alongside David. He was one who was very gifted. But he's writing to another generation. He's sharing some things that have been placed in him. Isn't it great to pass some things along Isn't it great to have something that you value that you know what? It's worth hearing. Can I give you a disclaimer? Do you think this is just a Father's Day message? It is not just a Father's Day message. It's something that we're all called to do in life. It's to pass along some wisdom. You'll be surprised that when years to come, somebody will bring back an old sage Where that came from? That was your Uncle Juke used to say that. Your Aunt Martha was famous for saying around the table some of these things that have deep meaning to each Of us. Amen. It's about passing along our faith. Let's unpack these verses. They're in the first couple of verses. It talks about this sense of an openness. Oh my people, listen to my instructions. Open your ears to what I'm saying, for I will speak to you in a Parable, that is, a short story, earthly story with a heavenly meaning. I will teach you hidden lessons from our past Stories that we have heard and known, stories that our ancestors have handed down. Those stories are powerful too. My God, you ought to have a story or two about something that God has done in your life. You know, before the days of video came Cameras, we just sit down with no choice and hear an old story. Anybody that witnessed today that you didn't have nowhere to go to just say, sit down. Let me talk to you for a minute And they will share with you something that may have bored you out of your mind, but you caught some of it. Amen? When was the last time you told your children a story I don't mean Jack and Jill. Amen. I'm talking about sitting down and saying, let me tell you about God. Let me tell you about what God has done in my life. I didn't ask for an answer, but when was the last time you took time to say, can we have a conversation about God? About what he's done in my life. Not Harry Potter, not Barney, not SpongeBob. But what about a word from the Savior? That seems so simple, but are you open to tell the story? I think we've become kind of afraid to offend And I've talked with somebody who got some gray hair. We are concerned that we might offend our family members Concerned that we might not force anything on them, but if you speak it and live it in front of them, something will be passed along. Oh, I know I'm right this morning, if you would dare say it And say it so that they might be able to hear it be open, have it even if it's only one passage Reverend, I got a half of scripture. Share that same old story and be open to let them know what God has done in your life. Anybody got a story today? Maybe it's the story of what you used to be. Amen. You watch an episode of an old movie, it snaps back to where you were at that time. Oh, I'm just trying to get real. This morning, in case you don't have a story, and you say, I used to be here, but look where God has brought me to. Don't be afraid to get on their level and do a elementary school. You'll be amazed what kids can consume if you break it down. There's no generation gap. God has filled the gap. We're obligated to pass along what we have been given. Get yourself a story. And tell that story over and over again. Then when you go to glory, they say, you know what? That was a story we used to always hear. Like a letter like this From many, many moons ago, but be open to share it. But not just being open. I believe it really is our obligation to do it Verse 4: We will not hide these truths from our children. We will tell the next generation about the glorious deeds of the Lord About his power, about his mighty wonders. For he issued his laws to Jacob. He gave his instructions to Israel. He commanded. He told. He pressed upon our ancestors. to teach them to their children. Why? So the next generation might know them. Even the children not born. I saw a baby earlier. in the house and I kept saying you know what that baby can get a story right now and no matter what it is I mess with babies in the store I I I get in front of them, I do faces, and I try to get to the baby. Baby got you? If you tell them, amen. So begin even now Yeah, use the nursery rhymes, but let them know that God is good. It says, don't hide the truth. You doing a disservice, you say, Well, I'm just gonna say nothing. I don't want to bring up religion today, but folks bringing up everything else. I just kind of talk Talking sermon, amen. But you're afraid to say it. But don't hide it from them. You're doing them a disservice when you don't tell them about the goodness of the Lord How many folk are willing to pass something on? Amen? I mean, you gotta have something to pass on that they can live by. And now you can leave a recording, you can leave a text, you can throw back Thursday, every Thursday, but something that God has done in your life. Talk about the power of God. And it's mighty acts. You know, we love those stories that he opened up the Red Sea. Oh man, Kim to get in there. Wow. He took a stick and said, I'm gonna hold it up And we've got to think about those big stories in the Bible that we think we're too big for kids to go, wow, tell me more of those Bible stories, but we have an obligation not to hide it There's some stuff we've hidden. Maybe it stays there. Amen? But it'll come out. You wouldn't be so cool and slick. But do it. It is an obligation to Pass it on. It starts at home. Even it does. Don't be afraid to go in your child's room. You pay the mortgage. Can I come in? No, I'm coming in. My kids say, Oh Lord Dad, are you going there? Yes, I've been there. Amen. When do we become afraid of our children? Afraid to share. I don't want to force my faith on them. Well, if you don't, the world will force something on them. Amen. Yes and I'm gonna let them decide. By then it's too late. You say wait a minute now, you gonna give me five minutes, you gonna get a little something But they are watching us as well. We are obligated even when they're asleep, go in the room and pray over them at the dinner table, then just start sitting down and eating Man, we got in big trouble for it. You want a blessing of food? Amen. It may be in a table blessing that they come to understand that God provided the meal. I know daddy worked the double, but God made a difference. I know mama had to work overtime, but God made it happen. Let them know how good God has been in your own experience It is an obligation. It's about being open, but there's also an opportunity. Says verse 6. So the next generation might know them, even the children, they're again not yet born. And they would teach their children and their children would teach their children. And and then their She was really gonna teach that that you follow me? And you keep on saying it. The Lord will make a way somehow. Keep on letting them know what God has done in your life. And then verse 8 when it tops it off, it says, Then they will not be like their ancestors. Stubborn, rebellious, unfaithful, refusing to give their hearts to God. We've got to learn from the previous generation. We all come from dysfunctional family. My God, there's stuff that's in your family history. You try to be all cool. It's in there. Okay, it is what it is. We all have somebody that folk don't want to talk about that. But it happened. Well don't you make the same mistake. Do better. My grandmother would say if she was a hundred She said, You can do better, do better. That's some wisdom, man. See, I just took that. My mama's mama said that If you can do better, do better. My children know. Do better, do better. My grandkids, I have them this summer. If you can do better, do better Amen. And maybe they'll tell their kids, you can do better, do better. Let them know that there's something going on in your experience. Don't be afraid to share. It's urgent It's crucial. We cannot repeat history again by being silent, by saying nothing. I don't care how we dress it up. It's the God-heaving truth. We can do a lot better, and God has given us this opportunity. You know, the writer of the book, he kept his word. The Bible says his sons became great musicians and faithful. Why? They were watching Daddy. Amen. And your kids are watching you and they're mimicking you. And what you do, they'll do. And you put it on YouTube. Oh, look at that. Ain't that cute? They saw it somewhere. I know I'm going way deep into your business today. Amen. Amen. But what we think is cute may not be too cute. But what will they take? When they come behind, what will they find that's worth keeping? What will they find that's worth repeating that you share? Amen. I'm reminded of the what it takes to become a world-class sprinter, which I was not. I was a distance guy. But I always like to watch the relays Man, they would come around the next man with a baton. And it had to be great timing in doing so. I've seen folk drop the baton But they would have it timed out just right that by the time you got near them, there are about two sprinters in here, you would hold your hand back And you wouldn't even look back. I know it's coming. Bring the stick to me. And at that point, you start to run And you get it. And there's that final leg. You made the handoff, and the race is underway. I want to say to you today, God has given you the word of God just to hand off. All you gotta do is say, wait a minute, wait a minute. Can I give you an old old focus story? Can I give you a little New Testament Can I give you a Bible? Can I put something in your hand and in your heart that as you run in life? I don't have much, but I got the word of God inside of me. Look at here, look at it look at here. As you run the race. That know that you've got something that you're carrying. Why? Because big mama said, Here you gonna take this? You know you packed for the dorm. I I'm I'm I'm good. No, here's the Bible. I'm all right, I'm no you you need that Amen. I used to pack my stereo up, speakers about that big, and I said here's your Bible. Yes, ma'am. But one day I had to use that Bible One day times got rough and one day hills became hard to cut. And one day I faced trouble of my own And I went back to my little old Billy Graham Bible that I got off TV. And that Bible that my Aunt Dolly gave me. And they mean something now. Why? It's because what's in the word that makes a difference. Oh, you don't want to pass it off We gotta pass along something that makes the difference in their life. Like that old song says You gotta put your hand in the hand of the man who steal the water. Some of y'all know about that. Put your hand in the hand of the man who calmed the sea Put your hand in the man of the man from Galilee. I'm from Live Oak, Florida I'm not from Galilee, but I got a story. Well, I have given and shared something about how God sent his only begotten son In your hand. How he stretched his hands wide and how they pierced him in the side and how he died, but he rose again with all power in his hands. And so I passed along to my children. I told them to trust in the Lord with all your heart and to lean not to your own understanding in all your ways. Acknowledge him. He'll do what? He'll direct your path I told them that weeping may endure for a night, but that joy comes in the morning. I told them that I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me I told them, children, obey your parents. This is right in the Lord. Children, honor your mother and your father, and the days shall be long in the land the Lord thy God. Give it. What are you passing along today? The ancients were nothing but through prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, make your request known unto God. And the peace of God that passeth all understanding. So keep your heart and mind in Christ. Pass along the word But those who wait upon the Lord shall do what? Shall renew their strength. They shall smile with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Here take take that with you. What was that? Here. I'm good. No, you're not. No, no, no. I don't want to hear that right now. Don't talk God to me. You go hear it. God, go with them. Don't don't preach to me. I ain't preaching. They're saying you better trust him. Now I ain't trying to hear. Yeah, I know you're not trying to hear, but He picked me up when I was down and out in the street and about to lose my no no no no no no but Take it. But you but you I'm offended. Take it. But you have to take it. Are you willing today? To pass something on to the next generation. That is the Word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. Come on, stand to all over this place. We're obligated to be open and to take advantage of the opportunity Just to drop, as young folks say, let me drop some knowledge on you. I'm gonna drop on you that God is good. What you mean? You'll see. When times get rough and You've been bad, but he's good. I'm trying to stop preaching. But but you'll have something to pass along. Y'all can quote me. You know what Pastor said today? Yeah. I heard it. Well what you gonna give me? They're waiting To hear something. They they want to hear from you. You told them ABCs But you've not told them about a Savior who came and who died And it rose again. But I'm not a parent. You've got a nephew. And a niece. And a neighbor. I know he looked on hard. What's up, bro? God bless ya. It's a little submonia. May not be much. You looking rough, I'm looking. I'm blessed today, man. Hello, young lady. It's a glorious day that God has made. You've just passed something along to them. Come to Jesus right now. Continues, comment Come to J now Come to Gome to Gust And tell him this he will save you. Say what? He will save you, he will save you And sometimes it may be a song. Old country. Country song. Down in the woods. And you keep saying over there, what that don't make no sense. Yes, it does too. It brought me out. As we bow to deal over this place, Father, I thank you In the name of Jesus, that you've given us something to pass on. A word, a testimony. A life worth replicating. Today, it is our charge. No matter where we find ourselves, we're all equipped to pass it on. Could be a younger sibling, could be a classmate, could be your running partner and your homeboy, your sister girl Diva, but let them know something about what God has done for you. And you'll be amazed. And we won't repeat what the other generation has done. Father, even if we bow our heads today, there might be one Who knows you not. And so I'm passing along what was passed along to me. If you confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Save someone today May their hearts open. May their minds receive what thus saith the Lord. I pray you were blessed by today's sermon. I am just so thrilled that God would use me to help you and to encourage you in the Lord. Now to find out more about our ministry, go to our website. It's www. com the number twoharvest. org. That's www. com, thenumber twoharvest. org. Also Check out our brand new church app. It's called HCM Baltimore. That's HCM Baltimore. Go and search Google Play or iTunes. And then download it and you'll be blessed immensely by this app. It'll give you devotionals, videos, prayer wall directions, and everything you will need. Again, Dr. Tip Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord and thank you so much for listening.