Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. All things are working together for Our good. How many folks believe that today? So what you thought was the worst thing to happen to you, didn't God take it and turn it? Romans 8. 28 says that we know that all things work together for good to them who love God and to them who are the called according to his purpose. Let's bow before the Lord this morning, already thanking him for what he's done in this place. And we're operating on the overflow. Amen. Father, we do come. And we thank you. And we bless your holy name. It is our prayer today that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There before us today in the very first book of the Bible, and while I have this moment live or otherwise, I want to wish all of our fathers, happy Father's Day. Amen. And we certainly uphold the memory of so many of our fathers who are there in glory looking over the balconies telling us to run this race with patience, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Thank God for fathers. They're in the Book of Genesis, the very first book of the Bible, we find these words in the 32nd chapter. That night Jacob got up and took his two wives. his two female servants and his eleven sons and cross the Ford of the Jabak After he had sent them across the stream, he sent over all of his possessions. So Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him till daybreak. When he saw that the could not overpower him, he touched the socket of Jacob's hip, so that his hip was wrenched as he wrestled with the man. Then the man said, Let me go, for it is daybreak. But Jacob replied, I will not let you go unless you bless me. The man asked, what is your name? Jacob, he answered. Then the man said, your name will no longer be Jacob, brother, but Israel. Because you've struggled with God and with the humans and have overcome. Jacob said, please tell me your name. But he replied, Why do you ask my name? Then he blessed him there. I want to share today from the Samonic title and the dramatic presentation. From the title Persistency Pays Off. Persistency Pays Off Hello, my name is Jacob. I'm from Caland. And you might know my people. My father's name is Isaac. And my grandfather's name is Abraham. You'll find our story in the book of Genesis. We're powerful people. We are rich people. They called my grandfather that he was a friend of God. They said he would be the father of many nations. I come from some important people. But let me let me talk about me. I'm I'm Jacob. And my name means I'm a I'm a deceiver. I'm I'm a trickster. When my Mother had us. There's a twin brother whose name is Esau, and he was born first, and word is I grabbed his ankle as we were being born because I was already up to something. Esau was My older brother. And I told you my name means trickster. And so one day Esau was tired and hungry. And he saw me and he said, can you can you fix me a mill, brother? And I said, well Let me make a deal with you. If you will give me your birthright, I'll give you a meal. brother and so a birthright is that privilege and possession that's only given to the oldest child. I'm I'm Jacob and I'm I'm a deceiver. And if that was not enough, me and my mother, Rebecca, we plotted together. My daddy was getting old and going blind. And mama said, why don't we Why don't we fool daddy to get the blessing? Why why don't you put on clothes like Esau He's out hunting, but I I want you to go and I'll fix your father's favorite meal, and we'll take it to him, and we'll fool him. To make him think that you are Esau. And we did it. He thought that I was Esau. He reached out and touched me, and my mother had put goat skin so it would feel like it was Esau. And I got the blessing that belonged to my brother Esau. Well, once the word got out, Esau was mad. He was hot, and he wanted to kill me. But I left town in a hurry heading to a place called Haran To stay with with Laban, Uncle Laban, my mama's brother. But what I realized is that he was almost as much of a deceiver as me That I thought I was bad, but Uncle Laban was worse. And so time went along, twenty years past, I'm about sixty now. And I really want to go home. I I really miss home even though I've left a mess at home And so I say to my men, go give this message to Esau. Tell him I'm sorry. In fact, take with you some gifts. Until it's from his baby brother Jacob who betrayed him 20 years ago And the men came back and said, you don't want to hear this? We saw Esau, and he's on the way, and he's got 400 men in his army. That sounds like trouble. And what does trouble do? Trouble makes you pray. And so I begin to pray to God, God, help me. Rescue me from my my brother who's going to kill me. Rescue me. Protect me and my family. And so what does he do? He does what any father would do. He takes his family. And takes him over the brook of Jabak, and he takes all of his possessions, everything he ever owned, but then he've accomplished so much. And he takes it over the water. But as he's coming back from that secret location, it's dark. And all of a sudden I get jumped out of nowhere. I get banked. Out of nowhere. I find myself fighting. And wrestling with this man who I can't see, but it was going down And we we wrestled and we struggled. And I was persistent because it was a moment of prayer over and over again, my best move against his best move, and we wrestled all Night long. And this was no ordinary man. This was God Himself. God in human form, I don't have a chance. I'm wrestling with the Almighty. I'm wrestling with the King of Kings and not knowing what the outcome would be, we kept wrestling. I I used my best moves trying to take down the divine. And it looked like I was winning. It seemed like I had him. It seemed like he was going down to the mat, and then he speaks. Let me go. It's almost daybreak. He he speaks to me, and I still don't get the voice, but I know something is happening that's changing my life. I've had In encounter. An encounter with with God. Have you ever had a match with God Himself? We wrestled and he said, What is your name? I replied, My My name is Jacob. Trickster, deceiver, double crosser. He says, I'm gonna change your name to Israel. As one who has overcome God and humans. But before the match is over, he pulls a trick He touches me in my hip. All of a sudden, my hip is disjointed. All of a sudden now I have a liver. And that's some fathers today. Who walked in this place, having wrestled with God. Only to come away with a limb. I'm not gonna let you go until you bless me. Well what is your name? But I'm I'm Jacob, who are you? And on the spot, he blessed me. I'd been persistent. I'd come face to face with God Himself. Fathers fight for their families. Fathers never throw the towel in. Real fathers never ever give up. Persistent. And that's what my prayer life had become. It had become that. But then I realized that something had taken place, shackled by a heavy burden Having this load of guilt and shame. But Jesus touched me, and now my life, Jacob's life. Is not the same. He touched me. In all what joy. Has filled my soul. I I I I might be in pain, but but something Happened. And and and now I know he touched me. And and made me whole. Some something happened. My my my heart changed Something happened. I became a a better father. Something happened. I became a better friend. Something happened More than two thousand years ago at Calvary. It wasn't the something, it was the someone. Who didn't get a limp, but one who gave his life for me and for you. At the direction of his father. He was persistent in prayer. Well, it's been a journey But in the back of my mind, I'm trying to figure out what is this this blessing. I I I prayed, and in the back of my mind, I know that Esau. Is still coming. Esau is still on the way. Esau has four hundred men in his army, and he's still coming. But wait a minute. I I see him. I'm still afraid I want to protect my family, but but that's my brother. The one I double crossed. That's my brother. The one that I did wrong. And we're getting closer. And closer. I haven't seen him in 20 years and all I'm thinking is he's gonna kill me, but but as we got closer He grabbed me and he hugged me. And we wept together. My brother, it was because of my persistence in prayer. For every father. Don't be ashamed of your lips. Don't be ashamed of your name changed because now Your name is different. I had some other names growing up. They named me Tim. But one day I became a son of the High King. And because of that, I give God all the glory. And I can now say our Father. Is he? Is it your father? I'm just I'm just Jacob, but our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. My life is different. I'm no longer Jacob, but I learned some lessons along the way about fatherhood. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Will all the Jacobs stand up today? I want the Jacobs to stand. You might be a female, but your name is Jacob. You might have on makeup, but your name is Jacob. One who went from one state to the other. Thank you for hearing my story. And when you're on the roads of life, if you happen to see a fella on the side Who walks with a lift. It just may be me. Or it may be you. Trying to get to the next level of faith. Come on, give God the praise today. As you stand today. We've got to be unselfish and be willing to give ourselves away. Jacob gave himself away. He stopped because God stopped him. Today to all the fathers. You never know who will catch you in the back alley of life. But always be ready to pray and to do it hard. You never know. That person that you have been battling with, not maybe, but in prayer, it is God. I give myself away. With all that I've been through, I relinquished my identity and become a Joseph. Or Jacob or Jeremiah. But thank God for Jesus who died just for us. Did he die for you today? So that you can use me. Give myself away. Come on, surrender today. I give myself away. So you can you give myself away. Everything that I am ever hope to be. So that you so you can use me. How many are coming today to give themselves away? Just see everybody saying you like giving myself away. Totally. Give myself away, so you can you don't. I give myself away. Totally. I give myself away. So you can you're not gonna be a little bit more. Moment today. Allow the word of God to come alive in you. There's a biblical character that you can relate to and live. That story. I was wrong to Jacob. Why? For what he was, and for what God made him Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Thank you for changing our condition in our very names. For transforming us today. God for every father in the house today. Might he be a warrior in prayer for his family. Might he be a fighter? May he never Give up, but be persistent in everything that he does. Most of all, persistent In loving you. Thank you, Father. For the example. Now, God, we come If there's one today who has never given their heart to Jesus Christ, I pray in the name of Jesus. That the like You touch the hip of Jacob that you might touch their heart today. So they might know that you are the living God Who sent his only son, Jesus Christ. Come alive today, we pray God. Your word says, just confess it. That God, you sent Jesus to die for me and for my sins. And he rose again. The Bible says, if I believe that, I'll be saved. God, do it today. Save someone today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Come on, give God a praise today. Maybe you've come today and you want to be a part of this fellowship. The doors are always open. We'll love on you and keep loving on you. Keep loving on you. We thank God for you. Consider this your home today. Looking for a church home? We got a mat right out front. And there's your seat right over here. What can we get you? How might we serve you as the body of Christ? You want seconds? What can I do for you? Thank God for you. That is the word today. May you be blessed. Come on, give God the praise. Amen. There's still time to get a copy of our resource. This week was about persistency. Next week we'll continue as we learned about prayer. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's cumthenumharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.