Praise God, this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Pastor Tim Tootin, founder and pastor of Harvest Christian Ministries. In Baltimore County, Maryland, praying that you're having a good day today, that God has blessed your week. He's brought you to Sunday. And there's something about Sunday. We know that when we look at Sunday on the calendar, it it means something. And we thank God for all that He's done. I pray that you and your family are well. Uh, just know that we are praying for you and know that God is able to answer prayer. He's able to walk with us no matter what we are going through. Amen? Let's take a moment now to have a word of prayer. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for this day Father, we thank you for the rising of the sun and for the going down of the same. Your name is worthy. I pray even now that as we share from your word, that your people might be encouraged. that someone might give their heart to Jesus and someone might say, I can make it because of who I serve. We ask it all in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God today is uh fourth Sunday, and depending on where you are in fellowship, uh we'll be uh observing Holy Communion today, uh virtually at the end of our service. So uh if you have uh uh bread or some kind of a cracker that you might have or if you have a juice or any other beverage you think represents the the blood of Jesus at the end of our service, we will observe Holy Communion together. Amen. And we know the time of the day will come and we can be together in fellowship, but we can't do that right now. But God still gets the glory. The Bible says, For as often as you do this, you show forth my death and my suffering till I shall come again. Well, there's a word from the Lord today I want to share with you that comes from Psalm 77 and 14. Psalm 77 and 14. I want to give you a moment to get your Bibles or your tablets and to find that particular passage It's always good when you can follow the pastor, follow the preachers. And wait a minute, uh, I want to see what he or she is talking about, and I always recommend that. So when you have found Psalms 77 and 1. I'm letting you cheat a little bit today. I'm putting on the screen, uh, but that does not mean you can't get your Bible. When you found it Say amen. Do a smiley face or give me a thumbs up. Certainly always thankful for our friends around the nation who are tuning in. And we love hearing from you. We love the fact that you will share what God has deposited in our spirit with others. Okay. Here's the word. Psalm 77 and 14. It reads, You are the God who performs miracles. You display your power among the peoples. You are the God. who performs miracles. You display your power among the peoples. I want to preach today and exhort today from the Samonic title Praying for a miracle. Praying for a miracle. Can I just say on the record that I believe in miracles? I believe that God can do anything. And I know I don't stand alone today because just saying that, if I were to ask you, do you believe in miracles? You would say, Reverend, hold on for a minute. Let me go down the list and tell you what God has done for me, not just over the years, but what God has done for me this week. a miracle. What he's done for me this day, a miracle. What he may be doing for you even now. We believe in miracles. Man, the Hebrew The word miracles pala, which means miracles or wonders. Amen. It's when God does the extraordinary Stuff that blows your mind and blows my mind. It's when God does the extraordinary and the supernatural Isn't that great news today? When you look at the Bible, there's so many stories that we see within the text that talk about God's miracles. In the book of Exodus, we know how God opened the Red Sea, allowed his people to go across on dry land. That was a miracle. I know folk can do a lot of things, but I don't know anybody who can part the Red Sea. Absolutely. Joshua, it talks about how they were in battle. And he prayed, God, can you just allow the son to be still? Allow the moon to be still. I mean, this is first time we see daylight savings time. And so God is able to do the miraculous in creation and in our own lives. Amen. I believe that today in the gospels, Jesus calms a raging sea. Tells that you need to just be still. Peace be still. He walks on the water. Some of us were like Peter. We started out that we took our eyes off Jesus And then he takes a little boy's happy meal, and he feeds 5,000 men, not counting the women and the children. God is a miracle-working God. And we come today in 2020 saying We are praying for a miracle. Not so much a miracle drug. We're praying to a miracle God who can do anything but fail. Why? The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. and those that dwell therein. So what is the backstory? Every preacher will tell you that during the course of their week or their month, there's something that drives them to a particular text Or thought. And I always ask what do the people need? And sometimes I'll go down one road and he'll change up This week I was home with my family, with my mic, my wife in particular, and we're having a dinner, and we're just talking about the issues of the day. And the issue of the day is coronavirus. And she said to me, We need a miracle. Man, that thing stayed with me. I said, you know what? You are right. We need a miracle. And I began to think about that. It was lodged in my spirit all week that we need. A miracle. It ought to be personal. In Psalm 77, it's Asap, who is a skilled musician. He's one who's a poet and a prophet, and he is making an appeal to God. I would suggest that take time this week and read all of Psalm 77. It would just take you step by step by step, and it might become familiar to you. He cries out to God. It wasn't a uh he cried. He yelled, God, I I need you. He found himself not speaking just as an individual, but as someone who spoke for the nation of Israel. This was not a passive prayer. This was one that he believed that God would answer These are the times that we need to call on God for a miracle in the land to heal the land. Within that prayer, there's some doubts. He says, you know, I just you know I'm not sure. He's at a weak point. If we're really honest today, there are times in our own lives that we become doubtful. Well yes, we do God, we believe you can do it, but there's a part of me help my unbelief. He flashes back to some history. And that's why this is so key. He is able to look back and say, God, you've done this and this and this. I know what you can do. Think about what God has done in your life. And when you think back, you will say, listen, I know what he'll do. You know, grandma and grandpa would tell you, boy Back in the day, I can tell you what we did to get over. All we had was Jesus, and that's all that we need. He prays. He's in a low place. He's depending on God to hear him. He has some sleepless nights. And let's face it, with all that we're going through as a society and as a people, there are times that we'll get discouraged. and sleepless and worry. But you know God has not given us the spirit of fear, but love, power, and a sound mind. We got to pray without ceasing. Well, let's talk about some of the parts of this text that stood out to me. It was evident to me that Asap was familiar with God. He says, you are the God. You're not a God, but you are the God of heaven and earth. And see, you've got to make sure that folks don't get it twisted that I serve God who sits high and God who looks low. And I recall one of my better subjects in school was humanities. And uh I remember being in uh Ms. Johnson's humanities class and we talked about uh, you know, Homer's book, The Iliad, the Odyssey, and man, this was some uh some some sharings that really got you excited and and there was Zeus and all the gods, but those were gods, little g I'm talking about a God with a big G, the one who will never leave you nor forsake you, the one who knows you. He's familiar with you and I. And while ASAP wrote this He was familiar with God. That's why he could say you are my God, but we become familiar because He knows all about us Don't you know God knows who you are? Jeremiah 1 and 5 say when you were in your mother's womb, you were just a thought that God formed you and did something for you, and that is great news before you were even born. I appointed you as a prophet to the nations. God is doing great things in your life. He was familiar with God. God was no stranger to him. Amen He's familiar with God. He said, you know what? You are my God. You've got to be personal with this thing. Yeah, my God shall supply all of my need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. If Philippians 3 and 10 says, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, it's good to know God. Not a God, but to know that he is your God. You are my God, ASAP. Psalm 77, familiar. But then he deals with some facts We need facts. Amen? Asaph has done his homework. Okay? He says, you are the God who performs miracles Not what I've heard, but I I know that you've done this. Amen. He was not going with false information. He was appealing to a God, a God he knows, can do anything. Amen? You are the God who does what? You perform miracles. So you can do many other things, God. Your attributes are wise and they're expensive. But we know that you can perform does anybody know that today I believe that today, that he will perform miracles. He's done it in your life. He's going to do it again. And we got to pray unto the God of our salvation. These are praying times. What are you praying for, Reverend? We're praying for a miracle. Love what Psalm 34 says. It says, you know, I sought the Lord, and he heard me and delivered me. That is so key in this day and age. So he dealt with facts. He didn't deal with hearsay. He didn't deal with what he thought he'd heard down the road. But once God performs a miracle in your life, you won't be the same You'll keep talking about that. Well, you know it was in 59. I was one in 59. You'll say it was in 59. I remember the day when God made a way in my life, and you gotta have your own testimony. Amen. Based on the facts of life. What facts can you turn to? What evidence do you have that God can work miracles? If somebody were to pull you over and say, all right, I need for you right now. I'm gonna give you a ticket. If you can't tell me something about how God has brought you out and brought you through, uh can you talk about a miracle? Man, you ought to be able to say, wait a minute, how much time do you have? I can begin to tell you, my middle name is Miracle. There was a time that ASAP dealt with the facts of what he knew in his prayer as he made an appeal to God. We got an appeal to God. Try and make a case to God, even though he already knows he wants us to come unto him. The Bible says, all you who labor and a heavy laden and I will give you rest. But there had to be a time of faith building or faith record. That a part of that verse says You display your power among the peoples. God is not a show-off, by no means. But you ought to be able to see the miracle working power of God every day. In your life. Amen. If you're still waiting for a miracle, you're waiting. You on hold. But when you know what God has done in your life, you can say, listen, my faith is built on the fact that He's done some stuff that I can see Amen. Some things that he's done in my in fact look at me. I am a miracle. I always bring my son in and uh tell the other siblings too that they're miracles. But this young man didn't have a chance to live, so we thought. He was born prematurely, and now he's as tall as me. Eat as much as me, if not more. Miracle And that's just one instance of God working a miracle in your life. And when he's done that, it builds your faith He says, I display my power among the people, and maybe we just don't have the right prescription If you've not seen the power of God displayed in your life in the midst of a crisis, you've not lost your mind yet, you say, you know what? My faith is built because why? He continues to make a way out of no way in the midst of this pandemic. I serve a God who is worthy of all praises. Seeing really is believing. Sometimes God has to knock us upside the head and say, didn't you just see what I did in your life? And you're giving credit to somebody else? Giving credit to your skill set and to your network. No, God is doing a thing in your life That is building your faith. Hebrews 11:1. Faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. By faith, the elders obtained a good report. But every now and then He'll do a flashback in your life to remind you of what he can do. I'm getting excited right now. Amen. I know we can have a miracle to take place Yet again, not just a miracle drug and thank God when he's working through man, but God can just move his hand right now and even coronavirus without the bow The Bible says every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. And get this: God does not need our permission to perform a miracle. He does not need our paws to perform a miracle. He does not need our pat on the back. He's just God. Amen. Aren't you glad that you serve that kind of God in your life today? Amen You know, the greatest miracle that comes to mind is God looked at a broken humanity and said, listen, I'm gonna have to send the prophets. But they stoned the prophets. You know, we don't want to hear people sometimes. I don't want to hear that. And so he sends his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, a miracle, a virgin birth. Amen. And Jesus is able to do what? To declare the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. And folk didn't like that. He says, you know, I'm going to be betrayed. I'm going to be hung on a cross, but on the third day morning, I will get up with all power in my hand. Can you say miracle? Another miracle. And the fact that you are here today, you can watch or hear this. You are a miracle. Hey, that's your new nickname for the what's your name? Um Tim Miracle Tootin. Amen. And so we've got to continue to pray to a God who can do all things. I love the hymns. You know I love the hymns. Oh Lord. My God, when I in awesome wonder consider all the world's thy hands have made, I see the stars. I hear the rolling thunder, thy power throughout the universe displays. Then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee, how great thy art. That's a word today. We are praying for a miracle. Amen. Praise God. Where you are today, you ought to just give God a praise in your house. Amen. Thank the Lord. Let's take a moment even now to just talk about the God who sent his son. Maybe you've come today by way of this broadcast and you're in need of a miracle. Let me tell you something by getting and being a part of the family of God. To do that, the Bible says in Romans 10, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. and believe in thine heart that God has raised them from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You can do it right now. Revel if I can get to church, you you are the church. The body somebody in your house right now represents the church. And so you don't have a building to go to at this point, but it's not about the building at this point. God has made us a building. So as I bow today, Father, I come in the name of Jesus and we pray for that person who's lost, but may not realize they're lost. Work a miracle in their life today by saving them by way of confession and the Lord Jesus Christ, believing that he died. And that he rose again. Praise God. The Lord is good. He's worthy to be praised. Amen. I'm still excited. I could go on some more, but I'm not going to. God bless you. Well, right now We said at the beginning of the broadcast, unless you joined us a little late, that we want to observe a Holy Communion and where you are today in your home uh you may have already gathered uh uh uh what you have in regards to that which represents the body of Christ, uh that which represents his blood And so we have even today, my family behind the scenes, we're going to observe Holy Communion. And I pray that you might get Your bread together, even now, that which represent about it, it represents his body. The Bible says that on that night that Jesus was betrayed, that he took bread And he broke it and he gave it to his disciples and said, take this as my body which is broken for you. Take, eat ye all of it. We do as they did. Amen. And then he took the cup and gave thanks and said, This is my blood, which is shared for many for remission of sins. Drink ye all of it. We do as they did. Amen. Until we can come together corporately, God is so good. Thank you so much for joining us. A couple of things I want to just say that by way of our online. We thank those of you who've been able to continue to see into this ministry by way of your offerings and your tithes. And thank you all who are using old school mailbox. It still works You'll find all that information on our website. We try to keep you encouraged in the course of the week with seeds of encouragement, with some kind of a video, just to encourage your heart where you are. Amen? Any updates you will find there. Also, I'd love to hear from you. You can get a hold of us by way of the internet. Contact at cometoharvest. org. Amen. We want to close out today. Oh. Don't forget your photos. So if you're taking photos of your time of sharing the Lord's Supper, send them to us at that same address Amen. Contact at cometoharvest. org. We're going to close out again with our man the system volume on those brothers saying it. Amen I know the Lord will set you free. If you feel bad, you'll feel I recommend these that I recommend you so I recommend Jesus, I recommend Jesus, I recommend Jesus Oh your knee. Here we go now. I recommend he I recommend. I recommend the low, I recommend, I recommend I recommend. So when you sick, I recommend. Because I can't I can't do my Lord. I can help me out. My Lord! When I'm sick, I got command. I know it will. I've got to give up, I've got the prescription. I recommend them. I recommend I recommend him. Hallelujah. Thank the Lord for our time of sharing today. That's our men's course. I can hear them saying to the song of those I want to think is always my family and all the part that they play in making sure this broadcast goes forward Some are praying, some are doing cameras, some are doing PowerPoint, some are fixing breakfast. I was just kidding. Uh I may have breakfast today, but we thank the Lord I'll get in trouble for that as I slide off Amen. I might even cook today. But we look forward to talking to you during the course of the week. Have a blessed day of the Lord. We love you from Harvest Christian Ministries.