Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, as we come, we lift your name high and we glorify you. There's none like you. We've searched the world over and the conclusion is nobody can do what's like you. As we come today, God, to share your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise the Lord. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Ephesians. The first chapter, verses 17 through 20, it reads, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ The glorious Father may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you. The riches of his glorious inheritance in his holy people and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is the same as the mighty strength he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated him at the right hand in heavenly realms. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Prayers That Make a Difference. Prayers That Make a Difference. The prayers that we pray, the very words that we utter from time to time, I believe have power to change conditions. The words that we pray unto Almighty God can change our circumstances. And in fact, they can change us. You know, we're hard to change. But when you begin to pray and ask God to change you, be careful He will change you into who he will have you to be and not who you used to be. Amen? God allows us to see the evidence of answered prayer. Whether it's in our homes, whether it's on our jobs. whether it's in our communities and some often within the church that prayer, as we've talked about for the last six weeks, prayer makes a difference in the life of the believer. But the prayers that we pray have distance. They go beyond around the corner and across the street. We all witnessed certainly not long ago when the soccer team from Thailand trapped in a cave for 18 days And through the prayers of the righteous. One of the diapers lost his life, but God answered that prayer more than 8,000 miles from Baltimore See what I'm saying? Your prayer is global. And you know, when you think about a global prayer, it was John Scott, the theologian. and late clergymen who said, we need to become global Christians. We need to become Christians with a global vision, why we serve a global God. But I want to suggest this morning that it's not just prayers of distance But prayers that actually have a way of having content. It's one thing to say, God bless the whole wide world Another thing to be very specific about what you are praying for, praying for salvation, praying for peace, praying for more love, those prayers make a difference. Well, in our text today, it is the Apostle Paul who knows something about praying a global prayer. He writes to the church at Ephesus, one of more than a dozen churches that he planted. See, Paul was a bi-vocational fellow. He was a tent maker and a preacher. I kind of like Paul. I'm a reporter and a preacher. Amen? And so what that means is he could go to the marketplace and talk to tent makers about Jesus I can go to a newsroom and talk to folk about the love of Christ. But Paul was writing from a prison cell In spite of his circumstances, he continued to pray to a God he knew would answer prayer. What I want to say about that is this. No matter where you find yourself today, you can still utter a prayer. But you don't know my burdens. I'm still praying. You don't know what I've been through. Yeah, I don't, but you can still find time to lift up. Oh, song says, I thought I had it bad So I saw somebody, you know, who had no feet. You heard that old song that when you think that it's bad for you, look around and you'll find someone who's going through So Paul plays prays this global prayer. He he prays to places that he's been to, other places he's not yet gone to, but It is a prayer, I believe, that helps the believer to know the person of God Helps them to know the promises of God. It helps them to experience the power of God. Let's look at verse 17. The person of God. He says, I keep asking God Our Lord, Jesus Christ, the glorious Father. Didn't He just say that well? And the words he used that He may give you Not just the church at Ephesus, but he might give you the wisdom and revelation so that you might know him better. Anybody want to know him better? I mean I know you know him now. You got a scripture too under your belt, but who want to know him better Yeah, I want I want to experience him in a new way. And so he says, God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, he identifies not just any God. Gotta be careful, folks. Yeah, I believe in God. You gotta look that thing over now. Which one are you talking about? I'm talking about the God of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, that one But Paul seems to be saying that we've got spiritual resources available to us. Amen? A spirit of wisdom. This is not mere intelligence that you're smart and God bless you. You may have been a 4. 0 student, but we're talking about not just knowledge But but there's something more that wisdom is the ability to think God's way. Amen? You've done some things in your past and so have I and you didn't think twice about doing them. But once you got on the Lord's side, you took time to wait a minute, let me just look this thing over Let me pray about it. Let me seek God. That's a sign of wisdom. Amen? Wisdom to help each of us to know God better. Nobody has a a market on God. I don't care how many cemeteries you go to, how many places you go, and you may have degrees, nobody has a corner on God We're always learning that that was the prayer that he prayed for the people. Wisdom. But not just that, because we know that in Proverbs it says the fear of the Lord. Is the beginning of wisdom. Respecting God, you're on your way to becoming a wise person. Not in your own mind. Amen. Has nothing to do with age. I love my seniors, but they they they were wise before our hair got great Amen. It's something about knowing and walking with the Lord that gives you an insight that young folk ought to be running to to sit at your feet just to learn a thing or two Heard this said some years ago that it rings true. Uh some folk don't believe fat meat is greasy. Amen They want to try for themselves. But you know, if you've been down that road before, you know it behooves you to listen to a thing or two To know the person of God, they need to be familiar with the revelation of God. That is God's insight. That's given by way of the Holy Spirit that reveals divine truth. I'm always skeptical sometimes every now and then, uh people who just say, you know, the Lord revealed to me for you. I said, oh really? Well he he didn't reveal it to me. Because I I talk with him every day and I I I listen to him, but you know there's a certain revelation that there's nothing new but he breathes on his word, he reveals to us the truth. Revelation means he reveals that which is not seen. How many folks watch the prices right? Some of y'all still do. It's on rerun. And you know when it said come on down and then there's that door. Yeah, the door. What door do you want? You say one, two, but behind that door there's something that's not known. And so when it comes to wisdom and when it comes to revelation, God is revealing something that we don't yet know, but aren't you glad he shares it with you? Amen. Amen. Philippians 3. 10 says, I want to know Christ. Yes, to know the power of his resurrection. and participation in his sufferings to become like him in his death. I want to know the person of God. I really want to know him better. Amen. Anybody with me today, I really want to know God in a better way than what I do now. Paul prayed that they may get to know the person of God, but also to embrace the promises of God. Verse 18. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you. the riches of his glorious inheritance in his holy people. What does all that mean? It says the eyes of your heart. You mean my my heart has eyes? It it is not the natural eyes, but it is being able to see the inner person that God shows you some things that you would not normally get. Amen. It is a promise. It is this sense of hope. The hope of his calling. The assurance that I'm saved. Knowing that God is my Savior. I can't see that with a natural eye. I've missed so much stuff, and so have you, because we're seeing it with our own natural eyes And we miss the great things God has in store. Just put a pair of eyeglasses on the eyes of your heart today, and you will see all that God is trying to show you I love Romans 8, 24, 25. It says, For in this hope we were saved. But hope that is seen is not hope. Why? Who hopes for what they've already seen? But if we hope for what we do not yet have or can see, we wait patiently for it Any hopers in the house today that in knowing that God has made a promise, I can hope in him? Amen. He wanted them to know the promises of God. So don't lose hope. Don't sell hope. Don't don't trade hope. But keep the hope of God in your life. It will make a difference. And then there's another part of that, that 18th verse, another promise that's buried in the 18th verse. the riches of his glorious inheritance. I like that. Believers will inherit the blessings of God. Uh oh, you wake up now. Are the heritage where? Am I in the wheel? Yes, you are. None of y'all here, but you want to know uh what they left you. Come on, church Don't let me get out in deep water. And we are looking to know that we are heirs and joint heirs. We are children, but heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ. And so there's something to know how important you are and what God has promised for you. Amen? You can't cash in yet, but aren't you glad that there's a glorious inheritance? Amen. That Uncle Joe didn't leave you a dime and Cousin Susan thought she told you when she was alive, how much she loved you. But aren't you glad that God will leave you and He will leave you a heritage that you will get what? In glory That's why it's called a glorious checking them wheels now. I want to make sure you say you love me. Yes, he loves you. Because the Bible tells you so. He talks about the person of God. And then the the promises what he has promised for us. But finally, he talks about them experiencing the power of God. And it's incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is the same as the mighty strength He extended when he raised Christ from the dead and set him at the right hand of the Father. Power. Man, we love power. Not the show that comes on Sunday. Some of y'all seen that. Y'all might be Holy Ghost. Y'all seen that show But this is the great power that God gives to us. It's described that way. This is not ordinary power. This is not man-made power. This is power that comes From God. Power that's displayed by God. Power that showed up in creation. Aren't you glad that you're a powerful person? Amen. You walking around with all that dynamite in you. Why? Because you walk around with the word of God in you. And when you speak You speak by way of the power of God. You don't brag about who you are, but you say, Lord, thank you that you've given me power, power to live right, and power to talk right Power to walk right. Power to give right. We we need the power of God. And I've always been intrigued when it says The same power he gives you has the same potency as what he used to raise God from the dead. I mean, it's the same strength It took some power to raise them from the dead. And you and I have access to that great power. Oh, you're not feeling powerful yet. Anybody feeling powerful today to know it's the power that works in you? We live in a power hungry society. Everybody wants to get ahead of someone else But that power will fail. Power. Wonderworking power. In the blood of the Lamb. I'm talking about that that kind of power. The blood that was shed on an old rugged cross, a type of blood, not A and uh not B or Not A B, not O positive, but the blood of Jesus that was shared for us at a place called Calvary Aren't you glad that over 2,000 years ago, this same power, it will save you today from your sins? Amen. So when it seems like your prayers are not making a difference, and it seems like your answer is out of reach, I want to pass along some reminders. God told his people to be strong and courageous. Why? He says, I will never leave you. Nor will I forsake you. How many folk have experienced that today? Everybody else? They left you. Jesus told his disciples that I will be with you always, even to the end of the earth. When folk check out on you and they unfriend you on Facebook and they scandalize your name and they text about you, God says, I'm gonna be with you. Always, no matter what happens, I am with you. Aren't you glad about that today? He says goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your it's just a promise. Has he done it for you today? Have there somebody coming up behind you and you didn't know who it was? He promises that he will make a difference. There's a book out called Push. It's been around for a while. It means pray until something happens. Has it ever been you had to pray until something happened? Pray until the needle moved Pray until a difference came in your life. Pray until you could see the light of a new day. Pray when your enemies were after you. Pray. You about to push your way through some situations, but God was right there. Hey, did you feel that push on your behalf? But it's not just a push, but I was stuck on this stretching. Amen. That that Moses came to the Red Sea, he had to stretch his hands over the mighty waters. And he he did what God told him to do. He stretched and as a result, what The sea opened and God's people came through. Remember Jesus came and met the man with the withered hand and and folk were wondering what he was going. He said, just stretch Stretch your hand out. I'll do something. You remember the woman with the issue of blood? And she was making her way 12 long years, and they say, You can't get to excuse me. Man, she stretched Amen. And she touched the hem of his garment. And she was, you got to stretch every now and then. Amen. Get out of your comfort zone and stretch I was talking to my son just yesterday and I'm not a big movie watcher. I said, isn't there somebody on those movies that a man was called Mr. Fantastic? Yeah, he he was the one in the Fantastic Four who could stretch. Enemy came, he just stretched. And every now and then when you face a problem, you gotta stretch. Amen. Stretch and know that God will Make a way. Oh, I mean I'm talking about showing up. Not just I mean special to make sure that the prayer that you pray will make a difference in your life. I'm I'm so glad that they stretched him wide and they hung him high and as a result he died but he w rose again but He was stretched out just for you. Stretched out just for me. And he's still stretching He had to stretch one day for me. Why? I was thinking deep. Oh, you know the story. Why? It's your story. I was thinking deep in sin Far from the peaceful shore, very deeply, I I mean this thing, staying within, seeking to rise no more, but the master of the sea. Heard my despairing cry. And from the water, he he lifted me. Now safe Am I? It was love that lifted me, and that's why I gotta stretch out to someone else. I gotta stretch out to those who are downtrodden, stretch out to those who are having trouble. You want to stretch out what Father, I stretch my hands to thee. No other help I know thou withdraw thyself from thee. Oh whether shall anybody want to stretch today? My God, if your prayer makes it, you've got to stretch your faith Amen. You become comfortable in the same faith and the same prayer, but every now and then you've got to stretch. You've got to stretch and let God know I'm willing to try you, God. Why? I want to stretch. Walk with me, Lord. You gotta move while I'm on my pilgrim journey. I want Jesus to to walk with me. Hold my hand, Lord. Hold my my hand While I'm on this challenging journey, and that's why we pray, we don't pray oftentimes and things are going well, but my God, your prayer can make a difference in the life of someone else and the prayer that's prayed on your behalf. I do believe That prayer really makes a difference. How many believe that today? Come on, give God the praise. That's the word of God today. It's already Blessed come on stand today to do that. Be willing to get off of yourself and give yourself away. Just because of who he is. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.