That's why I show up every Sunday so I can preach. Amen. And uh we know God has a word for us and always say that the preacher gets the word and it's usually something from the preacher's life. We don't just make it up. Our choir is coming, we'll come back with the word of God. Lord I pray. In all my goal, my worship must do. Night streams in the valley they swell with the rain let the songs of my heart let them rise My bless your name is glory, glory, warming by worship. Martin Let the riddle of my nourishment let it float in alone It's my friend Everything that I do let the river of my brother say let it not you know like streams In the valley, they swell with the rain. Let the songs of my heart let them rise and bless your name. And glory you glory to you more than my worship. Is that your desire, Harvest? Come on and worship it with me. Let all my worship, let all my blessing. Let all my worship, let all my play, la. Let all my rotion let all my slay. Les noms recherchent, les noms ma. Let all our worship Carol There's a word from the Lord, but even before we get to that word, let's pray. Father, we come in the name of Jesus, asking even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, God. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name. In your name only the praise. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Praise God for the word. If you have your Bibles, you Bible students. Let's turn to Ecclesiastes There you will find them one of the wisdom books, Proverbs, Psalms, and you'll find there in this particular passage, Ecclesiastes 3 and 1, it reads, There's a time for everything And the season for every activity under the heavens. That's so short. Can I just read it again? There's a time for everything, and the season for every activity under The heavens. I want to preach today from the Semonic title pre season. Well, case you've not noticed, I'm wearing my football jersey number 97. You won't find me on the roster. Uh this jersey has my name on the back. You can do that nowadays, praise God. But you avid football fans, you're excited. In fact the preseason uh wraps up tonight and you've been following your team and I didn't get on the field but I participate every year we come and we share the good news of Jesus Christ And we have fun at the same time. And so we have been in the preseason. If you are a sports fan and you you know a lot about that, some of you all in Fantasy leagues, I haven't done one of those yet. But the preseason kind of gets you prepared for the regular season, amen? And what that does, according to my son who's in sports, it allows the coaches to have plenty of time to look at the tape and to evaluate the players who have signed up who want to make the team. It also allows the players to hone in on some of their weaknesses, to improve on their basic skills as they prepare for the year And I really do believe there's a correlation between the preseason we've made reference to in sports and the preseason of life. Amen? God has prepared us in a preseason, and he alone is the one who determines the next season or the new season. Let me say it again. Right now in life you may be in your preseason. But God is preparing you for the next season. He's preparing me for that new season. Amen. And I tell you Uh Ecclesiastes, and we'll get to that passage in a moment, it really is a book that is written some say by Solomon. One of the wisest men to ever live, and what wisdom he did have. But this is the book of perspective. Ecclesiastes offers words of wisdom, and God knows we need it It gives Christians a chance to see the world through different lenses, through the wise, as we try and find our way. I don't know about you But I try to make good decisions. I don't always succeed. But thank God for wisdom and for knowledge. We're all looking for meaning in life. How can I get better? How can I be a better Christian? And I was led to this single passage. It's just one passage. In fact, read this whole chapter. It's very simple. There is what a time for everything And a season for every activity under the heavens. Now I got caught up just on there is. Amen. And what's exciting about the word, and someone told me this years ago, Reverend, every word means something. Don't don't overlook a word. Don't get past a word. There is a two words that ought to cause us to stand up and to pay attention. It is in the present tense. There is, not there was, not there will be, but right now as you ponder your next season in Christ know that God is. Amen. I love that song. God is the strength of my life. There is in the book of Acts, we know that the word says, There's no other name under heaven by which men can be saved, but at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess. And so in our preseason, there is an expectation. If there's one word to grab today, that's it. There's an expectation that means that something is going to happen. I believe I won't be where I am always I'm so glad that trouble won't last always. I'm so glad that uh that being drunk won't last always. I'm so glad that being sick won't last always. That we have this expectation and the author says there is a time that means an appointed time that means an appropriate time and you know you may say oh god my my timing was off I missed a big opportunity You know, I I had a five year plan. I should be at a certain place by now. You know that God is in control? I love what Paul says in Romans 828, and we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who the call. According to his purpose. Don't worry. God knows all things, and he knows when it's time for you to move out of your pre-season into your new season. when it's time to make the shift. It says everything and every activity, that means that something Is going on. Amen? A time for everything, every season, every activity under the heavens. And I'm so glad about that because I'm not talking about earthly stuff Because God has each of us on this track. Amen? This trajectory, so to speak. And he knows where we ought to be at the appropriate time. Can I just talk to you for a moment? We'll talk about child my next season. You know what? Don't Overlook where God has you now. While you're busy trying to break the glass ceiling and get in front of the line, God has you of a place where he can use you right where you are. Amen. Can I say preseason? There's this expectation. Expectation, 1 John 3 and 2 says, you know what? We are the sons and daughters, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. But we know that when we see him, we'll be like him. Amen. There ought to be this expectation. Our preseason means that we can never overlook what God is doing in our life. Now, if you find yourself at a tough moment, know that God is using that for our good. Remember, you don't know where I am. Things are rough and the hills are hard to climb, but in this preseason, God will work it all out for your good. Amen? That God knows what to do I'll tell you I put my jersey on today. God is on the playing field of life. God is calling the plays in life. God is in the huddle, whispering, telling you what you ought to do. That's what the Holy Spirit will do. He will lead you and guide you into all truth. And so keep your ears on. Amen. They do it in football. They'll have a guy up in the front calling the play-downs. Ever see those players go, wait a minute. Let me get the play. And your play from heaven might be just be still and know that I am God. My God, there ought to be an expectation in life. In our preseason, don't become Discouraged. Don't become uh weary and well doing. Amen. Think about David. David was a teenage boy. uh guarding his father's sheep and there came a time when he went down to take a lunch to his brother's nezzo big bag goliath Talking major stuff. And he said, What what's the problem? David, I I got this. And David takes a slingshot, takes him down. But this is David, the young boy. But David knew that one day he would become king, but his preseason Lasted 22 years. Oh, you missed that. But David had gotten the word, you become king, but it was 22 years before he became king. You applied for that supervisor's job Four or five times and God says, Wait a minute, it's your pre season when the season comes, I will help you to move in that position. Amen. Oh, I think I'm talking to somebody today. Enjoy and be able to live within the preseason as to where you are. Amen. In your preseason, learn how to depend on God. In your preseason, learn how to love each other. Amen. These are just some qualifications all in the manual life. In your preseason, learn how to do what? To lean and depend On God. Yeah, child, it's my season, but don't overlook your preseason. Amen? Jesus knew about seasons. He told his disciples, I'm going away. This is just the season. I'm not gonna be with you long now. This is a three-year run because something is going to happen. There's a new season, a season when I'll be beaten, a season when I'll be uh stabbed in the back, a season when I'll go to an old rugged cross. It's only a pre-season. Aren't you glad? That there was a season, a new season, that when he got up on the third day with all power in his hand, my God, that was the next season. Aren't you glad you can live and depend on a God like that? Blessed be the God. I'm okay to be a priest is amen. Don't push me up. Don't pat me on the back. Don't blow my mind. I want to be able to do all I can do In my pre-season, knowing that my season is coming. Amen. Jeremiah says, I know the plans I have for you. You may not know them, you may have your own plan, but I know the plans I have for. You it is to prosper you. Amen. Praise God. And so we gotta be patient and waiting in that. 2 Timothy 4 and 2, and that's my name, by the way. Paul says, Timothy, let me tell you Preach the word, be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. I feel like he's talking to me. Why? I'm a Timothy who one day said to God, I'll will preach your gospel. Amen. That was a preseason back then. I was just a deacon, but thank be to God. I accepted the call in my preseason and God has put me into a new season. And in this season all I want to do is tell somebody that Jesus saves. Amen. My mission in my preseason is to let someone know he'll make a way out of nowhere. In my preseason, oh my God, I'm not done yet. I can tell somebody he will be with you in my preseason. I'm just gonna give God the glory. Don't talk about a preseason. Don't put it down. Your preseason sets you up. For that new season. Amen? And what's so glad in my heart is that I made the team I didn't get cut. Amen? Amen. He saved me, and that puts me in a position to make the roster. As we move up the King's Highway, let somebody know that a child, I'm in my pre season. And in my preseason, I'm trying to give God the glory because I know when he shifts, it'll take me into A new season. Blessed be the God. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Amen. Let's take a moment even now and just to bow. Heavenly Father, as we come today, we thank you for the seasons. There is a time and a place, and this is not material things. We thank you, God. For what you're doing in our life today. And so this Lord has ministered to me that, yeah, yeah, yeah, your season's coming, but don't overlook What I have you doing now. Don't get too big for the assignment that you've been given in your preseason There may be somebody today who has been discouraged, frustrated. Even now, God, let them know To keep their eyes on he who makes all the calls, Jesus Christ. Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says thou shalt be saved. We thank you for saving me today. But there might be someone else They just try to get on the team. They just trying to get a good look for preseason. In that moment, minister and save them. You said that you've gone to prepare a place for us, that where you are will be also in my father's house. There are many mansions that were not so I would have told you. Save that person today. We pray even now in Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God today. He's such a wonderful God and we're excited about where he has harvest in this preseason. We are just excited uh back in Uh July we're able to do the transaction and now we're making those steps to move toward the building and getting in to worship. in person. But we need your help and we're not begging you, we're just saying, do you want to be a part of this history as we uh get into the place he wants us to be? And tell you what, you've already been a blessing. We thank each of you from around the country how you have poured into the harvest ministry. We believe is good ground. Amen. And so if you want to uh take part, uh you can still do the US mail. That that still works. Uh you can go right online, uh come to Harvest. uh org building fund and you'll be able to uh assist in what we're doing to the glory of God. Amen. We're in a preseason God has many things he's prepared that he wants us to do and that is to reach the community for the cause of the kingdom We're excited about that today, amen. As always, we try to find a song we can go home with. Amen. They said the devil don't know what you can cover out. We are more Yeah, yeah, yeah. He won't be on the point. I will come. Yeah, country songs. You know, I love going down home. In fact, going home, we are so glad you could join us this morning for Harvest Christian Ministries. Share this with somebody. Let them know that God is good. From the entire team, thank you. Have a great day in the Lord.