Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Praise God. How many know that You need the Lord. Yeah, you need people and places and things. But when it's all said and done, we all need the Lord to get through those places in life that challenge us. Get through those high mountains that we have to climb sometime. We need him, not just sometime But we need him all the time. We can't make it without him. As we bow to Day, let's look to the Lord. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for the blessing of this day. We thank you for your presence. We thank you for your people as we come today with the words of our mouth and the meditation of our hearts. Be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength, and our Redeemer. Amen. It's just good to be in church. How many folk know that there was a time you had to go? I guess I'm one little throwback today. It wasn't a choice. And but boy when you got older you realized that your folks did you a real service by making you go to church. But thank God that one day the church got in you. Praise ye the Lord. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Psalm. What a rich collection of books. So even now let's look at Psalm 34. Psalm 34 verses 17 and 18. Says the righteous cry out, and the Lord hears them. He delivers them from all their troubles. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and save those who are crushed in spirit. Let's say it again Psalm 34, 17, 18. Verse 17 says, the righteous cry out. And the Lord hears them. He delivers them from all their troubles. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted. And save those who are crushed in spirit. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Private Pain in Public Places. Private pain in public places. Over the past week our hearts have been Riched by watching the horrific images coming out of Nevada. There in Las Vegas, we have seen people Mourning the loss of their loved ones. Others having to make the trip to check on them I don't think television really does it justice. But what they're going through is a kind of private pain. But it is very much evident in public places. We may not know them We may not ever take on a trip to Vegas, but what a tragedy. What emotional roller coaster that must be. To go through such pain. And when it comes to pain, it's not just the physical, it's the emotional pain. And the spiritual pain is challenged to raise the question that we all ask, why God? Why now? Why me? We ask those questions and yet we know that we have a God who cares. A God who is not asleep, a God who's not one in a slumber mode, but he is yet looking down. And so as I think about what families are going through, not just there, but in your own home. In your own relationship, your own neighborhood, your own workplace, we need a God who cares. In our text today we find one by the name of David, one who went from shepherd boy to warrior to king. David, one we love to celebrate. David, one who made some mistakes. David, one called after God's own heart. In this text, it begins in such an interesting way, Psalm 34 and 1, David says, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. What a worship leader To be talking about giving God public praise, it is because he's had some private pain. Come on. And so he's able to come on the back end of trouble and say, Lord, I thank you for bringing me through. Persons who see you, see you excited in Jesus, they see you giving God the praise, but they don't know your story. They don't know the pain that you've had to come through to get to your public praise. Amen? In this text, David had just gotten out alive from Gath, from a crazy king who tried to kill him. He was just glad to be out. And what he learned was that he served a God who cared about him. Do you believe that God cares about you? I know he's the God of the whole wide world and the universe, but make it personal today. That the God that I serve cares about my individual struggle. He cares about my specific pain, private pain. In public places. So look at the text today. I want to lift a few things out that could help us. As we deal with our own challenge and sorrow, our own pain, there is a word today that helps us First, realizing there is a process that we go through. The righteous cry out. And the Lord hears them. Isn't that good news? And he delivers them from all their troubles In other words, he draws us closer. Oftentimes it's through our challenge. In our trouble that we get closer to God. I'll just testify. When things are going well, you just chill. You'll give God some time. But when the struggles of life come, and they will, it it draws us closer to him. It is a process. That we have to go through. It's transformation at work. That God, had you not knocked me down, I might have still been the same on me. Song says trouble don't last always, but trouble and the pain of life has a way of bringing you through this divine process. Ouch. I already like how it feels. Ouch. It's causing me grief But as I wait on the Lord, as I be of good courage, He's promised to strengthen my heart. But he identifies a certain group of people. He says the righteous crowd. Those who have set themselves up to be morally right, those who have accepted God's calling, you're righteous. Amen. And we serve the kind of God that as He works in our own life, then we're able to call out and know that He will help us. And we just ask Have we ever helped you out? Ever found yourself between a rock in a hard place? I may as well keep this thing real. I don't want to talk in generalities that maybe, maybe not. How many folk have had to deal with some real pain in life? And it's been private pain because folk don't know Exactly what you were going through. Amen. And it was a result of that that you found God working things out in your life. And the Lord hears the prayers of the righteous. Yeah, we had to cry out. In your midnight hour? Ever had to call onto God as you wrenched in pain and he brought you through? It is a process. Back up two and four says the righteous shall live by faith. That no matter what I'm going through, that as God brings me through, I'm a different person. Why? Because of what has taken place. And so David calls out, he explains what he's been through, and yet he's still able to give God the praise. He hears you and he also delivers you. See, deliverance is one thing. It's that while you're in your storm, you're wondering, God, will I ever get through this? Maybe you've not asked that question. But when the Lord bring you out, oh how did you feel When you came out of the wilderness, how did you feel when you realized, Lord, thank God you got me through that one? But you are different because there's a process that takes place as your private pain. Becomes public. But not just that. There's the proximity. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted. To those who are struggling. And save those who are crushed in spirit. Amen. That as you look about how God helps you, proximity means he's close. That when friends have left you and loved ones have left you, know that God is right There for you in the midst of the pain that you're going through. That God is nearby. That God is just one prayer away. And sometimes when we're going through our painful moments, we feel like he's way up yonder. But once you begin to call on his name And sense his presence, you realize that you are right there all the time. Amen. I can't do the footprints poem, but you've heard of it and you've seen it. That I thought there should have been two sets of footprints, but there was only one. Because God has carried you through some tough places and now you can declare publicly, didn't he do it? You can declare publicly that he brought me out. Bible says that by his stripes we are healed. Amen. I've had times in my own life when I felt alone. Even the happy go-lucky person has moments. There are things that will knock you. Off your footing. Cause you to buckle and to bend your knees. But know that God is there. And know that God cares about what you're going through during this time. Bible says I will never leave you or never forsake you. That's the Hebrew writing. Have you felt times when you felt forsaken? Maybe by God. Let's be honest today. God, you don't care about me. May not have said it, but you thought it. God, I'm down here. I need some help. And at the moment, while you're still praying, And still complaining, he's already worked it out. What? He's been right there. All the time. Oh, praise God for his proximity. Praise God for being just one prayer away. Praise God for being with me through the ups and the downside The mountains, to the challenges of life, he is close. Do you feel him today? Don't look now, but he's right there. Don't look now that as you go for your pain, you are not alone. The proximity. Like when people say something like, Well, I'm praying to the big guy up there. I said, up where? I said, God is the spirit. And those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such the God I serve is not up yonder. But God our service right here. Proximity. The process. But also, He makes a provision. Verse 16, the Lord is close to the brokenhearted and save those Who are crushed in spirit. That that word alone. That means torn up. Falling apart almost can't be repaired in your spirit. But he makes a provision because he will provide. Amen. That when you didn't see any other way, somehow he provided for you not just financially, but he provided some peace for you. He provided some joy for you. He provided things that you need to get along this journey. Those who are broken hearted. God comes down, resides with us, and brings this heavenly broken-hearted kid and begins to mend. The places that you've been hurt begins to mend the outplaces that you feel pain in your life. Why? He provides for us. It's not just things. He provides what we need to get through our lowest moments. He's right there. And maybe, maybe I'm singing to the choir or preaching to the choir. You say, Reverend, I'm I don't know what you're talking about. I'm fine. Everything's going well. But the truth be told, somebody this morning is dealing with some private pain. You can't even talk about it yet. You can't discuss it yet. You can't put it on Facebook yet. You can't Instagram it yet. But the day will come when you will shout to the mountains how great thou art. Then seems my soul My Savior God to thee, how uh still how great God. He has a way of providing Because he knows he sent his only begotten son to die for us some 2,000 years ago, just so that we could have this provision. He died, but he rose again, and that is what we always think. Reverend, I know that that's assurance today. That always drives by Calvary. To know that the Savior that I serve died, but he rose again with all power in his. And he supplies my every need. But my God shall supply my every need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. All I'm trying to say is that as you go through your pain, make sure there's an attachment on the pain. A praise attachment that even though you may still be in your pain, start your public praise In advance that you haven't brought me through yet, but I know I'm on the way out. I know you're making a way for me even now And he is doing it in our midst, even as we speak. Back in the 1800s, there was a real servant of sorts by the name of Joseph Scribbin. Scribbin lived in a port town there in Canada. He was one who loved to help people, would work for nothing. That kind of person again. And then give what he had to the less fortunate. Scribbin took ill, and it turns out that a friend of his happened to be visiting him along the water. And Scribbin was there, lying down, and this friend happened to notice on his table. A poem. You mind? Begin to read it and said, well, who wrote this? Scribbing says, Me and the Lord. It was a note he had written to his mother back home in Ireland. And at that moment, he allowed it to go public. He allowed it, as we should say, to go viral. And the friend who was there began to put what he had written into the form of a hymn. It simply goes, what a friend we have in Jesus All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege it is to carry everything to God in prayer. Oh what peace we often forfeit Oh, what needless pains we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. Do you know you serve a God of everything? And so take every pain to him. Take every disagreement to him. Take every hurt to him. And he knows what to do with it. Aren't you glad you have a friend who's not just a sometiming friend? A friend who will be with you through every situation that you face Oh, what a friend we have in Jesus. But where's your friend? He's with me, even now. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of friend? Who will never leave you. And so when we sang that song, I used to sing it in church and didn't know what they were saying. But my God, when you find yourself in a painful place Just take it to the Lord. When you find yourself in a disagreement, take it to the Lord. When you find yourself in a squabble in your home on the job, take it to the Lord Why? He can take that thing that pains you and make it public. Amen. Can I publicly say today that the Lord has heard my cry? Can I say publicly he's brought me through many seen and unseen dangers? Can I say publicly today that the Lord will take care of you? Oh, yes, he will. He'll keep you. Won't he keep you today? The Lord that I serve, I can go public and say I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I don't mind putting my holy business in the seat God, when I was down, you lifted me. When I was confused, you gave me some clarity. When I had no joy, you gave me peace. When I was mad, you made me glad. Why? My team went public. Anybody want to go public today and let the Lord know and thank him what he's brought you through? Don't sit on your pain, but let folk know that if it had not been for the Lord on my side, I'd still be hurting I'd still be upset. But because I serve a God, who cares, I can keep on pressing, toward the mouth for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. Jesus, keep me near the cross. Mentioned earlier that I experienced kind of sort of some pain. In this hand. You can't tell because I've been moving it as if it didn't hurt. But Friday afternoon I I got a pain In this hand. Wasn't quite sure what it was and I was a man so I kind of manned it. It'll be alright. When I laid down after two ad bills, it was still painful. I went out and preached a banquet and put a little fake guard over it so I wouldn't shake a hand but it was hurt. But you know, God taught me something in that pain. I couldn't use my right hand when I had my left hand. I was just thanking him, God, I'm glad you gave me two hands. But even though that hand is painful. and look fallen, thank God for Jesus. Then I began to think about what about those who can't use Death right hand. What about those who were in pain way past Advil? Now I went to the doctor and I saw the doctor because my wife said so They took an x-ray and and they gave me some medicine. And today it feels better. I feel better. So much better since I lay my burdens down. Friends don't treat me like they used to since I lay My burdens down. Private pain. In public. places. That's the word of God today. It's over. Come on, stand today. All over this place. No matter what you're going through, no matter what pain you're experiencing now, God cares about where you are. And he'll come along And provide relief. That's why we follow him No turning back. Nothing will be that today. I am this plan. Going on. Gonna start today. No turning back No turning back. No turning back. Oh no one joins me. Oh no one join me. Still, still I will file. Oh no one will join me Still I will die No Oh no one join Still I will die Better start today. Father What may be private or secret to the world, you already know. And God, my pain May not be someone else's pain. But we're glad to know that you know exactly what we are going through. Exactly What we're facing today. It is my prayer that you might bring along your pain reliever by way of your Son Jesus Christ. Heal today, God. Lift up down heads today in the place that we find ourselves. And the day will come when we'll shout from the mountains. God, you made a way through my pain. And we bless you. Father, even now, there may be one in this place who knows you not One who's never given their heart to you. And that may cause them to be in the pain of loss. But as they come to you, you'll accept them. Just as they are. We thank you for salvation today. It is our prayer today, God, that you might save that person. Who's never confessed their sins to you, your Bible says that if you confess all of your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Save that person today we pray even now In Jesus' name. In Jesus' name they see. You've got to praise to me. How and love you have a friend today in Jesus. Won't he be with you? And he'll keep you when no one else will be around. And that's why we keep clinging to that old rugged cross. Maybe you've come today you desire to be a part of this fellowship. Doors are always open for you to fellowship here at hearts. See me after worship. See one of our demons. But God is always waiting. Amen. There's something about that song in him. Let's continue to meditate as we make transition. Just continue to grab a hold of that. Take it to him in prayer. Yeah, yeah. What a friend. Oh, yes. Do you sit him today. Is he on your street? Or he'll do it. Or just take it. Oh yes. Ah, the old sex just more men. Oh, bless God today. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.