Thank you for this opportunity just to encounter your word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We're coming today to really the end of our preaching series. I don't know about you, I've enjoyed it. We'll be talking more about that, but we thank God that you've journeyed with us And we're going to conclude that by going over to the book of Joshua, the fourth chapter, verses four through seven. Joshua, the fourth chapter, verses four through seven. It reads, So Joshua called together the twelve men he had appointed from the Israelites, one from each tribe, and said to them, Go over before the ark of the Lord your God. into the middle of the Jordan. Each of you is to take up a stone on his shoulder according to the number of tribes of the Israelites. to serve as a sign among you in the future when your children ask you, what do these stones mean? tell them that the flow of the Jordan was cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. When it crossed the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. The stones are to be a memorial to the people of Israel forever. I want to preach today and to conclude our preaching series, Road Trip. The journey to the destination, part six, road trip, our journey and our destination, part number six. It has been said it's an adage of sorts that a picture is worth a thousand words. Uh you've heard it before, perhaps you have used it before. I think it means that seeing something is better than learning about it or having it described for you. You ever had anybody say, Chow, you ought to see this with your own eyes. And no matter how much they described it, until you laid eyes upon it it then became real to you. And when it comes to images, uh they can convey meanings, I mean really deep meanings. And they can do it more effectively than descriptions. An image can tell a story by way of colors and designs and themes. And more, some years ago, I came across this concept in education and psychology that talked about multiple intelligences. And I really understood that a bit more because it's how we learn. It's how we take things in. And I kind of knew it, but I am a visual learner. I can see things and remember things, not just car tags, but I remember things and I learn best based on visuals. Amen? But when was the last time you came across a photograph? Maybe one old school, you got out the scrapbook, or maybe it was on your phone. And the moment that you saw this picture, or the moment that you uh laid hands or held this keepsake It right away brought back memories and brought back a story. Amen. Can't you see that picture this morning? I was out on yesterday and looked into some old uh containers and came across some pictures of me uh with black hair all black hair amen me a lot thinner than I am now but it brought back a story Look where God has brought us from. And what's so awesome about this sense of a picture, we had been following that for the last five to six weeks. This image. of 40,000 people in the desert trying to get to their promised land. Last time we came together, they had gotten to the point to where there was the Jordan River. It seemed like it was an obstacle, but in fact, God did a miracle right there in the Jordan by opening it up. and the people crossed over on the other side. Aren't you glad to be on the other side, the other side of your struggle? the other side of your disappointments, the other side of your heartbreak, the other side of your headache, the other side of your health challenges. Don't tell me that God won't take you to the other side. Of some things that you're going through. You may be at a place right now, but don't you know that God has already prepared a place for you? He will take you to the other side of where you are And so we conclude this series today. And in the text, we really kind of see everybody getting settled in and uh, you know, they can pull over now because the road trip pretty much has ended for the time being. But it's hardly a time to stop. In leadership, you never stop. A friend of mine told me years ago. He says, now when you become a pastor, you will think ministry all the time. And I do. I think about the people that God has called me to serve. I think about those I encounter and how I want to tell them about the Jesus that I serve that you always kind of own. Amen. Even on vacation, you're looking for somebody to witness to on the beach. I did that some years ago. My wife stopped me. I had a CD on the beach. She said, let it go. I'm trying to reach one for Christ while the waves are coming in. Amen. But God has plenty of work for us to do. That is our mission as believers. is to tell someone about the good news of Jesus Christ. And so Joshua's next assignment is to do what God has asked him to do. He gave him instructions. look out and find twelve men, one from each tribe, and then with the Ark of the Covenant, the presence of God to have them to go back into the Jordan, which is still at bay. Pick up a stone, it must have been a big stone, and put that stone on your shoulder and bring it to the other side. What has God assigned you to carry? What has God given you to take with you into your new season? What is it? Is it a mindset? I'm not talking material stuff, but God has prepared you that as you go into your next season to take some things with you. Amen. This new place that they were going. And these stones served as a purpose. First of all, I think when I think about this, they were really a sign. They serve as a sign among you. A sign. A sign. You on a road trip. You can miss the sign if you want to. You might go 10 miles out the way, but the sign is directing you. A sign speaks to a place. Amen. You have to take notice. And so in this case, it became an opportunity to speak of God's faithfulness. It says, look at this. It says also, in the future, when your children ask about it. I think the children ask some of the best questions. They want to know the who, the where, the how. And the why. You ever had your child ask you, and let me just shift gears. Maybe you don't have children, but you got a niece or a nephew or you are befriended the child down the street in your classroom But I love the innocence of children. They will ask. And what Joshua is saying that in the future What you have gone through did not go to waste. What you have gone through is not just for you. What you're going through is something that can benefit the next generation. Amen. He says, when your children ask you, not if your children ask you, but when If your children ask you any questions lately, amen, that you have to respond to. And of course the big thing is they want to know, what do these stones mean They want to know. And in this case, because the stones had been piled up on the other side of the Jordan, it did become a symbol of sorts But they want to know in the future what does this mean? Amen. And there's a script when it comes to that. When they ask you what the script of verse number seven, it really talks about it says, tell them. That the flow of the Jordan was cut off. That God put the brakes on the Jordan River so that we could cross over. What is the story that you will tell the next generation when they ask you, what does this mean? What does these things mean to us? You ought to be ready to tell your story over and over again. So much so the children said, Daddy, I've already heard that story 20 times. Well, you want to hear it 20 times and well, mama, you always say that about what your mama told you and her mama told her. My God, we've become too silent. Well, we become too shy and we fail to tell the next generation what the things mean in our life. Our life can represent that stone. Amen. Can I just tell our story? Some 15 years ago, our story began, Harvest Christian Ministries, starting out as a ministry. And God allowed us to survive for 15 years. Mind, it was early morning and late nights of packing and unpacking and filling up and wrapping cables and the like and sometimes sweeping up. Why? But Sunday after Sunday after Sunday, God has been faithful. Amen. Aren't you glad about that today that God has moved us to our promised land. It's our location, 4318, 50. I know you'll be hearing more about it. But thank be to God in the midst of a pandemic God opened up the Jordan and allowing the people of harvest to get through. Oh, do I sound excited? I am some excited. But as we prepare to get to that place, I had a conversation with my wife. I said, you know what? I have brought something over from the other place. And what I've brought over from the other place is the pulpit. Yeah, uh I didn't want a fancy pulpit. I I I wanted this pulpit. Amen. Why? Because this pulpit tells our story. This pulpit is our stone. So a person's asking, what is it about that pulpit? It don't look like much. I say, child, let me tell you that through seen and unseen dangers, we stood behind this desk. It's portable and proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. This is our stone. Reverend, I don't think nobody's gonna ask you about no food, but you never know In fact, if they don't, you ought to bring it up. Praise be to God. Sometimes we got to start the conversation to think of where God has brought us from. This represents where God has taken us in 2021. This represents God's faithfulness. This represents the people of God who've been praying and the people of God who've been tarrying and the people of God who've been encouraging the people of God who've been giving in the people of God, who've been right there saying, Pastor, we're with you. It's not pastor's vision. It is God's vision. Oh my God. We are going into our promised land. And this is the stone. Yeah. J just a pulpit that I get off of Amazon. It's just a pulpit. It don't look like much, but my God from Zion We don't praise this stone of sorts, but we praise Jesus Christ. Amen. And the people of Israel have this image. These images represented the stones. And we can talk about the image of salvation and the image of Calvary. Amen. The Bible says that the stone that the builders refused became the cornerstone. Amen. That Jesus is that stone We're reminded over in the book of Peter what that we are living stones. Amen. Oh, blessed be to God. Lively stones. Aren't you a lively stone today? Bible talks about even if these Hold their peace. The very stones will cry out. The rocks will testify. Don't let a rock testify for you. Don't let a stone tell your story. Don't have the children pulling you on your coat wanting to know why are you the way you are Why do you give God the praise all the time? Why are you saying thank you, Jesus, in the bathroom? Why are you praising God while you're driving down the highway? Why are you preaching that at at at at the at breakfast time. Why you gotta say your blessings every time you sit down on the table? Because God has been good. And when they ask you why you're doing it, tell us because God has kept us Through seen and unseen that you better tell the story. Don't wait for them to ask you. Sometimes you gotta jump the gun. Amen? I know you don't want to hear, but baby, let me tell you where he's brought us from. And that's what an old photograph will show you of where God has brought you from. I love to tell the story My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name on Christ The solid rock I stand on other ground is sinking sink. You've got to have a foundation. Amen. You might have had a rocky experience in life. You might have find yourself going to some brick walls, but the God that I serve will bring you through. The God that I serve will say you tell yourself story and make sure I'm the leading character in your story. Amen. It's not really about you. In fact, you ought to hide behind the cross and say, thank you, Jesus, for everything that you've done for me And thank you for everything you've done through me. Tell the story. The children, they go ask. In the future. Why do you throw on that old piece of furniture away? Why wouldn't you throw Because there's a story in it You still driving a hoopty, even though you got a new car, it tells your story from the bus stop to a pizza car. To something you're driving better. It's all material. But let your children know. I want to challenge you today to share the story. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Let's take a moment even now as we think about the people of Israel and their journey. This journey is our journey. This movement through the wilderness and through uncertainty is where we are today. And so as we come today, here is something that will help you to have a story that's worth sharing. and one that's worth asking about. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There may be one today who asked the question, what is it about this Jesus that you serve? What is it about this Jesus that gives you joy in the midst of sorrow? What is it about this Jesus that gives you happiness? It is the Lord that mama served, and the Lord that daddy served. And somewhere along the way, I heard the old, old story. About a Savior who came from glory, who gave his life on Calvary to save a wretch like me. Today, may this be the beginning of your story. Father, calm even now for that person watching or listening with no story, with nothing to talk about, with nothing to share with the next generation. Give them a story, and the story is that one day he saved my soul. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says thou shalt be saved. Save someone today, the way you have saved us, and the world will be a better place. We count it done. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God. for the great things he has done and we thank you for uh your sharing with us. We want to just talk to you about our building fund. That scripture is our new beginning scripture. He brought us to this place and gave us this land. He has a land that's flowing with milk and honey. That means it's a productive place And you can take part in this. So many of you have been giving to this ministry from all over the country. And we thank you. And even within our own congregation, we don't want to press you on what you ought to give, but be a blessing. And you can find it right on our website, come toharvest. org slash building fund. And we thank you for what you're going to do even now. Amen. Again, you can always find that. Well