Heavenly Father, we come today, and we thank you for the love that you demonstrated. That while we were yet in sin You sent Christ to die for us. As we come today, help us to love others. The Bible reminds us that People will know who we are and that you're disciples based on how we love one another. As we come today, might we decrease and might you increase? Bless your word today. And might someone be encouraged, might someone be saved, and we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God there's a word uh that comes in the book of Joshua. We've been kind of hanging out in Joshua for a few weeks and If you have your Bible, if you have your tablet, if you can throw a thumbs up or praise the Lord, whatever you want to say, I want you to follow along. Joshua, the third chapter, and verse number six. It reads, Joshua said to the priests, take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass on a head of the people. So they took it up and went ahead of them. I'm going to preach today from the Samonic title, very simply, Road Trip. The Journey and the Destination Part 4. Road Trip, The Journey and the Destination Part 4. And so we want to invite you on our biblical road trip. If you have not been able to join, we'll get off the exit and allow you to get on with us as we move down the King's Highway, so to speak, has been a great time of sharing Plenty of room on the road for you. In fact, we've done parts one, two, and three if you want to kind of catch up like you do with your series on TV It's all there at comthenumber2harvest. org and you'll be caught up to God be the glory there on our website. Let's recap for a moment. Just from last week, part three, we met Joshua. He is a understudy of Moses, intern, and now finds himself in a position to lead. He is no longer in the second chair, but Joshua was now the one assigned to lead the people into the promised land. We talked about preparation last week and that becomes so important. God's not going to take you to a new place being the same OU. You know, uh something has to change And so what Joshua says to the people, we really can't go into this new experience thinking the same way and living the same way. I'm on your street this morning, and God is taking you to a new place, but there's the old you Amen. He wants to transform you. So let's step back and look at Joshua 3 and 5 from last week. He says he told the people to consecrate yourselves for tomorrow the Lord will do amazing things, this sense of consecration being set aside, being holy removing some things, sanctifying yourself. That becomes very, very key as it relates to our life in the Lord Jesus Christ. But I couldn't get away from the word amazing If you do this, if you put time aside and prepare yourself, I will do amazing things. I don't know how that makes you feel, but I like the word amazing. Amen And so there is this whole sense of not being mundane, not the ordinary. You know, God can do great things. And you think about where He's brought you from and what he's done for you. You ought to just say, Lord, thank you, that you're amazing. And that's why you might love the hymn that says, amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me, and you know the rest. So Joshua was saying to the people, you've got to be in a mode of preparation as we get toward the promised land. Amen I want to move on today and talk about order. Amen? As we're on this road trip, order becomes so important. Know that as we look at this text today, uh that we can remember the times when we've been out of order. Uh-oh. Amen. Order means there's a certain arrangement. There's uh there's some consistency in this life. Now order means that you can't just get out of line. I know some of y'all were skipping line in school, in the lunchroom. I did the time or two. But when you even go to the airport or to the restaurant, you can't just break line like that. You know, people start fighting. A certain airline was like that, but they changed their system with some order And so when it comes to living for the Lord and getting to a place where God wants you, it just don't happen. There is a sense of order. And Joshua recognized that God is a God of order. And so that's what they're able to say in this passage we're going to be looking at today. Joshua said to the priest Take up the Ark of the Covenant and pass on ahead of the people. So they took it up and we went ahead of them. So let's just talk about priest. And so when you talk about priests, these were persons who were appointed in a sacred way to teach, appointed to be in certain roles, and so they were picked for the assignment. He didn't say anybody lead the people in with the Ark of the Covenant. He says, I want the priest to do it. And that becomes so important. But unless you're feeling in a certain way, you know, you are priestly We're priestly people. I love what Peter says over in 1 Peter. He reminds us that what at 2 and 9, that we are a royal priesthood. We are a holy nation. God has taken us out of darkness into the marvelous light. So so you are priestly somebody. You want to feel special. Amen? Can I just throw this in here from for me? It was already in my spirit. Men, it's not men's days, not men's Sunday, but men God calls us to be priests of our home We have to be the ones to to to lead as priests. Uh recognize there's order in being a priest. Being a priest don't make you big and bad. Being a priest means that you what you have to lead with order. God just dropped that in there. Praise be to God. And so these were persons who were given authority at the right time. But let's think about the assignment The assignment was what? The assignment for the road trip was to what? To take up the Ark of the Covenant. and pass it along. So Ark of the Covenant. So what what is the Ark of the Covenant? It is that particular special made and designed box. that had within it, uh they had the Ten Commandments that God gave to Moses there on the mountain. Uh there in that same box in that Park of the Covenant we found that there was manna. Amen? Remember when they got hungry and they complaining and God said let me just drop some sweet bread down from glory and you pick some today and tomorrow I'll have fresh oh I'm excited about that that his manner is fresh every day Also in this Ark of the Covenant, there was what? There was Aaron's rod. It represented authority. Amen? I couldn't help but think this morning as I was looking over the sermon that some of y'all thought about readings of a lost ark. So wait a minute, hold on. That's Harrison Ford. That's that's my man. But before you start watching that and say that no no that that didn't come out of Joshua That was really a little bit of fact, a whole lot of fiction, but it was a good movie. Go Indiana Jones. And so this sense of importance of the ark really represents the presence of God Be careful what you take along with you in life's journey. And you ought to have something in your life that represents God. Amen. May not look like much, may not have much, but you ought to have a sense of Christ in you. Ever met somebody you thought they were kin to you, but they weren't? But there was something about the spirit that connected to you. And they were carrying something with them. That is a message of encouragement. Praise be to God. I like that And so this sense of God's presence. Of course this this ark of the covenant would be placed in the tabernacle, just the tent, to wherever they would go, they would take it with them. Amen? And and and certain people had to carry it, because not everybody could touch it. Amen. You can't touch it. But that is a great way to think about what happens. But this again was order. Amen? And and as we look further, it says, when you take the Ark of the Covenant, pass on ahead of the people. I like that. He didn't say get behind the people. He didn't say go alongside the people, but God has appointed us on the strip of life. He's put us in position oftentimes to do what? To do as ordered. to go what ahead of the people. Now that's a well I think I should have been the one to go ahead. If God did not appoint you for that position, then you stay and you follow. Amen. I want to be a follower of Christ And so Joshua is very specific about what he is saying and what the priests have to do, and that is to do, to go ahead of the people. If we didn't have some order, otherwise, we we would have a do our own thing. Amen. If we didn't have some order, some boundaries, can I talk about boundaries? We just lose our mind, amen. Praise God. I remember I may as well say uh uh many of us went to college, uh maybe one or two of you all, you were goody tooshu in college. You uh class president. But then when you got to college you could have lost your mind Amen. I want to two people. You didn't have no boundary. Mom and daddy weren't there. You thought you were somebody. Amen. But thank God for order. I know some of y'all were good students. That never happened in your life. Amen But when talking about order, it sounds like disorder. Oh Lord. And disorder leads to confusion And we have to be very careful that we do what God has told us to do and follow the instructions as They are listed. Now Christ talks about this in Matthew and two instances, 6 313 and 1624. 3133 says, Take no thought for tomorrow. Don't worry about What you're going to wear, what you're going to eat, where you're going to live. I'll take care of all that. But it says, do what? Seek ye first the kingdom of God And what? His righteousness in all these things will be added unto you. If you do what I tell you to do, In this order, then God will bless you richly. Seek ye not second. Seek ye not third, but seek ye the first the kingdom of God. And what and everything else you worried about losing sleepover, I got this. Amen. On life's journey, you gotta know we don't God I'm gonna trust you in this. And that's all Joshua was saying Now over in 1624, uh it certainly talks about uh this whole sense of of Christ saying, if anybody who wants to be my disciple, yeah, you signed up, you gotta deny yourself Take up your cross and follow me. He didn't say follow me and then take up your cross and deny yourself. But do you get where I'm going? Order. Amen. That you have some order on the way. Otherwise, you'd be all over the road with no order. Ever been on a highway that has no lines on it? You just started going on the country. You didn't know who until the next truck came by. So I guess that's my lane. But thank be the God for order. And sometimes in life we try to take two sets of maps. You can't do that. We have two sets of directions in this life. One in the world, and then what we believe is God's direction. But thank be to God that there is a map, a road map that we can follow. That is the Word of God from Genesis to Revelation, all laid out for us to God be the glory. But you know what? When I looked at this passage, I'm always amazed by how much meat is in the passage. And there at the end it says, so So they they who the priest took it up, took up what the Ark of the Covenant and went ahead of them. Now that says to me they did what they were supposed to do. There was this sense of obedience They followed directions. They recognized order, and that's what we have to do. They didn't try to alter it. They didn't try to change it up. And what God has desired for you, go with it. Amen. Go with the flow. Yeah, it'll get bumpy along the way. And roads to get a look crooked, but the Bible says that he'll what? He'll make the crooked places straight. He'll make the rough places smooth. You just gotta trust God. God just preached to me today Amen. I gotta believe God that He's gonna do exactly what He said. There is order over in Psalm 119-133. He talks about this sense of ordering my steps In thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. Road trips. Shall we take road trips? And we know this is so important because what we try to make sure there's a list to do and the things that we try to put on the list and check off. Paul talks over Philippians 2 and 8. He talks about the one who knows order Amen. That he what he humbled himself even to the cross, to the death of the cross. That let this mind be in you. There was also in Christ Jesus who humbled himself. It's really about your thinking. Amen. And once you get your mind made up of the safety God, a made-up mind for Jesus, well praise God, once you make your mind up My God, you will stay in line and you will reach the destination and the promised land that God has for you. I'm glad about that And as a result, then you'll be able to testify to someone, you know what? Here's what God has done for me. And there again, here's order. You don't just pop up one day and you Reverend Doctor, Deacon, Elder, Trustee. You know, there's an order. Praise God. It's not about the position that you're in, but it's how God wants to use you. Amen. And first and foremost, you got to know who Jesus is. Oh my God. Amen. I mean knowing him for yourself. And nobody can do that for you The preacher can't do it. There's not a five-day kit you order from a mill order company, but you're going to say I am a sinner and I need to be saved by grace. I need you to save me. My God, that's the order Amen. You don't just jump one place, uh, get the second base, and you had to even open your heart to Jesus. It doesn't work that way. You can't say, I'm on third base, about to go in, I can give my grandson not say that's uh that's baseball, pop pop. Issue is You just don't go from first to home place, but there's an order. And when you give your life to Jesus Christ, my God, that's first base. Amen Thank you, Jesus. And I'm going to second base. Now I'm serving because he's called me to serve this present age. This water. And by third basis, oh wait a minute, I think I know what my gift is now. My gift is the evangelizer, my gift is to encourage, my gift is compassionate, my God there is oil. I didn't want to go in baseball, but what about the home run? The home runner when you tell somebody, look at it, here's what he's done for me. Amen. That I never shall forget that I was flipping and sliding, but thank be to God, because I followed the order And because I stayed on the road, and because I gave God the praise, and because I said thank you, Jesus, I can now relate that there's some place to go. My God, you still on the road with me? You didn't go up the exit, did you? God is trying to take us someplace. Amen. If we gotta follow his directions. The big word today, the takeaway, order. We've got to have order in our lives. Thank you, Joshua. You just laid it out. Here's what you do: this, this, and this. And you know there's more to come. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. We want to invite you to Christ. I'll come back Come on, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We all know we live up and And we are. And we cry holy holy holy and we cry holy holy holy in the We all know we lay our ground and Jesus. The greatness of our mercy and love and be unjust and we are holding for me. We cry holy, holy and holy, and we cry, holy, holy, holy in the land. Blessed be the God. And when you think about why we, meaning those in the gospel, do what we're supposed to do, it is to let someone know about Jesus Christ. But let me tell you this. It's not the preacher's job. Well, you the preacher, wherever God takes you, the order is, is that they may see something in you, but that you might share with them. the goodness of Jesus. If if this Christ is so good to you, share it with someone else. Well Reverend, I don't want to get too heavy. I don't want to bother people, but you bother them by anything else. So why not be a witness today for the Lord Jesus Christ? Bow your heads. Perhaps you come today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. The goal is, the end game is is that somebody might have a personal relationship with you. We thank you even now that your word reminds us that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in my heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible reminds us that we can be saved. Salvation is free, salvation is real, and you promised us eternal life But it is a choice. So it is our prayer today for those who may be watching or listening, who find themselves in that category, not knowing of you But knowing you that you might save their soul today as you've done for us