Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. My God. Jesus, you are the center of my joy. How many can say that today without hesitation? Yeah, we serve a great God. Not the corner of my joint. But the center of my joy is the source of my strength. It's Jesus. Can somebody just say Jesus this morning? There's power in that name. The Bible says that the name of Jesus, every knee shall abound, every tongue shall confess. That he's Lord. Jesus in the morning. Jesus at midday. Jesus in the midnight hour. Jesus when there's trouble. Jesus. When I need hope, I just call on that name. But there's something about that name that's like no other name. Hey, can I just talk about Jesus for a while this morning? that when I run out of words to say, I just say Jesus. Jesus keep me near the cross. Jesus, oh what a wonderful child. But there is something about that As we bow today, Jesus We come today calling on your name. One is calling for one situation, one is calling for another, but we know that you hear us. And that you will respond. As we come today, we lift up your word today. May we decrease May you increase. May you save someone and encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. In Jesus' name Amen. Praise God. I'm so glad I I know that name. I believe in Jesus. I believe he was sick. I believe that he died. I believe that he rose. I believe she's sitting at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. That's just what I believe There's a word from the Lord today. In fact, there are words of Jesus. Spoken in the Gospel of Matthew, the sixth chapter, and we'll pick up verses thirty-four, thirty-three and thirty-four rather. As we come today, we're always just grateful on this Our Jersey Sunday, and that means you can wear whatever team you want to wear. I don't know who number ninety-seven is, but I got my name on the back of this room. I paid for it, it's my jersey. Word of God reads, but seek first His kingdom and his righteousness. And all these things will be given to you as well. Verse 34. Therefore, do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own. Somehow I got stuck on the soap opera themes And so that being the case, I want to preach from the title, Search for Tomorrow. If you look back you'll find all my children and one life to live as the world turns, young and the restless. But When we think about this title, it's been suggested that worry is faith in the negative. Worry is trust in the unpleasant. Worry is assurance of disaster. Belief in defeat. Worry is wasting today's time to cuddle up tomorrow's opportunities with yesterday's troubles. Some years ago, Bobby McFerrin made a lot of money by writing a simple song that's up at the number one on the charts Don't worry, be happy. Or some of y'all bought the album. A CD or a tape or download. It was simply says, here's a little song I wrote. You might want to sing it, note for not note. Don't worry, be happy. Yet and still we worry. As much as we don't want to, as much as we try not to, we we worry. Uh somebody came up with the creative solution they thought some years ago by creating worry beads I hope y'all didn't bring none of them today in your purse. A spring of bees that you hold that supposedly will help you to relieve tension I believe that instead of trusting God for what He can do in our today, we become too busy searching for our tomorrow. You know, Jesus was never a one who worried about tomorrow. He was not someone who kept track of time. He didn't have a Rolex, he didn't have a uh eye watch, he didn't have a Fitbit. He just operated on Jesus' time. There was no nine to five. There was no seven days a week. There was no 365 a year. He just moved at his own pace. Hebrews 13:8 says, Jesus Christ, the same yesterday. Today and forevermore. In our text today, we find Jesus on top of a mountain. He's led his disciples up to a high place. And every now and then, you gotta go to a high place. Away from the crowds and Away from those who were pressing on him. And he really had a living classroom as he began to talk with his disciples on what has commonly been called the Sermon on the Mount. The Sermon on the Mountain. He covers quite a bit of ground in that session, from giving to the needy. From praying, from fasting. And he talks about putting up your treasures in heaven. But he also addresses the issue of worry. And even then people were worried about what were they going to eat. And unless you've been there before, you say, well that's not a big deal, unless you've been down to your last. Unless you've had to go and uh pull some pennies together. Go about the store and see how much you could get. Unless you had to write a check over when you knew money was not in the bank so you can buy food. They were worried then about what am I going to eat And what am I going to drink? You know, back in the day we had Kool-Aid, but now we have fancy water. We can buy water. What would our forefathers think if we saw us buying water when it's just fine not to spic it. But but they were concerned about what do I eat? And what do I drink? And what do I wear? I mean, how clean could they have been back in the day? Yeah, but they were concerned about those things, and those were the things that had them worry. Amen. They were searching for their tomorrows I want to say this morning the Lord has made provision for us to become secure, mature, and to endure in him. Let's unpack these verses. Secure. It says, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness in all of these things. Will be given to you as well. There's got to be a priority. He says, seek ye first The kingdom seek my rule in your life. Seek my way and make me a priority. Can I just say today that in some lives that God is no longer a priority? That church is no longer a priority. It's like, well, if I get by, I get by. And I'll call God when I need him. Otherwise, I got it together. Oh, I I know I'm on somebody's street this morning. But We've got to make him a priority. To seek means to go after him. That's how you find security. Seek ye First, the kingdom of God and his righteousness, his standard of living. And amen. If you watch TV every now and then, you know almost anything goes So now did I just hear what I just heard? And it was a commercial about something that you realize, wait a minute, was that the commercial or were they advertising something? I I I'm not on my soapbox But we've got to seek righteousness in order to obtain security. To be secure is to be in a place to where you are free from danger. from anxiety and from worry and from fear. Isaiah 41 and 10 says, fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, I will help thee, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. See Tomorrow is the big bad wolf. Amen? The one who blew on the house of the three little pigs. That's the big bad wolf. But when you've got security in him, there's no need To fear. Paul wrote a nervous Timothy and said to him in 2 Timothy 1 and 7, he says, For God has not given you the spirit of fear. But of love and power and a sound mind. You you gotta be secure in who you are, and secure in who you know, and that way you won't worry about searching For your tomorrow. Amen. Now Jesus never said not to have a plan for tomorrow. Well then the Lord said that the Reverend said that don't worry About tomorrow. No, uh tomorrow cometh. Some stuff you gotta do tomorrow. Amen. Unless you retire, you gotta go see the man tomorrow. Tomorrow you're gonna pass. But but don't don't worry about that. Don't get so caught up until you miss what God has for you today in the land of the living. He urged them to just deal with the right now. It's not hard to do. But as much as we we want to uh look like we got it together, as much as we pretend like nothing It's bothering us, we're always thinking about the next thing. But he says, all I want you to do is come after me. See me first in all the stuff that you pull in your head about shall be And it. You'll get it. Now let me look for about two testimonies. Have you ever tried that before and you just say, Lord, I'm just gonna depend on you? I don't know where it's coming from and I'm not gonna worry about it. I'm I'm gonna have one eye open. But didn't he come through for you and didn't he make a way for you? And don't you have a history with God? Or am I talking to a church this morning that knew it was rough? Well you doing okay now, but there was a time you were down to nothing. There was a time that you looked at tomorrow and next week and next year, but God came through and blessed you and he's a blessing kind of God. You can be secure in him. I I I feel that that sense of peace. Because he told me not to. You might have told me, don't worry, but when he says in his word, don't do it. But also, there's a sense of being mature. Verse thirty-four, therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has a trouble of his own. We have to learn along the way how to grow up and how to grow in him. From one Bible verse to a Bible verse and a half. Amen? But but we learn how to grow up in him. And the only way you're going to grow is to expose yourself to the Word of God. I'm sorry, a magazine won't do it, a talk show won't do it. That you've got to somehow get the word of God in you, and when you begin to get the word of God in you My God, your life will start to change. You'll have hope, and you won't worry as much. Amen. Still of pulling your hair out. Still of pulling your knife out. Still of getting your gun out. Some of y'all rubbed now. Followed you to your car, you might have some in the glove compartment. Or your baseball bath. But you found ways now on how to deal with situations. Is that you have grown up and matured In him. Amen. Ephesians 4:19 says, but speaking the truth in love, that you may grow up in him in all things. Can I just say this? We got to grow up. Amen. And as we learn more about the ways of God, instead of worrying about it, we say, Lord, you know what? I took that hit last year And you brought me through. And and two years ago I was facing a situation I saw word and God you showed me how you can make a way out of nowhere. Has that been your testimony today? Is that over time he grows you up and matures you. I love 1 Peter 2, 2 and 3 says what? Desire the sincere milk of the word. that you may grow thereby. You'll start to get some little spiritual muscles. Well yes you will. You'd be saying you see anything? You know that look on me Folk used to lay you out and boy the old you would put your hand on your hip, let your backbone slip, but now you say you know what? I'm not even worried. Why I am mature in him. And you work things out because of that maturity. The sign of maturity means that you're not always searching for the next thing, always searching for the next fad, always searching for the next solution when you realize that everything you need. is in Christ. So so send the message to your tomorrow's not yet. Not time. I'll text your tomorrow and say, not ready. I'm going to enjoy today. I'm going to enjoy the day that He's given me. And I will not be dragged or tempted Or pull into Monday. Can I just name a date? Today Sunday. And we worry about Monday. Yeah, Lord, after the game, and then the game is over, and then Monday comes and I gotta have a deal. No, no, no. There's enough going on today. But thank God for Jesus that he's with me all the way. I am secure. I am mature and I must endure. Each day has enough trouble or the bones. Each day has enough stuff going on, then you worry about tomorrow. God will help us deal with whatever is left on tomorrow. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever Feared something so bad until you couldn't get to sleep the night before, and that thing worried you the next morning and when you got there, God had already worked it out. You were tossing and turning all night long. You were checking your email all day long. And God just somehow he worked that thing out. Won't he work stuff out? Won't he bring you through? Won't he give you peace? That pass it all of this. Oh, we all worry. I don't care how cool you look, but when you know and you've got a track record with God, to God I've learned how to endure some stuff. You've given me some power to move forward in spite of whatever may come my way. And stuff will come your way. But thank God for Jesus. He promised. be with me always all the time. Endure. Gotta fight your way through some stuff. Endure. Next day trying to get you worrying about next week. But I'm gonna endure and I'm gonna stand firm in him. That's how God operates. Second Peter three and eight says, but be not ignorant of this one thing That one day with the Lord is as a thousand years In other words, he don't deal with one day. He's the one who made the heavens and the earth. He worried about one day. He's the one Who placed the stars in the sky? He's not worried about what's going to happen tomorrow. He made tomorrow because he's God all by himself. Amen. So Peter, Paul told young Timothy, said you got to end your hardness, man. Like a good soldier. Stuff will come. You got to just get in this. I'm gonna stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Old song said I'm a soldier in the army of the Lord. Any anybody ever been to service? Some of y'all have already served and you Been in the military. But you know, life can be a battlefield sometimes. But I declare you continue to press your way forward. Press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Don't you give up and don't you quit. Oh saint to say, More run and see what the end is gonna be. Well, if we're not careful Our tomorrows will cause us to lose sight of our today's. I'm affiliated with NBC, so that's I gotta shout them out They got a show called the Today Show. I don't know anything about a tomorrow show, but there is a Today Show. And I want you to know that the word of God reminds us about today. Hebrews 4 and 7 says, Today, if you hear my voice, harden not your heart. Second Corinthians six and two says, What? Now is the day of salvation. Matthew six and eleven Master teachers how to pray. Give us this day our daily bread. Zacchaeus shows up and says, you know what, I want to just give a look at you. You say it's today Salvation is coming to your house. In fact, today I'm going to your house. Amen. And the thief on the cross Knew he was guilty. The thief on the cross knew he had messed up. The thief on the cross had a record. The thief on the cross Couldn't make bail, but he looked over and just so happened he was next to someone who could make the difference. And while his partner said, Oh man, they done fifty. He said, You know what? Today you will be with me in paradise. And not tomorrow, but he's a right now God. And I always loved the scripture that says this is the day that the Lord has made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. This is the day that the Lord has made. And because of that, I will enter His gates with thanksgiving. I will enter his courts with praise. I will say, Lord, thank you for everything that you've done in this day. And because He's in the day. I can be glad about the day. Glad, not mad. Glad, not sad, because this is His day. He made the day. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, the name of the Lord His words. Can I just say today? I'm just trying to enjoy the here and now. I'm not going to worry about what tomorrow brings. And while I'm in the day, I'm going to praise him in. the day. I'm gonna do a Sunday phrase. Anybody come today that's to glorify him in the day. I can't wait to see what tomorrow holds, but I'm gonna lift him up. I'm gonna glorify him. I'm gonna shout to him in the day. This is the day that the Lord has made. This is the day that the Lord have made. And because he's made it, I can shout. And because he's made it, I can sing. Because I realize the earth is the Lord. And the fullness there. And those that dwell there in. We spending too much Too much time searching Put tomorrow. Instead of looking to the hills, we are searching for solutions. But everything we need is in the Savior. That is the word of God. Come on, give that a praise today. Stop. Stop losing it. We've all done it. Hands in the air. But didn't he work it out? Didn't he bring you through? Didn't he change the situation? On the spot. Look at the birds. Man, they're gonna get a worm every day. Look at the flowers. They don't worry. Come as you all for you all right all for Christ. All for Christ you all. Oh my sister. An open invitation. You know what? What while you in service? Five things showed up. I know what he said, but you know you got this? You know, yeah, yeah, you know about that. I mean worry stuff just showed up on your role. But you know what? Your hope is built on nothing less than Jesus Christ and his righteousness. That I'm not gonna worry Because I know he's with me. Let's bow our heads today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for for your word today. You didn't say don't be concerned. You said don't worry. There's a difference. You didn't say have a strategy. But just don't freak out. God, we thank you for all you do. As we come today, there might be one in this place who is worrying about their next meal. Their next bill, their next note. And God, you're showing us even now your provision. And we bless you today. Touch that heart today, God, who knows you not. That person's never confessed unto you. In this moment, they can do it. The Bible says all you have to do is confess unto him. I'm a sinner and I want to be saved. And I believe. that you died. We thank you, Father. Touch that soul today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.