Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. God is not dead. He's yet alive. Those things are feeling in my hands. And I feel him in my feet. And I feel him all over me. Don't you serve alive God today? He knows exactly what you're going through. He knows what's around the next bend. We serve a risen Savior and He's in the world today. I'm talking about Jesus. Anybody know what I'm talking about today? I'm talking about Jesus Christ, our Lord and our Redeemer that gives us hope today. And that's why we can say he lives. Let's bow all over this place today. Heavenly Father, that is the truth that we hold on to. That you're alive and you're well. You sit high and you look low. There's none like you. As we come today, God, to handle your most precious word, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. God save a soul today. Empower another. But when this time is done, We'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made Let us rejoice and be glad in anybody came to rejoice in the Lord today. I know it may be rough and the hills may be hard to climb, but God knows And he's standing by and standing near. I'm going to share even now from the Gospels pinned by Luke, fourth chapter, 29 to 32. They got up, drove him out of town, and took him to the brow of the hill, which the town was built, in order to throw him off the cliff. But he walked right through the crowd and went his own way. Then he went down to Capernaum, a town in Galilee, and on the Sabbath he taught the people. They were amazed at his teaching because his words had authority. I want to preach today as promise from the Samonic title, Rebounding from Rejection. Rebounding from rejection. George Nissan and Larry Griswold are not names that you may know automatically. But these two University of Iowa students actually built what we now call the modern-day trampoline. It is something that started out as a great idea to train astronauts in the sporting arena, but then it ended up in people's backyards. Adults and kids alike like to bounce around on the trampoline. In other words, with a trampoline, you get on it. And you bounce, and as high as you want to bounce, it'll take you higher. Let me take a Holy Ghost poll today. How many persons have ever been on a trampoline? Amen. First time you did it, you balanced a little off, but you were saying, help me, Jesus. And you finally got your balance, but it kept taking you higher and higher every time you bounced on the trampoline. And when you are on the Lord's side, no matter what happens in your experience, you can always bounce back and rebound from rejection. What is rejection? Let's get a working definition of what rejection is. Rejection is when you feel unloved. It is when you feel unwanted and unacceptable. Unwanted, unloved, unacceptable. Dr. Frederick Newman, a columnist with Psychology Today magazine, says it this way. He says reflection Rejection, failure, and disappointment are a regular feature of ordinary life, no matter how successful someone might be. You may have walked in today and you may be in the midst of rejection. Someone has pushed you aside. Someone has made you feel that you're no value. Someone may have said to you, you're no longer a part of our clique. our in-team, our social committee, but I stopped by to tell you today that the Lord Jesus Christ is well aware of what you're facing. If there's anybody who knows about rejection, it is Jesus himself, born in a manger. Cows and goats and like, raised in a poor part of town. He knows what it means to be in the lower economic status. He knows what it means to be rejected. Isn't it great to have a Savior who understands what you're going through? Not everybody can feel you, so I I feel you. No you don't, because you don't know my story. But one thing about Jesus, he knows all that you've been through, and there's nothing that you face he's not dealt with. Hebrews talks about having a high priest who's not too high to understand and to feel what isn't my God, isn't that good news today? He feels what I if I'm hurting He knows what that hurt feels like. He knows what it means to be rejected. So as we take the gospel of Luke, and gospel simply means good news. Luke means he's the one who wrote it. Luke the position. He pins this fourth chapter of Jesus starting out his ministry. 30 years old at his prime and the first thing he deals with and the first person he deals with is Satan himself. In other words, he got to deal with the devil. And even as you start out a new career, a new chapter of your life, it won't always be easy. The enemy will do his job. But I'm glad the Word of God says, Greater is he that's within me. than he that is within the world. So Jesus shows up in his hometown in Nazareth. I don't know about you, but I like going back home. And I'm glad I can go back home. Amen? Some folk can't go home. They left a mess when they rolled out and they can't go back But it's great about going home and crossing the city limits and knowing that there's somebody who knows you or your people. Jesus shows up and he goes to the church, to the synagogue, and he's sharing with them. The word says he comes, he takes a seat, and they hand him the scroll of the Bible. He picks it up and begins to read. I've been anointed to preach the good news of Jesus Christ. I've gone to minister to the brokenhearted. And people like, oh yeah, yeah, I know him. Uh that's Joseph's son, uh the carpenter. Mary is his mama. You know how folk do when you go back home. And as long as he said what they wanted to hear, he was cool. He was alright, but when he began to tell them about themselves, say, you know what? Y'all y'all messing up, you're falling short. God can't even find a a place to minister in here. They got mad, upset, wanted to fight And people will do that, amen. That folks have rejected you because of something you've said, a truth you've shared, and that's it. That he's rejected because he told them what they didn't want to hear. Is there a parent or two in the house? And you say, I know you don't want to hear this, but it it's gonna hurt me more than it hurts you. And and there comes a certain I just had a birthday, amen And you can say what you want to say. But Jesus spoke what his father had given him to the people. And they rejected what he had to say, and they rejected him But he knows what it means to rebound. He rebounds from that kind of rejection. But let's unpack the passages to see what really takes place. We've already set the scene for you. There he is in town, welcome home, goes to church, drops a word or two, but says something that gets them a little worked up. And automatically there's some resistance. Amen? They got up, drove him out of town. Now, now this is Jesus, yeah. But they were so mad about what they heard is that they Took him to the edge of town and tried to kill him. This is better than that show you watch every week. Better than your soap opera. Here you're talking about the Lord Savior, he is taken to the edge of town, taken to a cliff and say, you know what? We don't like your message And because of that, we're gonna push you over. I don't know what it means to have that kind of resistance. Never had anybody take me to a cliff Not literally, but people have taken you to some places that have hurt you. They all but pushed you over, literally, but they've said some things to you and done some things to you, and there's been that kind of resistance. That leads to this life of rejection. They took him off to the hill, and their plan was, we are going to shut you down. And there's somebody who don't want to hear your message. Reverend, I don't say much, but you say enough. Somebody don't want to hear you talking about Jesus. Somebody don't want you to bless your food. Somebody don't want you to say, you know, the Lord is good today. Somebody don't want you to smile. There is resistance, and Jesus himself faced resistance from those who meant well. Folk will like you one minute and they'll hate you the next. Amen. I could say right there. Folk will laugh in your face. It's left high five with you and they're plotting to take you out. I know you're a nice person. I know you're good people But the mean, if they would do it to Jesus, don't you think they will want to take you out too? There's this sense of resistance to a message that he brings, and not everybody wanted to hear it. Amen? And Jesus is able to move in that kind of environment. He says on another occasion in Matthew 21 and 42, he said to those who were around him, Have you never read in the scriptures? Jesus starts to quote the word on them. I am the work, but can I say some words? He says that the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. He was saying I know y'all are going to try to push me to the curb, but I'm really the peace you need in your life. Amen. And the Lord has done some great things in your life, so don't be surprised If you face resistance as you go about your daily walk, it's a part of the rejection process, but Jesus was well aware of it. I love in the text uh when Jesus can can can show us area of life to say, see, I told you. Just when you thought you were the only one going through. Just when you thought folk were picking on you only, he said, been there, done that, amen. And so there's this sense of resistance that is shared in this text that he wants us to see, but it's not just resistance. He has to have a response. You know when I'm reading the text, there's always a part of the text that's oh man, I like this. And I like this part. There's a response. He said, but he walked right through the crowd and went on his way. You go, Jesus. In other words, I know what you plan to do to me, but I'm gonna come right straight through you He came through the crowd, and some scholars have debated, well, did he there was a supernatural? Did something no, he just excuse me See you don't want to be. And there's some things in life and people in life you gotta walk through. They're getting in the way of your progress. They're holding you down. They've rejected you. Jesus didn't say, Well, can we pray? Can I say a word? He said, No. Uh-uh. He didn't say a single word, but his response was, gotta go. Out my way. He didn't go around on the crowd. He didn't go. He said, excuse me, right straight through. And there's some things that are facing you. Don't sugarcoat it. Just say, excuse me. I'm going right down the middle. I'm glad today that I served that kind of Savior who responds by saying, Can't you see him? Jesus came on through? No, no. He came through those who hated him, those who wanted to kill them, and you'll find yourself in life sometimes having to go through How many folk have been through today? Been through some stuff in life, been through some challenges in life. It may have been health issues, it may have been emotional issues, but at some point You had to go through them? How do I respond to rejection? How do I respond to hurtful words? How do I respond to back biting? How do I respond to folk who mean me no good? Excuse me, at the coffee counter and going on straight through them. Excuse me at the waterfowl. I'm not trying to start a fight. I'm just going through you. I don't have time for this kind of thing. And so I got excited when I saw look at Jesus. Jesus got him in the eat man. He went on through And he will do that in your life. He will bring you through situations that you thought you'd never see, I'm just thinking maybe nobody's been through anything today. You find yourself today in the midst of something right now, you know what? I've been trying to have another tactics. A little this, a little that. But I'm just gonna say, excuse me, go through that crowd. He didn't look back. See ya? Don't want to be ya. I'm glad to serve that kind of savior. But you know what? In terms of this not fearing, I love the twenty-third Psalm 23, four, and five says, Yea though I walk through what? The valley of the shadow of death, I will what? Come on, church, for thou art with me, thou rod and thy staff that thou prepares the table before me in the presence of mine who Amen. Thou anoint my head with oil, my cup. You might be a little scared because rejection hurts. But truth on walking through to where God has led you today, He's led you some places. That gives me that I well I got excited just on that passage. I could have stopped right there because look I could see the Jesus in the here and now going through every situation. You've got the pain of rejection. It's caused you to live a life that you have to resist some things, even though folk meant you no good. You responded, but first of all, as I look at this next piece, there's a sense of having to refocus. He could have said, well, my ministry is done. Uh my hometown folk don't like me. I may as well pack up my bag and go on back home and become depressed. You know that's what rejection will do. It'll make you say, well, I guess I'm not that good after all. I guess I don't have the skill set. The devil is a liar. It says in verse 31, he refocuses. Then he went down to Capernaum, a town in Galilee, and on the Sabbath he taught the people He wasn't worried about those folk. He went to a new crowd. Somebody don't want to hear your story or your testimony. God has already set somebody else up That your mission might continue. I tried to tell them, but they don't want to hear it. But God has already raised somebody else up for you to share the good news of Jesus Christ. He goes down to what becomes headquarters and begins to do what? To teach the people. I know what I've been called to do. I just told y'all back in NASA. I know I've been called to teach and to preach and to heal the brokenhearted and to give sight to the I know what I've been called to do. And look at this. They were amazed at his teaching because his words had authority. That's somebody who wants to hear your testimony, hear what you've been through. And what he shared was not just well, I was in Nazareth, and then when I got there, they told me they're gonna take me. No, he said, let me tell you something about some other good news. So change the tape in your life Take the old tape out. Put a new tape in. Amen. Nobody don't want to hear you crying. Put a new tape in. This is the day the Lord has made that us. Rejoice and be glad in it. You got to refocus Yeah. Ever had those old pictures from the the little swing of cameras and you you thought you had a good picture, you pulled it out, it was out of focus. That looked like me, but it's not me, I don't think. And but you know when you adjust your life And adjust the situation that you're going through, God will make it very clear to you as you begin to refocus your life's mission. Look at this, look at this. You you were about to give up today. Um done. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't you give up, refocus Refocus, refocus. God's mission is still for you. You gotta just refocus it. You may need to go to your capernaum. There's a new place for you to go. There's a new thing for you to do. And it will be received there. You will speak a word and God will bless it. Amen? Isn't that good news today? I want to go over the book of Matthew, the Great Commission. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit And yet teaching to observe everything. Why? I'm with you always, even to the end of the earth. That's something for you to do. So I just want to encourage you today that as you leave this place, don't get stuck On rejection, but today you can rebound and move to where God has called you. Does anybody feel they can get a rip restart today? Can Start over again reboot today to say I know that I'm valuable. I know who I've been called by. I know that my Redeemer lives. That's so important You know something about someone that you might be familiar with, a guy named Walt Disney. Walt Disney had a rough. He was a reject. Walt Disney uh company went bankrupt, it's an animation company. He was told by editors, man, you have no imagination at all. Uh Walt Disney uh over 300 times uh tried to get financing for Disney World. But you know what? Something happened. That brother rebounded, didn't he? He sure did. Got some of your money in mind too. Down you are going to support a reject But he realized that there was nothing that could not be done, that all things were possible, and God is looking for rejects today to restore them. Amen. It's not wrong being a reject, but God can restore you and put you on your way. Aren't you glad today? Can I just paint the scene for you? That Jesus was rejected And he was beaten, and he was hung on the old rugged cross, and he was put in the borrowed tomb, but three days later He rebounded. Amen. He was rejected, but he rebounded. There must have been a trampoline in that grave. He gave up with all power In his hands. And he keeps giving the example. If I can do it, you can do it. The Bible says the same spirit that raised Jesus from the dead can also raise you up. Oh, you won't feel like getting up today. I beg you to get up and say, you know what? I got a new leash on life. I can rejoice today in the God of my salvation. Amen. Rise above your attitudes. In your misassignments, rise above your bad days and your baffled moments. Rise above your cares and your concerns. Rise above your doubts and your disappointments. Rise above your emotions and your emptiness. Rise above your faults and your failures. Rise above your hurts and your heartaches. Rise above your losses and your low spirit. Rise above your pain and your oppression. My God. You want to keep on bouncing. Anybody want to rebound today in the Lord? No matter what happens with me, I can still rebound. Amen? Anybody want to keep on bouncing with Jesus? I may have been down, but now I'm up. And I can look to the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord. God, you ain't gonna hold me down I'm about to rebound. Excuse me and watch me soar. Excuse me and watch me move. Excuse me and watch me go to new height. That God any of y'all don't want to I know your knees are bad, but my God, I feel the deck rebounding. Anybody want to rebound today? You've been down, but now you're up. And you can look to the hills because you can rebound. From but it it's not really re y yes it is. It's rejection. Well not no no you've been rejected But Jesus understands what you're going through and you are no longer a rejector. But now you can say I'm on the Lord's side. I I've resisted, I've responded, and I've re-hoped Focused. Anybody want to refocus today? That is the word of God. It's come. You better go ahead and get on up. Come on, bounce for the Lord, amen. Anybody want to bounce for him and rebound for him? Amen. Come on, bless his name today. He's worthy. To be praised from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same. I feel good about that today. Yeah, I may have been last hired. Yeah, I may have been the one talked about, but today Give me my secret pephiline, so I can soar to new heights. My God, we thank the Lord today. Isn't God good? And that's why I've decided to hang out with him. You know I can see that moment. When he went through that crowd. Man, I I I can see myself. Come on, Jeff. I'm right behind you. She walked through. I feel like I was with him. And sometimes you gotta put yourself in the text. Put on a robe and some dusty sandals and say, I'm going with you. Wherever you go, I'll go. And that's why I decided to follow him today. This is a word that will help you. Maybe you called it somebody else. No, I'm just having a bad week. No, you've been rejected. No, but they they didn't really mean that. What they meant, no, rejection But today you know that you can rebound from that place. And every time you go up, it's a higher it's a different view. Thank you Every time you turn, a different look. That's what God has for you today. You're smiling, and you got a new lease from life. And church ought to be about that. I don't want to talk politics. I won't talk government stuff. I want to talk something that's going to help people and to help me. And the day I just came by to say, you know what? I'm going to give it all I got. Let folk know, well, I didn't do a rejection checklist on the way in. I don't know anything about your business. But you felt the pain of it Today you can rise anew. As you bow your heads today, I want to give you an invitation that comes straight from the one who knows what rejection feels like. That's the person of Jesus Christ. That rejection was fierce. They wanted to get him on the cliff. That wasn't the plan. Some folks wanted to take you out, but you're still here. And the fact that you're still here means that you have an opportunity to give your life to Jesus Christ. There's none like him. You know, I'm so glad that he found me I was talking to my son on last night and I was telling him I said, man, when I was your age, I was getting married and didn't know a thing. You know, twenty-five, wet behind the ears, and with a family. But God will bring you through and He will make up the difference in your life. He'll make up the loose ends that you say, you know, I don't have all no, but you got Jesus. As you bow your heads today, I want to pray with you. Father God, I come in the name of Jesus. I thank you for your Holy Spirit. I thank you for the Bible. And the story of Jesus Christ that we can put into our own life. There might be one today Who wants to know this Jesus, never experienced him, but they want to give their life to you. As ambassadors of Christ, we simply stop by to extend the invitation on behalf of Jesus. We have our own shortcomings, but we carry with us a powerful message, and that's the message of redemption. The Bible says, if you shall confess with your mouth, the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. In other words, I believe that God sent his son I believe that he died. I believe that he rose again. And the Bible said you can get that into your spirit man, spirit woman. It may not feel like a big thing going off an explosion, but something happens In heaven. Every time a believer says, yes, Lord, man, they put out and have a part in heaven. We got another one. Death of thought he had. Today you can become a part of a larger family, that heavenly family. I pray in the name of Jesus if you're here today. Just ask the Lord today. Lord Jesus, come in my heart today. Yes, Lord And save me. Ask him today. If you're not sure, say, Lord, I I just want you to come save me. I've got to acknowledge that first of all I'm lost. And you can save me Open your hearts today. Just take a moment to take inventory of your own life today. There's no greater joy than giving Jesus the praise. Said to my wife this morning, I said, you know what? What's wrong with you? I was skipping off in the bedroom. I said, we're gonna get one today. What do you mean? I said somebody's gonna give their life to Jesus. I got excited about that. Today I know there's somebody in this place. Who have been on the edges, but you hadn't done it. You've been playing with it, but you've not given your life to Jesus. And he said, I gave you another chance You came last week, week before. I kept you for two weeks. And not I. And now you need to go ahead and give up. And give in. I don't know who you are today in this place, but today is the day of salvation. And you can do it. I may never know, but I know that he knows. Today, be saved. In the name of Jesus. Thank you, Lord. Let's give brother praise today. I believe somebody got saved today. I I I I don't know But in my spirit, man, I I fix some changed God in your life. And man, there's nothing like that. To know that if Lord came back right now, I'm going with him Amen. Y'all don't sound too confident. Y'all like okay, I I think I am. No, no, no. He took my life right now. Man, I'll be up there. Yeah. I'm here. Anybody know that for for sure? That if you left this earth today that you would wake up in heaven? I I'm just pushing you a little bit Are you sure? Are you really sure? That you raise your eyes in glory? My God, I don't want to leave here, but when you do, there's another building. Not made by hand. But while you're here, give God your best today. Amen? Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors always open. I always said my number one priority is do you know Jesus? Those things I said why they keep messing with me. Are you saved? Come on, I I'll go a different way. You know the Lord? And you did too, like he gonna be at lunchroom or go the other way. Because I don't wanna deal with that. But man, once you dealt with it And you real can I just testify for a moment? What did it feel like? You say, you know what? I'm in. I know Jesus, He knows me My life is saved. My life is in his hands. Man, you ought to be excited. That's a bouncing moment. I got some flaws. I'm a little shaky sometimes, but I'm saving. I mess up every now and then, but I'm saved. And that's the good news of the gospel. Well, anybody saved today Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. You desire to be a part of this work today. Always Welcome to come down and walk for the Lord or see us after service. But uh man I'm I could do a backflip today. I'm I'm not gonna try that. But I could Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.