Always good. First Timothy four and twelve, just one passage today that I found over time that there's enough meat. In one fast, it's to help us to live right. Amen? You found it say amen. It's in the New Testament. It says, don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. But set an example for the believers in speech. in conduct, in love, in faith, and in purity. I want to preach today from the Semonic Title setting an example. Setting an example. You could almost finish this next quote. Do as I say, not as I do. We've heard it from our grandparents, we've heard it from our parents, and we've said it a time or two Just don't don't just do as I say. My daddy would say, because I said so. It is a proverb of sorts that says the person saying these words knows that his or her actions are in direct opposition to their words. It's about to get tight now. Sometimes people in authority have said, do as I say Not as I do to let others know of their position. And that the rules do not apply to them. In so many words, they're saying, don't imitate my behavior, but obey my instructions. You still with me? Yeah. Examples. How can we tell our children not to drink alcohol when we have a cup in our hand? How can we tell them not to smoke cigarettes, funny or otherwise medicine When we are in the process of taking a puff. Or not to eat too much when our plate is to the ceiling, or not to wear something when we are stuck on throwback trying to be cool I believe this statement goes hand in hand with another timeless saying. Practice what you preach. That means all of us. Not just for the preacher now. Everybody ought to do and act the way we suggest to others. And we as a people of faith are called to set the example. Paul Love to Timothy is under study in the ministry, is done in the ministry, is written to Ephesus. Timothy is the pastor of Ephesus. And back in 2010, I was able to go to Ephesus and to hear some of the very passages that were read in that place. And in the letter, Paul says, be careful for false teachers. false doctrines and make sure that you encourage leadership and preach the word to the people, but you ought to hear the very word that you're preaching. Now what does that mean? It goes through the mirror test. Before I decide to preach something, I look in the mirror. And now how does that apply to you? Are you doing what you are saying in the sermon? You notice I always say we. So I'm not picking on anybody. Amen? It's in the 12th verse that we see Paul saying to Timothy, don't let anyone look down on you because you are young. And don't let folk put you down because of your age. But be an example for the believers in speech Conduct, love, faith, and purity. Can we just park there for a moment? Sometimes the text just preach itself. So there won't be three points. It'll just be each word in the text. Be an example in your speech. What we say, our words, our conversations, our utterances, and how we say them. I love what Psalm 141 and 3 says. It says, set a guard over my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips. Put another way, host a guard at my mouth instead of watch to my lips. Didn't mean to say it, but you said it. Can't take it back, but you're sorry And so God gives us another opportunity to just speak think about it before you before you say it. Do I have a prayer in church? Has that ever happened to you? You boom Is out. Colossians 4 and 6 says, let your conversation be always full of grace. season with salt so that you may know how to answer everyone. In other words, be gracious in your speech. The goal is to bring out the best in others in a conversation, not put them down, and not cut them out. Speech Also, be an example in conduct. How you act. I used to get in trouble because how I acted in church. And mama will look at the choir and says, Oh, you gonna get it. In between the major grace and satisfied with Jesus. Some of you already got that. Look now we got some good women to vote. Don't say a pastor said bring back They hope me. Matthew 5 and 16 says, in the same way, let your light Shine before others that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. You and I are here to be lights. Bringing up God's colors in the world so that God is not kept secret. Romans 14, 13, let us stop passing judgment. On one another. Instead, make up your mind not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in the way of a brother or sister. Aren't you amazed with everything we need is in the word? I know you're writing them down. I can be glad to get it to you later. It's all good meat, amen. Speech, what we say, conduct How we behave, amen. And love. John thirteen thirty-four. A new Command I give you love one another. As I have loved you, so you must Love one another. By this everyone will know that you're my disciples. But but but love one another. But you don't know. But love one another. Be the example in love. Don't sit at the end of the Thanksgiving table with your mouth all twisted Let it go from last year. God done brought you through COVID. You still got an attitude from 20 years ago. Because somebody didn't pass you the road. First John four and twenty, whoever claims to love God, yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen cannot love God whom they have not seen. The command we have from Christ is blunt. Loving God includes loving people. Amen? Y'all still with me? It's all in the text. Honda Speech, love, faith. It's what we believe about God. Hebrews 11, 1 and 2. It says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen, for by it the elders attained a good report. James 1 and 3, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Our faith needs to be Activated to be tried to be tested. I was saying to a friend of mine the other day. We can talk a good faith game. Under the rubber hiss robe. Do you really trust me? I mean, do you really believe me? Can I just speak to myself today? Do you really believe I can do this? Do you really believe I can supply all of your need according to my riches in glory? Do you really believe that goodness And mercy will follow you all the days of your life. Do you really believe that blessing is the man that walked out in the council of the young God? Do you ready to leave the word? We must be examples. We must be examples to believers in faith and love and conduct and speech. And in purity. Purity is freedom from anything that contaminates our spirit. Purity is important to God, who alone is totally pure. It's often used in Scripture to communicate holiness and perfection. Purity is about what we should all strive for. Ephesians 4 and 1, Paul says, as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Well that's kind of it in a nutshell. And so when you begin to walk through each one of these examples, find yourself in the text. But but it hit me that this was one, well it'll slow sometimes one of two letters that Paul wrote to Timothy. And that got my attention because my name is Timothy. Amen? I often hit my star and I said, I'm first Timothy, and you are second Timothy. Amen? Paul's words spoke to me, and you don't need a book with your name on it to know the word of God ought to find you where you are. You may call me Timothy Tim or Timmy, but I'm just glad to know that I am an example, striving to be example. Example for Lord. What about you today? You want to be an example? Amen. Do you want to be the template? And and what Paul says Which I thought was interesting, he says, be an example for all the believers. All the Christian folk, all the church going folk, all the folk who said the Lord has saved me. But It goes beyond that. If he's talking about the believers, what about the non-believers? Anybody know one or two of those? Maybe in your home on your job. And so those are the ones who are watching you very Closely. Amen? Y'all remember Rockwell, don't you? Back in the eighties. Why do I feel like somebody's watching me. Amen. And you ought to feel that somebody is seeing your witness day in and day out. You may not know them. But they are watching you and I because we're supposed to be the standard. Amen? And don't you know that God calls us to be an example of how to live? No, I didn't say you were perfect I'm saying to be an example. I've used the term that practice does not make perfect. Practice makes improvement. I'm trying to get better. Are y'all with me now? I'm not there yet, but every day I pray, every place I go, I want to be an example. Therefore, not holier than thou, but being a good steward. I want to be someone that said, Well, you know what? Let me look at this brother to see if he's really living the world. Talk is cheap. Amen? And you know, this hymn helped me. It says, if when you have given the best of your service. Telling the world the Savior is come, be not dismayed when men and women don't believe you, even though you're trying to be an example. He'll understand and say, well done. Oh where I come to the end of my journey, weary of life. And the battle is won, carrying the staff and the cross of redemption. He'll understand and say, Well, I'm looking to have a well-done life. Amen. I don't want a median rare life. I want a well-done life That when I've run this race, that Jesus, who was the ultimate example, he showed us how to die, but how to live Anybody excited about that? Because some great morning when this life is over, I'll find away. Meantime, I just want to be an example. Anybody want to be an example today? Amen. I love that about academia that I'm wasn't the best student, but you show me an example. Then I'll get that thing. If I see something in you, I'll know it's an example. So we have to strive today to be an example. Amen? Anyone excited about that today? Amen? I thank the Lord today that I grow it sometimes, and so do you Once you're glad today that God gets you back in the game, he might pull you out for a minute and pull you on the sideline of life and give you a new place for when you come back out, you say, Lord I'm willing to run on all the way. My God, y'all shouldn't be able to body at me right now. Anybody want to be an example today with the Lord? Rapid like that with conduct in the Rabbit God love the faith. You don't struggle in. All I got clearly I got some areas to work on for black through the water today. Why don't you keep on working and pressing force among the sides of the high cause? Example. When you go by the store, there's a mannequin with something on an example of what you can wear. Something on your feet gives you an example of what you can be, but Jesus Christ Give the example. That's it. Let's just find it Come on, give you all a point today. Come on, come on, come on. And you mean all of that Yeah, yeah. That's what Lord is calling us to do. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We know it was written to Timothy. We got to eavesdrop and take a peek at holy living. Help us in those areas that we we struggle with. Nobody got a hundred. Well God we thank you. Ask even now that you might help us to be examples not just for the believers. But for those who can't stand church don't like church don't like church people don't believe in God got a problem with it, help us just to be that light. And even now there's one in this place who knows you not. May we be an example, letting them know that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. Tell him, say I I I used to be lost. The Lord found me. I confessed my sins unto him and he gave me a new lease. Or win one today for the kingdom. Get on the scoreboard today. Letting somebody know Maybe in your own home. So I'm just trying to live right. And when you mess up, stop messed up. It shows them how God has corrected you. Father, we believe with even now. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God.