God knew that that was going to happen. What would take place there is that the Son would volunteer and say, I will go. Lava Saractani, the reason for that is that was the moment that sin was entering. And when you look at that and you see that, you know that when God came in, that's why he came to redeem us. But now for the first time, he's sensing the sin of all the world. It is taking regular life movements and intensifying them by using resistance and healthy eating. But what makes CrossFit different than any other gym is that CrossFit has a community aspect. His mother's sister, Mary Lyfa Corpus, and Mary Magdalene. that this is crossfix is not just about Jesus individual mother, it is about the corporate community. and watching the trauma of this moment. She's not there alone because John is there, because the cross fit and calls us to community. Christ's commitment moves up to community. Jesus speaks to it and his first words is woman. From the time on the disciples took her into her home by giving his mother to his disciples and causing a new relationship to come into existence. He he looked at them and he said, No, no, no, no, no, don't worry about them. And then me and three more, I'm halftime. He was after the service, grabbed my Bible, and they walked me a car. And what I do is the first time when I get up there, I take a soda with me, and they're all got bottles in their hands, and we're there to honor the dead I'm still shaking after you, man. Your kids are driving you nuts. Are you thirsting for your marriage to be good? He's going along with the crowd railing and he's he he just giving Jesus a hard time and never coming to the recognition of what he has done in his own life. He never accepted the wrongful actions as he looked at Jesus. He is Jehovah's Jah, my Brabant. And he needed a doctor. I'm about to die. He said, today, this very moment, you shall be with me in paradise. I want to know about the doctor who can go beyond any measure of life. It was already establishing something that was eternal and it was going to bring it to the natural so that we could see our own eyes. He went to bat for you, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, it's two hours. He taught me and he bought me with his redeeming blood. the cleansing flood. to new heights that is the good news to them that in that final moment he knew that there was the blood. From the highest mountain, it flows to the lowest valley, the blood that gives me strength. claw this Christian ministries to tell you this morning you are prospector our father centered on the coming together on different people giving off the life with our brokenness our weakness We would no way come together without the cross. He calls us to community. That they could hear the voice of Jesus from the cross. While she's there when he's in pain. to now be on the inside because he told her what he's a savior he's committed to being a savior That do not exist before the disciples. It's been good. Yes, Mar. Um for the sick who did not come for the righteous, but for the sinister. Well he's just he's got old bone and getting bone marrow, that's all I'm getting. So every year they would do this same process. I don't think you're going to go to that feeling. Curse he was also abolishing the curse for us. Hey uh I'm I'm a Christian and uh you know you won't say hey I'm a pastor because there's a lot of pastors that maybe well don't live up to it. Now God's good, isn't he? In Isaiah chapter 53, where he was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we were healed. All we like men have gone astray, we've all turned our own ways, laid upon him the iniquity of us all. It wasn't a spiritual sin that Jesus did. God withdrew from Adam. You know, even the prophet would say, the in the Psalms would say, I've been old and now I'm I've been young and now I'm old. Spit on. uh Dr. On the mind of our Savior was not hatred, it was not revenge, it was not self-pity, but eternal forgiveness. They believe that each person can accomplish their goals better from being in community. our sins to be changed and transformed and made fit at the bottom of the cross. the originator of this idea cross fitness for Jesus who's on the cross is exercising and strengthening his people on the cross we often teach this passage of scripture as if it is simply about Jesus That has compassion on each and every one of them. Standing by. Compassion worries and cares about his mother from the cross. Speak to the African American women who n hairs are raised up in the back of your neck because a son called you woman He standing on his commitment as a savior. before. And creates a much wider family. That neither death nor life, no angels nor principalities, no things to come, nothing in all creation can separate me from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. And I say, all right, let's toast whoever it is. I am thirsty. He's hot. Now I'm not the culture person of this group. Thirst. their parents and grandparents and I pray God that this would be the church that would be known where somebody can come in and get a cool drink of Jesus. Coming up behind these heavy hitters. And I kept saying, I'm not sick. Now here we have two criminals. what he heard. Look it over and say, dude, are you sick? Mark 2. What covers my health, when my health covers from the Lord. was the one who can give me eternal life. We're forgiven. And so in that moment when the great high priest, Jesus, offered his own blood, there was a permanent removal P B and J, and that's not a peanut butter and jelly standard. judge and say, I'm not joking. Good. Be except over us tonight, oh Lord, our strength and our redeemer. your heart and lean not to your own understanding in all your ways. I heard an old, old story, over 2,000 years ago, about a Savior who came on the Lord, who gave his life on Calvary. To save a wretch like me. Gave me submit to me. I want to call you one of our friends just to give us a word of invitation and we'll come back with a benediction. Living creation Latin with exceeding joy to the only wise day of our Savior be glory, dominion, power now and forever. He was working his way up. Uh your pastor tried to lead me to the Lord one time. few minutes ago. The uh everything, the pandemic, all of this, all the kids, all the all the kids that are that are that are uh being subject to pedophiles and you see all the things that's going on in the world today. but he hadn't experienced it yet. It was at that particular time that Mary gave God a body. touched him and for the first time as I said that Godhead was touched with sin. who lives in me. You've been let down, you've been forsook, you've been things have taken place in your life. As Pastor Ron always says, how much does he love us? When Jesus, who is the ultimate example, showed us how to do it. Forgiven. Said to her, woman, here is your son. Coming together to meet each other's individual goals. called together simply because we crossed it. that some people have concluded that meeting their individual spiritual goals is done best for themselves at home as an individual instead of coming and being in community. Cross fit. is on the cross and he's addressing his mother not as an individual. He calls them to exercise through community. your pain. And he calls us woman, but he was being committed as a savior. I have no idea what to do. Told the woman, drink of me, you'll never drink again. And he was he thinking of Terry and everybody else in the room. proper restaurant today. Jesus answered him, truly, I tell you, today you will be with me in paradise. They just say he's a son of God. Now the statement, my brothers and sisters, shows the reality that there are some who truly, truly repent, even in their final hour. Today I tell you, he didn't say tomorrow, he didn't say next week. I know I will not have come to the same knowledge of Jesus Christ. It was nothing new in their culture. Something that was spiritual from the beginning because John the revelator said he he was the lamb that was slain before the foundations of the earth. what we call the sacrificial lamb. finished it means that we were at the end of it. can be forgiven. No some of us have been in the courtroom. When he said he is spirit, he didn't feel his spirit and I am forgiven. This foul word in the Gospel of Luke 23, 46. In other words, he turned the volume up to maximum. him crying. It's crying. Into it because he knew his father was there. Lead the day, he is intimate. He did it in our place. to the back cross. Was the way thank the world now? Don't still go, but it will never. And at that moment, looking back on time, why did this have to happen? that they were going to go ahead and sin. of the loving God that he is. Sinn and cause separation by the Spirit of God because the Spirit cannot cohabit with sin. uh hangs on a cross is a cursed person has sinned. Why? The Son of the Living God. In all of eternity, it had never been. We can thank God that He was willing to accept the responsibility of His decision to create us and there show and demonstrate His love for us. And the infinite passion and love of the Son with these eternal words. Tortured with a crown of thorns. So tell me, church, how do we excuse ourselves and justify unforgiveness in our lives? And ask for forgiveness. With outstretched arms to redeem mankind of their sin. There was no anger, no bitterness, no feelings of hostility or damaged pride It included the governor and his cowardly compromise. But his gracious forgiveness stretched way all the way back to the first fallen couple who disobeyed God by eating of the tree of knowledge. His infinite forgiveness touches the lives of all who are born of a woman. So that all of rebellious mankind could be offered the gift of redemption for the forgiveness of our sins. stood in his mother, his mother and his sister, Mary, the wife of Clubus, Mary Magdalene. Come on. Pastor Tutan, one of the most popular exercise regiments is this thing called CrossFit, which was started by Greg and Lauren Glassman. They use movements that are similar to everyday life by strengthening those techniques through movement and resistance. The cross calls us to community with one another. Jesus is addressing his mother's suffering, not simply because he's concerned, he's worried, and he cares so deeply just out of that one thing. is watching our child getting ready to lose her child. Here is your son. Well, well, well, well, when we crossfit, people are brought together who have nothing in common. transgressions. He has two commitments. Let me go ahead and pull this together. knowing that everything had been finished and so that scripture would be fulfilled. But let me ad lib here for a moment. were on his mind. Is he on your mind? One thing. The one cruel, he's reviving and he's hurling insults and saying, Aren't you the Messiah? Yeah. After hearing what Jesus says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what you do what they undo. To repent as he realized who Jesus was. He said, Lord, remember me when you go into your kingdom and he realized that he was sick I wouldn't know that he is Jehovah Nisi, my baby. Because I realized I needed a doctor. And he realized I needed a doctor because I'm sick. Man, following this is like challenging Betty Crocker to a bake-all. And it says, when Jesus therefore had received the drink, Jesus said these words. Because Jesus being the eternal sacrifice for all of mankind, again dating back before the foundations of the earth were created God had this already in place for us. without spot, without blemish. For one year the sins of Israel. The forgiveness of what was taking place. He was that sacrifice. has been paid. He would then he would go go over to a seat, a chair, sit down and declare the words. What was true already in the spiritual, manifested in the natural. For us today. has already been atoned for. He breathed his last. could not hear the cry of Jesus. Theologians put it this way, they say many of us were taught, now I lay me down to sleep. my soul to take, but within the Jewish household, the good night prayer was a part of the passage we see this afternoon. loosen the hand of a father or a parent, and now they have things they put on the children's arms to pull them back. It was an intimate moment. He's spoken about all the words he's going to speak. beyond the cross and there's life beyond the grave. We knew that he did not need a specialist. And there was a chance the other team would win. I repent of my spirit. At the end of the tree, he's the open door. To take his light to a world where wrong seems right What could be too great I call He died and he rose again. Thou shalt be saved. And take what you need. And he wants to let everybody know the good news of Jesus Christ because it's what this is. Man in the first place. to redeem us, but since we all came out of the loins of Adam, there were none perfect, no not one. It's forgiveness. And eternal salvation with life more abundantly. And reach forward into the far distant future. was a demonstration of divine forgiveness. disappointment. All this is me, myself, and I. Of Jesus Christ. I mean um charged with the um second word, Luke twenty-three, and it says is finished. of the mercy seat, which is in the Ark of the Covenant behind in the Holy of Holies. Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. is heard throughout humanity. We brought something unique and power. We'll leave that way. Father, forgive them. Except the Father in heaven and Jesus. That in the book of Acts, by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God, Christ was delivered up to be crucified. made in the image and likeness of us, who was tinted in every point like as we are, yet without sin. And they parted his raiment and cast lots. He prayed for other forgiveness. It's tied to our willingness to forgive. Because forgiveness is a requirement for us to get into heaven. Our relationship with God. But it expressed a depth of divine forgiveness that was able to lovingly embrace the crude Roman soldiers. was on the heart of the Father who panned for the sacrificial death of the Lord Jesus from the beginning of time. fit you will discover three things when the cross fit you will find Christ's compassion moves us to community here it is in the text I'm not making it up near the cross stood his mother I know that we have a lot of people. How eternal these words would be. of that sin. I commit my spirit. To the Lord. Only we can share Well, if that was the case before the Adam and Eve were ever created, they knew by that time when it did happen. And God placed his son's life inside that womb. And he knows what sin is. the portals of the of the dam. I'm gonna be coming from Luke the 23rd chapter, verse 34. Never were these words more pregnant with meaning or more powerfully than the utterance from Israel's chief priest. Well the first thing I see is the crossfits of Christ calls us to compassion. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Say what are you doing? We can just miss what he wants to do. Like the most high. is finished. He did not become unconscious. Stay tuned for the next episode because he will get up. The first three sayings of Jesus, when he began, he was acknowledging, setting things in order on the cross. There was an eerie silence that hung over that. You realize this is the the only place where in the scriptures that Matthew never translated out of the original Aramaic. The Godhead, the third member of the Godhead, the father, the son, was touched. That he made him to become sin for us, that we might have his righteousness. Jesus was betrayed. Yet in the midst of all of this agony, he prayed, Father, forgive us. When hatred against God and his Christ reached the pinnacle of humanity's evil, we have here a glimpse into the heart of God. Forgive the person that caused me all the pain and have hurt me so badly. They grieve and emit his bloody garments and cast light for his seamless cloaks. Fabricated allegations and false testimony. And on our children. Before the worlds were ever made, that the Holy Lamb of God was clinged from the foundation of the world. Not my name, not his name, not the preacher's name, but on his name. exercising his love, his care, and his concern for his individual mother, bro. He will see the victories and turn around. You know when that word says taste and see that the Lord is good. Well, we deserve exactly what we deserve for what we did. From the beginning that God has laid out a plan for mankind that we don't have to carry this sin one more day. He was victimized so that you and I can walk in victory to death. Jesus the first and the last. Call out, shouted, cry to his father. He he knew that he was with them. I remember playing Cowboy and Indian back in the day and you would say, Surrender! Hurts us more than the person that we don't forgive. Tremblow, tremble, tremble, where you bag with. When you step into that courtroom, when you know that you know, that you know that the officer that gave you details did show up that day. Oh my god, the first time that's it. He looked down at the foot of the cross and there was his mother and John the disciple and he he said to the whole woman, behold your son. Told me this at that moment when I asked that question in my thoughts, in my mind, in my spirit, he said, I was willing to accept the responsibility of their failure. And I got a message I can't preach today. Tim Tootin and his lovely wife, uh and all the uh as pastors and each one of you in your respective places. And with the little energy that he had left, he prayed for forgiveness of those that were hurting him. Even the Lord's prayer tells us to forgive our debt and forgive our debt towards. He was thirsty. motor vehicles. Ever had to pray and in your prayer you were shouting and crying and pleading to the Lord in your midnight hour? for sharing life with one who is more heart can need Up until that time he had set things in order with everything, with everybody. And the thing is, if you've ever felt forsaken, and I'd say in an audience this size, there've been plenty of you from time to time you've felt like And sitting there at the right hand of the Father making intercessions for us is the one that the Hebrew writer said through death he entered into Christ's heart of forgiveness and I only embrace all who were present and participated in this historic miscarriage of justice But this was no tragic accident. Wasn't would it be? I was in the hospital so many weeks ago, and every time I turned around somebody kept saying, Well how you feeling? 17 says that Jesus said he did not come for the healthy. And where does Jesus sit? Become a part of your life. And that person comes up and they take your place. Suddenly piercing the quietness and the silence, the pain, the agony. Because God knew that Adam and Eve were going to sin before he ever created them. Until Mary gave God a virgin womb by taking their sin on me and redeeming them back into a relationship and therefore show all of eternity and all of heaven and all of angels at all times. And so for the first time as I see it, it just hit me the Godhead was touched with sin. Why would you let somebody live in your head rent free? Was he thinking of Larry? So when we're here today, my mind's on Jesus. And just whisper his name Jesus, but what is the one thing that anything you could have him do? A thought came to my mind that the Lord was up when I was ministering with him. Yes, sir. It's a high time. It's interesting that he called her woman, but it goes back to Genesis where the sea woman, the serpent would strike his heel but he would bruise his head. That's good. Because when he looked back, when you look back there over that, if he knew that was going to take place, I always ask this question, God, why then? Because we could not be redeemed otherwise. It wasn't the cross that was suffering. That's right. And he demonstrated that for forgiving. They're at the foot of the cross, most difficult moment in this mother's life, in the friends watch. So the words, it is finished, Jesus being a rabbi himself, hanging on the cross, knew Have you ever wondered what that cry might have sounded like? Headed who knows where they go through private peace. Yo God sent this whole menu up for each of us to just see in buffet. He's been in the sun. In his flesh, as he was hanging there, he was thirsty to be done with this. I mean they left no meat on the bone. I want you to know God sees your disappointment. Come on. And he realizes that this man must really be Jesus, the Son of the Living God. He he really went to the cross. So he comes in, he sits down, he starts uh looking around and making comments and this is the day the Lord's made. When you are in your deepest disappointment, I want you to know you are prostrated. He was pleased for my iniquities. The cross fit when your cross fit Paul says to each and every one of us that I am persuaded And in order to understand this, we have to go back. Now notice the criminal is he's not even focused on what he did wrong. Yes. Jesus cried out, Ealy. Yeah. The life I live now, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Yes, sir. We have great time today. But let's stand today by give the benediction. Father wouldn't. We are all have the individual goals, but we're better accompassing those goals in community. When I think of a flood, I think of destruction. I must have looked pr pretty rough that morning at Jiffy Loo. You need a carry-out. Oh my god Be fulfilled. But when I started thinking about it, I thought about three words. And let me just pray for you. Can we go ahead and just go ahead and give him glory? Today, God, touch that heart. Thank you very much. I'm not always in my wife from my mind. Uh-huh. Uh Christ can see. Jesus sees through the compassion of his mother and his friends, but he just doesn't see it. I know we're looking in the natural, but I just had to push it over a little bit and look it in the supernatural and I'm just Aren't you glad to be under the flood today? Slapped. The community is where the cross fits. Your boss is driving you nuts. Sometimes you just want to take a sit right back down and just get fooled. Because he heard the words, Father, forgive them for they know not what they do. I like that about him. Jesus, Mother and John relationship represents a community and family that only comes from the cross. You got seven courses here. My God. And what we see as a result of this world today, the pain, the suffering, the disease, the pestilence, the famine My Lord. Yeah. That's not the first time Jesus does this either. They got a crown. Wow. And and he's working his way up. It's right there in the text when Jesus saw his mother there. He has a commitment as a son, but he also has a commitment as a savior. Now Jesus worship him with that. So not only was Jesus the sacrificial lamb, but we also know him as the high priest. And I want I want to tell you something. Yes, yes. Surrendered knowing that there is life beyond death. Don't stuff the water stop, but it will never lose the power. And you're thirsty for just something to happen sometime, somewhere, you're wondering, God, when, when will this He offered the perfect sacrifice. I could stop that there. And then the Bible tells us that in the ninth hour, there had been darkness from 12 o'clock till 3 o'clock in the afternoon. It was there that he took the keys of death and hell, being a perfect high priest for us, he lives forever to make intercession. Yeah. Father, forgive them. She said, whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, preacher. Thank you, Jesus. What is that one thing you're thirsting for? That's right. I heard about his groaning and his precious blood of trolling and then Thank God for the blood and bear it. I can see it in their eyes empty people. He could trust the spirit of his father. There had always been the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And our child is bleeding and blood is dripping down this cross. And the cross and thrown slowlight and the words will be The Savior is shouting. Yes. How Adam sinned, he was in disobedience. I'm still thirsty. Amen. And I want to focus on sabhaktani, which means forsaken, left, put out. Isaiah had a picture of it. He was God in flesh. See, the Godhead could talk about sin, but now the Godhead has experienced sin. Well when the crowd spit, the first thing I see is compassion moves up to the community. Oh. It is. They would say, can I take your last? It was the soul, that part of him. See, we gotta realize tomorrow at this time I'm gonna be at a biker bar. Well we were all skaters. Except this time, when Jesus humble the cross, not only was he the You've got to have a probation before judgment. I know we're out of shape because many of us have spent two years with our community due to a pandemic. Some of you guys, you want you're the ones who are in the barn. I'm just waiting for a moment. It is finished. The words it is finished. Amen. Uh-huh. He didn't wait until it was over. Uh oh. They pushed on his head. I don't know if this is appropriate, Pastor. Had I not been sick, I wouldn't have known that he is Jehovah's Shalom, my PB. They would go through this same thing. And I just thought of this, the Lord dropped this in my heart, while Adam Well, Pastor Tutan, maybe that's why the church feels so out of shape in this season, because we have lost sight that we are cross-fit. That's speeding tickets. I'm no longer. And no one thought about the word of God. Jesus knows that the cross fits. But Jesus is right there giving compassion and love to his mother from the cross All things will pass away. I mean you got a guy here should be teaching Bible school and then Mr. And they kept saying, How you feeling? The sacrifice of the blood of bulls and goats were no longer going to be accepted after this moment. I think about little Timmy the baseball player before the league, and I wouldn't get up to that Yes. And the disciples, here is your mother. Oh God. This is something that was done annually by a high priest. No need to call 911, chart trauma, no need to come Hopkins, that's okay. Now to him who's able to keep up his falling because he has fallen before the presence of his glory. I want to preach today on this title, CrossFit. You don't know who my mother and father is? I was wondering while he was thirsty, was he thinking of Tim? If you gotta be a day drinker, because he said, I am thirsty. Had I not been sick, I want to know that no weapons from the 50 shall not pass. I've been in the courtroom. And uh what a beautiful picture that is, and I wanted to give a little bit of background on that, but before I do, I'd like to just say, and I do this all the time when I'm able to meet uh with some new people and One on each side of Jesus. John the Baptist said, Behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. It means the sin of my past, the sin of my present, and all I know, the sin of my future has already been forgiven. We thank you that you went to that cross. His compassion and love for his mother. Oh God, we said this before. So he says, don't you fear God? So that it could be reported in ancient scriptures so that we could read thousands of years later and get it within our hearts and our lives that yes, he was the supreme sacrifice. When Jesus said those words, come on And don't you know the Lord is with you right now? We we kind of think over that man. Had his beard torn out. Jesus' individual mother was there across with her soul pierced. And I don't know if you had the loss of a child, but let me screw you on something real quick. Was he thinking of Antonio? Amen. Well that state you produce it? And because he died on our behalf, we get the victory. There's no way. He was arrested. Marked. C away to the the dessert. And that carry-out is to know that you know Jesus Christ as the pardon of your sins. So that all of us who believe on his name. He says, Woman, behold your son. He is seated at the right hand of God. And won the victory. He looked at the two thieves and the one cried out to the other, and you know the story. But he went ahead and created Adam and Eve. It was a great pleasure that I'm here today um giving honor to the shepherd of this house, my good friend. I wonder if he was just plain thirsty to bring mankind to salvation. What is the one thing because when he said, I am thirsty And that doctor had to heal me from the inside out. I know what he's about ready to do. And now he's thirsty. So I challenge you today, for those who may not know Jesus in the problem of their sin. There is nothing like stepping into the courtroom and having a not guilty verdict pronounced so guilt. These were the Lord's dying words. He loved me and I knew him, and all my love is due to him. But it's what happened from the cross to the resurrection. That's good. Yes. Now you know, I'm so glad that I was once sick. Because he has a mission in life. And like Jesus showed Jesus showed them, forgive them even when you knew they didn't deserve it. And then the next one comes up. The text that Pastor gave me was found in John chapter nineteen in verse thirty. And with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. Your hang-ups, all of your hurts, all of your sin, of the past, the present, and even future. I couldn't get past the fact that Jesus, the Savior of the world That day, every one of us entered on him. Jesus the beginning and the end, the Alpha and the Omega. And this sense of trust, trust in the Lord with all Acknowledge him and he'll direct your path. Yes, yes. You don't have enough money. Only she was here It draws people together that would not come together without the cross. They got close, so close to the cross, y'all. And you know I'm finding myself still at this time. That's right, that's right. We have no excuses on forgiveness. The trespass that others peace was upon him. See some of you need to be in back and go, okay now. But when I know that Jesus is going for me, he has brave ready to my mind. Amen. In that moment, Jesus did not faint. As we bow today, Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we celebrate unity. That's the path of all of our understanding. When we crossfit we will find ourselves in Christ's commitment. So no more dude. Nothing. Well he was victimized. The Bible also talks about he that sinneth shall surely die, the soul that sinneth. Come on, come on. Jesus is looking down at the individuals gathering at the foot of the cross, and they're only there because the cross fits. I just can't get enough to drink. We can just miss. You're thirsting for your child to come home? Let me do this. And there is this sense of the Lord being present. In that hour he breathed his last breath. Bottom of the ninth, and you have no chance, but thank be to God today that he is the pitch hitter. When it was a flood, I think of uh people being down and out when the waters taking them over today First time we ever met. And so when you look at that, the Bible says that in that Godhead counsel of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. For they know what they do. Jesus is suffering himself. I want you to know that God can see depression. Yeah, I'm gonna toast whoever it is. Sometimes I'm there to support someone and then sometimes I scroll up myself because I got in trouble. That the words of my mouth and meditation of my heart That one man should die for the people and the whole nation not perish. There are places who will never meet each other, but because we cross it. And I said, No, I said, I'm not sick. Had I not been sick. And they would sacrifice that lamb and they would take that lamb, take the blood of that lamb, and sprinkle it upon the altar The flood of protection to be under the flood today who will lead you Transform that mind in Jesus' name. We can tell now we'll ask the preachers to meet me back up in the upper room. We have to go to the scriptures that later on the disciples, you see, the disciples did not know what was taking place here. The blood of bulls and goats cannot redeem us. But sitting at the right hand of the Father, right now, is a human being. His gracious forgiveness includes you and it includes me. You know, in Mark chapter 3, he had a conversation. And the fall of all things are never. And the first three words were Father, Son, Holy Ghost. And he showed true faith even to the very last minute. I just want you to know that we have a high priest who was touched by the feeling of your infirmities in every point Because that woman that was on the outside I'm thirsty for him. God took his life, his spirit, his son, and placed it in the womb of a virtua. CrossFit calls people together who in no way come together only because of CrossFit. The disciples who he loved standing by, he said to her, Woman! I'm just like you, my brother. Every year, as that blood touched the mercy seat, the atonement of the sins of all of Israel. Thus, when Jesus said it is You know what I'm talking about. Thank God for my wife in a special way. Amen. And at that moment in time there was the sense of But even in the midst of the most shocking miscarriage of justice All who are of the seed of Abraham, which is a fallen, I'm sorry, Adam, who's a fallen race. Jesus said, I am thirsty. They gave me one of these. There's no way that anybody in the village He's about ready to ask me if I want to know Jesus as my personal Savior. Isaiah of all the prophets knew Jesus more than any of the other prophets because he talked about him in I like to pose things like that. Don't you come at me like that is what he was saying. This is what I do. Come on. Just like that beast. Favor ain't fair. That's what I would praise the rest of all these teachers. Father, forgive them. Redicused. The text says when Jesus, when he starts mother the disciples, he loves And so when I think about the words it is finished, annually the high priest would take the a lamb. Nobody they could have not heard Yeah. It embraced the Jewish nation who screamed his blood be on us. There are some people who have concluded there's no reason to gather into community. He felt the heat. What he shouted was a prayer. Ah, she's not there. When we crossfit, people will come together who don't even dislike each other. Because I don't know. And he said, Are you sick? Two strikes. It's just going bad. He said, well, let me think about it. And had I not been sick, sick. Ever been lost, ever Oh well. I mean, you ever got down to that rib where you just like, you know, you just I go in there and you're thinking to yourself, boy, I'm not sure what the verdict's gonna be. But how Jesus became sinned was his obedience. I want you to know in your greatest sorrow, in the most difficult moment, God sees There was a Samaritan moment That we And now by himself he felt alone on that cross and sinned Yeah, that's what he did. Jesus is two things Because look But thank be to God, I'm no longer a wretch anymore. You see, when you look at the incarnation He didn't wait until he had time to think about it. And at halftime you breathe for a minute. They are a pensioner, amen. He was tried. Because this did not catch God by surprise. It's been quite a day for him We'll all be working together here because I mean we're all trying to get off with this cross, right? For one year. Another little thought. Do me a favor this evening and tell your neighbor the cross fits us for community. See, I'm the wild card here. And there's an old song, You were always on my mind. The other criminal But um he is not here for the healthy who needs a doctor, but he here And this voice Scourged. And it encompassed the false witness with their fabulous Because God's solution to our pain, God's solution to our disappointment, God's solution to failure. And then the chuck barrier. When he had said this In your midnight hour, he's come to you and spoke a certain way, but the Savior And what came forth was the Christ. I've never seen the righteous forsaken or received begging bread. He's addressing mother not simply in his own suffering. Was he thinking of Art? Do me a favor, just shut your eyes for a second. But praise God, thank you, Pastor, for this opportunity Now, I can only imagine the scenario. I'm taking that from good chase. Whether you're here or whether you're over the airwaves, I want you to know that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. Isaiah saw that And I want to deal with that for just a moment. All that sinned and come short of the glory of God. He came to take our place. All right. Yes, that's right. The love that flooded from the heart of the Father and the blood that streamed from the body of our Savior Jesus near the cross of I could preach it's not fair. Oh, victory in Jesus. Yeah, he was uh he was He has encountered the Lord. Oh Jesus. This mother is watching her child suffering. He addresses it And they said, you be good, and I'm supposed to come here and you be good. Truly Listen, had I not been sick I want to have known that Jesus Jesus called out with a loud voice. But I come out here to tell you And then he says to the site, behold your mother. I I I'm not a mind reader by any stretch of the imagination, but this mind runs wild and says, Let this mind be in you, that is Christ Jesus. Heavenly Father, right here, right now, I just pray for everyone in the room. Yes or not. Anybody know what the blood today? He didn't wait. And unforgiveness. I've come inside your prophet this morning. She wouldn't marry the mother of Cleopas. Just waiting. I wouldn't know that he is Jehovah Rapha, my healer. Come out with a wooden stick and say, Alright, you got me. Surrendering knowing that there's life The Bible tells us Come on. It was the sin. CrossFit is calling together people from different walks of life, different experiences, different families This son calls his mother And when the Old Testament, that high priest, would pronounce, it is finished. The Bible says, Thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God has raised them from the dead. I like to search for things like that with the Lord. Now Jesus knew what death he was coming to. But the second thing I see I mean, I'm just playing on my following me. But the mother is not alone. You know, and when you're hanging on your cross of life. I got gave my heart to the Lord when I was seventeen years old down Ocean City, Mary on Fourth Street, side of Marie Hotel. What was true from the before the foundations of the earth is true Well I was striking out Timmy. When Jesus saw his mother there, the disciples who him loved standing nearby Because we are being punished just for what we deserve. I don't want them to rang true in your life today. Right. Forever We have lost it. It's going bad. And if you're gonna have to be a day drinker Yes, well. It's not gonna go well for me. From day to day, from day to day, it will not. Come on. He was with you before you got up this morning. Amen. And uh I knew who he was. The Bible says he that he that uh They're a lower life form. Pissed in the side. By his strength we are healed. But you know, when I read this scripture And when that blood would touch the mercy seat, it would atone Come on. I mean you don't realize the last time I was at his church, that big guy I'm toasting Jesus. And I know. They were words of intimacy and words of trust and words of surrender. We got the win. Yes. We are cold. I often share this about the sin issue. And it reads then said Jesus, Father forgive them. Yeah, yeah. I don't know about what I should do. He heard the word and he recognized the cause. Abandoned. So when he calls for a woman, He's so good to look out for himself. Sitting at the right hand of the Father. One of the hardest things that we deal with as Christians Yet the first thought I You see this criminal didn't have time for someone to share the Romans' road of salvation. But in that moment God bless you right where you are today. God bless you. Jesus is not just creating care for his mother. He said, It's more than blood. What you're seeing there, the reason for that cry, elay, ille That's what I'm praying for. Oh my God. For they know not what they do. Jesus was despised, he was rejected. He said, uh, who's your mother? And he realized that I needed a doctor. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. But this man has done nothing wrong. He said, no, no, no, no. Making an instruction to you and to you. I'll get right back to this and close with this particular thought. I've been sent by here to tell you this afternoon that when you are in your deepest pain, when you are in your deepest pain, He he knew that he was close. We were crucified with him that day. Come on. She watched her child suffer. On the loss of a child on a scale of one to a hundred, the loss of a child is one hundred. Jesus compassion is on his people. But the last thing I see and I'm out of here is when we crossfit Christ's new community Okay, it's okay. I I tell you right now when when when when the officer doesn't show up and you know that you have the boldness that you can go before that joke. She has been just owned. I'm done, God! That's right. He that is the water of life. But I'm just wondering Now here he takes it in. Be dismissed. The Lord has transformed him and changed his life Paul would later write these words. Forgive them God even while they're still in the process of hurting. You better bring it, brother. We got one in the wind column. Lord, we please And my question to you would be My Lord. We can see Christ's compassion. The cross fit is setting aside blood relationships My Savior forever he is. He turned me to victory, but he It's all about this day. And our forgiveness Amen That's why he went to the trial. Come on. No Lord. So so far today. There was no way that we could have redemption. What happened to him? Yes, sir. So that I don't have to be the victim. All the blood of Jesus. And that's what Jesus did for us. He calls his mother woman. Had I not been sick, I wouldn't know what it means that I can look to the hill. Anybody know what a wretch means? It's not. She's not alone because the cross calls us to communities. These particular words Can you see the scene? Quilled. Each member of CrossFit has their own individual goals Oh God Almighty, I mean cross fit. She's not alone. That's what I'm too face. An escape from the death of cruel stem, a release from the curse of the law. And then I thought of the church, time, talent, and treasures. See we can get But I am forgiven of debt. He didn't know who I was. Had I not been sick, I would not Yes. Jesus is on the cross and he's suffering. Articulate I mean he stays here That's right. As the high priest. Even as we leave today, I thank God for all of these preachers. And he said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. O Lord. That's what I'm hoping for when I go in there. So it will all be in vain. Come on. Come on. You know, I don't know if you realize it, but you have three You know as I look at the text. And when you stand before the one thing he didn't pronounce, you know what because of what Jesus did to me? And he was with you on the ride over. The angels could not redeem us because they weren't made in the image and likeness of God. He is at the cross. Who's your father? I thought I would go ahead and beat him to the punch and let him know that Before space was created I'm serious. Yeah, yeah. Why don't you save yourself and us? And somebody, the big guy in the neighborhood, was this, I got this. Jesus had already himself claimed that my Father is always with me. Yeah. This goes deeper than blood. The natural Jesus was a man thirsting for a drink. And uh so I said just And ultimately killed. My God may not be. On the outside side, he means how across the evil. Thank you and I. Amen. But the danger we face in Christian community I pray for their families, their sons, their daughters, that are granddaughters. Come on. Every day they pass me by. If you knew this was going to happen, why did you create? And the Lord very clearly She's there with Mary Magdalene because cross fit is called up to community. When we crossfit, we will come together in relationships that would never cross. Had I not been sick, I want to know that he was alive with me. He knew what the price was going to be paid. Praise the Lord. They all know they're thirsty. Are you sick? My Lord. But the verse says John 1928, later But if you gotta be a day drinker, drink. And I can only imagine him looking over and saying This criminal had a genuine desire Oh, you don't know what that will mean. Amen. That this is a place that lifts up the name of Jesus on high because there's no high It It's now because of the blood. There was no resentment. I'm done. But this sense of surrendering our souls That's right. CrossFit calls people together. I am crossed. He said Was the moment that sin entered. Yes. Christ sees her pain even while she But he calls us even in our own suffering See, I got those three words My son and PR had been working out with him at the gym, as he mentioned that just And in that moment Hallelujah. On this Good Friday She's at the foot of the cross dealing with grief. Well And I believe we And so Into thy hands But right in the midst of what he was going through, Was he thinking of Corey? Why? I don't even sound right. I'm coming to you with God's. Not later, but I need him right here, right now. Before the earth was even created, he already had a plan. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord. But more than anything, it affects He is back because the cross fit CrossFit Thank God for It will never lose its power. Amen. I'm gonna what I'm gonna do, I got a plan in my mind. Nobody did. He is creating care for a new community. And dying on the cross. It's wider than blood. Had I not been sick, I would not have known that It is a word of surrender. I'm doing a memorial service. It's a meal. Because in that moment So, oh man, they will total it today in nobody's heart. For they know not what they do. Because forgiveness I wonder if he was just thirsty. Amen These are the original words of Jesus. That's right. I wish I could tell you, Greg and Lauren Glassman. And I can only imagine the other thief. He said the words, it Amen. It will not. Nevertheless, as Paul said, I live yet not I but Christ. And you ain't helping us do not be allowed to. And the hymn right is dead and right. But see I don't know about you, but I don't like going to the courtroom of That's what he would do. Good gracious. But I come by But he's addressing his mother not simply because he sees her. Because if you are sick, Well, can I When you're going through your crucifixion, you're Amen. Jesus. If any man or woman is in Teach it, teach it. But then all of a sudden there's a boldness that comes up. And as we conclude this story. And they're going, okay, preach. And the course he went. Well, well, well, when the cross fits. And now I am ready. Yes, sir. Amen? This is a seven course. No, no, no, no, no. Ah, I come out here to tell you today we're cross-fit. Up there, praise the Lord. We all brothers and sisters and mothers. He's already in your car waiting when you leave. Some stuff will expire, but it will not. But thank God that he I'm looking at some of you right now. He will need to And because of that. And then the biggest thing that gets in the way. God's solution is. Jesus will suffer himself. Why'd you put me last, Pastor? The blood, the blood, the blood. And you watch them stand up. It was a beautiful Love those words. Yeah. He doesn't forsake me. But Jesus, this one. I'm gonna I'm gonna get a It had to be a human being. It breaches. None. That's the Man See, we're out of But I'm still I pray for Where we