Hello, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. Listen in today on our worship experience It's already in progress. See the chains falling in situations in your own life. My chain may not be your chain, but we all got a chain. And when God allows those chains to fall, my God, something happens. Not just in the atmosphere, but something happens in our own situations. I'll ask you again, how many folk got chains? Amen. They're not visible to the naked eye, but we're all going through something. Let's bow today in this place Heavenly Father, as we stand before you and stand before your people, it is always our prayer that the words of our mouth and the meditation of our heart Might be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Amen. Praise God. I want to read today from the Gospel of John just one passage. John ten and twenty-seven, it reads, My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them and they follow me. I want to preach today from the Samonic Title and the last of our eight sermons on prayer for the summer. Shh. And listen up. Shh and listen up. The late President Franklin Roosevelt Tells the story of how he was concerned about people who basically didn't really pay attention to anything he had to say. So during a White House visit He thought he would conduct an experiment. And so he knew that when he met people, they would just say pretty much anything. They didn't know what he was saying. He says, today I'm gonna I'm gonna say this I'm going to say basically, I murdered my grandmother this morning. And as he began to go down the line, people were not listening. They were saying, well, that's great. We're very proud of you. Uh th that's awesome. It it's marvelous. People were not listening At the end of the line, he talked with the ambassador from Bolivia, who listened. And said, I'm sure she had it coming. We do more talking than listening. Amen. But communication with God is not just what we say to God It's what we receive from God. My first job was at a small radio station, WNER, Radio 1250, Live Oak, Florida And it was only a 1,000 watch station, which meant that if you got to the city line, there's a chance cooling the game would fade out. Why? Because It only had a certain reach. All of us have an internal and eternal transmitter of sorts that allows us to communicate with God. God has this heavenly satellite that no matter where you are or what you're going through, He will hear your prayer. Let me say that one half a time. God will hear your prayer, but he also wants you to listen to what he has to say. We must all understand that praying is not just what we say to God in prayer, but also what he has to say to us. That seems different sometimes. that that we are taught that to pray it's all about what we say. And we'll pray, get up and keep rolling. And it won't take time to listen to what God has spoken to you and when he continues to speak to you throughout the course of your day. Jesus' ministry was defined by prayer. He knew the importance of prayer. Mark 145 says that he would leave the house early in the morning and he would go to a quiet place and he would spend time with his father. Early. But he needed some quiet time. He needed to steal away. We need to steal away every now and then. That there's too much going on. There's just too much noise and there's just too many distractions and that's why I like getting up early I said to my grandson, my youngest grandson this week, he was up one morning when I got up. I said, Man, you up early. You like papa. I said early burger, the first worm He said, huh? I said the early bird get the first worm. He said, but belong the other bird. I said, well that did not early. The other worms, but the early bird gets the first worm. Getting up early. He he taught his disciples about prayer. He also silenced his critics. There were always people following Jesus, always trying to start something. He he he knew what to say, he knew how to handle them, he knew how to correct the situation. And he looks around the community and he sees things that can make a real lesson. Like he he knew there were lots of sheep in the community, first century Palestine. That that that was the industry of sheep. Lots of sheep, and to have sheep you needed to have a shepherd. Someone who would lead the sheep. Someone who would go ahead of them, someone who would protect them. And so he takes that and say to them, that is those who were listening That I'm the shepherd and you are the sheep. Did you know that you're a sheep? Oh, you didn't know that, did you? Let me inform you. Let me break the news to you that you are a sheep. And he is our shepherd. Psalm 23. The Lord is what? I shall not want. And so he takes all that's happening around him to try and to make The shepherd guides the sheep. The shepherd protects the sheep, but the sheep must recognize the voice of that shepherd. There there were many voices, but the shepherd that had a certain flock could speak and those sheep would get it. I did a little homework with the other grandson yesterday. And I said, you know, sheep are gentle. And sheep are obedient. And she are meek, and she have excellent hearing. They can direct their ears to a certain location and be able to pick up. See, you got good ears too, don't you? Oh some of y'all knows eh. I may as well just throw it in there. You heard stuff nobody else heard. I know how to shake a crowd. But What it really comes down to is the importance when it comes to listening to God, our relationship, amen, our fellowship, and our followership. Verse forty seven says, My sheep listen to my voice. Various ownership, what he is saying is that you belong to me. You you my sheep. You you not the neighbor's sheep? You're not the shepherd down the street, sheep, but don't you feel good knowing that he has accepted you and would even call you his sheep? He makes that known that he is saying, You are my people. Psalm one hundred. We are what? We're his people. And we're the sheep of his pasture. Are you feeling a little sheepish now? I want you to be in the mindset that you can be led and that you can be guided, but you must listen to what The shepherd has to say. You know why? There are other voices that are speaking. And that's a little sheep could know who their shepherd was. And other folk are saying things to you and around you that may not make sense. Be careful who you listen to. Amen. Can I just throw this in? Be careful what you listen to. Now I know that doing soul train there's some lyrics and our folk got on us about that. What what are they saying Be careful what you take in, amen. Garbage in, garbage out. And be careful what gets on your hard drive. He made sure that he spoke and says, listen, they listen to my voice. Why? Because they're mine. Ever wonder what the voice of God sounded like? I mean, is it a bass or a baritone or a tenor? Revelation 115 talks about his feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace. And his voice was like the sound of rushing waters. And as he sounded like way to you, would he spoke unto you and you said, Reverend, I uh I've never heard him. Does he speak? Yes, God does speak. Has he ever spoken to you? I don't think you're psychic, I don't think you're crazy. God can speak. He speaks through his word, he speaks through circumstances, he speaks through other people. But God, if he wants to Could call your name. Might freak you out. But God will call your name. You ever had the Spirit of God and you thought of Miss Jane down the street when you were cutting up? And it was God may have been moving in and through that voice. It's about relationship but also the fellowship My sheep listen to my voice and then I know them. Fellowship is when we associate with people who share common beliefs or common uh activities, but Christian fellowship is to be with someone who believes and who serves the same God that you serve. Ever been at the airport or at the bus stop or and you looked at somebody and say, you know what, I think they're kin to me in the spirit How you doing, bro? Praise the Lord. I thought something was different about you. I know you. Because we have things in common. I don't know about you, but I see people sometimes I don't remember And I'll say I know you from. Y'all heard me share this. My wife says, You don't know 'em. I'll be trying though I didn't go to Douglas. I was in the neighborhood yesterday and our neighbors were having a party down the street, graduation party of sorts And a woman can she says, now you look familiar. Also she gonna say Tim Tootsie. She goes, Are you an insurance man? I say, you never know. But he knew them. He knew exactly who they were, and he knows you. Aren't you glad you serve a God who knows you just the way you are? Not the made up you, not the sometimey you, not the I'm trying to fake it you, but he knew. Them. Jeremiah 1 and 5 says, before I form you in your mother's womb, I already knew you. Didn't have a name. That's right. They know how big you were gonna be, but I know ya. Aren't you glad you serve a Savior who knows you and knows all about you? And so we're apt then to shhh And listen up to someone who has something to say in prayer Make it your your charge this week to not just pray, but find a moment to just shut everything down and listen. You ever heard the birds sing or the water going down the creek? Some of y'all from the country. That's all you have. Amen. But but it's something about connecting with nature. God speaks in a great way. Fellowship. Relationship, but also followership. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. In the text Direct and simple and to the point. And followship is your willingness to follow a leader. A real leader. And Jesus is a is a leader. Who thinks he's a mighty good leader. And so we follow him. Why? Because we have heard from him. We've listened to him. He's given us what we need to become a committed follower. of Jesus Christ. In other words, I want to hang out with Jesus. I want to do what he said do. I I want to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I know you want to lead, but you have to let him lead. Won't he take you in the right direction? Won't he guide you through situations and dangers? Won't he bring you through trials and tribulations? If you are but willing to be able to do that. Is I am but willing to just follow. Some of us can't follow. We always want to be the leader. Always want to be first. But my God, if you step back for a moment And let God go ahead of you. He will fight your battles if you just keep still, if you are following Him. Go ahead, Pastor. And once you have heard from him, you'll know what route to take. Once you've heard from him, you'll know what to say or what not to say that's following Christ. Some of y'all got messed with y'all on the job and you were ready Oh, you were ready to tell them a thing or three. But you realize you know what? That that that that won't be right. I'm just gonna follow the Lord. Amen? And he's told us some things, all of us And we've just not followed. We we still waiting. I'm just gonna wait for the Lord. He already spoke. Well I know I'm gonna give us some more time. Can I just confess? Been there done that. You know, I'm I don't want to mess it up, so I'm saying, Lord, is that you speaking? And if it's you speaking, help me To trust you to follow you. Amen. How many folk want to follow Jesus today? How many folk want to be sheep today and say, I want to follow The shepherd of my soul. Why? Because I can trust him. I can follow him because I trust him. And I know he's gonna take me in the right direction. This this shepherd. Romans 1017 says, so faith comes by hearing. There it is again. And hearing by the word of God, shh, listen up. Followship Fellowship, relationship. You know, Jesus is portrayed in this text as the shepherd Because he sees what's around him to share with the people. To make it plain. But earlier in this book, he's also the Lamb. Amen. John 129, the next day John saw him and says, Well, look, the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sins of the world. So one night Jesus had a shh listen to me moment. When he went to the Garden of Gethsemane, it was a familiar place that he and his disciples would go to pray. On this occasion, he takes with him the inner circle. Peter, John, and James. And they fall asleep. While he prays, why? It's a time of struggle. He knows what he has been called to do He knows about Calvary. He knows about the crucifixion. Why? He's been talking about it But he says, not my will, but your will be done as holy man, as holy God. But he prayed When I saw this text, I said, you know what? He prayed, and then he says, not my will. Did he speak? God spoke to him and he listened. Aren't you glad he listened? Aren't you glad he went to an old rugged cross? Aren't you glad he spent time in the garden? To fulfill his assignment for us. I love this whole hymn. I come to the garden alone. Come on, use your imagination. While the dew is still on the roses. Can you see it? I'm talking about in the garden. It says, and the voice I hear falling on my ear, the sun Of God discloses. And he walks. With me, and he talks. With me, and he tells me that I'm all his own. And it's something about that voice because the joy that we share as we tarry there, none other Has ever known. I got excited about the joy. The joy that he shares. The joy in the midst of my circumstances. The joy when I have no joy present. The joy that we we share. That means he gives me some of his joy This joy that I have, the world didn't give it to me, and the world can't that that's what I heard is he got some joy for me. Weeping may Endure for a night but but but but but joy cometh in the morning. That what what are you here today? What are you hearing from he who is speaking In your sh listen up moment. I hear that whole narrative. Hush. Hush Somebody's calling my name. You gotta hust down your enemies. You gotta hust opposition. You gotta hust those who try to misuse you and say, wait a minute. Excuse me. I I think I I hear something. I think I I hear him speaking to me. You ever have those moments when you say wait wait wait a minute I figured I just heard something. And I know it came from God. When I began to preach this word, I I heard something. Amen. Can I tell you my my my story? I was playing preaching. And getting invited out like a sister. I was a deacon trying to preach. But then one day I came across this word that talked about Eli. Talked about Samuel. And Samuel was asleep. And and there was a voice that spoke to him. He kept going to Eli. Did you call me? Wrong person, wrong voice. He said, no, no, no, no, no, no. Go back. And lay down again. And I went back and and I sat down again, talking about Tim now, and then realize that that nobody said, Tutan, you've been called to preach. I had to hear it And the text was, the next time you hear it, just say this, speak, thy servant. Hear it. And every now and then you have to say, Lord, speak. Speak to my heart, Holy Spirit. Speak so that I might hear it. Speak that I might be obedient unto what you call me. And that's just my But my God, you got a story. Right now, he's speaking. You in church, he's speaking. Over the internet, he's speaking. Listen up! He's got something to say. Oh yeah, bad. Shh Listen to the voice of God in prayer That's the word of God today, it's already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. The Lord is speaking to you right now. Yeah you've been asking for a word. And now he He spoken. And the question is, are you listening? I I thought that was no Then there wasn't no static in this. It dropped out. His calls don't drop out. You got the wrong number. He got our number. He speaks today. In prayer. Come to Jesus, O son of the church. Come. It's an invitation today. Come to Jes. Come to G He's calling your name today. Here's why. He will save you. He will save you. Won't he do it? Do I have a witness today that he'll save you? You save now. He will say now I want to offer Christ to you. And what I offer him to you, I have no power to save you. But in the introduction I'm just saying that if you open your heart to him, confess your sins, believe that he died and rose again, if you believe that in your heart, it's then and only then will you all of a sudden Hear the volume going up as he's speaking to you. Right now he may be speaking to you. Do you hear it? It may come in the form of a nudge. It may come in the form of I need to do something different. Let's bow even now. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. God, I pray for that soul right now. That maybe has not heard your voice. Open the lines of communication of God and speak a word to them. As you spoke to us. God, without your word, we can't make it. Do it today, we pray. If you've heard that word, and maybe you've tuned me out. But I pray you've turned him up. Speak, Lord. Speak to these your people. Speak to the lost. Speak to the downtrodden. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. We bless the name of Jesus. Maybe you've come today and you want to be a part of this fellowship. The door is always open I still believe in the church of Jesus Christ. Amen. It's good to see you in church today. You weren't too busy. He said, I'm going to church. You're looking for a church home. We're available right here for you to come on in. No pressure. No sales job. Just we love Jesus. Amen. Praise God. You can walk for the Lord today or you can come at any point and just say, you know what? I want to hook up. with y'all. Praise God. Let's give them praise today. Thanks for sharing. We're Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To connect with us, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. Also, download our Harvest app. It's HCM Baltimore in the Apple Store and Harvest Christian in Google Play. I'd like to invite you to pick up a copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It's available on my website at www. timtutentv. com. That's www. tim-t-im-t-o-o-t-e-n-t-v or on Amazon and Barnes and Noble. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.