Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. That's about today. Heavenly Father, we come and we exalt your name and we lift you up. We just say thank you for this day that you've given us Day we've never seen before. As we stand before your people, may we decrease. Yes, sir. And may you increase Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We thank God for uh this time. We are uh approaching our third installment of this particular topic of preaching and so if you have not gotten parts one and two, uh they're available at the resource table if you're still old school C D. If not, that's like an eight track. You can always go on our website, find it there by way of audio or video. Amen. So there's a word we've been sharing for the last couple of Sundays that comes From 2 Timothy 3 and 1 through 5. It says, but mark this: there will be terrible times in the last days. People will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive Abusive, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy Without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self control Brutal, not lovers of the good, treacherous, rash, conceited Lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. Having a form of godliness, but denying its power. Have nothing to do With such people. Carl Jong was a Swiss psychologist who spent quite a bit of time advancing the idea of the introvert. And the extrovert personalities. By now you may know which one you are. Over time, Zhang developed a personality test helps you to understand how do you deal with people and how do you relate to people and how do you process information information, how do you make major decisions and how do you organize your life? I was curious, so I went online. I took the test. And according to Zhang, I am an extrovert, sensor, feeler, and judger. In other words, I'm outgoing. You never noticed that, have you? I'm energetic I'm enthusiastic. I'm expressive. I live in the present. I rely on facts and try and handle practical matters as well as I can. I have a concern for other people. I prefer a planned and orderly life. In short, this test says I am a people Over the past couple of weeks, the Apostle Paul in his letter to Timothy, his understudy, has described the characteristics of being People who just don't have it together. And keep in mind, he's writing to the Christian church. So all of these things we've described over the past couple of Sundays These are not outside folk. These are church people. Ouch to all of us. He said to them, avoid such people. Now don't mean throw them away. It's not mean never talk with them. But just don't spend a lot of time with persons with those kind of behaviors, uh those kind of personality challenges. People who are lovers of themselves And every time I read one of those, always say there's a two percent uh in us. That you may not have the whole deal, but there we love ourselves. And self-concept say we should. Lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents Ungrateful, unholy, without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control. Let me pick up this week, brutal Not lovers of the good. I want to conclude this study with the final six with a bonus at the end. Paul says in the last days that folk will be brutal. We'll have to say it that way. Brutal. That means they uh they have in their DNA they're uncivilized. Like untamed animals, insensitive and downright crude, even savage and cruel. He says, Avoid these people when you see them Coming. Know anybody like that? Don't answer too quick. What we try and do is try to make sure that that does not get on us. Go the other way. Take a du detour. These are signs of the times in which we live. Brutal, not lovers of good. These people are evil. They hate anything that sounds like it might be good. And they are not ashamed to say so Every day is a dark day. Every day is a rainy day. And don't expect them to give you a compliment. They can't stand anything good. These same people are not only lovers of God and brutal, but they're also treacherous They are traitors. They are ready and willing to betray anyone, and family is not off limits. They're quick to betray you in order to do what? To enhance their own standing. I love this new saying they will throw you under the bus and then wait for the bus to pull off. That the people in this world, in this society In our culture, we are downright treacherous, not lovers of good. Brutal, and then they are rash. In other words, they're headstrong. They wanted to have it their way. Some of y'all are too young to remember McDonald's back in the day when you got changed back. There was a song that says uh Have it Your Way. Or was that Burger King? Uh oh that was the test. McDonald's you got changed back. Burger King you have it your way. Nowadays whatever you pay you get what you want, amen. But people who are rashed, y'all Catch me on that one. They will shoot from the hip, never thinking about anyone or anything. They are completely unconcerned about life's consequences. For themselves or for others. Rash, treacherous Not lovers of good. Brutal. Paul says: look out for these types of people who display this type of behavior, and they're also conceited. They have a puffed up opinion of themselves. They want to appear important, and they want to appear intelligent. At least that's what they want you to think. Conceited. Treacherous. Not lovers of the good. Brutal lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God Think of the audience. Paul is writing to warn Timothy about those who are in his midst. God-fearing people, supposedly. These are people who have become misdirected. Then we think of their own desires. Me, myself, and I. It's all about their satisfaction, and sadly, they fail to acknowledge God or have any love for him. That's pretty deep. I mean we all know some people, but if anybody says they have no love for God, you you need to put it in gear. I think I got a call coming in. Uh wait right here for a minute. And we've all come across people. We've all had life experiences, but when people uh get in a place where maybe they have no belief system at all I don't say always run, but just be be careful. In other words, we all need a filter. Based on what you see and based on what you hear, that makes good sense, doesn't it? And we run into all types of people. Lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. Conceited. Treacherous, not lovers of the good and brutal. And then here's the bonus behavior there in the latter part of the fifth verse. And it was not my intent to save the worst or the most challenging for last. It just came out that way. But this one is serious. You know you are living in terrible times and signs of the times When people don't love God, but when they have a form of godliness, but denying its power. Call them hypocrites, if you may. They speak of God. They claim to love God, but only what is convenient. They want God in private, but don't want God in public. Can I back that up for a second? In other words, I will call you when I need you. Otherwise, can I just do my thing for a while? I mean that there's a form that they they look the part they're wearing the costume but but deep down inside they don't acknowledge the power of God God, I I want you, but not too much of you. God, I I I need you, but I don't need to be too deep or too heavy or too serious. Just a little bit will do me. Now let me just testify today. Growing up I I knew how to have just enough Sunday school God with me. I went to college with some Sunday school God. Just enough to say that I was I could acknowledge. A couple of days ago I uh buffed into a friend that we hadn't taught In 42 years. He was up for a football game and we started talking. And we both had broadcasting careers. And I remember his father was the pastor of the church down the street. I'm connecting it for you. And every Sunday uh I'd walk down there because all the pretty girls, y'all heard my story? Well go to church, all the nice girls and nice guys. And I never forget I remind him of his father who would always look out and catch a brother talking. We didn't go have that because we were doing what? There was a form of godliness. There was a form of godliness, but there was no power because as soon as we left, we were right back to where we started. So when I broke it down, I told mama I'd been to church, I got mama points. When I stopped going to that church on Sundays, the brothers showed up And bank tootin are you going today? No man. Why? They were all dressed up. So so God forgive me. I was in that number Amen. That I was that I wanted God. I had God, but I did not want the power. I did not want the discipline that went along with being a Christian I was fine with the story about how I grew up in church. I was fine to tell you I knew a scripture and a half I was fine to tell you about how mama sang on the choir. I was fine to tell you about how I knew the digging, but I did not want that power And when you don't want the power, you live life in such a way. These are signs, but look at this. Over time, it all changed God is omnipotent. He is not some powerful, he is all powerful. He's omniscient. He is all knowing. He don't just know some stuff. How many know God knows everything about us? And he's also omnipresent, which means he's everywhere at the same time. God is at church and at your house. God is at your job and at the 7 Eleven. God is at the casino and the movie theater. Amen. Can I just say that wherever you go that God is there? You can run, but you can't have how many folk tried to run? Oh it's okay. I mean you ran for a while And get what happened? God ran you down, tackled you on the one-yard line, and changed your life around. Amen And so he's everywhere. That means he's right here right now. And right now, he's able to change your life. And right now he's able to dry your tears. And right now he's able to turn your midnight into day. Right now he's able to deal with your finances Right now, he will supply your every need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. And right now, he's able to give you wisdom And right now, he's able to give you joy. And right now, he's able to give you peace. And right now, he's able to heal your body. And right now he's able to uplift you. And right now he's able to protect you from all hurt, harm or danger And right now, he's able to forgive you. Take you off the top 18 list. And right now, he will give you life eternal. Do you believe that today? That's why. He died. And that's why he rose. He did it all in the name of love. Every now and then I I scratch my head. And ask myself this question. I don't know why Jesus loved me. I don't know why he cared I don't know why he sacrificed his life, but oh I'm a happy somebody. I I'm glad he did that just for me. In fact, I'm more than glad. Can I tell you I'm excited? Can I tell you I'm elated? Can I tell you I'm encouraged and enthusiastic and energized and enriched And enlarged. Why? Because the Lord Jesus Christ and whom I serve has also endorsed me. Now not in politics. It means the Lord has gone before me. That means the Lord has fought my battle. That means the Lord has been offense all around me That means the Lord has been a doctor in a sick room. That means the Lord has been with me every step of the way. And so if there's any sign I ought to have, it ought to be a sign of Lord, thank you Amen. That maybe you're not on the list, but you ought to have some kind of sign. Amen. But you ought to have some indication that the Lord has made a way for you Paul, I hear you. These are signs of the times. Well, I'm coming off the list and say, you know what? The sign of the time is that I love my neighbor The sound of the time is I can embrace someone and help them along the way. If I can help somebody along the way, then my living Will not be in vain. Signs of the time. Don't don't get off on that exit, but keep going down the King's Highway No, no, no, no, no, no, no, don't take that sign that's a detour. You don't want to go that way. He's already brought you from that place But if you continue to press toward the mob for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus, these are signs, but why don't you be a sign? Telling the world to stop and to yield and to hold up and let them know I serve a risen Savior and He's in the world today And he had a sign. The sign of his side and the sign of the stars on his hand And around his brown. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, give Bella praise today. Signs of the times. Reverend hope that list. Some of those things were me. But it's been a change in my life. Different kind of guy now than what I used to be. And he's still not done with me yet. Most of all I love him. Because he first loved me, sound if you can today. As you are Oh, yes. Come replay coming. Don't need to fix up today. He'll change your life today. And receive commanding Oh, yes. We need a stress. So Maybe you come today and Reverend I that was not for me. I'm I'm nowhere on that list, man. I I got a new I'm a part of. That's good. That means that we're living life in transition. That God is yet working on each of us to become better in Him. So as you go about this day and this week, just remember what he's done for you. Let's bow to the all over this place. Father, we thank you. Now we know it was the letter that Paul wrote. In fact, this last one. He knew what was imminent. This was so long ago, but his words rang true today. About our personalities and our behavior. What we're glad about today is you can fix all that. You can clean our past mistakes Give us the new start. Nobody else can do that. So we come today asking that you might touch the heart of that one who has never experienced you In the pardon of their sins. Let them know how much you love them. Now maybe someone has slipped back into some of those habits. They know you But they've fallen off the wagon, so to speak. Let them know that you're right there. You've never gone anywhere. You're able to pick them up and dust them off Our goal is to be better for you. So touch the heart today we pray. In Jesus' name. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.