Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Is that your testimony today? Don't keep some self for yourself. But the surrender everything unto him. We always want to keep a little bit. Little something on the side to get us through, but when you give yourself completely away, that's a walk of faith. Let's bow today Heavenly Father, we come today and we're so privileged that in a time and a day like this you'll use anybody. To proclaim the good news and we thank you that you trusted me with your word. May I speak your word and not my words. May the words of my mouth, the meditations of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength, our Redeemer. Amen. Well bless God today. Want to bring your attention to 2 Timothy Third chapter, verses one through five. We've been here for a couple of Sundays and we'll be here for one more. But mark this, there will be terrible times in the last days People will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money Boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy Without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not lovers of the good Treacherous, rash, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God having a form of godliness, but denying its power, having nothing to do with such people. I want to preach from the title this week, Signs of the Times, Part Choose. Signs of the Times Part Two. We are a society dependent upon science. As you left your home this morning, you had to see a sign to know it was your neighborhood. As you pulled out onto the main road, there were signs pointing you toward your destination. When you got to this place, you know it's a theater, but there ought to be a sign out there saying, Welcome to Harvest Christian Ministries. So we need signs to direct us to places. Signs convey information. Things that we need to know. They give us instructions. Amen. I know you've got theory. But even with Syria you need a sign to know where you're going. But they also serve as a warning. You know the do not enter sign? Or the wrong way signs? uh before you realize which direction you're going. But the Bible is filled with warning signs. Flashing lights, sirens trying to get our attention. The Apostle Paul writes his farewell letter to Timothy. It is the very last letter he'll write before his life comes to an end. And We look at 18 behaviors he describes in this text. And we picked up about six last week. We'll do six this week and we'll wrap it up a memory. Reverend, don't say six, six, six. I said, well I know, I know. That's the mark of the beast. But I'm saying six behaviors. Six behaviors and six behaviors. So we've covered that in the last days you'll see people who are lovers of themselves. They love themselves money. They are boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents. So the next six, they are ungrateful, unholy, without love Unforgiving, slanderous, and without self-control. To be ungrateful is to be someone who does not appreciate what someone has done for you. As parents we tell our children say what now? Say thank you. Yeah. There's nothing wrong with that, but but we live in a time and an age where people are just not grateful at all They they want it their way. If they don't get it their way, they'll throw a holy temple tantrum. Get on the floor almost. Know anybody like that? That if they don't get it their way, it's either their way or the highway. These are people who complain about everyone and everything, but 1 Thessalonians 5 and 8 says, Well in everything, give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. But there are also some unholy folk. You can't be unholy unless you know what being holy is. And to be holy is to commit yourself to following the standards of God. I thought holy meant that you would just you looked a certain way. Some of y'all from the country. I thought you had a long dress on or had your head covered, had a tambourine, you were holy. But holiness is a lifestyle, but the word says people will be unholy. But they will disregard what the Word of God says. It's not that complicated. You need a verse or two you can live by, but unholy. 1 Peter 1:16 says, For it is written Be holy because I am holy. You know, we're we're the white gentleman. Why? Because he's holy. Be holy in all manner of conversation. Be holy in your action, but there are people who are unholy, unholy, ungrateful, and without love. You know, there are some people who are just heartless. Cold blooded. Think nothing of it. I mean just do you wrong and keep on pushing. You know anybody like that? Maybe before the Lord found us. We had some of those behaviors. But isn't it amazing that when God comes into your life If you start to drop certain behaviors, but I mean you don't love nobody but yourself. We alluded to that last time, that they love themselves. I know what psychologist says. Self-love and self-concept, but think about others every now and then. But people who are without love don't love people. A friend of mine I worked with, we talk often about ministry, and he said to me, say, you know, Tim, uh not all pastors love people. Uh-huh. Oh no no no no say they they love to preach. They love to be in the off, but they don't love people. I said oh really Well, I I love myself some people. I trip some of y'all up when you're leaving on Sunday. Come over here. Give me some sugar. Good to see you, amen. But there's some people who have makeup where they just don't love anybody. Amen? Jesus is the greatest example of what it means to love. Mark twelve thirty thirty-one says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, all your strength. And love your neighbor as yourself. Not necessarily Mr. Jones down the street, but love the community. Love humanity. A smile every now and then. Amen? Praise ye the Lord. People who give us behaviors that remind us that these are the last days are folk without love. Unholy folk, ungrateful folk, unforgiving folk. In short, you are not willing to forgive anyone's faults, anyone's wrongdoings, anyone's shortcomings because you're perfect Well I know you are but your perfect self. But I mean just to forgive someone. This past week I sat down with my grandsons and I We did a devotional together. I pushed them too, man. I said, what does it mean? Well pop up, you've got to be able to forgive. But just even the basics Is that I'll forget, but I won't forget. But the love of Christ ought to do something in you. You can let that thing go. Maybe you brought something into the house. Can I just stop there for a minute? Can I pause that? You brought something in the house, they said, I'll go to church. I'll never. I'll never let that go. And these are family members. These are folk in your own home and you refuse to forgive them when you know the Lord has forgiven you. That's a sign. When folk are that cold blooded. Matthew 6, 14, 15, for if you forgive other people When they sin against you, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive Your father will not forgive your sins. Uh-oh. And then Peter comes along, Matthew 18, and says, then Peter came, Lord, how many times? I forgave them last week and they crossed me again. I forgave them at Thanksgiving dinner last week and it came back with that same stuff. He said, Well, up to seven times Jesus answered, no, no, no, no, not seven, but seven times seventy, I'm not good at math, that's a lot of times. Unforgiving Without love, unholy, ungrateful, and slanderous False accusers. Other false charges of that's fighting stuff. Oh yeah. Folk no you talked about her, you talked about me. And now folks are so bold, they'll go to social media and bully you online. Sland your name. Folk get sued for that, that you've done what? That's my name. And you know what? We know who is behind the false accuser. The Bible says he's what? He's an accuser of the brethren. And when there were those who followed Jesus talking that craziness, he said, wait a minute Can you see him turning? You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there's no truth in him when he lies. He speaks his native language. He's a liar. Can I put my dad in here? He would say, boy, you're a liar and the truth ain't in you. Amen. There are folk who are slanderous or have a slanderous behavior. Paul says, avoid certain folk. Amen? Slanderous, unforgiving, without love, unholy, ungrateful, and without self-control. These are people whose lives have no discipline. I'm my own man. My own woman. Their motto is if it feels good, just do it. Bother nobody. Why should I deny myself the pleasures of life? They cannot control their passions for food and for drink and drugs and smoking and the list goes on. You've got to be controlled. I mean even video games have controllers. So that you're able to do what? To control situations. And when you put your life in the hands of Jesus and ask him, God, I need to be controlled. You ain't gonna tell me what to do, but there are people who have no self-control. I don't care what Janet Jackson said. Yeah. Do what you want to do. Yeah, Janet made money off of that, but you better listen to who? To God himself. Who's speaking to you? I love what Proverbs 25-28 says. Like a city whose walls are broken through is a person who likes Self-control. Here's the good news in all this. The Lord Jesus Christ wants to transform you. And me. You don't have to stay in that state, Reverend. I I heard your list. There are twelve of them. I got six of them. Well I'm doing better. And next week I might be down to one. But he is willing to do what? To transform us. And Paul wrote to believers. These were folk who knew the Lord, and yet they had those kinds of behaviors. It was something worth mentioning. Jesus can make a difference. Well the story is told of a little boy who had labored for some time to build a sailboat. And he was excited. He had shined it up and took it down to the lake. And uh just test it out. He put it out on the water, and man, that thing made pretty good. And the wind hit it and it kept going. The boy waited out a little while. He couldn't get it. He he made it so well until it worked. He was upset about not being able to get his boat he'd made with his own hands. And so he goes back home to his mother, he's crying, saying, Well, well, did it work? It worked too well. The boy was down and one day he was downtown and came by a second-hand store and looked in the window. Wait a minute. That's my boat. He knew it was his boat because there were certain markings on the boat. He went to the store, he told the man, say that that's my boat. You know, I bought that from someone. It's my bowl. If you want it, I'll sell it to you. The boy went back home and worked hard and gathered his pennies He went back to the store and he bought the boat he had made. And he said to himself as you were leaving, he says, you know, you're my boat Twice. First, you're my boat because I made you. And you're my boat because I bought you. Do you see where I'm going this morning? That when it comes to the love of Jesus Christ, you belong to him because he made you. Scooped you up from the dust of the earth. And then he bolted you with a price At a place called Cal. Aren't you glad about it today? That you were not for sale, but he saw your situation. I'm just glad today that Jesus paid it all. And all to him I owe Sin has left a crimson stain, but he's washed me whiter than snow. Oh, you don't feel me today. He bought you And he taught you, and he kept you, and he's keeping you, and he's leading you, and he's guiding you. He's the same Jesus. I'm glad today, because I'm yours, Lord. Everything I got, I'm yours, Lord. Everything I'm not, I'm yours, Lord. Now try me and see if I won't be completely yours. That's why he died today, so that you and I would become his. Won't he do it today? Try Jesus, for he's alright. I tried him in the morning. I tried him late at night. And every time I tried my Lord, I found him To be alright? Is he alright today? Have you tried him? Have you tried him? Won't he keep you? Won't he guide you? That's the kind of God that I serve. Signs of the times. Ungrateful. Unholy without love, slanderous, mean and nasty folk, but Jesus beared the cross for them. Must Jesus bear the cross alone? And all the world go free No, there's a cross for everyone. There's a cross for me. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. All over this place. Oh what a price he paid. But I'm not worth that much. On special, I'm not that valuable. Oh clearance of not all of that. Well he sees something in you that maybe the world can't see. He sees the value in you. I know they called you all those names, and they still call you names, and some of them fit. But thank God for Jesus. He can change that situation. Come on to him today. I offer him to you. Say quiet Offer Christ to you all by Yeah yeah. He will give you God. Yes, he will Life of me. Oh. I just need thirty seconds. Every time I I read that list On Monday, some of me On Tuesday, that that's a little bit of me there. On Wednesday, catch me on the road day. And so Paul is saying these are behaviors. That you have to look out for. Well, you avoid them. Sometimes you've got to avoid yourself. To your love, the Lord do in you what he wants to do. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, we know that you are a God of a second chance. Yeah, we've blown it. Not once, not twice, but over and over again. We come today, God, with a heart of thanksgiving. I pray in the name of Jesus. If there's someone today in this place by way of the internet Who has never accepted you and confessed you as their Savior, they may do it today. Amen. I pray even now, God, that they may open their mouths to you The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Lord, save somebody today. There are folk who are still not saved In your home, still not saved, on your job, still not saved in your community. May we be a light today. To guide them towards holy living. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number two harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.