Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries It's already in progress. Amen. How many folks can rejoice today? Why? Because the God that we serve is faithful Let me say it again. The God that we serve is a faithful God, even when we're not faithful. As we come today, we come in the power and the spirit of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Let's bow all over this place today and wherever you are online, bow. Praise God. Father, we do come today and we bless your holy name. God, we thank you for your spirit. Without your spirit, we are nothing. As we stand to proclaim your word today, it is our prayer that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we give your name all the praise And all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. This is a great day in the Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. We're coming today from 1 Kings 18th chapter verses 41 through 46 as you follow along in your own Bibles, technology has a way of being technology. So We're not going to depend on technology. It reads in verse forty-one, and Elijah said to Ahab, Go eat and drink, for there's the sound of a heavy rain. So Ahab went off to eat and drink, but Elijah climbed to the top of Carmel. bent down to the ground, and put his face between his knees. Go and look toward the sea, he told his servant, and he went up and looked There is nothing there, he said. Seven times Elijah said, go back. The seventh time the servant reported, a cloud as small as a man's hand is rising from the sea. So Elijah said, go and tell Ahab, hitch up your chariot and go down before the rain stops. Meanwhile, the sky grew black with clouds, the wind rose, a heavy rain started falling, and Ahab rode off to Jezreel. Verse 46, the power of the Lord came on Elijah, and tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel. I want to preach today from the Samonic title So Much from Soul Little. So Much from Soul Little. Rain, rain, go away, come again another day. For those of us who live in the mid-Atlantic, in Baltimore in particular, that has become our anthem. Until today, it had not been a clear sky for some time. The sun came out today and folks, oh my God, what is that? But the forecast calls for more rain. But the people in our text today would give anything just to have some rain. They were facing a drought. They were facing a famine. Elijah had prayed that God would stop the rain. Where was Elijah this week? We needed him. But what took place is the people had been sinning against God. They were worshiping idol gods, and these were the consequences of not following the mandate of God. Soon after he prayed this prayer, God made provisions by sending him to Zarephath and told him he would meet a widow woman there and that she would provide him with food. He went there and she took her little bit that she had. And because she believed the man of God, there was much. That her little jug kept filling up. And her little uh bottle kept filling up because there was flour and there was oil. But it's not long until Elijah comes up against Omin King Ahab. He had left Zarephath and he meets a mean king. You know any mean people? I mean mean folk. Even though David and Solomon had led the way they were a stream of mean kings. And Ahab was one of them married to a mean wife named Jezebel. Oh, Jezebel did not play But there he was face to face with Ahab. And during that time, he was able to prove that the God he served was the real God. He was up for a competition. He called all those prophets of the false God Baal. They met on Mount Carmel. There was a showdown, and they began to cut themselves, but Elijah said, My God He don't need much. He sends down fire and consumes the sacrifice. That is the kind of God we serve. One Elijah against 450 prophets. But you know when you're on the losing side seemingly, call on your God Have you ever been in a situation that you thought you were being defeated and other folks seemed to be winning and you took time to call on your God? Oh nobody ever called on their God, huh? And say, God, I'm going to trust you no matter what is going on. And so we'll see this morning Elijah is one that will have earned the title of a promised claimer. He's a prayer warrior and a power runner. But I believe this morning that we'll witness a God who can take just a little bit And do great things. Amen? Let's talk about him being a promise claimer. And Elijah said to Ahab, go eat. And drink, for there is the sound of a heavy rain. Elijah had no doubts that God would send the rain He knew the rain was coming. God will just show you some things that other folk may not know. And he tells that old mean king Why don't you go ahead and leave and just enjoy yourself, eat and drink and have a festive time? Uh I got things I've got to do. And you gotta separate yourself from evil people. Amen? Steal away somewhere and get away from them. But he was claiming the promises of God. He didn't ask for a sprinkle He said, God, I think I hear heavy rain. Then I'm not talking about scattered showers, but God had already promised them what was going to happen. What promises have you claimed today in your own life? What promises of God that He's put before you? You say, you know what I just don't know if you can do it. Ever gone someplace, whether it be at an event, and they ask for your coat and your hat and they give you a claim check? You come back with that number, hoping to get your coat and your sweater, hoping to get your hat and not someone else's The same thing applies when you go and put your car in the valet, or you feel important with that, whether you're driving a Ford or a Fawarek. You give them your little check, and when you come back, you expect your car. Perhaps there's some things that we've not claimed that God has already made available for us. Amen. Is there something in your life that you've not claimed that God has promised it for you, but you've not said, you know what, that belongs to me. Am I talking to a praying church today? Is there anybody who's ever had to claim something? Had to break through. Listen, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. That's my number. And I come to claim that everything that God has for me. Amen. And so that is what Elijah did. He claimed it by saying I I don't see it yet, but I hear heavy rain I hear showers of blessings. I hear all that God is doing for my life and what he's going to do. John 14, 14, you may ask anything in my name, and I will do it. How many folk got their claim check? Amen. My, my, my. Expect God to do something this week and this day in your life. Not just a promise claimer, but a prayer warrior. And so I'll summarize verse 40 through to 45. So Ahab had gone off, and while Ahab had left, Elijah climbed the mountain. Mount Carmel, and did what? He began to pray. The Bible says he put his face between his knees and Then he says to his servant, go out and see if you can see anything that looks like a thunderstorm. And you know what? It takes prayer if you want to get much from little. It don't just happen. You just don't get blessed. But how many folk know you got to pray unto the God of your salvation? God, I'm coming to you. Why? I'm a prayer warrior. Uh warrior means I come with guns drawn. I I come with the sword of the spirit, which is what? The Word of God. Sometimes we get a little passive. No, no. I'm in it, folks. I'm just gonna come today. I'm coming to claim all that you have for me. He went up way on the mountain And did what? Begin to pray unto his God. God will answer prayer. Has he answered prayer in your life this week? Amen. And then he sends his servant out. Can I call him a a weather watcher? You know there are folk who say I'm gonna watch TV and call the station and let them know I got two inches of rain at my house Oh, I've got so much flooding. He had a weather watcher. He says, now go up and look out on the sea and tell me what you see. He was like, I ain't se nothing. He went out one time, came back, like go back. Two times. Can you imagine the frustration? No, go back again. Well, I've been out there five times Go back a sixth time. And then the seventh time, he reports that there's a cloud as small as a man's hand. Rising up from the sea. How big? As small as a man's hand. Yeah. You mean the heavy rain you heard will come from a cloud that's small As a man can, do you follow me this morning? He takes little and does much. Amen. And so we're like that servant. We're looking for the big cloud. And looking for the big promotion and looking for the big this and the big that, but we can miss something so small that we miss the blessing of God. Oh, can I testify today? We love the big stuff. And while you're in your quiet time, God will reveal to you the small things. Amen. Can you imagine what he said? Well, you've seen enough. How many folk have had small things come and you realize okay this is I'm just gonna blow this off and that's that's no big deal I'm still waiting for the big dramatic stuff and God blows your mind Is that testimony today about what God can do? I'm stuck on the size of a man's hand. Now go tell that old mean king. He'd better hitch up his chariot because he need to beat the rain. So he might get stuck. That even though Ahab was evil that the man of God was still trying to help him out saying, You need to leave, bruh. Is the rain getting ready to come down? And so the sky turned black and the wind picked up And the heavy rain started falling three and a half years later. Amen. That you had a a prayer warrior. You have someone who says, I'm going to ask. I'm going to speak. I'm going to believe that God can do all things but fail. How many folk know what it takes to be a prayer warrior? A prayer warrior is sometimes up late at night. Prayer warriors will just pray anywhere. Prayer warrior gets you in the back of a room somewhere. Can we pray? That's what Elijah showed. But also he was a power runner. I almost dismissed this verse. I was like, okay, forty-five, that'd be good. We'll stop right there. Uh oh, wait a minute. A power runner The power of the Lord came on Elijah and tucking his cloak into his belt. Don't you love the details of the text? He ran ahead of Ahab. All the way to Jezreel. That you might have a chariot by server God who will give me an engine in my legs. How many of folk watch Roadrunner? I know you did beep beep. That man is after you roadrunner. He catches you. You through they could never catch Roadrunner. Beep beep. He was already gone But that's what he did. He took a head start, and it's because the power of the Lord was on him. And when the power of the Lord is on you, you can do things you never thought you would do. You would say things you never thought you would say. Once you receive the power of God on your lips. How many folk want the power of God? I want you to give me some power to live right and power to give right and power to love. And so that's what happens. He takes off. And it may have been the distance of a marathon. It was like 17 miles. Can you see that? By the time Ahab got there, Elijah was already there. And God will move you ahead of some folk. God will do what? He'll go ahead of you and make Your enemies, your footstool. Oh, y'all missed that thing. That God will go ahead of the person who's trying to hold you back. Ahead of that situation and set you up. He was a power runner. And Jezreel, the word means to sow. It means mighty. And when you put those root words together, it means God will sow. God have you running toward a place where he's going to bless you. You've got a judge real in your life. He's already provided for you if you would just run. To the place. I mean not walk but run. Not trot but run. You know when you run you start getting ugly to go God let me just run. How many folk ran track and field? Well some of y'all ran a something. You ran one leg of it, whatever you ran, amen. But you know what it meant to get around that bin. That was the case Hebrews remind us what to do, what lay us out every weight. And that sin that so easily besets us in run this race of life with patience, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Took a prophet, put an engine in his legs, and sent him on. But don't forget that God can and will do so much With so little. He always has, and he always will. Exodus four and two, he gave Moses a little staff He stood before the people in the Red Sea and held up a little staff in it opening God's people walked over. In 1 Samuel 17 and 40, David had a little slingshot with five little stones, and God did much, took out big old Goliath and brought him down. God will do much with your little. Gideon and Judges 7 and 5 have a major army, 22,000 people, and God says, you got too many That go down by the water and only keep those who will lap like a dog. He ended up with 300 and the victory was his. Come here, Samson, Judges 15 and 15. Samson took the jawbone of a donkey and beat folk down by the thousands. Shall we God won't use unconvictional stuff to bless you? Don't look for the big stuff. In Luke 2 and 12, God sent a little baby. To be born in a little town called Bethlehem. And that son grew and healed and teach And preach, aren't you glad that God sent a little baby to a little town to bless you? John 6 and 9. Jesus took a little boy's lunch. Just two loaves. And fought are you following me on this thing here? A little bit. And fed thousands. And there was still carry out left over. Twelve baskets. I tell you, God will take little and make much. Matthew 17 and 20. He said, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed That you just take small faith. I can tell you you'll move a mountain. My God, I like this. That every time I see what God does He takes small stuff and does great things. One day in Timothy Tutan, the first chapter. And the first verse, he took a small country boy from a little town and said, I got work for you to do. I'm glad he takes little and makes much The old hymn says, Have you any rivers that seem uncrossable? And have you any mountains that you cannot tunnel through? I come by to tell you that God specializes in things that seem impossible. And he'll do what no other power can do. Did you know that God specializes? In small things. God specializes in things that will get you through. God specializes in joy God specializes in peace. God specializes in love. I'm glad today that he went to a cross and died on that cross so that we might have life everlasting. Small. Things that produce much. I couldn't get away from The size of a man's hand and the rain flow Don't dismiss that small thing the Lord has shown you. You looked all over it. And there it is. To know that he'll do much in your life. As you leave today, go out and point out small things. Re- retrace your steps. Wait a minute. I just about missed this. God works that way. Thank you, Elijah, for showing us how he can do that. That is the word of God today. It's all right. Come on, stand today. All over this place. So much from so little that messes mankind up. He loves the headlines. He loves the big screen things of life. But the God that we serve takes the simple. And does the miraculous. What a word today to carry with you. As you leave this place, come to Jesus. Come right now. A small faith that'll produce life eternal Just come to us. That's the invitation today. Come on, let's stand together. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus, Communism, J Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Hear what? He will save you. He will save you. He will save you just now He will save you. He will save you. Just man. As we look to the Lord today, Father, we Thank you for revealing those simple biblical truths painted on a canvas of life. Down where we can understand it and get it. Help us to not just to hear the word, but to do it God, I thank you for your people. We pray that somewhere in the message that you spoke directly to them He said your word would not return void. And so we come today even now to extend what the saints would say, the invitation If there's one in this place today who has never done the small thing of just confessing with your mouth, the Lord Jesus And believing in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. That's a small first step. I'm a sinner in need of a savior. Pray that prayer today. Ask the Lord to come into your heart and to save you today. I believe He'll do it. He's done it for so many. Do it today, we pray Jesus. If you're here today and you prayed that prayer or whispered it unto the Lord, He can save you on the spot. Right now Won't he do it? We ask it all in your name, Jesus. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number two harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.