Heavenly Father, as we come, that is our testimony, that your mercy and your grace would be right there for us. in this time of need. I pray even now that as we proclaim the gospel, the good news, that we might decrease and that you You might increase. Save someone today. Empower another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I want to shout out to our technical director, website, guru, Taron. Yeah, it's not in the States, but she is getting us on the air. To God be the glory. Amen. There's a word that comes from the Lord from Psalm 62. Verses 11 and 12A. Even though we have it on the screen, I would always suggest that you Don't trust the pastor. He might have had a wrong verse. He might have had a typo. And then you'll be stuck with uh Piece of scripture. So open your own Bibles, get your own phones up. That way you know you got it. Amen. Some of y'all still carry them 10-gallon Bibles Because they work. Amen. The word of the Lord reads as follows: One thing God has spoken, two things I have heard. Power belongs to you, God, and with you, Lord, is unfailing love. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Some Things Are Worth Repeating. Some Things Are Worth Repeating. Don't make fun of me, but I have a tendency to repeat things. in conversations with other people and I would dare uh surmise that you have too. The folk are nice, but you've already told them that story four or five times If you are a parent, then you have on your resume, you're telling your children, I'm not gonna say it again. Only to say it again. We believe that in saying it again that they get it. Some of y'all now are living on Mama and Daddy's, I'm not gonna tell you again to do this. I'm not gonna tell you again to do that. I think we've lost that. And now we've kind of ask and beg. Whereas back then they just told us. Can I go old school for a minute? Amen. Some stuff you ought not throw out. You ought to keep. We tend to repeat uh stories and phrases, things that we believe are important, uh key information, Bible information, because we know that it sinks in with someone. And if we're honest, we'll smile today when people tell us stories. You say, is that right? Knowing that you've heard it before. I've learned now from being in the news business as long as I have. I'll say now if I told you this story before, just let me know. You know I'll get in the car with a photographer and we'll ask ask a question or two and they'll be kind but say I think he's Already told me that. But I believe that some things are worth repeating, especially when it comes to the Word of God. I'm thinking of David in Psalm 27 and 14. He says, wait on the Lord and to be of good courage. He shall strengthen thine heart. And then he says again, wait I say on the Lord. There are so many passages like that in the Bible. But David was emphasizing this sense of waiting. He wanted that to echo. He wanted that to stick. into the minds of the believers. But 35 chapters later, he comes back in Psalm 62. And David in that psalm spoke about many things. His fears, his experiences, his enemies, we all got 'em. His disappointments, his guilt His struggles, but throughout that particular chapter and verse 1, he reminds the people that God will deliver you from trouble. Verse 2, he says, God is my rock in my defense. Verse 3 and 4, he throws a word out to those who would seek to attack and assassinate him. Sometimes you've got to have a word for folk who are messing with him. So listen, I know where you're coming from. I got a word just for you to back up off me. Amen. Verses 5, 6, and 7, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord only to receive his hope. Verse 8, he tries to convince friends and supporters that God is our refuge in time of trouble. Trouble will come But don't you know that God has a hiding place for you and I that when trouble go I'm just getting feeling this thing, that not if trouble show up, but when trouble shows up, you can hide Amen. Amen. And what drew me to this text was that very second or third verse says that when I am overwhelmed, I go to a rock that is higher than I Amen. Verse 9 and 10, he urged the people to put their trust in God. In short, what David was saying is that God is the only true person The only place that you can find help in a time of need. Does anybody agree with that today? I mean you've tried everything. You've tried a 30-day program. You've tried the latest on television. You've tried something you saw on social media and it still not work. Don't you know that God will do it? The God that you and I serve will take care of us. He will guide and protect us. That's worth repeating. In our text we do Psalm sixty-two verse eleven and twelve. It says one thing God has spoken Two things I have heard. Power belongs to you, God, and with you, Lord, is unfailing love. Can I testify? I was looking for something else in Psalm 62, and this word jumped off the page at me. And he said, Reverend, how did that happen? I remember some years ago being at the Hampton Ministers Conference and one of the presenters say, every now and then the worders say, Hey, preach me. And when I start to read this word, I stop in my track and say, this we'll preach. Amen. Have you ever been reading a devotional and while you shared it with someone said, Oh, that was nice? For you were like, oh God, that was my devotional That word was just for me. That's what this passage or two did for me. I got excited. I can't wait. And and I thought about this. It says One thing God has spoken. David never tells us what the one thing was. But we can know that God says a lot, doesn't he? Genesis 1 and 1 in the beginning. Well God made heaven and earth. Let me take you down to Revelation 2221, the very last passage of the Bible The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with God's people. Amen. And so in all of that is speaking. One of my seminary professors told me my first night in seminary. He said, this book is alive. Don't you know that your Bible is alive? Amen. God is not dead. He's yet alive. And so as we read the text, I pray this week something might jump off the page. That's right. And arrest you and say, you need to hear this. Amen. And next week tell me what that passage was. For me, this was the passage. Whatever the one thing God spoke, David heard two things. First of all, power belongs to you, God. This shows that he's someone who had a relationship with God. Otherwise, we missed stuff, right? Did he speak once? I didn't hear anything. And we know that God speaks through his holy word We know God speaks through his Holy Spirit. We know God speaks through circumstances. Amen. You didn't like it, but that circumstance taught you a thing or two. About life, didn't it? He said, wait a minute, I think I got this now. And God will speak through other people. You don't like what they said Uh you you mad at them, but didn't the stuff mama and daddy tell you come back and you oh I think they knew what they were talking about. Can I just be a parent for a moment? There's some stuff you put out there and you say, Oh, I get it now Amen. So whatever that one thing was, but he knew that power belonged to God. That that God was the source and the strength of his life. You may not have many things, but if you got God, you got enough. I don't care what folks say a higher power and I feel it in me and I you know it's a moment and people start adding stuff with that new lifestyle. You better hold on to God's unchanging hand. That's stuff that will work. Anybody can testify today that God has worked in your life? Don't you try nothing new at this point, sugar? He done brought you too far. Too many mountains you've been over, too many valleys you've come through to try something different. Shame on you to train God in. You put a hold on to God. He makes a difference. It's because he has power. God is the strength of my life. God gives life and he gives worth and the power belongs to him. Amen. He possessed. You want power? Go to God. Amen. I like that today. Power is God's and God's alone. Power flows from him. And he gives power to whomever wants it. I mean many folk lined up for the power ball. That's okay. Y'all didn't win. Otherwise y'all would have called y'all a pastor. Pastor, can you bless it? Bring it over in the house. But the power belongs I just woke two people up this morning. Y'all still holding y'all's ticket is over. You didn't get it. But you still got God. Don't need no riches. You got God. Is he not a healer? Now that you're awake in a work. Do you feel God's power operating in your life? Sometimes when you're feeling down and you can feel him lifting you up out of a place of despair and depression, he will do it every time. And we got to embrace that power God is a God who I believe is a power share. The Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Can I just do a little lesson in theology? That that is the Trinity. And as believers, we believe in God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, that they are one. Don't try to break them up and Folks, I just believe in God only. I don't believe in Jesus. I just believe in the Holy Spirit. What? Read your Bible. Amen? When I think about this power, I'm thinking about the hymn, all held the power of Jesus' name, let angels prostrate fall Bring forth the royal diadem and crown him Lord of all power belongs to God. He is worthy. So David heard and repeated that power belongs to God, but also he talked about God's unfailing love. That's the crux of our faith. You y you can't say that you're a believer and you say, Well, I I'm a believer with some folk off my list. I I'm done with them. How can you do that? The Bible talks about how can you say you love God whom you've never seen and you can't even love your brother and sister? I know, I know It's a sermon for another day, but that is at the core. And he writes, and with you, Lord, is unfilling love. And what comes to mind to me is over in the Gospel of Luke 15 11-32 is a parable. It's an earthly story with a heavenly meaning about the two brothers. And so the one who, big and bad, smelling itself and wanted to go away, just give me what's mine. Took his inheritance, left. Party, party, having a great time, had friends everywhere. And guess what? The money ran out. And he found himself in a low place. Got a little part-time job feeding the pigs. And had come to a point where he was ready to eat the slop. You country folk know what slop is. It's a combination of all kinds of stuff But at that moment he realized I can go back home to my father. I forgive me, I'll come back as in another role because I messed up. But there's something about unfailing love. When he headed back home and daddy saw him, daddy got excited, said, That's my boy. Come on, come on. I heard William Augustus Jones, the late theologian, say the father could relate to that boy because there was some of him in the boy Uh-oh. You talking about your children? I can't wait. There's some of you. In them. DNA, he welcomed him And the younger brother got mad and you never threw me a party. But there's something about God's unfailing love. Isn't that great that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him would not perish but have everlasting love? I love you, but God loves you more Amen. Amen. And that's the good news, he says, it's your unfitting love. That's what David heard I believe that God's unfailing love gets a passing grade. God's unfailing love is honor. God's unfailing love is summa cumulati. Uh-huh, yeah, cool lottie. I didn't get any of those. I got old lottie. Amen. But blessed be the God today that love still works Hymn right says, Great is thy faithfulness, O God, my Father. There's no shadow of turning with thee. Thy changest not Thy compassions they fail not as thou hast been forever will be. Great is thy faithfulness. Aren't you glad you serve a God who's great in faithfulness? Morning by morning, new mercies. I see. Didn't you get a new mercy this morning? Might have felt the pain, but you got a mercy Might have been on the move a little slow, but best be the God. Didn't He get you up this morning and start you on your way? So what God said once, what have you heard twice? Let me move David off the picture for a moment. What is it that God spoke to you? The one thing that you've heard twice to the point that you don't mind repeating it You don't have to tell me in the house, you know what that one thing is. As I look back over my own life, there's so much to repeat from what I've heard and continue to hear. Oh saint to say I heard the voice of Jesus say, Come unto me and rest, lay down, thy weary one, lay down. thy head upon my breast. I came to Jesus as I was weary, worn, and sad, and I found in him a resting place, and he has made me glad. Has he ever made you glad? You were sad, but he made you glad. David says in Psalm 122, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. And now that you got it, I'm glad that he's put some trapping in my hands. I'm glad. I'm glad he's put some stomping and shouting in my feet. I'm glad he's given me a word to say to somebody that might encourage him. David even said, sometimes you gotta encourage yourself. You waiting on somebody to send you a text, you better say, you know what? The God I serve will bring me through this thing. Anybody got history with God to know He'll bring you through in the mid-night hour when you have no other place to turn Can't call nobody, nobody's looking at your text. God thank you for where you brought me from, again. And there's something about this repeating. Some of y'all are too young to know the days before there was an iPod and a playlist when you had a little record player. Forty five. Seventy-eight. And and every now and then, because you had worn that record out that and the dust was on the needle, it kept skipping And when it starts skipping, it kept repeating. You go into the other room and it's you feel that thing today? You see what I'm trying to go with this? That when you think of the goodness of Jesus And all that he's done for you, it ought to skip. It ought to cause you to skip and say, Lord, I'll thank you for saving me. You ought to repeat that he brought me through seen and unseen death. That thing's owner skip on you today. Say, God, I'll thank you. I know my life is all scratched up, but I'm glad today that you saved me. I'm glad today that you kept me. I'm glad today that you're guiding me. Have y'all caught that yet? It keeps on skipping. And when you think about where he's brought you from, it will cause you to skip. Eugene Monroe Bartlett Christian songwriter kept telling this old story so he put it to a song. I've heard an old old story How a Savior came from glory. How he gave his life on Calvary to save a wretch like me. I heard about his groaning Of his precious blood atoning. I repented of my sin. Now put your name in the block. And then I won the victory I know your baseball team is doing pretty good. They might lose one or two and you're excited about your other team coming on the field, but aren't you glad that you know what real victory is all about Some of y'all have you ever had victory? Oh victory in Jesus. My Savior forever. He sought me and bought me with his redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew him and all my love is due to him. Know why? He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood. All I'm saying today that take the one thing that God has spoken. And I think he'll allow you to hear two or three or four or five. Six or seven or eight or nine things that you can share with somebody. Does anybody have something to share today as you leave this place? Why do you keep saying the same old thing again, Mama? God is good. God is good. God is good. Why do you keep saying the Lord will make away? The Lord will make away. The Lord will make a way. Why do you keep saying he saved my soul? Oh y'all get saved my soul. He saved my soul. He saved my soul. And you keep repeating themselves, and somebody will get it. In fact, you will get if you keep talking to yourself, I just don't say, I know I've never seen the righteous forsaken. I've never seen the righteous forsaken I've never seen the righteous forsaken. I never seen it. I never seen his seed begging bread. I'm getting excited. So if you see me in the hallway, still talking about the same thing So he ain't crazy. He's just repeating. Because some things are worth repeating in the Lord. There's some stuff you want to get excited about I'm gonna run and tell somebody what the Lord has done for me. Oh, I'm feeling good today. What about you? He spoke That's all we can handle. How about more? No, no, no, no, no. Take the one thing he's spoken to you, and you'll hear the echo. Yeah. Some things. Not not not everything. Some things are worth repeating. Somebody needs to hear it over, over again. Even when they do this. They still want to hear. I've learned as I've gotten older now that you can be talking to somebody. And they got applause in you. It's happened. I've gone to college campuses and the dead of weather and young people say, What do you make by that? Text your eyeballs up Take those earphones out so you can hear very clearly. Come just as you are. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for this word today. Like the old days of the CB, radio Put your ears on that we might hear what thus saith the Lord. Maybe today somebody has heard you speak to them. And the offer is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Savior. If if that is you today, either in this place, or online. Open your heart today. What does that mean? Open the emotional youth and allow the Lord to come in. Invite him in. Yes, sir. The Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, you shall be saved. It's personal. It's powerful. It's about love today. I pray someone somewhere has received Christ as their personal Savior. We ask it in Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship with the DJ Pastor always finding something about music to add to his sermons. Come today. Often saying, you keep coming long enough, we'll put you to work today. How about y'all just kept on coming and realize you were the member? I never told you any different. I said I ain't gonna say nothing. Keep on coming. There's work for the Lord to do. We're not trying to steal anybody's member. I don't want to fight no pastor. You feel led today to come to this place. You don't have to walk down the aisle. You can always approach us at I'm ready, Sandia. But we thank God today