Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. May God be the glory. The great things he has done. Let's take a moment even now. where we are just to lift our hearts before the Lord. Lord, we thank you. Help us today to be that sanctuary, to be that vessel, to be the temple in which you can live in. And to move in. I pray even now as we come that we might decrease and that you might increase. Lord, save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. How many folk are just glad to be in the Lord's house one more time? I want to share with you from 1 Samuel. The second chapter, verses one and two. It reads, Then Hannah prayed and said, My heart rejoices in the Lord. In the Lord my horn is lifted high. My mouth boasts over my enemies, for I delight in your deliverance. Verse number two, there's no one holy like the Lord. There's no one besides you. There is no rock like our God. I want to share today from the Semonic title, Speaking from Experience. Speaking from experience, I want to ask permission from a biblical character to tell her story. I asked Hannah if I could share her story today with God's people. I'm Hannah, and I know that God is faithful. I know that God is holy. That means that to be holy is to be set apart. It is to be separate. I know that from my experience. I'm Hannah. I'm a Levite. I'm from a city called Ephraim. I am married to a man by the name of Elkanah. I'm one of two wives because in my culture you can have more than one wife. Her name is Panel. But as I come every year, the family, me and my husband and my children by way of the other wife, we journey every year to this place called Shiloh And as we come, there's a time of worship and praise, but my heart is always heavy. You see, I can't have children I'm barren, and because of that, my my heart is heavy. For you it may be something else, but it's a tough time for me But every time we go up to worship, I'm sad. Every time we go up to share, my heart is heavy. And so this time I go to the temple and I see the priest Eli and I share my story with him about how I want God to give me a son. You ever wanted something real bad? And you kept praying for it over and over again? I made my request known unto Eli. And then I prayed in such a way that folk began to criticize me because my prayer was not vocal. I would just move my lips and weep before the Lord. And the word got out that I was intoxicated. But no matter what people say, I continued to pray. I continue to believe in this holy God. What about you? Do you believe in a God who's holy? And so it was time to leave, and I began to share with the priest. He gave me words of encouragement. I left the place feeling lifted. There was a smile on my face, and by the time I got back home, things began to happen. Life was looking up, and I had a child. A son whose name is Samuel, which means that God gave him to me. But I made a promise with God that day that if you give me a son, if you give me this, I will bring him back and dedicate him to you. See, I'm not selfish. I don't mind keeping the word that God has given me. And so at the appropriate time, me, Hannah, I'd go back. And I present my son back unto God. As you can imagine, if you've got a son, being able to part from that son, but I nay God. the promise. And so I turned him over. I made him a little worship robe and I gave him a big kiss, but before I departed from him, we worshiped together. We took time to give God the praise together. Can I speak from my experience? We had a hallelujah, thank you, Jesus, good time. And then I prayed. And then I took time to go before the Lord to thank him. I took time to rejoice in what God So you've got to rejoice even when things are not going your way exactly, but all I knew was that it's I had to give him some praise Have you given them praise lately that God has answered a prayer? That's just my experience. And when I did that I felt good and I prayed on to the Lord. Thank you for letting me speak. From my experience. Thanks for giving me a voice today. And I pray you understand that the God that I serve is a holy and righteous. And loving God. And therefore, there's some things I want you to focus on, and I throw it back to Pastor Tutin. Praise God. We live in a drama society and I hope you could picture Hannah. I hope you could walk with us to the temple. I pray you were along for the ride to see her Realize her prayer coming. I pray you could see her parting with her son. You maybe been in her shoes I can see you giving God the praise because God has done great and marvelous things. And now it's this prayer that helps us to focus on, first of all, the sanctity of God. There is none, there is no one holy as the Lord. God, you are exclusive You're holy. You're pure. You're divine. And your righteousness is second to none. When we're sanctified, we're set aside for special use. Now growing up, I thought the sanctified church were folk who were holy rollers In fact, we called them the sacrified people. We go by their church, we hear the drums, and somehow it felt like they were holier than what we were. Their dresses were long. They had tambourines. And they were considered sanctified. But I learned later that being sanctified is being used of God. The God sets you aside for a special, special purpose in life. And my life experience has taught me that I too have to be holy. How do I become a holy person? I don't want to be too heavy. Brother you call me a good church boy, but don't don't call me holy. But you and I desire to be holy. That some things ought not to blend in. The world says, Oh, just put it all in the same blender and you'll be alright. Do your thing. But to be holy, I'm to be sanctified. Set aside. Being used of God. Did you realize that God desires for you to have to be holy? Not just good churchgoers, not just good tithers, not just a good neighbor, but other thing got me this week that you desire for me to be holy. And to be righteous. And to be someone who gives God the praise and the reverence. The Bible talks about the importance of being holy. It's one of the doctrines, it's one of the attributes of who God is. Now you can call God what you want to call him, but he is holy all by himself. And you know what? 1 Peter talks about this. 15. But just as he who called you is holy, So be holy in all that you do. The King James Version said, be holy in your manner of conversation. Because it is written, be holy, for I am holy. How many folk desire to be used of God in such a way? Theologians will tell you that during the time of the tabernacle, the tent, that someone would go in, the priest would go in. And he would go in for that one time to present all the sins for the people, to ask for God's forgiveness. And he had to be right. If he went in wrong, they always, according to biblical scholarship, tied a rope around his ankle in case he wasn't holy. And if something happened in the presence of God, it was easy enough just to pull him on out. Because we ought to set up a holy place in our homes, a holy place on our jobs, a holy place so that we are a people who are sanctified and filled with the Holy Ghost. Do you feel sanctified? Do you feel holy? Holy is not the way you look. Holiness is who you are. Amen? Hannah says, I focus on the sanctity of God, but also the significance of God. There's no one besides you. There's no one as important as you are. There's no one who can fill your shoes. There's no one above you. There's no one who can compare to you. Aren't you glad you serve that kind of God? That folk are always comparing you and putting you on a skill level and And my team is better than your team, and my quarterback is better than your quarterback, and my race car driver can really do it. I mean, we're always comparing, but God does not need a God pole. He doesn't need to find out what are folks saying about me. He says I'm God all by myself, and so there's none like me. You can search all you want. Folk may try to act holier than thou, as we call it, to have such a moral standard that they are not to be touched. But aren't you glad you serve a God who is so important? That he takes residence in your heart, that he is significant. He's somebody. He's God all by himself. You know, God talk is not always popular talk Folk will talk with you about anything else. But once you bring in God, I got to go, my break's over, don't have time. But you know what? I don't mind sharing the goodness of the Lord. Can I give you a case in point? I was minding my own business this week. Walked into a coffee shop, said good morning to a brother He hit a half of scripture. I hit back with another one. And we had church in the coffee shop. He bought me coffee. And the woman next to me says, Do y'all know each other? I said, I sure don't. His name is Ed Jackson. I'm Tim Tootin. And we left out of there having a great time. Why? We realize the importance of knowing a holy God. My it's your passport wherever you go. I'm gonna show my card. I'm gonna show my I ain't got to know you, but we have the same father Amen. Aren't you glad that you serve a God today who is our Father, which art in heaven? He is significant. There's no one like him. And you know some bad folk in your circle. You know some folk who are in Forbes magazine. You know people. But there's no one like our God. And he stands beside me. And he walks with me. And he tells me I'm his own. He is significant. Like what Psalm 40 says, many Lord, my God, are the wonders you've done, the things you've planned for us. None can compare with you. I'm gonna stop there No one, I don't care how tough they think that no one can compare to our God. Oh, you're not rooting for your God. No one can compare to God That's the great equalizer. Okay, I may not have skill, but I got God. I may not have this or that, but I got God. I may not have but I got God. And that makes all the difference in my life. It can measure up to you. I serve a God who's all that. Hannah said, in my prayer, I could see the sanctity of God. In my prayer, I acknowledge that God is significant, that God is important. Is God important to you? I know you got your list. This, this, and this always say God family. Uh oh wait a minute. Not not job family. Not family, God, but God and family. God? Family. And that I know who's important in my life. And I can embrace that today. But she ends off this prayer with this piece: the strength of God. And there's no rock like our God. Now, I'm with Hannah. Hannah, you go ahead. Amen. Me too. Based on her experience, she realized that God was a God who was strong. Strong. Yeah, we we we serve a God who's strong. We don't serve a weak God. Our God is powerful So you see if you're in the God Club. I'll be saying, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's right, that's right, that's right. My God is powerful. He's strong. Ever been on the sideline and you weren't in the game or in you said, yeah, you go, you go. And you were with the king? Well, I'm rooting for God today As someone who is strong, who's mighty, who's high and lifted up as I say, in his train filled. I don't want you to see the bigness of God And whatever situation I'm facing, God is bigger than that. God is stronger than that. God supersedes all of that. How many folk ever watched Superman? Or some of y'all did? Wonder Woman and ISIS. Amen But I mean you would pull and root for the hero. You wait till Popeye come. He goes straighten that thing out They won't catch the road runner. I mean we are wired to be connected to that which is great. I want to let you know you serve a God who's strong, who's mighty, who's great, who is my rock. Circumstances may come, problems may show up, but I found a solid foundation. I can stand to the storm. I can stand to the rain. I can stand through disappointment. What Oh you didn't give me the day. I'm talking about a God who's who's mighty and strong. Mighty in battle, lift up your heads, oh ye gates, and be lifted up, you everlasting God. For the king of glory shall come in. Who is the king of glory? The God. Strong and mighty, mighty in battle. Lift up your hands. I'm with God today because he's strong and mighty. But the image of a of a rock. Image of strength. When I'm weak, he's strong. It's okay to be weak when your God is strong. That way he makes up the difference. The psalmist says this. The Lord is my rock, my fortress, my deliverer My God is my rock in him in whom I take refuge. He's my shield. Hold of my salvation. He is my strong hold. Don't you serve that kind of God? A God who is a God of strength. Praise God. And guess what? The story is told because Hannah leaves Shiloh We never hear from her again, except it looks like she's had more children. I see a couple boys and a few girls that God didn't just give her what she asked for, but God would do more than what you asked for, abundantly, all that you can ask You ask just for one thing, but God can give you multiple things. Won't He do it? Has he done it? And that's why the God that I serve and that you serve is an awesome God. He's a God who's strong in battle. He's a God who's caring. He's a God who's dedicated. He's a God who's faithful. He's a God who's loving. He's a God who will make a way out of nowhere He's a God who will lead me to seen and unseen. I serve that kind of God. But most of all, he's a father. And because of that, he sent his only begotten Son. He sent his son just for us. Send him not to war, but sent him into a world that hated him. But Jesus came, he taught, he led, he died, but he rose again. And that's the story of our faith, that we serve a God who sent a son, a son who saved, who kept us. And has given us life eternal. There are so many wonderful things about Jesus. There's so many wonderful things about him. Just fill the blank in. I begin to say, can you tell me about your God? Wait a minute. Fill in the blank was my favorite kind of test question. Next to mother of a choice. Then I figure after a while, one of those have to be right. Can I keep circling? God. I keep saying, God, thank you for making a way. That's my answer. You know, they say sea's always good. Christ rose from the grave And so I'm sitting there saying, you know what? That's just from my experience. I don't know your experience, but it's my experience. Thank you, Hannah, for allowing us to share your story and to walk with you in this narrative so that we might be the better That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today. Speak from your own experience. About what God has done just for you. God is so many things, and so I couldn't find all the words He's with you. He's your script. Our God is an awesome God. Our God is an awesome to know it today. Somehow we're going to have a gun Our God is the Lord He rain from everyone of No power in God. How many believers today? He reins. Our God in our God. He reigns. He reigned in my situation. He reigns. You know, experience is something that you you go through. It doesn't kill you to make you better. That's what grandma and them said. Some stuff tried to take us out. But through it all You came out on the other end saying, you know what? Thank you, God. And so therefore, you've now got a testimony. You've got history on what God can do. Didn't think I was gonna make it? Folks have counted me down. They were saying, let's see how they come out And you came out as pure gold. I thought y'all were shining this morning because God has smiled on you. Has anybody ever been through something? I mean show no. Had to come out kicking busting doors down to say Lord you brought me out and when that's been your testimony you said Lord I thank you I know what you can do You've got your old experience. But I want to suggest today that you experience Christ in your life. Life won't be the same. You will be a new creature in him. Oh, you'll look the same, and you'll walk the same. And live in the same place and go to the same job and have the same family, but you'll be different. The Bible says that we're peculiar people Royal priesthood. Today, God is yet in the transforming business. Shaping you and shaping me to be what he wants us to be Let's bow our heads today. Heavenly Father, I thank you for this moment of transformation. It's the things that we go through that shape us for the journey. We recognize that you are a God who's holy and who desires for us to be holy as well. It's not too tall of an order to live right. Not too tall in order to say the right things. Not too tall of an order to strive for righteousness. I pray today if there's one person in this building who has never experienced you, that today They might give their heart to you. Touch them in that place. And move them from where they are currently. God thank you Because you are the mighty God. Your word says that you sent your son. And your word says that if you believe that God, the Holy One Sent his son, and that his son died for us. And that his son rose. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Today, just take a moment And begin to ask yourself, am I saved? Have I given my heart to Jesus? Not am I perfect, but am I saved? Ask yourself that question today. And then walk away and say, I want to be real sure. Why? I don't feel safe, but I'm saved. I still got some hangups, but I'm saved. I still got some issues, but I'm saved. And that does not affect your salvation. First give your heart to Jesus And he will do the rest. Save that soul today. We pray now. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah, Lord. Thank you. Thank you, thank you for being the God who is High and mighty, thank you. Thank you. God, we feel your strength today. We're empowered today because we've been in your presence. We walk away today, God, hopeful That you've already made a way in our situations. We thank you and we glorify you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God today Hallelujah. If you come today, you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open for you. I just pray that you experience God today See all I know is that I had a bump in with a holy God. If you're here today and desire to come before the Lord today, maybe it's for special prayer. Maybe you just need a a little hot shot I want to open the altar up today for those who need special prayer today. Believing that this mighty God can help us and bring us through The altar is open. The altar is open today. God, I want to be better. God, I've been trying to be a little demigod. I've been trying to handle it all by myself. I've been saying I got this, but really I didn't have it So I trust you. I came to get charged up today. My batteries alone. Life is wearing me down. I just need a I need a boost today. We'll make room at the altar. We'll squeeze in. Be glorified. We glory. Let's say that one more time. Be glorified in Ma be glorified Left about the day. God, we feel better. After having been reminded That you're really all that. Yes. After being reminded that you're strong. Yes, Father. You have strength. You're significant. You're important And you're like no one else. You call on us to be holy. No, we've missed the mark. No, we've tried and failed, but there's no failure in God. As we come today, God, work from the inside out. Renew our spirits. Give us new hope. Let us know that you are still strong. And still mighty. God, in the lives of your people, individually you know where they stand. Individually you know what they're going through Individually, you know where you're going to take them along this journey. Yes, Lord. Thank you for being the guide. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for being God. Thank you, Lord. As we leave this place, God, but never your presence, start with me. Help me, God, to be all that I can be for you. Not just in talk, but indeed. I pray in the name of Jesus for your covering over every family represented today, God. In the name of Jesus. You might camp out at their homes. Camp out at their jobs today, God. And the world won't see them because God is a spirit. And those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such. Show up, God. And show out. We ask it all now. We believe it. We embrace it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody shout Jesus. Hallelujah. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's com the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed. The temperature