Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. There's a word from the Lord today I will read. Mark 14, 32 through 42, and of course we'll drop our anchor there at the 37th, 38th, and 39th verse It reads, They went to a place called Gethsemane. And Jesus said to his disciples, sit here while I pray. He took Peter, James, and John along with him, and he began to be deeply distressed and troubled. My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. He said to them, Stay here and keep watch. Going a little further, he fell to the ground and prayed that, if possible, the hour might pass from him. Abba Father, he said, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me, yet not what I will, but what you will. Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleepy. Simon, he said to Peter, Are you asleep? Couldn't you keep watch for one hour? Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Once more he went away and prayed the same thing. When he came back, he again found them sleeping. Because their eyes were heavy. They did not know what to say to him. Returning the third time, he said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Enough! The hour has come. Look, the Son of Man is delivered into the hands of sinners Rise, let us go. Here comes the betrayer. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Stay Woke. Stay awoke. I've been paying attention lately to those couple of words. Profound and simple and hip and in and hashtag But when it comes to staying woke, it refers oftentimes to a person or a group of people who are passionate about a particular issue. They feel strongly about something in their own life. They're concerned about a particular matter that they're willing to speak about. socially, politically, racially. And as of late, you see a lot of people hashtagging stay woke. Have you seen that even though the the words that have been around for a long time, it's in now I love what the writer of Ecclesiastes says in 1 and 9. He says, there is no new thing under the sun. Right. So what you think is new is not really new. Amen. So how do we understand, how do we wrap our minds around what Jesus meant when he said to his disciples, in so many words, stay woke. In the text today, it's the 14th chapter of the Gospel of Mark. I love Mark's Gospel because Mark gets in a hurry. Mark gets right to the point. Mark does not waste words. He's talking about Jesus. The Passover is just days away. And the religious leaders are already scheming as to how they're going to betray Jesus and kill him. This is better than any novel or drama you might read. And they got some inside help because Judah Zachariot is there. He is working with the enemy. He's already made a deal with the devil. All for forty pieces of silver. And Jesus has gathered his disciples together for what we commonly call the Last Supper, but he was not called off guard. Jesus is never surprised. He's never caught like, oh, what's going on? I mean, we do know that he is Alpha and Omega. He's the beginning and the end. He's the first And the last, he is all of that. And so he sits with them, he shares with them, and he raised the question, he says, one of you will betray me. I heard someone talk about this text many years ago. If you keep reading that text, it says, is it I? So it could have been either one of them of the twelve. But he already knew that something was going to happen. And so when they finish the meal, he goes out to pray. in the Garden of Gethsemane. And Gethsemane itself means great mental or spiritual suffering. So Peter, James, and John are with him. And he wants them to stay local. Jesus saw something, he said something, and he suggested something. Then he returned and he found them sleeping. Found them knocked out. Found them not taking a nap but sleep. Not taking a power or some of y'all taking a power nap. At work. Oops. I won't tell your employer. But Jesus found them Sleeping, even though he had told them just keep watch. Just watch with me. That's all I'm asking. Just stay awake. And the word becomes, has he ever caught you sleeping? Has he ever caught me sleeping on the job not physically, but sleeping spiritually Ever caught me nodding when I should be telling folk about the good news of Jesus? Caught me napping on the job when I should be Trying to walk in the spirit so I don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. Yes, I have. Yes, I've missed the mark. And so have you sleeping. And Jesus knew where to go. He had to go on a search party. He found them sleeping. I mean, it's one thing to be caught by a coworker. It's one thing for you to catch me sleeping. But but but to have the Savior Himself to say wait a minute wait a minute wait a minute I I I think I just I just caught you and you know when you sleep if you really sleep Folk can't walk up on you. If you out, if you never know can I testify again? Man, I I know how to take one. And I love to go down. I mean out. Do I have a witness? I'm gonna take one today. He's gonna find me sleeping later. But you know, and in the book of Romans, Paul lifts up, he says, and do this, Romans 13, 11, understanding the present time, the hour has already come for you to wake up. From your slumber. Because our salvation is nearer now than we first believed. We we can't afford to fall asleep. That's right. Oh, we can't afford to not be alert. We can't afford to be in a situation with all that's happening to be asleep. So if somebody shakes you in the spirit, perhaps it is the Holy Ghost saying, Get up. And you know, we can't stay asleep because the world is turning We can't get comfortable with what we see. We've got to be woke to sin, woke to the shame that's happening around us, and woke to the violence in our communities. We've got to stay woke. Jesus saw something, but then he also said something. He didn't just observe them sleep, but he says, Simon Peter, are you asleep? Now most of us would have said no no no I was I was just resting my eyes I was meditating Many years ago I was in a class in seminary. It was called Dreams and Visions. It was a night class. And I had my computer, mints, gum, coffee, everything to keep me awake. And I fell asleep in class. My professor said, uh let's go to Tim Tudin. So tell us, what was your dream? Man, I was cold busted, I had fallen asleep. And so he said something to me, not to embarrass me, but to let me know I was living out the class. He said, Are you asleep? Could you not still wake one hour? He called him Simon, even though we know him as Peter, because Peter was first known as Simon Barjonas, a name assigned to him by his father as was the Jewish custom. He reminds him of who he is. And you know, when he calls us and speaks to us, he does not speak to us by way of titles. I have folks. What's your name? I'm Reverend Dr. Tim Tut. No, you just Tim. Amen? And he calls you By your name. Some of us have nicknames that folk used to call us. And that identified who we were, but he said something based on what he had seen. Jesus does not mind speaking up when he sees us flipping up. The Lord has to call us He says, one hour, a short time. I just need for you to watch. Have we gone to sleep on the Lord? Do we have a problem staying woke to the situations that are happening in our life? I think so. Is there anything in your life that you're not staying woke about? It's not a poll, but I know there's got to be one thing. There's some things in all of our lives that we're just not privy to or not admonishing Matthew 16, 24 says, and Jesus said to his disciples, it's about being alert, if any person will come after me, they must be what? Pick up the cross, deny themselves, and follow me. Are there any followers in the house today? That that you stayed woke in your work. You alert to work for the master. And I just want to see this in pictures. That's my thing today. I see I'm a visual alert. I see things in pictures. So he's walked up on us. Call to sleep, address the issue. Peter doesn't say a mumbling. When you call you can't say anything. No, I would no. And then he suggests something to them. He says, watch and pray so that you do not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but what? The flesh is weak. It it's some great advice. To be on the alert. Great advice to be aware of our spiritual surroundings. The enemy is always busy. He says if you're not careful You're gonna not slip, but you're gonna fall into temptation. Amen. You're gonna mess up if you're not careful, if you're not alert, if you're not staying woke. He wants to teach them about paying attention. My God. You look pretty serious today Can I help you to stay woke? I see some eyes getting heavy in the house. Yeah, I know. I'm talking about staying woke. The lights are low. The fan is blowing. It's raining outside. Hey, stay woke. In the name of Jesus. Amen. I ain't picking on nobody. If we keep watching God Well give us something to pray about. You need a prayer list? Just look around your community. Look around your workplace. There's always something and always Somebody to pray for. Amen? It's not just us praying for ourselves, but to pray for others. Why? The devil is always busy. And we've got to be, as 1 Peter 5 and 8 says, be alert. And of a sober mind. Why? Your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion seeing whom he might devouse. He don't care who you are, that rascal will show up anywhere. He'll show up in church Oh yes he will. Even on your best day, the enemy is off. You better stay woke to what God is saying to us. As the text says, He he comes back a second time. And they were Comes back a third time and tried to stay awake. Leaning on something, but he catches them. But he says there is work to do. And here's why we gotta stay woke. Can I roll the tape? Jesus is about to be falsely accused. He's about to be beaten. He's about to be hung on an old rugged cross. And it looks like John is the only disciple who stayed woke. Because John was at the cross with him. At the cross with his mother. And he looks down and says, Mother. This is your son. Son, this is your mother. Is that it was important for them to stay woke. He died, but he rose again. And then not long after that he takes a divine first class flight. Back to glory. Because he's done his work here. And the word says that for the Lord Himself will descend. In other words He's coming back. And let him not, as the old states, find you with your work undone. Don't let him come back and find you asleep. at the wheel. Don't let him come back and find me not on my job of living the word and preaching the word and working in that spiritual gift. Stay Woke. He says, then when those of us who are live and who remain shall be what? Called up to meet him in the air. Amen. One day I can testify that that now I'm woke. I wasn't always woke. I'm woke and I've got a a new attitude. I'm woke and I've got this assurance. In fact, it is a blessed assurance. I'm woke and I've got this faith that is now stronger than the sleeping tem. I'm woke and I've got a future that is now brighter than it was before. I'm woke and I've got direction on where God is sending me. I'm woke and I know that I've got protection that God will keep me. I'm woke And I've got hope that no one can understand. I'm woke, and I've got joy unspeakable. I'm woke. And I've got peace that passeth all understanding. I'm woke and I've been changed by the glory of God. Amen. No need to shake me. I'm woke. I'm woke because there's been a change in my life I'm woke because I know what God will do. Are you woke today to the things He will do in your life? Something happened. Jesus came into my heart. Since Jesus came in, all the floods of joy. Since he came in, I'm now more alert Because I've been staying woke. He sees us. He addresses the issue. And he writes a prescription. Now take this and call me in the morning. Amen. But but having a prescription And filling a prescription is different. It's been prescribed, but what are we doing today To stay woke. My God, on your knees, it will keep you woke. When you love each other, it'll keep you woke. When you determine that I will run for The Lord. Stay woke. Not not in the physical, but stay woke In the spirit. That is the word of God today. It is already this. Come on, stand today all over this place. Stay woke to the conditions that are around you. These were trusted Inner circle folk. These were his main guys. I mean, a lot of folks ain't on them sleepers. But he took with him to the garden folk he could depend on And the very ones, Peter, John, and James were not Out. And it's some Peter. It's in John. It's in James in us. I just came by the day To shake you. Get up! There's work to do. Come just as you are. He desires to use you today. Just the way you are. Oh, yes. Just as you are. Come and see, come and see come with me. Come receive Everlasting Strength for the day. Oh, yes. The living water. Never thirst again. Come just as you are. Oh yes. Come just as no need to fix up. Come with me. I want to take a moment just to speak with you. When I read this text, it it became so clear that we never know when the Lord will walk up on us. Hey. I mean there was there was disappointment in his voice. I mean, I may disappoint you, but to have him say, could you not Just stay woke for one hour. I didn't I didn't ask much. I I just asked you to to watch. And today he's asking us. Just watch. And just pray. My God, that's a word for our culture of the day. I can't do anything. Yeah, you can. Watch. And pray. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. You've awakened us. By your voice. As you raise the question. Because you know what we're gonna go through and what we've been through. You already know, and you know the importance of being. Look, God I pray for your people today. That we all might not sleep on the job. We're more than conquerors through him who loved us. And as we come today, God, there might be someone who's fallen asleep and don't know you and don't recognize your voice. and have not gone to the garden and is not in the inner circle, may they get to know you. The Bible says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. You want to be woke? Get saved. Today, if you don't know Jesus, you can receive him right now. Into your heart. But you've got to confess it. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner in need of a Savior. Shake me. Wake me. To the sinful life that I now live and put me on a new path. If that is your testimony today, you can be saved right in this place at this moment In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, Go to our website. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumber two harvest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.