Thank you for tuning in to our broadcast. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Join our service now, already in progress. Amen. How many people are glad about that? That he looked beyond your faults. And saw your need. I don't expect you to start jumping in the house, but when you think about that, then he looked Past my role. And so what I really, really needed Who wouldn't serve a God like that? Can I just talk about it for a moment? Is that even on our best day We're lacking. Behind our best deeds, we're still not there yet. But to know that we serve a God Who loves us in spite of us. Anybody feel good about that today? If so, go ahead and give God a praise. As we come today, let's bow our heads all over this place. Heavenly Father, that's my story. When we look back over our lives, however many years have passed, we thank you for keeping us and for providing for us. And giving us your peace in the midst of a storm. God, you're just good. And we thank you. As we come today, it is always our prayer. That we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another, and we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank God for another year Not quite over yet, but it's close enough for me. He don't do anything else. He's done enough. Let's look at the word of God today from 2 Timothy. Third chapter, verses 14 and 15, it reads, but as for you continue and what you have learned and have been convinced of because you know those from whom you learned it. And how from infancy you have known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. We want to preach today from the Summonic title, Stick to What You Know. Stick to What You Know. Film director and screenwriter Akari Kurosawa once said It is the power of the memory that gives rise to the power of imagination. He says all creative artists reach back in time somehow, often to childhood, to a place. Of their experiences. And it's there they find inspiration to go on. And there's more and more research every day about the memory. It allows for a kind of a mental time travel. It is a way to picture not just the past. But also what God is going to do in the future. Aren't you glad that you have a mind that you're in your right mind most of the time anyway? Uh but you know memory uh helps us with the who and the what and the when and the where and the how And there are times that we do better with short-term memory, and as we become more seasoned, we have a little problem with long-term memory. Now you may not admit it, but there are times I'll see people and say, now where do I know you from? And I'm trying to buy some time. Did you change your glasses? Oh your hair is different. But I've learned to say, just help me out. Sugar, I'm not quite sure I remember you. I was at a restaurant run over the weekend. Young lady came by and I said, I know you from somewhere. Yeah, yeah, you do you interviewed me uh at Morgan some years ago. That's right, that's right, that's right. And uh and I'm on Instagram, so I was on Instagram and said, wait a minute, that's the same woman I saw at the restaurant. Hey Good seeing you the other day. So they're a little aides that help us out. I have more Facebook friends that I don't know. But I play it off. I say, yeah, good to talk to you. Praise God. But you know, there's something about the memory. There's certain things that that we ought to just stick to. When it comes to things of faith, don't trade anything in this year. Don't exchange anything when it comes to what God has given us. In our text today, it originates in a cold Roman prison where Paul has pinned the letter to Timothy. His son in the ministry, his understudy, his intern, and scholars believe this is one of Paul's last letters Paul is on death road. He knows his time is not long. And so he's writing to Timothy to warn him. Timothy, you'll find some false teachers. You'll find some shaky folk. Uh be on the lookout for those who are out there. He hoped That he'd be able to see Timothy again, but that would not happen. But there's something about last words, even as you share with friends and family. Make your words count You understand that you get more seasoned and have more experiences, what you say actually means something. And then your kids come back and say, you know what, you told me this twenty- I d I told you that 20 years ago And so make sure that your words count. And Paul was saying to Timothy, essentially, stick to what you know. That there'll be other stuff out there, other doctrines. Folk will try to discourage you because Timothy was a young preacher. But in the words of Tim Tutin, he's saying just stick to what you know works There's an urgency. It won't be easy, but hang in there. Isn't that a word today that as you come to the end of this year That you've tried many methods and show of our. You've tried some things that kind of worked and didn't work. But in the end, you realize there's certain principles that you ought to stick with. And more than likely they came by way of your encounter with the living God. It may have come by way of someone in your family who encouraged you and you didn't want to hear it, but they gave you the word. And as much as you didn't want to hear it, it stuck with you. Amen. Oh, I know I gotta pray in church today. Well, it's not 18 yet. Don't y'all leave me hanging out all by myself out here now Don't leave me in deep water out here. Amen. Amen. And it's those things that God will bring back to our remembrance that no matter what happens, find something you can grab a hold of. Find the truth that will help to get you through the tough places of life. I want to interview you, you would say, you know what? I almost lost my mind this year, but I kept looking to the hills was coming to my help. I almost threw in the towel this year, but I realized that God don't make no junk And that God has a plan for me. I almost threw my hands in the air, but I realized there's some stuff in me that somebody's put in me that I gotta hold on to. Amen. Anybody got that stuff today I mean that stuff that allows you to turn the other cheek. That stuff that allows you not to hold the grudge That stuff that keeps you saying, oh the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? So this letter helps us today in looking at the things that we ought to stick to. Firstly, Timothy is hearing this word from Paul who seems to be saying, stick to what's been tried. But you, Timothy, must remain faithful to the things you have learned. You know, life can be a classroom, isn't it? That uh sometimes you pass, sometimes you don't. But in 17, uh how many folk got a passing grade? Oh you wasn't that good, but but you passed. Amen. And over in the right hand corner it was an area for need improvement, but glory be to God. The things that you've learned, Timothy, you remain faithful. Folk might go crazy. They may lose their minds. They may do some awful things. But Timothy, stick to what has been tried Things that you've counted on in your young life, things that have helped you in your ministry, things that have helped you on your job, things that have helped you in your family Stick to these things, the things that you have learned from me. And Paul was talking about personal experience. Paul was a hard-headed somebody. Till he met Jesus on the Damascus Road and kind of knocked him off as the beast. And ever been knocked down before? To get back and say, Lord, I got it now. Dust yourself off. Paul says, I know what it means to learn some things, because I've learned some things, Timothy But you know, I asked the question, who is your Paul? Who is it that's speaking into your life saying, hey, you know what? Uh I'm just trying to encourage you in the Lord. Or maybe you are the Paul. Trying to impart some wisdom, letting folk know it's what you learn along the way that will get you through life's tough situations. Amen. I mean we've all been a little hard-headed, but every now and then you catch some stuff. Some things that will stick with you. Amen? And Paul talks about Timothy being in this classroom of life learning. Now something you just got to try. Amen. How many folks just tried Jesus? You didn't really want it trying. But life got to be so tough. You say, you know what I'm gonna look for that half a scripture I learned in Sunday school that I memorized and didn't know much about it, but now I need it. And we gotta try our faith. Amen. Amen. The trying of your faith works. Amen. Patience. That we'll learn some things along the way. How many folk want to just keep learning? Amen. That that how many folk know that you you can't be a know it all Anybody know people like that? Answer for everything. They tried everything. They've been there and done that. But you know, it it's some stuff you have to learn in life. And Paul was saying to Timothy in the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus even says, Take my yoke upon you and learn Of me. I'm gentle. I'm humble in heart. And you'll find rest for your souls. Have you tried him? You know he is alright. Stick to what's been tried, but also stick to what's been tested. You know these things that you've learned are true. And you can trust those who taught you. Now, Paul wasn't patting himself on the back, but he's taken Timothy under his wings and really poured into him That's a great life legacy is to pour into someone else. Not that you might get the glory like, yeah, you know, I took him under my wing. And I showed him a thing or two. I'm talking about just just pouring into people. And pouring into those outside your own household. It may be, but you know, that's a blessing in that to pour into other people and Paul had poured into Timothy. I mean he gave him something to work with. How many folk are recipients of someone who poured into your life? Amen. You heard my story beginning in broadcasting Bills of Bitz and Man You doing it. I said man, I ain't doing it. Tim, you go, man, you going places. I'm like, going places? But he was pouring into me In encouraging me. And we gotta encourage each other today in the Lord to say, you know what? I believe in you I trust God on your behalf. Paul knew that Timothy understood the Word of God. He knew Timothy had tried it on for size. In fact, he reminds him, now you know, your people put that word in you, uh, your mama, Miss Eunice. Put that word in you. And your grandmama, sister Lois, put that word in you. But you may know someone. It may not be a Lois or a Eunice, but it might be someone else Who made sure you got that word in you? Amen? Oh, you wouldn't be in church today if you ain't had a little taste of that word. Oh no, you wouldn't be. But somebody Make sure that you got a Bible verse in you. Someone made sure you went Sunday school. Someone half of you calling you. You trusting the Lord? On the phone? Yeah, I'm trusting the Lord. And you wouldn't trust in Him at all. You were having a good old time. But that word came back. It had been tried and tested in the Lord. Are you taking time today to start with the young people? It is amazing when you begin to speak into their lives. Don't say oh they won't listen to that. I'll wait till they get older. No, you better put it in now. Didn't it help you that somebody took a time to to put a little something in you? Don't let folk get too grown and they don't know the word of God. Shame on us. If we don't bring up the topic. We're getting too afraid of kids. I don't want to bring it up. Bring it up. My dad always hawks under boss. Yeah, you don't don't be afraid to speak Christ. Amen. Should I go on from there? Maybe I should, but I'm saying take time today to share. Paul knew that. Bible says in Proverbs very clearly 22 and 6 to do what? To train up a child in the way he or she should go And when they are older, they will not depart from it. They may go off the road, they may go in a ditch. They may make a mistake, but yes guess what? At some point they go get back. Oh oh God I know somebody's been there. And you were in the depths of life. And you realize that I wasn't trained trained that way. I gotta stick to what I know. And what makes a difference today in your life if you just put it in them? Timothy, stick to what's been tried and what you've learned and and stick to what's been tested, but then finally, stick to what is truthful. The world is still alive. Oh folk will tell a story in a heartbeat and do it with a straight face. Amen. I could never lie good. I was a bad liar. I couldn't get the story right. I just stopped. I I just gave it up. Amen. You have been taught the holy scriptures from childhood, and they have given you the wisdom to receive the salvation that comes from trusting in Jesus Christ. Timothy, you've been taught. Timothy, you got something to work on. Paul knew it had blessed him. You know, I like to mess with quotes. Julius Caesar, Roman Emperor, said some time ago that experience is the best teacher. I disagree. Experience is not the best teacher. Your life in the Lord is the best teacher. Amen? And that's so important is that once you get with the Lord, that you will learn by way of his word. By way of getting knocked down and getting back up again, you'll learn. And what you'll learn is you'll cry out, oh Lord, help me Amen. May not be a church going brother, sister, may not believe in all that stuff, but you let a hard time come along. Oh God Help me. And that's all right. And guess what? He'll do it too, won't he do it? Didn't he help you and you were down and out? And you called on the name of Jesus. You may not have done it loudly, but in the midnight hours, Lord, I need your help today. And he did it That Timothy keep dealing with the scriptures, keep dealing with the truth, keep reading your Bible, keep reading your devotional Keep coming to church, keep going to Bible study, keep praying with each other, and keep dealing with the truth. And the truth is that God sent his only begotten Son. Who died but rose again. There's something about that word, something about the Bible, something about having one, not just on the shelf. But having that word to get into your heart didn't make a difference once you got it off the page and put it in your experience. You oh man, I I know now this thing makes real good sense What was written, thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path. Well, in case you didn't know it, my name is also Timothy. So I take these instructions to heart. Told my son, I said, now you second Timothy. Amen. Praise God. But you know, I'm glad there's a Bible book written after me, but my name. But there's some things that I've stuck to in these fifty-nine plush years. I I've stuck to these things through trials and tribulations. I've stuck to these things through heartaches and heartbreaks. I've stuck to what I learned back at the Springfield Baptist Church through good times and bad times Through fear and failure, I've just learned to stick to what I know. I don't know much, but I know that Jesus will make a way Won't he do it today? And so the fact that he went to that old rugged cross, that thing is stuck to me I believe the story that he died and rose. And that's my story. And I'm sticking to it What about you today? Will you stick to that story that God loved me so much that he sent his only son to die for me? I want to challenge you to stick to what you know. And stick to who you know. Jesus. Who is Jesus? Revelation 18 says he's the Almighty One. Revelation 22 and 13 says he's Alpha and Omega. Hebrews 12 and 2 says he's the author and the finisher of my faith. Matthew 28, 18 says, He is my authority. John 6. 35 says he's the bread of life. Psalm 118 and 22 says he's the chief cornerstone. 1 Thessalonians 1 and 10 says he's my deliverer. John 10 and 11 says he's the good shepherd. Ephesians 1 and 22 says he's the head of the church. Acts 4, 29 and 30 says he's a holy servant. Isaiah 7 and 14 says he's Emmanuel. John 1:29 says he's the Lamb of God John 8 and 12 says he's the light of the world. Philippians 2, 9 through 11 says he is the Lord of all. 1 Timothy 2 and 5 says he'll be my mediator. 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4 says he is the risen Lord. Luke 2 and 11 says he's my Savior. Luke 19 and 10 says he's the Son of Man. John 11:25 says he's the resurrection and the life. John 10 and 9 says he's the door. John fourteen and six says, He's the way. John one and one says, He's the word John 832 says he's the truth, but can I just say today? He's my battle axe. In the time of battle, he's a company keeper. He's a doctor in a sick room. He's a lawyer who's never lost the case. He's a healer when you're down and out. He's a shelter In the time of storm, what's the matter with Jesus? I say he's alright. And so that's what I'm gonna stick to. That no matter what I go through I'm gonna stick to his word. No matter what I face, I'm gonna stick to what he's preached into my own life. What about you? Will you stick to him? Will you praise him? Will you give him I I'm trying to let but don't let go to what he's put in your life. Stick To what you know. I I don't know much. No no no no stick to that. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah stick to it. How many folk today want to just stick To its promises. There's some stuff you'll leave behind in seventeen. But don't you leave Jesus. You're not taking them in the 18. He's carrying you in the 18. Amen. He's been carrying you all year and he'll keep doing it If you but stick to what you know. That is the word of God today. It's all window. Come on, stand today, all over this place. We thank God. Thank you for the promises. I know who you are. Why? You're real in my life. And I thank you. And that's why I decided to keep on following Jesus. No matter what. It may not be popular. Might call me a Jesus. I have decided. That's your testimony. To follow Jesus. I have to follow. I have decided to follow J no turning. No join back. Though no one joined me. Oh no one joined me. Still I know. Oh no one joins. Oh no one joy like me till I read the I Let me just say to you on this last Sunday of 2017. Somewhere along the way, you may have lost Your connection. You know, like like Belcrow. Sometimes not sticking right. And somewhere along the way, life may have disconnected you. That what you the stick don't stick anymore but today you can get right back into the favor of God first and foremost know that he died for you sitting Son Jesus Christ. That's the gospel. Now you can stick with that. That he died and he rose. Stick with that. And the fact of the matter is he said that if you will confess with your mouth, The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thy will be saved. What a way to go out. In 17, so you know what? My big thing is I got saved. gave my heart to Jesus in 17. How many folk remember that day? 1965 in June on a Friday night. And I walked up there just a young fella hand shaking. But I stuck with me ever since. Didn't understand it all then But it stuck with me Find a way today to allow the word of God to stick on you Let's buy Today. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we're praying for that soul that's not yet connected to you. I pray that by way of your word and your spirit. They may hear the call to come and to give their hearts to you. Nothing else really matters than our relationship with you, Lord. Today, I pray that this nation might hear your And might pray, turning from their wicked ways. Do it today, God. We pray for that soul. If you're here today and you don't know him, You can open your heart now by saying, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. In need of a Savior. I believe that God, you sent your only son, Jesus Christ. I just celebrated Christmas, so I believe. In Christmas. I believe he came. But I believe he also died and rose again. The Bible says, if you believe that and receive it into your heart, that thou shalt be saved. Touch Lord Jesus. Amen. Amen. If you don't know Jesus today, you can find him right now. Get him this year. Don't don't don't wait to make that your resolution. Oh God, don't do that. All you have is right now. Take the moment even now to whisper that prayer and receive Christ into your heart today. Maybe you've come today, you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open for you. Thank God for each of you. I pray that you found a place. Be here by way of social media. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thank you for tuning in to Harvest Christian Ministries. in Baltimore County, Maryland. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and the founder. Now be sure to check us out by learning more about our broadcast and our ministry at www. comthenumber2harvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.