Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Now let me let me reframe that. Are there any blessed people in the house today? I mean blessed. And know you're blessed. Blessing don't depend on what you got in the bank. It doesn't depend on who your friends are The fact that you are here today means you are blessed. Amen? Let me say it again. Are there any blessed people in the house today. Come on, give God some praise today. If you bless, and you know it. If you bless You ought to show it. Amen. Let somebody know, you know what? I'm blessed. That's the best response. pretty good not trying to make it not um okay not I don't know but I'm blessed. How many folk can say I'm blessed? Amen. Amen. That's the best response. And you'll leave folk battle. How are you doing today? Blessed. And they can't come back. Amen. Let's bow before the Lord today. That's always a knockout punch. How's your day, buddy? Blessed. Let's bow today. Father, we do thank you. And we know who it is who blesses us. And that's why we come to bless your name. I will bless the Lord at all times. And his praise shall continually be in my mouth. Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I'm blessed. Father, as we come today We come as a blessed people, thanking you for your word today, which blesses us, that it might be a blessing to someone else. Even now we decrease that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another And we'll be so happy to give your name all of the praise and all of the glory in Jesus' name. Somebody say amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Mark in the ninth chapter, beginning at verse number two, it reads, after six days Jesus took Peter, James, and John with him and led them up a high mountain where they were all alone. There he was transfigured before them. His clothes became dazzling white, whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them. And there appeared before them Elijah. And Moses, who were talking with Jesus. Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters. One for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He did not know what to say. They were so frightened. Then a cloud appeared and covered them And a voice came from the cloud, this is my son, whom I love Listen to him. I want to preach today from the Samonic titled Stop, Look, and Listen. Stop, look, and listen. Every time I hear a locomotive on the track, Deacon Roy, I'm reminded of my hometown. I would be put to bed at night by hearing the whistle blasting from that train. And to hear the rumbling on the tracks. You see, we lived downtown kind of sorta. And so it was like the train was down the street. But every time I'm on the porch now and I hear from a distance that train, it takes me back My little town called Live Oak was actually founded by men who were working the rails. They would drive through this small town and they noticed there were so many live oak trees And therefore they named it Live Oak. I was at a game this week and a fella came up and says, hey! I'm from Live Oak. I said, man, you must be kidding me. No, you're not. Within two minutes we had put it together. I knew him, knew his family, had to call mama to get details But there are those things in our life that we can recall that are impactful. And because it's a railroad town, even to this day, the train runs right in the middle of town. And every now and then, when those trains are connecting, they will block off all of downtown. And you have to wait. Sometimes they'll back up and pull back again. But unless you're ambitious and a little gas happy, you can beat the train if you go to another route. But by then the train is heading anybody from a small town with a train track I'm I'm I'm just checking. I I don't want to be out there by myself. And you know when that train stopped you pretty much stuck. And every now and then there were people who unfortunately tried to beat the train. And they were injured. Some lost their lives because they fell to stop, to look, and to listen. I I I see some some biblical meat in that. And when it comes to those three words, I believe that they will help each of us. in our spiritual walk that comes by way of our relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. In the word today, it is the gospel writer John Mark who pins these words Now John was not, Mark was not one of the twelve. He was one of the 70 that Jesus sent out, two by two, to do his work. But he records a very important time in the life of Jesus. He had already predicted that I am going to die. I'm going to be betrayed. I'm going to be talked about. My name will be scandalized. And yet I will be killed, but on the third day I will rise again. So he already knew. So for three years, they've been hearing Jesus predict his own demise. And so now he's heading to Jerusalem. Have you ever met someone, I haven't, who could tell you when And where and how this life would end. But he was constantly sharing with them so they would not forget. But let's let's let's talk about Jesus as holy man. And holy God. The holy God was ready. Holy man, you know he struggled, but he was still ministering out of his own life about what was going to happen. I I I I'm just thinking that he's saying I'm telling y'all I'm just trying to get everything I can get into you now because that day will come. I'm sharing my life. I'm leading by example so that you might know What to do when that time comes. Jesus. And so he takes time in all of that to do a few things, I think, that helps the disciples. But it casts a water net on the here and now. That's what I think about the Bible. Yeah, it was written thousands of years ago, but it's so relevant today So can you put on your spiritual imagination? And can you come on to the dusty roads of Palestine? Can you go on a journey with me today? And let's kind of walk with those disciples. Can we just hang out with Jesus for a while? Is that okay? I want you to bring your mind and say, yeah, I was with him I was on that road that day, and she begins to share with them from this perspective of stop, look, and listen. Well first of all, when it comes to stopping, it says after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John with him, and led them to a high mountain, where they were all alone. There he was transfigured before them. That Jesus stops traditional ministry. Let's go someplace. Don't you like that in your life sometimes, because we don't know when to slow down, he'll just stop. Hold up. He stops them and he takes them or better yet, he leads them. Thing got me excited. That Jesus led them to a high place. In other words, come on, follow me, and don't ask a lot of questions. I'm taking you to a high place. Anybody want to go to a higher place than him? Not by force, but by Christ leading them to give them a different view. Sometimes the valley Days of life can wear us out. And we need to go to a higher place that Jesus is leading us to. And then he takes with him the inner circle. Peter, James, and John. Why? Because he wanted to These were those who had witnessed many of the miracles. And that's why he leads them. I'm thinking of that old hymn, lead me, guide me. Along the way. For if you lead me, I shall not say, Lord, help me walk each day with thee. Lead me, O Lord, lead me. He stops, leads them, and now We're at the mountaintop. You still with me? Yeah. I don't want to leave anybody down below. Come on and and and and let's go to the mountaintop And the Bible says that in this moment of silence, he is transfigured. The word comes from the Greek word metaphor, which means to change the form or appearance. That that they got there and something happened. And Mark lays it out. He didn't do any small talk. He got with them, he picked the three, they went to the mountain, and something happened at that mountaintop. They had to be still and to take note. Psalm 46 says, be still and know that I am God. I'll be exalted in the nations. I'll be exalted in the earth. We gotta be still every now and then. I'm sitting yesterday with my wife and I watched Adam movie. And I said, I'm on, I'm gonna be still for a while. That lasted about two hours Every now and then you gotta just be still. I felt refreshed after that, but sometimes you have to just stop and see the salvation of the Lord. And so that's the first one. That they're able to stop, but then they're able to look. I told you that something happened right in front of their eyes Jesus' clothes became dazzling white. Whiter than anyone in the world could bleach them according to the NIV. In other words, Clorox couldn't do it. Some of y'all know about Clorox. The clot rocks is still working, even today. And there appeared before them Elijah and Moses, who were talking with Jesus. Are you still on the mountain of God with me? I want you to take this thing in. Like, ooh, what's gonna happen next? They got an eye full. To see Jesus with his raiment all white. This is the Jesus who didn't mind bowing down and washing feet. Who didn't mind going to some of the tough places, getting mud on his sandals, didn't mind getting dirty for the cause of the kingdom, but what they saw and what they were able to see was a new look. Jesus was lit up, his clothing white. And then if that wasn't enough, a couple of the old schoolers showed up. Elijah, oh man. There's Elijah. That's the one who talked some stuff in the world. There's Moses. And they were all there having a conversation With Jesus. That's what the Bible said. I mean couldn't you could couldn't you be on your tip of toes about oo it it it isn't that that's a liar And I and they're talking with with Jesus. And so they got a glimpse of glory. Have you gotten a glimpse every now and then in in your life history that maybe there's a vision? or a thought or something where God shows up and his countenance is so bright it blows you away when you least expect it There's some things that we have to observe and to see as believers. He took them there for a purpose. So they might be able to see what was taking place. Love this psalm. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from which cometh my help, my help cometh from the Lord. We've got to be on the lookout. Sometimes we miss stuff. We just worry about our problems. All in you know tied up. But take a moment to just look. Look and live. Look and live my sister. Look, look and live, my brother. You you got the look. And then they were saying Woo I'm just adding the woo's in there, but you know that had to be major. To see all this. My God, I mean, they were never the same. And so they get a chance to see Jesus in this state, but also to see him talking with guys who had gone old. They saw a lot. Amen. They had to be still to see it. But then they had to listen. Uh oh. This is never the easy part. Verse 5. Peter said to Jesus, Rabbi, it's good to be here. Let's put up three shelters. One for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah. He did not know what to say. He was just talking. Then a cloud appeared and covered them, and a voice came from the cloud and said, This is my son whom I love. Listen to him. Now Peter didn't know what to say, but there's some Peter in us. He just said, hey, we should do something And and nobody asked Peter to talk, but Peter thought I need to weigh in on this. And sometimes we weigh in when we ought to be listening. Can I can I just say that's all of our testimony? He was trying to show them something. And Peter said, can I come in? And he realized once he started talking, he's like, no, no, this is not, you missed it. This was not the hangout place Why don't we just let hang out with these tents? There was more, but we should all learn from that. Amen. Think before you speak. Ask the Lord to give you the words to say, if anything. Ever had a quiet moment when you wanted to say something well meaning, but the Holy Ghost took your tongue and said, Ah Yeah. Ever happened to you? You were ready, had it all mapped out and ready to say it and rehearsed it and you got ready to spec and he says Listen. And so so God said, look at this is my son. Whom I love, listen to him. Christ had got baptized at the Jordan and The dove, the Holy Spirit landed upon him, and Jesus said, then, by way of his father's voice, listen. This is my beloved son in whom I'm well placed. He's still speaking. Yes. He's not talking. In the word, he'll speak. Through circumstances, he'll speak. Sometimes through other people, he will speak to us. And you got to know his voice. Bible says, my sheep know my voice. I know them, and they will follow me. Well I I'm a sheep now, but I I used to be a sheep. Actually a wolf In cheap polling. Anybody ever been there? And so these three things can help us in our spiritual world. See what one day he had to had to stop me. I didn't want to stop whatever I was doing. And then when I tried to stop I couldn't stop. I can't give y'all details. In your own life. And then one day he pulled the brakes from heaven And he stopped me. Oh, I'm so glad that he stopped me. Otherwise, I would have run the light. I would have kept barreling through on the path I was going, but thank God for Jesus. He stopped me. Aren't you glad about that today? And then he gave me this view of what to look at. I was looking at the wrong people, the wrong places, and the wrong things, but thank God for his vision plan. Amen? Anyone got that plan? What a major benefit. He helps you to begin to process what you are seeing because the eyes Will always wonder. You'll lock in on things that you don't need to see. That could be QBC, that could be other things. Uh-oh. Did I just go there? Anyway, uh, he gives us permission on what to see. Aren't you glad that he looked beyond Your faults and my faults and so on did I'm I'm glad he did like this knowing where I was did have enough sense to stop but he looked Beyond me. Look beyond this frail person. Look beyond this mistake-prone person. Look beyond me and saw something That he can work with. Oh my God. Anybody feel that way today? And then I listened. Couldn't hear, but but but but I listened. But there was a day when I would just tune him out. Some of y'all know I mean you would just say I hear you, but after this But he kept calling my name. Now you said well how how'd you call your name, Rabbit Saint Tim? No, no, I I I just felt the Holy Spirit. Calling my number. A number I couldn't block out. Kept calling my name. And I had to answer to that name. Revelation says, I come to the door and I knock. If you let me in, we can hang out together. But he won't force his way in. We have got to listen. My God, we've stopped. We've looked. And listen about this. One day I heard the voice of Jesus. Said come unto me and rest. I'm glad that I finally got enough sense to hear him. I heard that he was sent As a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. And lying in a manger, I heard that he died on an old rugged cross. I heard that he died, but he rose. Have you heard that? I I heard that. I heard that he's coming back again to claim his own. Now that's what I heard. Here's what I know. I know he'll make a way out of nowhere. I know. He'll be with me always, even to the end of the earth. I know he's a battle-axe in the time of battle. I know he'll be a fence all around me. I know he'll come to my rescue. I know he's a shelter in the time of some. I know He'll keep me in perfect peace if my mind is stayed on him. There's some things that I just know. I know he'll keep me. I know he'll give me joy. I know he'll give me peace. I just follow instructions. Oh my God. How many folk want to just say, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I want to just follow instructions. Just stop. What you doing? And look at where he's brought you from and now listen to what he wants to fix you. Well my God, he brought me From a mighty long way. And I'm glad he continues to move me forward. Are you glad about that today? Thank God He that hath it here. Let him hear what the Spirit is saying To the churches. Stop! Got red light cameras now. If you don't stop, they'll send you a ticket. Look! But most of all, to listen to the Lord. Listen to what my father has to say to you. Are you listening today? Have you seen the salvation of the Lord? Yes, sir. Have you stopped long enough to consider who it is who made the heavens and the earth? Amen Stop. Look. Listen. That is the word of God today. It's already listening. Come on, stand today. All over this place. Words of instructions. As we carry on this life. Even now the Lord is Trying to stop some of us. We run the roadblock. We like being chased. But he stopped us. That's the kind of God we serve. Yeah. And he's available right now. You gotta do it his way and not our way. My Savior. How many believe that today? There's none like him. Mighty love. The kind of stuff that makes you want to shout. My conquer. Never everything to I Come on, shout today. Shout you all. All the earth. He deserves all the praise. Oh yeah. Control at the work of your hand Forever I love Forever I live Nelling down to the problem. That promise. Maybe today you've come to this place and you want to give your life to Jesus. That's a good suggestion. He's available for you. The Bible says that you should confess with your mouth. In other words, you say the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says. Thou will be safe. Today, you can do it. He's waiting. He stopped you and shown you and spoken to you to the human. might build in your heart a new life, a new beginning, a new way. And that's what makes me want to shout. Shout to the Lord. Mountains bow down and the sea will roar and the land I think for joy for joy forever I love you for. Yeah, nothing compared to the problem. Nothing compared. And here's that promise. He will give us life everlasting. Bow your heads today. Holy Spirit is already moving. He's already located that heart that has not surrendered. I pray in the name of Jesus that you might move on that. person Lord that you might soften their heart today they may say I yield I yield what must I do to be saved here's what you do Confess your sins to him. Here's what you do. Say Lord I'm a seller. Here's what you do. I believe that you sent your son to die for me. I believe he rose again. And the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. Save that soul today, God. We declare it, we believe it in faith, in Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. I won't stop you. Make your way down the aisle from the corner. Or just keep coming back. We'll just claim you as one of our family members. But it's good to be in fellowship. It's good to be in somebody's house, amen. Facebook, you know I love y'all, but I'd rather you didn't watch me. I'd rather you be in church today somewhere, amen. I may lose five viewers, but nothing about being in the fellowship. With the Saints, yeah. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.