Begin to think about all the things that God has done in your life. And all the things that He's brought you through. All the ways he's made for you, you can't help but to give him the glory. I I know you got connections, you know people, but when it comes to the goodness of the Lord. I don't know about you, but I can get excited all about that. That God, you did it. And we're glad about it today. Let us bow. Father, we come. In this moment, thanking you for this opportunity to stand and to engage with your word. I pray even now that as we come before your people, but most of all before you, that you might allow us to decrease. And that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, We'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen Amen. The atmosphere is right. So there's a word from the Lord that comes from the book of Hebrews. The thirteenth chapter, and we'll be looking today at verses one and two, Hebrews thirteen. One and two. It reads as follows: keep on loving one another as brothers and sisters. Do not forget to show hospitality to strangers. For by doing so, some people have shown hospitality to angels without knowing it. I want to preach today from the Samanic title Strangers. Strangers. As I left for Virginia on last Sunday, I stopped by my favorite coffee shop. Got a favorite coffee shop that it just seems to taste better at that place As I pulled up, a man by the name of James approached me. And he said, Do you have any change? And I said, well, James, come on in. And we went in. He ordered one of those fancy drinks and added on two donuts. And then he began to share with me the goodness of the Lord. A week earlier I was at another coffee shop. That's all I do is hang out at coffee shops. And met a young lady out front who just said, I want a sandwich. And What is so important is that these two people that I met, yes, they had a need, but in addition to that, they were strangers I did not know them, but I made eye contact with them. I made a connection with them. To God be the glory. When was the last time you encountered a stranger? Someone you did not know someone uh that you've never met before and it's not about what we give them or offer them materially but it is what we deposit spiritually Let me say it again. It's not so much, oh, let me see what I've got. If you like me, you don't carry a cushion. You carry a card. You got an app. But it's not even about that. But it is what you leave with them or what you draw from them. See, sometimes we think that we're doing it all, and they can drop a word on us that will help us on our journey. I know many of us were raised not to talk to strangers. We told our children, mind who you talk to. strangers. We told uh our loved ones, we told those in the neighborhood, just to be careful. Amen. You remember that theme, a slogan called Stranger Danger I was around for a while. It was the idea that all strangers could be potentially dangerous. But I'm behind times. That has been replaced now by something called clever never goes. It teaches children to never go anywhere with a stranger or a familiar face unless plans have been made ahead of time. That is good advice even for adults. Amen? The word hospitality in the Bible definition means philoxenia, the lover of strangers, or friend to a stranger Henry Nowen, the late Dutch Catholic priest, philosopher, theologian, said this about hospitality in his book entitled Reaching Out, The Three Movements of the Spiritual Life. Nalwin wrote that hospitality means primarily the creation of free space Where the stranger can enter and become a friend instead of an enemy. Our focus this morning is on the New Testament book of Hebrews. You look at that book, theologians say who wrote it. Some think it was Paul, but it wasn't the scholarship, because Paul always said, I'm Paul. He would let you know it was him. But they're not sure who wrote the book of Hebrews. But there is agreement that in the words that are shared about hospitality, it is written to Jewish Christians. under persecution. Some theologians say no, they were actually under persecution in Rome. Bottom line is to be a Christian meant that you were a target. All the freedom we have today. We can shout anywhere we want to. We can shout praise the Lord and nobody will bother us. They may look funny, but they won't bother you. You can put your cross around your neck. In your car, what freedom we have as believers. But before he gets to the point of talking about hospitality, he prefaced that by mentioning love. And that is so important. In a nutshell, our faith is grounded in love. Amen. Uh love between one another. Love between our brothers and sisters. In your life, you can love folk anyhow. I've heard the saying, not biblical You got to love the H out of people. I don't uh I'm not a custom preacher, so I I I can't even well y'all know what I mean. That the place you go if you don't know Jesus. Yeah. That that place. And folk have had to love that out of us as well. Oh, I love to keep a church woke. But in the text this morning, we're being persuaded to love folk with the love of Christ, not just people that we know. But complete strangers. But you may have questions like like why should I show hospitality? To strangers, Reverend. How should I show hospitality towards strangers? And when should I show hospitality towards strangers? Well, let me address each one. Why? Why you bring it up? Why you talking about it today? Couldn't you find something else to preach today Nebel George Callum, a pastor, theological educator, former general of the Secretary of the Baptist World Alliance, wrote this. He says, hospitality to strangers links us with God and with others. It is a wonderful way of experiencing the presence of the Holy One. You see the benefit? That in the midst of your engaging with someone, there is a benefit for you and I. There is a takeaway. And the text says the writer said that some people unaware may have been sharing that hospitality with angels. He said, Oh, really? It happens in the Old Testament, there in the very first book of the Bible, Genesis 19, 1 through 3, Lot encounters two angels. He allowed them to enter his house. He fed them. Now they weren't flapping wings. There was no halo, but they were people with that spirit. Matthew 25, 36, Jesus says, listen, for I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me in. Say what? Was that you I cut off? Was that you I pretend that I didn't see? What was that you, Lord? Not convinced? You and I were once strangers. And God set it up that someone would approach us. And give us a word of encouragement that someone would be placed strategically just to give you a word of encouragement. Now I know you say, Reverend, I'm I'm not a strange. Oh yeah, you're strange. The Bible talks about it, say we are procured your people. We are royal priesthood. Amen. And so that is the howl of it. But but but but but why into the how, how we do it? We can start by recognizing and respecting differences. Not everybody is like you. I know you thought the mold was broke when you came along. You all that in a bag of chips. But the people that you and I encounter, the ones we call strangers, are children of God. How so? Genesis one twenty-seven, God created mankind in his own image. In the image he created them male and female We must be open to welcoming strangers. Matthew 10 and 40 says, anyone who welcomes you welcomes me. Now that's how we can show hospitality by by laying out the welcome math. We're in such a rush to dismiss people. Don't have time. I I'm late to my appointment. I don't have time to fool with anybody today. Now nob nobody here has ever done that. You know, you you went out of your way. I think about the Good Samaritan. Everybody was so busy. There's a stranger injured along the side of the road. And the priest walks on the other side and the Levite goes a different direction. But then the Samaritan stops and says, What can I do, bruh? How can I help you out? Isn't that good news today? 1 Peter 4 and 9 says we ought to offer hospitality to one another. And then that passage says, and to do it without grumbling. I'm gonna do it. I ain't really want to. And you walk away and think you've done done something really big. And think about the fact that God used you and used eyes to to make to make a difference. Well this is my last coffee shop story. As I left Hampton, I stopped over and got a place that could make some real grits. And as I pulled away, I said to the young lady, she was out for her smoke. And she said, I said, bye, Misty. I'll see you next year. She said, okay. And I hit reverse and said, no, I won't, because God's got something bigger for you. God has something that he's going to do in your. . The car was still running. And I said, you know what? I just stopped for a moment and had a Holy Ghost praise party with Misty, who I just met, there at the Waffle House. I may say, Well, you're wondering where the grits came from. Yeah they yeah they can still make grits but but it was in that moment while I'd been in there eating grits and writing the sermon that I said you know what Misty is a stranger, but Misty needs words of encouragement. Misty, I hope I will see you next year. Because God has something greater for her And God has something greater for you. And so take these moments to deposit a word of encouragement. Take these moments to deposit hope in the life of someone else. How Why? When? Your opportunity and my opportunity to show hospitality to strangers is not later on. It's right now. After all, our strange world needs a savior. Need to hear about the one that you serve. 2 Corinthians 6 and 2 says, Now is the time of God's favor. Now is the day of salvation. Don't miss it. Don't miss the opportunity to be the one who plants the seed into the life of someone. Now somebody else may come along and water it. And God will give the increase, but don't, you know, back up, turn around, make a U-turn, and go back and minister to someone in the name of Jesus Romans 12 and 13 reminds us to practice hospitality. Yeah, yeah. Get in front of the mirror and kind of go through it. Hi, how are you doing today? And God will allow people to come into your presence and and they and they may not want anything except a smile. All they want from you, they don't want a sermon, they don't want scripture, but they can see the Spirit of the Lord operating in your life. You know, focus in the world, no fakes. Oh yes they do. I'm Rev Tutin for you. Okay, and you know you come with a title. I sing in the choir. And I'm a deacon. So, but they want to see the real you. That's what impacts a society. Is you being you being used by God. I'm about to get excited on that. That God gives us an opportunity to connect with strangers Don't look now. But when you leave today, text me later, God's gonna send a stranger your way. Don't look for halo and look for the wings flapping, like in the movies. It don't work that way. That person might be somebody in your own home, on your job, in your community, in your church. The Bible is filled with people who had some encounter with angels. God's messengers, Luke 1. 26, Gabriel shows up in Nazareth and talks with Mary Luke 2. 13, the shepherds were out in the field saying, wait a minute, something is about to happen. And the multitude of angels began to praise the Lord. When Jesus began his ministry, Matthew 4 and 11, the devil started messing with him. And he told him that man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeded out of the mouth of God. It says, and then after that, the angels came and ministered to him. Matthew 26, 53 that there he is. They think they've really got Jesus. Oh, we got you say, you know what? If I wanted to, I could call a legion of angels That's about 72,000. They could take me right out of here. But I'm going in my purpose today. John 20 and 12, Mary Magdalene showed up at the grave and there were two angels sitting in white. And everyone knows, where he's already gone. Acts 1 and 11, the angels is there saying, hey, why are you staring, you men of Galilee? He who is gone, he's coming back again. Amen. I believe Jesus is coming back. Will he find a church showing hospitality to strangers? Uh will he be uh the church that you're in? Will it be a church that not is only strange, but estranged? Uh oh. A church that's not close or not affectionate, one that will let you know where they stand. God is looking for that kind of people. And since we are the body of Christ, talking about us. I saw this scripture over in Psalm 137. And that sounds like Babylon. And the people were in bondage. In strange, in a strange land. As they wept by the rivers of Babylon, they were homesick. Their captives have made fun of them. They were sarcastic saying, oh, what y'all saying one of them Jerusalem songs, you know? Their harps were hung up And they were being encountered by the enemy. In other words, those down home songs, they responded, How can we say? In a strange thing. How can we lift up a word of encouragement in a strange land Well you know what the world, the society is saying to you and I? What you sing one of them down home songs for us? I know you churchified. I know about you and you say, Well, I got some. You want the top ten? We can sing songs like Since Jesus Came Into My Heart. All held the power of Jesus' name. Jesus is all the world to me. Gonna lay down my burdens down by the riverside. Soon and very soon We're going to see the king. We can sing, we can also shout. When you think about what the Lord has done for you, oh my God, we got to represent today. Yes, I'm glad today that God will use us in any form or fashion to try and reach somebody. It really is all about trying to reach someone for Jesus Reverend, it's a broken record. She talk about that every week. Yes, because the world is in a mess right now Time is filled with swift transition. Not on earth unmoved can stand, but we're gonna build our hopes on things eternal. I'm going to hold to God's unchanging hand. And so call me strange because I'm trying to reach a stranger. Call me peculiar because God has an assignment for you and for me. You're gonna come and you're gonna see a stranger because really one day you two were a stranger. Amen. Looking for a way out of no way. And the God that we serve today, He desires to use us. He don't need us. But he'll use us. Anybody want to be used today? Anybody get on your badge that when you walk into the world they say there's something about you. Now don't try to get shy and go in the other direction. God really do he wants to use you to his glory. You know any strangers in your neighborhood? Do you know any strangers on your job today God has you on speed dial. Are you on assignment to tell someone that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. Let someone know that goodness And mercy shall follow them all the days of their life. Oh, you got one or two scriptures. If you don't know anything, say Jesus, well, my God, that will work too. All I'm trying to say today is that we have A mission. Strangers. Don't get caught up in that. I wonder if it was an angel. No, you just show hospitality. Be kind. You don't need five stars on your apron. Just go with what you know. In the name of Jesus. That's the word of God today. It's already a business. Come on, stand today. Yeah, you signed up as a soldier in the army of the Lord. I think it's marvelous that God would even desire to use us. Now you you sure you talking about me? Yes, you why because you've been through enough And you've seen enough to have a testimony. I didn't say tell all your business, but there's something you can connect with. In the case of James at the first carpet shop, man, James was spitting scripture on me. Oh, there's another homeless guy Let me try to find something, do him a favor. He said, let me tell you, I was still leaving. But James, he was busting script. Go, James. And so the stranger might bless you. We need him today. Even as we come, outside of Christ, you're a stranger. Outside of a relationship with him, you're a stranger. But God calls us to reach out to the stranger. Why? Because the stranger needs the Lord. So we come right now in the name of Jesus. Maybe you come into this place, into this space, be it by way of social media or not. The message is the same. That we need the Lord. And that's why he died. And that's why he rose. For strange people. God, I thank you even now for that heart that you've already softened. We thank you for your word that will speak louder than the preacher's word. It is your word. Save someone today. Encourage someone today. I ask even now if there's one who's never given their heart to you that this might be the day. I mean stranger things have happened. But God, we thank you for this today. Save that soul. Buy that relationship in Jesus' name. And the people of God say, Amen. Come on. How many know that you really need the Lord? I know. You can make it by yourself, so you think. At the end. We need him Oh yes he is. They may tell you otherwise. Amen. Take your seats for a moment. Maybe you've come. You desire to be a part of the Harvest family. We're right now preparing for a new members class. That's what you have a desire to do, and we will even go back and get those who may have come who've not had the class. But we want to bring you into the community of Christ today.