Father, we thank you for the power of prayer. It connects us to a holy God by way of Christ Jesus our Lord. We thank you for the privilege. To stand before your people to preach the good news of Jesus Christ. It is our prayers always that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Bible says to make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands conserve The Lord with gladness come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He's God? It is He who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. Oh y'all to hear that thing. The Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, his truth endureth to all generations. There's a work of the Lord today that comes from uh first John. We're so glad that we can share that word there in the fourth chapter. We're gonna just take up the twenty 20th and 21st verses it says, whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister. Sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen, cannot love God. And he has given us this command: anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. I'm going to preach today from the Samanic title, Strange Love. Strange love. I've mentioned that in my passing this week and folks start laughing. I said, Y'all don't know what the sermon is even about But even that title, Strange Love. We've all been in strange situations that seem awkward. Unusual, unsettling, uh downright hard to understand. We have tried to navigate through things that made us feel uncomfortable Abnormal, bizarre, different, odd, off-beat, rare, and peculiar. 1 Peter talks about we're a royal priesthood. We're a holy nation, but it also says we're kind of peculiar. Yes, right. In other words, within uh the context of your faith, we're all a little strange, aren't we? I know that you may not want to admit it today, but there are folk who see you and call you strange Because you get up on Sunday mornings, you come to church, you carry your Bible. They think there's something wrong with you, but there really isn't. Amen? But when it comes to this sense of strange love, I think that we run into strange people sometimes. people that we think could could I just say a little weird, a little different. And so we have to sometimes look at them. And I just want to label this message Today as strange love, and that simply means misguided love Love that's out of bounds. Love that does not quite fit in what we call agape love, and that is the love that God has for us. and the love that God displayed for us. Can I just get real for a second? You tell folk, I love you. Yeah. And what does that really mean? I really love you. Folk keep telling me that. You know I love you. Well I've already assumed that That that you you care about me, that you love me in that brotherly way, and that agape way, but we hear that as a believer, we say, I love you in the Lord. Romans five and eight reminds us That God demonstrated his love toward us that while we were yet in sin, that Christ died for us. He proved his love to us. Yes. So y'all got real serious. I might as well go back, throw back on y'all for a minute. Y'all thinking of that other love. I'm talking about this got paid love. I'm not talking about a dear a dear you know dear Charlene. I love you. We're gonna say no other name. But this love is the love that is shared uh between brothers and sisters in Christ. It is so important. And so in the text today, uh it is John, who scholars say is the same John who wrote the gospel who is addressing Christian folk. And these letters that we often see are letters written not to folk who are out of church, who don't know Jesus They're written to folk who said, I'm saved, and I'm sanctified and I'm filled with the Holy Ghost. This letter is going to them. And he really talks about their behavior He puts the rubber to the road and talks about this sense of exposing their strange love. Exposing a love that does not quite connect Does not quite make sense. It is strange love. And so John, because he spent time with the risen Savior, he knows what love looks like. He walked with the master. He's heard Jesus preach about love. He's seen people one to Christ by way of love. And can I just say this? You've got to just love people. You may not agree with them, but keep loving them in the name of Jesus. Amen. We we we we trying to change folks when we couldn't be changed. And so just love them and all their stuff because somebody loved you in spite of you, amen? But but John sees something in particular that disturbs him, and he wants to do what I would call an investigation He says, whoever claims to love God and yet hates a brother or sister, and I'll pause it right there. That that he says, behind the scenes, I'm detecting that some of you don't really care for your brother or sister in Christ. You say, oh my God, who's that? And he's writing to Christians saying that you have made this claim As to how much you love God. I love the Lord. He's heard my cry. We got some of the strongest testimonies there about how much God has done. But he says, whoever claims To love God. That I'll raise my hand because I claim to love God. Am I by myself today? How many folk claim? To love God. It's okay. It's the same poll that I claim to love God. Why? Because He sent His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. That's why I love Him. I acknowledge him. I acknowledge that Christ came and died for me, but he says, who claims to love God yet hates his brother and sister. I look at all the translations and it's still hate. It didn't change. It wasn't like one translation said, no, who don't care about the brother. No, hate. How can you say you love God but can't stand your sister or brother? Hate is a strong dislike. I can't stand her. She makes my blood boil. Well some of y'all said that. That I'm I like her but I don't love her. I'll put up with him but I really don't care much for him. I saw him in the back alley I might hit the gas instead of the brake. Well some of y'all trying to be all Holy Ghost filled. And so John points this out He he comes in and takes fingerprints. He he probes this thing and says, How in the world can you say that you love God and then you turn right around after church and cut somebody up? I'm just saying this in the text. And the text ought to help us in our daily living. It's for reproof, for correction, that the man and woman of God might be thoroughly furnished unto good works. And so that you're in the same room and the same church and on the same job and you just would rather go around the other way to avoid that person. But Reverend, don't call it hate. Well that's what it is. It's a dislike that there's something in me that don't care for you, but at the same time, let me carry my Bible with me because I love God. Oh, that's some strange love. Isn't that strange love? It didn't add up for me. Gospel of Luke. We're reminded by way of Christ as he quotes the scriptures: love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your strength, all your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. Not across the street, but your sister and brother in Christ. Amen. Just want to let you know that there was an investigation going on, but that wasn't just it There is also an observation because he says, who hates the brother of sister is a liar. That you ought to quit not telling the truth. But I but but but I nothing. You say you love me, but I saw the way you looked at that sister and gritted your teeth and How you get I'm just being a real church today. How you gave that brother to Isaac, I wish you wouldn't make a move. And your hand's already on your piece Some of y'all didn't come from the country. Y'all know about that. But if the shoe fits, wear it. If you're among the whoevers, then you've been labeled as a liar. My parents drilled to me and my father would say you are a liar and the truth is not in you. What does he mean? He means that I wasn't giving him all the intel. Amen. And didn't your parents say that if you will lie, you will cheat. If you will cheat, you will steal. There's a pattern that that will be passed down to the next generation. And they will say, look at me while I'm talking to you. And they will tell if you're lying. But there is this observation that something has been seen within the body of Christ. That disturbs this writer to the point that I took it on and called it strange love. That somehow it's not adding up. These were phony folk. Can I be modern? Who carried a big 10-gallon Bible? Phony folk. Who had a big old cross around the neck. I'm not picking on anybody. Phony folk who had that palm branch around the rearview mirror Funny folk who had the Bible way on the desk, David Bread Carry, and I'm I'm just saying that that as he looks at this, he sees something other than what has been spoken. John 8 and 44, what Jesus just says now y'all keep messing with me. He lays down, he said, you know what? He said, You belong to your father, the devil. And you want to carry out your father's desires? He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there's no truth In him. Sounds like mama theology. When he lies, he speaks his native language. For he is a liar and the father of lies. Strange love. Investigation. Then there's an observation, but at some point there has to be an explanation. It says for whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen cannot love God whom they in other words you've seen your brother and sister but you've not seen me you love me but you've never seen me but you can't stand them he says anyone who loves must also love your It's not optional that you can't have your cake and there's some later and eat it too. But that there comes this tension in the text. And that's what helps us in in our study of the word is when it don't feel right. It's when it steps on our toes. It's when it comes right down to it that you are a fake and a phony who says with your mouth, as we did last week, I love you. Give me a hug. There's some folk you won't even hug. You say, yeah, just stay back. Don't don't come any closer. Because you know the spirit. And you've discerned them But this is something that comes to speak to inconsistency. And I've raised my own question: how can you tell me I cannot love God? It becomes in question. Yes, God knows your heart and no we can't uh say that you you know we can't read your mind, but it's very clear that you can't have it both ways. John says it's not optional. It's a command. And what God has commanded for your life, He really means that. This is not to be negotiated If I do this, God, oh some of y'all have done that, and me too. Now if I do this, won't you do that? God is not a man. He's gone. But he begins to explain to them that there really is no out that today you've got to have this kind of love that I've displayed and you've got to share it Reverend, that's still a tough dilemma. My feelings have not changed. Well, when you juxtapose it and put it together and say, Now, can I do both No. Something has got to give. Otherwise, you will be strange in your loving toward someone else. And I pray that the text is helping each of us. So what's keeping you from loving your sister and your brother? What is it that that they've done yesteryear that you just won't let go? What is it that they've said? I'm not just talking about blood relatives. I'm just I mean we you know blood folk get in distraps all the time. Y'all got families. But I'm talking about fellow Christians What is it that that is stopping that? Today ask God to search your heart. Take it out and strengthen me. I I need help in this area. Be honest with God. And God will soften your heart in such a way That you'll be jumping, hey, loving all folks. You won't be able to help you. Wait a minute. That's kind of strange, but the love of God will overtake you. Have you ever been Overtaken by the love of God before that you didn't really want to be all lovey-dovey in the Lord, all of a sudden the Holy Spirit starts working on you. You know what? Come here, you know. Another uh come here, come here, you know what I want It's about this transformation that happens. But the enemy wants you to stay in that stage of Being strange about your love. The enemy gets joy out of the fact that you are cut off sometime. He likes the fact that you're hot and sometimes you're cold and and the Bible said if you get lukewarm I'll spew you out of my mouth. I'd rather you be one or the other. And Ephesians talks about saying if you anger, do not sin If you rub the wrong way, don't let the sun go down while you are still angry. And I love this. And don't get the devil A foothold. All he wants is to say, oh yeah, see, I told you. I told you, I told you that wasn't all that. See that? Uh-huh. Didn't I tell you? But the Lord is always looking for us to help us Are you guilty of practicing strange love? Can you blame the old devil? The devil made me do it. But what part did you play? Weren't you the supporting actor in this? Didn't you get a golden globe for best actor in a drama series? I mean you can't put everything on the devil. We must separate ourselves from this strange love. This love that's trying to invade our homes, this strange love that's coming to our schools, this strange love that's showing up on our jobs is just strange But there is no greater love than the love that came by way of Jesus Christ. His love is not strange It's almighty, but it's not strange. It's everlasting, but it's not strange. It'll heal you, but it's not strange. It'll hold you, but it's not strange. It'll keep you, but it's not strange. It'll save you, but it's not That's strange love. Amen. I love what Andre Cross Jesus. I don't know why Jesus loves me. I don't know why He does I don't know why he sacrificed his life, but oh I'm so glad that he did. Because I used to deal in strange love Until one day, he died for me, and now I've got love that keeps me secure. What about you? Oh, you were used to me Be strange, but didn't God come along? Oh, how He loves you, and oh how He loves me? Don't you feel the love of Jesus Christ today? I do. That's why He went to the cross Because he saw a strange life. But he loved you even to the other most. I'm so glad that he lifted me. I'm so glad that he saved me. I'm so glad that he continues to keep me that the word. Well jump on me and help to shape me and help me to look down the list of who I didn't like or who you didn't like. Lord, I can't do both. I can't do both. That trade in strange love and get real love. Feed in that bizarre stuff and get this blessed love. Trade in this love that causes you to be sometime, eh? And embrace the love of Jesus Christ. I declare that once you begin to love yourself, you can love others. Once you get past the point that God, you have made me, and I'm fearfully And wonderfully made. So take off the strange love label and put on the label of Jesus. Christ. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. You can't have it both ways. And that's why I'm so thankful for his grace and his mercy. Because that makes the difference in transforming me into who God has made me to be. Aren't you glad about that today? That He comes alone And does to you and I what needs to be done. Grace and mercy. Those twins, they make a difference. Your grace and mercy draw me to