Oh, bless the Lord. Are you giving your best? Not what's left over, but your best I can't help but think about yesterday uh Coco. Oh, I think she gave her best yesterday. I'm a little biased, she's from Florida, so I was you know and then Prime gave his best. He's also from Florida. So y'all know I am biased about my home state But as we come today, we just glorify the Lord and we thank him. I want to do something I don't normally do. I want to just acknowledge our young people today, these three young ladies. God bless you. Thank you for being in church today. Amen. We want to encourage you in the Lord today. You can get past the later Of putting you on blast. Father, we do come today and we thank you for this moment. To declare your word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save somebody today and encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the book of Esther. Amen, you Bible students. That's in the Old Testament. And then just go in a little bit and you'll find this particular book of Esther, the fourth chapter. We'll be reading verses 16 and 17. Esther four sixteen and seventeen. It reads, Go gather together all the Jews who are in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my attendants will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the king, even though it is against the law, and if I perish, I perish. So Mordecai went away and carried out all of Esther's instructions. What a priest today from the Samonic title, Stuck in Neutral, Part 2. Stuck in Neutral, Part 2. We can recap from last week. We met a young Jeremiah, a teenager who had gotten a call from God to share with his people. Automatically he said, I am not the one. I am too young. I cannot speak properly, but God had to remind him that I'm the one who made you. You know, God has to remind us sometimes that we play ourselves short. He said, You know who you are? You are King's Kid. And so what happened is he received the call. But we determined even then that the reason that we get stuck in neutral so often is because we make excuses. But aren't you glad that God comes along and He makes provisions? He gives us what we don't have. Amen. And then in the midst of that, he also promotes us. God is a mighty good God. So from Jeremiah to Esther, we meet someone who takes a different approach when they're stuck in neutral. It takes place in Susa, modern-day Iran, and there are four characters: King Xerxes, Haman, the bad guy of the plot. Mordecai, a passionate Jewish figure, and Esther. Esther is Mordecai's cousin and uncle type And so when I looked at this particular chapter, uh it reminded me of the Cinderella story. No, there was no fairy godmother, but here is someone from a low place who is exalted to a high place. She's a queen. Queen Esther. And so let me set the scene for you. It's a festive atmosphere. The king throws a major party. And it goes on for a hundred and eighty days. All I can think of, that's an entire school year. But if you read that first chapter of Esther and Beyond, I mean it's party all the time. descriptive in what was served and how it was served, he did not cut any quarters for this great time of celebration. In the midst of it, he calls for his wife Vashti, the queen at the time, to come to the party. He was saying she's good looking. Y'all gonna like her. She's my wife. She's my boo. And what turns up is that she refuses to come. And there's an edict put out that says that what you have done will cause all women to disrespect their husbands. That's a sermon for another day. That's deep. Don't misunderstand this. All right? But this is a story about betrayal and dishonesty, and also about hope and victory. And so the main character, Esther, is sort of stuck in neutral. Here's why. Hamond, who's the bad guy, starts trouble. You know, there's got to be a villain in the movie Somebody you can't stand. They're just acting. I can't stand him. In fact, you'll take it to another movie that they played in, and you'll take over that same feeling. Haman was a bad somebody in the sense that he wanted everyone to bow down to him. He thought he was all of that. Mordecai refuses to do so That causes him to become angry. And what does he do? He tries to set him up. And the drama unfolds. I want you to pay attention in this story to influence, insight, and inclusion. Verse 16 says, and this is a response from Esther to Mordecai, who brings her the bad news that there's a plan to kill all the Jews in Susa. She says to him, go gather together all the Jews who are in Susa and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my attendants will fast as you do Esther is already wearing the crown as queen, and she has influence. She has the king's ear. Mordecai tips Esther off about the ploy. Esther stayed in neutral for this matter. She didn't shift yet. You would have said, Esther, I would just go to the king right now. And lay it out. But every now and then you must listen to what God is saying as opposed to someone else. Had we listened to everyone else, we would be in a world of trouble because we would shift too soon. And she had the influence. Amen. That she said, I need for you to fast. That if you do this, and I'll do with my attendance, we believe that something powerful is going to happen Now, when you read Esther, theologians agree that this is a book where the name of God is not mentioned anywhere in the book. How so? I like what Tony Evans says. He says God may not be on the front page, but God's fingertips are all over this story. Amen. To God be the glory. God has given you and I influence in the world And among the people of faith in general. Don't play yourself short. Amen? Don't let your resume confuse you. You are somebody. And God can use you to make things happen, and he will always get the glory. I mean Esther was in the right place. Had never even revealed that she was a Jew, but she knew that coming to the king's court without being invited, man, that was a death penalty. You see now why she couldn't shift right away? You see now why she played her cards just right? Jesus has influence with the Father. Aren't you glad about that today? Luke 6 and 12 reminds us that he would get up early, but in this passage, he spends the entire night. With the Father. Man, that means you're really getting something deep. And he had the kind of influence, the Bible says, that Jesus now sits at the right hand of the Father. Making intercession for the saints. Does that sound like influence to you? Aren't you glad that Jesus has influence with the Father? That no matter what you are going through, that he can say, listen, I know what they're going through. I know what they're facing because I face the same thing, but because I am the Son of God. I can come to you and lay it out. Influence is so important. Don't shift just yet. Esther had influence, but she also had insight. The rest of that verse says, When this is done, when wood is done, when the fast is done, I will go to the king, even though it's against the law. Even though I could get killed, it was a risk, but she says, if I perish, I perish. So be it. Isn't that a strong faith that the insight that you have that yes I've asked you to fast, but now I'm gonna think this thing through That she goes to the king, lets them hand on the plot, and it was all about timing. Timing is everything, isn't it You ever wanted to do something, you all set to do it Monday morning, God said, No. It ain't time to shift. Leave this what about next week? No. Anybody had to wait on the Lord in a situation that you were so sure you had your mind made up, I'm gonna do it regardless, because the Lord told me, well let wait, wait, hold, hold, hold on. Gain some insight before you and I move ahead. She put her life on the line. So be it. Whatever that I'm being led because I ought to care that much about my people that I don't mind taking a risk You ought to care so much about your family. You ought to care so much about your community that you can kind of walk the chalk line. But every now and then you go over the line God is in this, although he is not mentioned. God has given you an eye insight. On what to do. I dare say that many of us, small or large, have decisions to make this week. I know it's Sunday, praise the Lord, but Monday cometh. You're saying, wait a minute, now Monday comes and I gotta make a decision. I gotta do something, it may be I know we can turn work off, but work is always there. Whatever that is God has given you the insight, but we must allow Him to guide our hands. And to guide our hearts, letting us know when to shift out of neutral. Jesus with his disciples in John 4. You know, he was heading uh to Samaria, but he stops in a small town. Off the beaten path. And there he meets a woman at the well. His disciples are so hungry, they starve and they go into town and get something to eat and come back and say, You know what? Did you get anything? Did anyone bring you anything you know about the situation at the well? He meets the woman and he tells everything she knows. She has something about you that's different He has seen our whole hand too, you know. Yes, he has. But he says to his disciples there in John 4, 35, he says to them, Now you're saying there's still four months to go Unto harvest. He said, No, no, no. Look now. That now is the time. Because he had the insight, now is the time to go and to what To look at the harvest and to reach the harvest, he knows when to shift in our situations because don't you know that God has insight? You know what there's one thing about getting more seasoned in life, you know five more things than somebody else. Why? Because we've made more mistakes. And ah, look at that. And parents say, I told you you ain't nothing new under the sun. Been there, done that. Good old days weren't all that good were they. Now that you look back, Esther had insight. She had influence and it both led to inclusion. Verse seventeen says, So Mordecai. Went away and carried out all of Esther's instructions. He didn't question what she wanted to do. He didn't say, Are you Are you sure you know I'm your uncle? Kind of sort of. Let me check back with you. But that's what happened. The plot was revealed. Haman, the bad guy, went down. And there was a moment of inclusion. Mordecai Is elevated, honored by the King, placed in a high position, an example of being included. We've been included as a part of God's family. I told y'all, y'all are my cousins. We got the same daddy and the same DNA. It's something about the blood of Jesus. Jesus reminds us and 1 John 3 and 2, as John declares, beloved now are we the sons and daughters of God. Don't you feel included today? And because you've been included, we have to include others. Amen. I got a problem with that. Just love people. I don't know back in my day, just love people and don't judge because none of us are all of that. As I bring this thing home, I mentioned last week about vehicles that had stick shift. Some of y'all all you've known is just the old but years ago and still on a car or two is something called a stick shift. I remember driving and was on the fly. If you know that you you you've been around you c you country if you know that. But on the fly which means that you would go first Up second, third, and reverse was a whole nother shift. But when you drive a stick shift It will let you know when it's time to ship. The engine will start why It lets you know it's time for you to do something. It's time to shift. The engine is straining because it's waiting for you to go to the next gear. And in life, you may be going through something, stuck in neutral, and there's a strain on your life But I stopped by to tell you today that God is saying to you, put your foot on the gospel clutch and begin to shift. Amen And that's the good news today. That there's something that's caused you to be under strain and to be stressed today. All I stopped by to tell you in this series, it's okay for you to put that thing. in gear and move on up the King's Highway. And I wanna let you know that sometimes in life it seems like you can't get it right And if you do it wrong, you'll grind the gears, it'll make a whole lot of noise. But I'm glad today that the Lord that I serve Let's me know that even if I happen to get stuck in the wrong gear, it's okay. Be not dismayed, whatever betide. Because either way, God will take care of you Beneath his wings of love abide. God will take care of you. God will take care of you. Anybody believe it today that the God that you and I serve Not might, but he will take care of you. I'm so glad today because in the midst of so many missteps I've blown it a time or two. I'm glad that the Lord knew that when I shipped it out of order, that He put me back in the right place. Anybody know what it means to be in cruise control? Because once you hit the fourth gear or the fifth gear, then you can roll on down the road. But I thank the Lord today that He has put me in a position so I can hear when the strain is coming. And I know I've got to have a little talk with Jesus. And I've got to tell him all about my struggles. Have you ever told him about your struggle today? Have you ever told him about your situation today? And what he'll do is he'll hear your famous cry. And he will answer by and by. And so as I leave you today, know that God is the one who gives you the intel about when it's time to shift. Don't listen to your homegirl or your homeboy. But the Lord told you that now, now, now, now is the time to shift. And to reach toward the hills from which cometh your help. Because all of your help cometh from the Lord. And I'm glad today that that's helped me out a bit Because since I've been preaching the series, I found myself stuck every now and then. And sometimes you gotta take your own medicine. But anybody here today can you declare that God has gotten you out of a tight spot? Can you declare today that God has brought you out? Can you declare today that God has made a way for you? Won't He do it? Won't he do it? Won't he do it? God will take care of you. I know. Don't make me do it and drive a zone. But you'll know when it's in the right gear. Stuck in neutral, part three on next Sunday. That is the word of God. Come on, stand today I don't want to mess up the transmission. He'll fix that too. Has he ever fixed it for you? Well think about this life that we live. It's a series of Mistakes, missteps, but God has a way of making it right. And I'm so glad about that today Don't you want him to lead you today? He'll do it. And as we come today, We know he'll do it. Alone. For if you lead me Oh, if you leave me Lord, Lord, let me walk each day Lead me. You may be a A visitor, you may be a participant, and you just sense that I need to be led in the right direction. It's one thing to get it in gear, but which way are you heading? No matter your age or no matter your time in church, if you don't know Jesus Christ, I just start by as an ambassador, as Mr. Goodrich. To remind you that if you shift in this direction, he can change your life around. And so it goes like this The Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. What does that mean? Reverend, I believe in Christmas. In fact, my list is already half done. And when you believe that God sent Jesus Christ, That's a sorry. Well, Reverend, I've already got my bonnet for Easter. And you believe that he died and rose again. The Bible says if you believe that, that God sent Jesus. As a babe wrapped in swanding clothes, lying in a manger, if you believe that God raised Jesus from the grave, the Bible says, if you believe that, thou shalt be saved. As those heads remount, bow today, there might be someone here who wants to get to know Jesus. Who wants to be saved? It can happen today. All you have to do is confess. Confess to him that I don't understand it all, but this is what I believe. We believe it and we declare it now in Jesus' name. Amen.