Praise God. I surrender all. We thank God for His many blessings and for how He's keeping us. It's not enough for the Word of God. We ask even now that if you have your Bibles available uh by way of uh digital, that's fine. If you have them with the word, I have both. I want to be able to have you to turn to the Gospel of Mark, the eighth chapter, verse number thirty four. That's the Gospel of Mark, the eighth chapter, and verse number thirty. If you haven't and you're watching, just give us a thumbs up or heart. Amen. That lets me know that, Pastor, we are with you. Amen. Here's our reads. Then he called the crowd to him, along with his disciples, and And said, Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me. I want to preach today from the Samanic title Surrender. Part one. Surrender Part One. Surrender is a battle term. It involves the laying down of arms and giving up control in this case to an opponent. It's done so with the symbolic waving of a white flag. It lets the person know that yes, we can talk. It lets them know yes, it's time for negotiations. And I remember watching as a young man and even as a middle or seasoned man, the westerns uh how many people watch westerns out there? And you see even the baddest gunslinger in town every now and then will find himself in a position where he has to surrender, has to wave the white flag. You know, surrendering to God works the same way. It is giving up our control unto him. I love what the prophet Jeremiah says. In Jeremiah 29, 11. It says, For I know the plans I have for you. I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you, and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and to give a future isn't that good news to know that even when your five year plan is not going the way you thought it should have gone in twenty twenty, that God still has a divine plan just for you. I believe that when we surrender our hearts and our minds and our souls to Jesus, it gives us an opportunity for a closer relationship on all levels and in every way. By the time we get to our text today, Jesus has already moved forward and he's Already done some things that would make the gospel headlines. He feeds five thousand people or more with two fish and five loaves of bread. What a miracle! Can you imagine that? With all that is happening, that Jesus Jesus demonstrates his power even in the midst of those who are recipients to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he encounters a man who is blind. He heals that man. And only in Mark's text that I can find that there's Opportunity to where the man says, I'm not quite seeing right yet. I see men as trees, and then he touches them a second time, and he's able to see. Every now and then you need a second touch from God. One touch may not work you. He gives those disciples a pop quiz. Who do men say that I am? And they begin to list off different names, you Jeremiah, you one of the prophets, but Peter responds that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. It's at this point that he begins to move their attention to what he has come to do. He was born to die. He appoints them to follow him. But he says, whoever wants to be Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves, take up their cross, and follow me. Jesus was looking for commitment. He didn't want somebody who was just hanging on, you know, just going and looking for the miracles, but you wanted a real and true commitment that involves surrendering our mind, our body, and our spirit. It is denying ourselves. So this is a good place to start. Jesus taught that in order to become my disciple, there must be some self-denial. And denial is what the Lord expects from each one of us. Now I believe there has to be a certain mindset. Mindset that you are you don't know who I am. Yeah, I know who you are. You're a son of the king, but you've got to submit and to bow. The Bible says, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God. The challenge sometimes is saying no to yourself. Yeah, somebody has told you how important you are. And so you put yourself on a sort of pedestal, but you got to be able to do what? To surrender how you think. I recall the first class I took in college was psychology. And I did okay, I gotta see, but I did remember this. Self-concept. I'm not saying you ought not feel good about yourself. But always make sure that self does not get in the way of what God wants to do for you. Amen. Matthew 22 and 37 he says, Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God. with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. It really is about our mindset. How how is it that we are processing all the great things that God has done in our lives? process that we gotta surrender our minds unto him. Our thought life. Put those thoughts on lockdown. There are times that we're not even uh trying to do anything but just be who we are and Crazy thoughts will come, but you begin to submit to the Lord and surrender to him and not to what you're thinking. Philippians 2 and 5, Paul writes to the church at Philippi. He says, So let this mind be in you. that was also in Christ Jesus. It's how you think. And when you start surrendering your mind over to the Lord, you'll be amazed what he will do. It's about surrendering. But Not just our mind, but to stay connected, we also must surrender our bodies. Amen. In denying himself, Jesus was willing to surrender his very body, his physical body. That's at the root of the world. of the gospel message. He came to die. My body. Amen? John three sixteen, a very popular passage, but one that says it all. For God so loved the world that he said His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die for us. That means that his physical body uh had to be broken there on the tree. Amen? That is the message of Jesus Christ. And don't Take that message for granted. This is the gospel in living color. That if I think about the sacrifice that the Lord Jesus Christ made for me by giving his very body on an oil Rugged cross dying for me that ought to make you think about your own body. Amen. There's a message here for our physical bodies. First Corinthians six and fifteen. We're reminded that know ye not that your body Is the temple of the Holy Spirit that the Holy Spirit of God resides in you? We only get one earthly body. Amen. You don't have to get two. There's a heavenly body, but there's only one earthly body. Everybody. And these bodies come in all shapes and sizes and forms, and we gotta embrace who God has made us, amen. That's the good news. But we gotta be willing to deny and surrender certain things with the body in terms of what we put in our bodies. They say, Reverend, don't don't go there. I've already got a breakfast plans, I've got lunch plans, I've got dinner plans. Don't you know it's Sunday? Yes, I do. But we've got to deny some things within our bodies. Be selective. And this is not just food. It's just what we take in. There's some conversations we need to surrender. Some things that we have been saying well surrender unto the Lord. There's always a test. Now you you think usually Opinion and you want to say it, does it please God? That's a a good marker right there. Willing to deny, amen. Deny yourselves, that is, surrender your very personal. very body uh which he's given us unto Jesus Christ. I'm always amazed when I read the early text how they live like 200, 300 years. That's a long time. Now they would do a lot of walking. I remember my late grandmother Holly Graham, she lived to be, I think, a hundred and one years old. How amazing. But we thank God that when it comes to surrender, it is our our minds, our bodies, but also our spirit. You see, we have Flesh and blood. The Bible talks about in Genesis 2 that God blew into us living breath and we became souls. Amen. He resides in us. It's amazing to think that wherever you go, you ought to be taken. If you go to the store, uh that spirit of God ought to be residing in you in the produce section. That wherever you go, folk ought to be able to say there's something peculiar about you because you're allowing yourself to be filled with the spirit of God. And I know that we'd love to be in our buildings now for the most part, but that does not prohibit the spirit of God from filling you right now. My God. It can fuel you out on Facebook. It can fuel you during this stream if you are Allow the Spirit to fill you up. Acts two thirty eight. Then Peter said unto them those who were uh being preached to. He says, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for remissions of your sins and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit. Don't you want the Lord's Spirit today? Amen. Check this out. Don't surrender to every spirit, because every spirit is not a holy spirit. Uh oh. I just went somewhere. First John four, one and two, great passage. It says, Beloved, Believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God. I could just pause right there. You gotta be uh have some discernment because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Verse 2, hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. Been around someone and you felt like the spirit was just not right. You just didn't feel right about that. You have to try the spirits, but make sure that you are filled with the spirit. Second Timothy 1 and 7 says, For God has not given with us the spirit of fear, but of love and of power and a sound mind. When we surrender our minds and our bodies and our spirit to the Lord, we'll be more willing to love each other as he loves us. We'll be more willing to forgive others. You know, we find the heart sometimes. I'll forgive but I won't forget. But we have to make sure we surrender some things. Can't just go on your Today, there are some things that you've been holding this year that you've not surrendered. Some attitudes, some relationships that have been damaged, and you have said, I'm gonna hold on to this. Can I tell you today to surrender? Surrender that? To let that go that the Lord might do a mighty work in you. You go to throw your hands in there and say, you know what? I surrender that thought. I surrender that thing that's caused a crack in our relationship. Jesus looked beyond our faults and saw our needs. And sometimes we forget that. We are selective about what we surrender. Don't you know what he's done for you? That God has blessed you in such a way that there's some stuff today you ought to surrender. Give it to the Lord Jesus Christ. I love this story. A missionary apparently is preaching. To an Indian tribe. And as he's preaching, he's talking about the goodness of Jesus Christ. And way in the back, there was the Indian chief. And he was moved by the message. And so Talked about bringing yourself. He says, you know what? I'm a walker up and he surrendered his tomahawk. He says, Me, Chief, give tomahawk. He felt good about that. He walked on back, and as he sat down, the word of God continue to go forward. Just because somebody gives up something doesn't mean that they're ready yet. And so he continues to hear the word. He's convicted and he says, I'm going to surrender my blanket. Me Chief surrender blanket goes back, and I love this missionary keeps preaching the good news of Jesus Christ. He was going somewhere. The chief comes back and he says, Me, Chief. Thief, give horse. That was important if you had a horse. And yet the word continued to go forward. Can I just say this? The person you've been witnessing to don't give up on them yet. He comes And he gives everything so he thought. But there came a point that he says, Me chief, give my heart. Amen. I feel like that chief today because there came a point in life I had to give Give my heart to Jesus Christ. It was the best thing I could have ever done, was to know that he had chosen me, but then I in turn chose him. Chose to follow him to the glory of God. And I tell you, since he's come into my heart, my God, life has been sweet. Floods of joy owe my soul like a sea binared since Jesus came into my heart. You ought to just surrender your life to him. See, we want to hold some things back. If I just keep a little bit, I'll give Jesus this much. But oh Friday, I want to do this. Or Saturday, I want to be who I am. But he What you would give all mind, body, spirit, and most of all, your heart. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. We're gonna have a song of invitation. We'll come back after this. I kid you all my tree. And I know where that means around you. I don't think yours doesn't work in the room. Amen. Run to the Father, we want to thank Eliza Watts Williams from Lake City, Florida, uh Roots and Live Oak. Take a moment even now as you think about what the Lord has done for you. I want to offer Christ to you. I come by as an ambassador. One who knows what the Lord can do. And he really made a sacrifice just for your eye. So I want to let you know today that the Lord Jesus Christ, first of all, loves you with all of his heart. As we bow today, Heavenly Father, we come. As we come today, we're on a mission to tell others about you. Those who we have heard but have not. made a commitment that is to to fully give themselves to fully surrender your word says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. In an uncertain world, we pray today that we might find more people surrendering, saying, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? What you must do is to surrender and to give your heart to him. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you're here today, maybe you have made to connect with the word of God that so key. We bless God today. Want to just think about a few things that are going on. Uh update in our ministry. If you're not receiving our text, you want to be connected virtually to the Harvest Family. Uh the doors of the church virtually are open to you. You say, Brother, I've been watching you for a long time. Uh we just popped in today. Uh just know even now that you can go from being a fan to a follower in the Lord Jesus Christ. In order to thank you for giving online for your sacrifice. uh for your uh planting a seed into this ministry. I can assure you it is good ground. If you have a prayer need today, let us know by uh sending us an email and sending us a text and say, Listen, I need prayer in this area. But just alone, there's so much we can be praying for to the glory of God. As always, if you're looking to have uh uplifting music and encouragement all day long, you can find it on the Rejoice Musical Soul Food Network. I am on uh that broad. A couple of days a week, my good friend Mike Chandler is the one who owns this operation. It's a blessing to you. And let me remind you, with all that is going on, please, ma'am, please, sir, vote. Vote, vote, vote, vote your voice matters. I remember the first time I voted. It never stopped since then. I was eighteen years old. Many things happened in eighteen, but voting was so key to the glory of God. I want to remind you as well, I know that. in the next few weeks that many of you uh will be continuing your studies at home. You may not be mom or dad, you may be auntie, uncle, granddaddy, but you have to help those young people get their lessons as my uncle you I have a resource that is going to be a big help to you, a leading by example, a parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. This is a resource that you can put on yourself. It gives you lessons. some plans it gives you some basics to understand and to share so make that a part of not just recess whether you're putting recess let's have a moment to pray and this guide helps you you can find it on our website site www. timtudentv dot com. Well next week we're gonna go back and do surrender part two as we continue our preaching series. I don't know about you but I feel better already living some things go to the glory of God. On behalf of the finest team anywhere, this is the Harvest Team. Amen. They get us on the air and thank you for joining us. And be sure to stay tuned. Harvest Christian.