Turn in your Bibles to Mark eight thirty four. We're there on last week as well. The Gospel of Mark, the eighth chapter, verse number thirty four. There's still time to connect with friends and family. And I always want to shout out to uh persons in Florida, Georgia, Alabama. Can I do all fifty? I missed Texas last week. Texas we can go across the water as well. If you found the word just give us a thumb. If you can see it, then give us a thumb as well. Be prepared to share The good news of Jesus Christ from the gospel as penned by Mark. Esau reads. Then he called the crowd to him, along with his disciples, and said, Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me. I want to preach today from the Semonic title Surrender Part 2. Surrender Part 2. You know, a paradox is a statement that contradicts itself in so many ways. It must be true and untrue at the same time. Now I'm told that an Alcoholics Anonymous or AAE that there is a paradox that one must surrender in order to win. One may ask, why should I have to surrender or give up in order to get better? Something to ponder. Ways surrender is to give up and to give in, to stop fighting, to stop hiding, to stop resisting, to surrender if to give control to someone else. And can I suggest that you can give that? control that you can surrender to Jesus Christ. I always love doing the invitation in the midst of the beginning. But even right now, Reverend, before you get any further, I want to surrender my life to Jesus Christ. So often we wait till the end of the sommonic presentation to invite you, but can I invite you right now that if you don't know Jesus Christ and the pardon of your sins, you can surrender right now, hands up and says, you know what, Lord, I want to give my life to you. Jesus wants us to surrender. To deny ourselves. And part one, we talked about denying as it relates to mind, body, and spirit. It is what Jesus required. It is what He commanded. And now we come to another requirement that's embedded in Mark 8 and 34. It's this. Take up their cross. That was the message to those who were listening. Take up their cross. Amen? It is Coming out of historic time, Jesus has set his face toward Jerusalem. He knows what's going to happen next. He's taking care of some unfinished business. He really puts it out there. Now, if you want to be a part of my team, here's something that you have to do. Now the cross is a symbol of suffering back in the day. It was a symbol of death, a type of punishment that was given to criminals who had done wrong for those who were guilty in the of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, he was not guilty. He committed no crime at all. But he made the statement. Surrender means to take up your cross. It becomes personal, my cross. And taking up one's cross brings to mind a certain image. Not a cross like the ones that we see on the steeple of churches or the ones that you might be wearing around your neck even now. No. It was the late African-American scholar, James Cole. in his book The Cross and the Lynching Tree, he shares an historic and theological reflection on the harsh reality of life in the lynching era, 1880 to 1940. And Colin says something very interesting. He asserts that blacks equated the lynching tree with the cross that Jesus hung from. There was an identification. And he makes reference to a sermon by the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. In that sermon, Dr. King states. Referring to the cross. It is not something that you wear. The cross is something that you bear and ultimately you die on. Billy Graham, the late evangelist, believed that in saying, take up your cross. Jesus was telling us to put to death our plans and desires and turn our lives over to Him. That can't be said enough that we think we're in control. We think we've got it on, but don't you know that that unless you allow your life to connect with the Lord Jesus Christ, you're going nowhere fast. The concept of cross-bearing today has lost much of its original meaning. Typically we use cross-bearing To denote an inconvenience or bothersome circumstances. Let me know if I'm on your street. My troubled team is my cross to bear. Our cross is not dealing with disobedient children or experiencing religious. relationship issues or having one of the worst jobs on the planet. There are still places in the world today where Christians are being persecuted even to the point of death because of their faith. They have taken up their cross. They know what it means to follow Jesus. Now here's a personal question. Are you willing to take up your cross if the answer is yes, do I believe this? That you gotta be available. And you got to be flexible and you must embrace the fact that Jesus and I love this he is merciful available Jesus wanted those who were listening to him to know then and he wants us to know now are you available? Are you present? Are you accounted for? I remember back in the day uh when you were in class uh that uh the teacher would call your name. Am I telling my age now? Timothy two and you would say present. You would have to respond. And that's what the Lord wants to know. Are you available? Are you ready to go on his behalf? There's a flip side. Are we too busy to be available to Jesus? Jesus? Are we too preoccupied with us to do what? To take up our cross. Jesus was available from day one. He was available uh there in that manger. Amen. Wrapped the swazi clothes. He was available even then, and he one day would become a living sacrifice. You see, in that particular time period, a person would worship by sacrificing certain animals. But but Jesus became the living sacrifice. He would be forced to carry his own cross. He know what it means. That cross would weigh anywhere from a hundred to a hundred and thirty five pounds. He had to carry that cross up the hill. But thank God that the Bible mentions Simon of Serene, who was minding his own business, he carried the cross for the final leg of the journey, a man of African descent. When you live a surrendered life, you make yourself available. You won't become a clock watcher, you won't become impatient. But Isaiah 6 and 8, the prophet Isaiah says it'll be very key. As he's approached and as he is called. on to do more. He says, I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? Here sounds like somebody was leadable. Then he said, Here I am Send me. How many people are volunteering to do the work of ministry? How many people are volunteering to reach someone for Christ? I was talking to one of our uh beloved members on just the other day and she said I am high Housebound for now, but Jesus is sending people to me. That even though you will not be able to leave where you are because of the pandemic or otherwise, don't you know the Lord will send folk to you if you are available? Now Peter goes a step further. He says at first Peter 3:16, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every person who asks with meekness and without fear that we We have a responsibility to carry the cross that we are given, and whatever that circumstance might be, we have a unique position. As I grow in the Lord, I want to be available. I I I don't want to be too busy for the Lord. But not just that. It's important to be flexible. Now to be flexible is to be willing to change. And changed in such a way that the Lord can use. you how how flexible are you? Are you the kind of person that if it's not A and B that you can't uh you can't make it? But how many folk are willing to change their own plans to be on call, to be on standby for the Savior to To take up your cross. He didn't say take up your cross when you get around to it. See, keep in mind that this was a crucial time as Jesus prepared to head to the cross. He wanted to know this. How flexible are you? Yes, you've been following me. Yes, you've witnessed the miracles, but how flexible are you to be willing to become one of my disciples? He didn't say take up your cross next week. He didn't say take up your cross when you get around to it. It was an on the spot decision. How many persons have made on the spot decisions? I mean all you had in time for was a quick Lord help me. Oh Lord have mercy, and yet the Lord worked in you and through you to work a great miracle. To be flexible is to be available. It has to be personal. what Paul says in Galatians 2 and 20. He says, I've been crucified with Christ. It is I no longer who lives, but Christ who lives in me and the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. That that's a big piece of meat. That we may be going through something right now. Don't you know that the Lord is aware and that you are crucified but you didn't go to the cross. You're crucified with him and your life ought to be embedded and connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm about to get excited on that. Thank God that there came the day when my life was intersected with the life of Jesus, when he chose me, when I confessed my sins unto him. It is about sacrifice and it is about obedience. It's also about transformation. Romans 12 and 2 reminds us to be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. He he wants to put you into shape. You're not gonna get anywhere if you uh you say I'm gonna remain who I am. I gotta be my own man and my own woman. That's that's great, that's great. But when you Put the Lord into the equation, He wants you to be flexible. Amen. That to carry your cross, to take it up, it means to be flexible, to be available, but we can't lose sight that in the midst of living of surrender. good life, the Lord is merciful. Oh, hallelujah. To be merciful means to have compassion on others. Aren't you glad he had compassion on you? Amen. He he could have gone the other way, but thank God for Jesus. And I've used the term and you have to, you didn't realize that somebody could have recorded you, Lord, have mercy. And that may have been all the time you had, that I need mercy, that mercy suits my case. You called me to do something, I need you to have mercy on my soul. Amen. Not who I used to be, but thank God that He's leading me in a different direction. Lamentations 3, 22 and 23. I love this passage. It says, It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed because his compassions they fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy. faithfulness. Can I add in some Tim Tudin? I believe that mercy has to do with kindness and compassion. God has mercy on us for not punishing us for the sins that we have committed. Amen. Amen. Matthew five and seven says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Now I believe that that mercy has a cousin, uh, and it's grace. It's God's unmerited. I don't deserve it, but the Lord did it for me. You are a favored somebody. You weren't qualified. You didn't live in the right neighborhood. You didn't have the right accent. But God provided for you, and there you are now being a witness. And there you are now taking up your cross. The Lord did it for you. That ye's a merciful God. He's a God who has mercy on us over and over again. That our case is pleaded before the judge. God who sits in heaven. I love it. Talks about that Jesus sits at the right hand of the Father. He's making intercession for us. He knows who we are. Or he died for us and he says now mercy suits their situation. Now if you were to look at the Dutch painter's Remratition of the Three Crosses, looked at this that was preparing, your attention. would first be drawn to the center cross on which Jesus died. I know you're looking even now. Then as you look at the crowd that's gathered around the foot of that cross, you will be impressed by the facial expressions of the people. And the action of the people who were involved in this awful act, crucifying the Son of God. But finally, your eyes would drift to the edge of the painting and catch. sign of another figure almost hidden in the shadows. Now art critics say this is a representation of Rembrandt himself. For he recognized that by his sins he helped meld Jesus to the cross. Guilty as charged. And so do we. But I'm so glad today at the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, and the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was then By faith I received my sight, and now I am happy all the day. Catch me on Monday and see if I'm not happy. Catch me on Tuesday, I'll laugh in the Lord. Catch me on Wednesday, I'll say Lord, thank you. Catch me on Thursday. I'm still happy all the day. Catch me on Friday. I'm happy. Saturday and then Sunday, I'm giving God the praise. I'm happy all the day. Him rather raises a key question. Must Jesus bear the cross alone and all the world go free? He answers, no, there's a cross for everyone and there's a cross for me, the consecrated cross I bear. Till death shall set me free, and then go home my crown to wear, for there is a crown for me. Don't you know there's a crown for you that when you get to that place called glory? Amen. But it won't just be for you. That crown will be for you. throne at the feet of Jesus and you'll begin to join the 20 and 4 elders giving him all the praise and the good I know it may seem like you're going through some things right now that you may feel that the burden that you're carrying is heavy. Don't you know that he pied On that cross, and he was there, and she was pierced in the side. But thank God for Jesus. He did not stay in the grave. But on the third day, he got up with all power in his hands. And that lets me know I can still really. knowing that I can surrender my life and my being and myself to Jesus Christ. Take up your cross. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen. And you are invited today to do just that. But as we think about what the Lord has done for us, that you Will see that your life will never be the same. If you're willing to submit to him, if you're willing to to open yourself up to be vulnerable enough to say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner and I need you in my life. He already knows that, but he's waiting for you to take the step today. Let's bow. Heavenly Father, as we come, we know. that there's one today under the sound of my voice who has never taken the step to say, Lord Jesus, save my soul today. We thank you for the sacrifice that you made. You carried the cross, even though you have done nothing wrong. But we have done many things wrong. But thank God for the shed blood of Jesus Christ today. You can come. Right now. Well, how is that possible? You can come by confessing. Christ, the Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead. the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. And if you say those words today, if you pray with that in mind, that even through Facebook and even through live stream Your life can be changed right now. We believe in encounter done in the name of Jesus. Praise God. Praise God. Praise God. Take up your cross. We are going to be preparing now. We'll give you a moment as we prepare. for our Holy Communion. We're asking even now that if you're able to go to wherever you are and to get uh a beverage and a bread that represents uh the blood of Jesus and the body of Christ. And we'll come back after a From our praise team to do just that, amen. Where's my Amen. Don't you want mercy? It does suit your case. If you uh take a moment even now to uh give that which represents the body and the blood of Jesus. Jesus Christ. We want to virtually uh be able to share the elements with you today. The Bible says on the night that Jesus was betrayed, that he took bread and blessed it and gave it to his disciples, and says, This is my body which is bread. broken for you, take ye all of it. We do as they did, amen? Then the Bible says that he took the cup, which is shared for many, for the remission of sins, drink ye all of it. Amen. The Bible says after that he came down from the table, began to wash his disciples' feet. And Peter says, Well, I don't want you to do that in Peter's words. to speak and Jesus was trying to show them that there's a sense of servanthood. That in washing your feet it shows that you can become a servant. Amen. So we thank God for you and for joining this broadcast. Just want to pass along a few Thanks for you. Uh certainly to update you as it relates to uh being a part of the Harvest family. We didn't open the doors of the church, but you may want to be a part of uh what's happening in the life of this ministry. That's very easy to do. Uh you can get a hold of us and we'll be able to get text messages to you, emails, etcetera, by way of our web team so you can become informed. Amen? And we may not be able to see you, but we and we invite you to be a part of Harvest. And we thank you so much for giving Giving online, uh, for being the kind of person who plants seeds into this ministry. Uh thank you, thank you, thank you. And for those who uh still believe in the mail service, Amen. Amen. Thank God for those who are sharing it is so that God might might be glorified. Amen. And if you have a prayer request, uh please be sure to send those requests to I call the prayer closet. Send those so that we might be able to pray for you and your family. In addition to that, Uh we want to always invite you to be a part of the Joyce Musical Soul Food Network. It is uh communication, music, uh encouragement all day long. My good friend Mike Chandler is the president and CEO. We go back to the college days and Three four days a week we have seeds of encouragement. You'll find them right on this national broadcast. And let me just say this: you need to vote. ballot box and I know about in Florida and many persons have already done that. To God be the glory. It is a right, it is a responsibility. Amen? I've been saying for the last few weeks, I can reach out there without falling over the pulpit. As you prepare for at-home teaching, uh, you need to have this on your shelf. It is my book, Leading by Example, Planet of God, to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home. It gives you some options that you're not just doing with three hours and you can take time uh with this work and you can share it with your children grandchildren so that you might nurse them and the faith that's www. tintudintv. com to God be the glory. Well we've had a fantastic Day? I didn't get that. Oh, oh thank you, see, from from the team. I want to thank all the millions of people, it seemed like millions, who said happy birthday. Uh uh the harvest members got They come to the neighborhood and blow in the hole and I'll better run back in the house. But they blessed me uh to the glory of God. I feel good too for my age. Amen. We thank the Lord even now. Or next Sunday, next time we come together, we're gonna wrap up uh series. Surrender part number three. I want you to join us then share this broadcast for a watch party. If you were blessed today, let someone know I got something up the message today to God's good. On behalf of the entire team. All the work that they do behind the scenes. Amen. Amen. We thank you and we thank you for tuning in today to this broadcast. Until next time, Dr. Jim Toodie, Followman Pastor of Harvest. Christian ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. It makes me want to move, but I'm not going to do it. Come on, give God the praise.