The joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands to serve the Lord with gladness to come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He is God. It is he who hath made us and not we are ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving into his courts with praise, be thankful unto him and bless this name, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, his truth. endureth to all generations. Now Lord, as we step into your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today. Encourage another. And we'll be so glad to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I tell you, I am so grateful. To see each of you, the word of God today from the Gospel of Matthew. It just happens though that we've been in Matthew for a few weeks now. May as well stay there, right? Palm Sunday, next Sunday, Easter, the following Sunday. Let's just stay there. The Word of God in Matthew 20 20 to 23 it reads Then the mother of Zebedee's sons came to Jesus with her sons and kneeling down asked a favor of him What is it you want? he asked. She said, Grant that one of these two sons of mine may sit at your right. and the other at your left in your kingdom. Verse 22. You don't know what you are asking, Jesus said to them, Can you drink the cup I am going to drink? We can, they answered. Verse 23, Jesus said to them, You will indeed drink from my cup, but to sit at my right or left is not for me to grant. These places belong to those for whom they have been prepared by my Father. I want to preach today from the Simonic title Taking Shortcuts. Taking shortcuts. I have vivid memories of growing up in the small town of Live Oak, Florida, and just knowing During that time on long hot summer days, if you wanted to get to the next group of where the baseball game was going on, you had to take a shortcut. Amen? Uh the East End had many shortcuts much like your neighborhood. If I want to get to the Ansley's or get to the Riley's or go down to the Mayhew's house or over at the Robinson's Or even over at the Patterson's, I took a shortcut. Think about it. Where you grew up, you didn't always take the main road. You knew a way to get to where you wanted to go And these shortcuts are used as sort of a bypass, a way to dodge, to get around having to go on the main road. As a motorist, I'm reminded that even here on Fitch Avenue, I put the signs out saying, Swell, church zone. Why? Fitch is a shortcut For folks trying to get to the market, they come down fitch. Sometimes it speeds higher than what's posted. Amen. But you know, life is full of shortcuts Oh, we look for shortcuts. They can lead us down some dead-end streets if we're not careful. And through some challenging circumstances. When your shortcuts come up short, know that the Lord Jesus Christ will meet you at your intersection. Amen? In the text today, we meet a mother And her sons almost call this mama's boys, but I wouldn't go there. I'm a mama's boy and so are some of you. Don't look at me yet, but there's always a special relationship between mothers and sons. Fathers and daughters, and mamas will fight for their sons Amen. And so we know that as Saloon, her name is, comes to Jesus, she is trying to make a connection. Amen? And remember that a few weeks ago we talked about bold predictions, and that is Jesus reminding his disciples, even for a third time, that I'm going to be flogged, I'm going to be beaten. going to be lied upon, and yet even in that I will be killed at the cross But I will get up on the third day morning. And by now you thought those disciples would have gotten it. Okay, I think we get the message now, but apparently not, because in the text today They are still thinking in an earthly way. They're still thinking that hanging out with Jesus means that they get a cabinet position. Hanging out with Jesus, they get a big spot in the government. And even though they had been with him for all this time, they were confused about what was next. So they were jockeying for position. Oh, you don't look at me, funny. Uh a youth had to do the same thing. You bought the boss coffee Amen. Can I get the door for you? You hoping that maybe that when you come into your new job, remember me. On time, remember me. Work over time, remember me. And so mom comes. to take the lead. Scholars suggest or believe that maybe uh that she uh went on behalf of the boys that maybe the boys John and James put mama up to it but either way mama comes in And she wants to help to navigate what is going on. And so what we will find this morning taking place is a misconception. misdirection and misinformation. Verse 21. Once she comes before Jesus, and I love the conversation of the text. So Jesus, mama, and two boys. Amen. What is it that you want? He asked. Well, I mean, didn't he know everything? Of course. And she said, Well, I'll get right to the point. Grant that one of these two sons of mine, my boys, may sit at your right and one at your left in your kingdom. There is a misconception here, a view, an opinion that is incorrect based on faulty thinking and understanding. She didn't quite get it. Why not? It it can be easy as just saying, can you hook my boys up? Amen. I mean, I've been following you, Jesus. In fact Scholars say that Silo, her name, Merit to Zebedee, was actually the sister of Mary. So they were cousins. She felt like I got a right to come and pull Jesus aside and say, is there a chance? That you can get my boys in. Amen? She appears to be asking for a shortcut And and before we point the finger at her, and before we say, ooh, I can't believe she did that, we've done the same thing Try to get favor with God, hoping for some sort of a shortcut. But don't you know there's some things that you would just go through in life? My God, you may be in a storm right now. You just making your way through it And you would love to say, can I get off on this exit, Jesus? I've had enough of this trial, enough of this tribulation, but we look for shortcuts. Amen? And and we're told to ask. Matthew 7 and 7, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you shall find. Knock and the door will be open. And so that's what I'm doing, but we always have a motive. Oh, help me out, church, today. We do. I mean, it's our private prayer time and Lord, if you will, I I I I'd like this They ever prayed for something and you just didn't get it? Lord said, No, that's not for you. You just got the way. Well let me just go ahead and go back a minute. Years ago when uh things were tough, tougher in the Tutan household, didn't have no job and there was a store, uh they were giving away a Ford. And I was thinking if I go by there enough times and buy a loaf of bread, I can keep signing up. And surely if I keep putting my name In the box, we're gonna get a new car to replace our hoopties. It didn't happen. Amen. I got a job. Gotta know it wasn't a free car. But sometimes we take a shortcut. We have a false view. We have a misconception in life. But sometimes we do that. A misconception but also misdirection. Jesus is responding. And of course the boys are present. They're silent up to now, but I imagine they're standing behind mom. Like, okay, mom, you go up, you ask him, and we'll be here with you. He says, you don't know what you ask him. Can you drink of the cup I'm going to drink? We can, they answered. We can handle this. We got this, Jesus. They were mis directed. They had failed to grasp or understand the mission and the ministry of Jesus, even though they had been with him. Keep in mind. Jesus begins his ministries. He's going along the Sea of Galilee. He sees Peter, his brother Andrew. He stops by, he finds John and James. In the father's boat, mending nets, they join up with Jesus. And so they are familiar with the ministry of Jesus, but they're still misdirected. How can that be? I'm familiar with the ways of the Lord, but yet I have Found myself going in the opposite direction. They may have been thinking a shortcut. If you further look at the text, Uh the i it really causes a big fight because the other boys found out that they were trying to jockey for a position and laid him out. They they almost fought But at this moment, they were hoping to get these coveted seats in this earthly kingdom, which did not really exist. Jesus was talking about something further. Evidently, they may have been thinking, can you drink the cup? I'm going to drink it is a metaphor for suffering. Are you sure you can handle what I'm handling? Are you prepared to suffer what I will suffer? Remember I told you not only talked about But I'm gonna get whooped. Do you want that? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I I can handle that. Uh uh Do you sure you want to to to do that? Yes, we can handle it. Uh I'm I'm gonna be flogged now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. I'm gonna be going to court. I'm gonna be killed uh yeah yeah yeah and they answered I think almost too quickly. If I got that question I said well let me let me think about it. Can I can I drink the cup? Well I kind of think I can not should yes we can I think it was the familiarity that they had with Jesus. They feel like I can handle it. Amen? Could these brothers pay the price for greatness. It was all about power, all about position, and they were misdirected. They were off course and sometimes we get off course. Aren't you glad that the Lord keeps helping us? That we can direct our prayers in such a way that He said, you know what, I know what you wanted, but I see your supply all of your need according to my riches in glory by Christ Jesus. The old saint say, Lord, I don't know what to pray for as I ought. Amen. But aren't you glad that in the book of Romans the Bible says the Spirit and make it intercession for you with groanings that cannot be interpreted. You just on your knees grunting. He understands the grunt and he makes things happen. Amen. But we get misdirected, we get off course But thank be the God misdirected, misconception, but Jesus in this 23rd verse takes time to really clear up the misinformation. Jesus said, now listen, you're right. You will indeed drink from my cup. But to sit at my right or left It's not for me to grant. Can't you see their faces of disappointment after all of the jockeying? He says, listen. I know what you think. Oh, this you'll do, but you cannot get a place because it's my father who decides. Amen. You correct You're gonna drink the cup, but the misinformation is I cannot grant you a special seat. I can't give you a pass. I can't give you a green light, grant you a shortcut. When it comes to sitting on my left or right, those places belong to the people that God has prepared. Romans 8. 34. He says, well, he's sitting at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the Spirit. Ain't nobody at the left. It's just God and Jesus Christ. Amen? Needless to say, they did not get those earthly seeds. They didn't exist. In later years after the resurrection, Mama was there at the tomb. John and James were gone continuing to declare the good news of Jesus Christ. Both which suffered. James died at the hand of persecutors. John died of old age on the Isle of Patmos. And they came to realize there were no shortcuts to the kingdom. And choosing shortcuts, we must realize they have consequences. They can be dangerous. Can I call the roll today? Adam and Eve took a shortcut. They listened to that lying serpent saying, Oh, you can eat that fruit, you will be wise. Abraham and Sarah got together and said, you know what I know he promised us a son, but let's go ahead and work another deal. There must be a shortcut. The rich young ruler said, Listen, uh, I don't mind being a part of your program was okay sell everything you got bro cash up those bonds and do what give it to the poor see ya don't want to be you he takes off nicodemus big time ruler says i'll talk to you but can we meet at night I don't really want to be seen with you. It's kind of a shortcut, but he says, you know what? Unless you are born again, you cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Amen. But you know what? Because of that, this shortcut has made a difference. I'm glad that Jesus did not take a shortcut. Amen. Had he taken a shortcut, I would not be saved. And yes, he said in the garden, nevertheless, let this cup pass me not my will, but your will be done. But he went to the cross And and because he didn't think a shortcut, I've got eternal life. And because he didn't think a shortcut I've got joy unspeakable. And because he didn't take a shortcut, I've got peace divine. And because he didn't take a shortcut, I have love for my brothers And my sisters, because he didn't take a shortcut. Amen. He didn't take a shortcut when it came to my heart. I love the hymn that says, What a wonderful change. In my life has been wrought since Jesus came into my heart. I have light in my soul for which long I have sought Since Jesus came into my heart. What about you? What's happened to you since Jesus came into your heart? Oh, I know your heart was stony I know you were hard somebody. I know you were a shortcut person. But when the Lord makes his way into your heart, my God, you will smile when you don't feel like smiling. Amen. You will be nice when you don't want to be nice. There's something that happens. Within the heart. Floods of joy, oh my soul, like a sea bellarose. Since since Jesus came into my heart, what's happened to you since? Oh my God, can I say right there? Since Since you start praying. What's happened to you since you start tithing? What's happening to you since you start getting on your knees? Something takes place and you can go right down the main interest Don't need no shortcuts. But blessed be the God today. Every time I think about the goodness of Jesus, my soul cries out, Hallelujah. And you know what? I could identify with this text. Because mama went to bat for me one day. She gave me a shortcut when I started to get in the radio. She said, listen, listen, listen, listen. I got a boy. His name is Tim. And he wants to be in broadcasting. And guess what? I went to the radio station, my little Sears pants on. I went up in there, you know. Mama knew them because she did denotorial work. She was the help there, amen. Amen She went there and says, Hiss is my boy. Now you would have thought, well, get it. No, no, it didn't happen. That was fourteen then I was seventeen when I finally got in. So sometimes you've got to wait on the Lord and to be of good courage and he will strengthen thy heart. Anybody want to wait on the Lord today? Don't you pull the trigger? Don't you press the gas? But keep your heels out to the heels from which cometh your help. Because your help cometh from the Lord. And I'm glad today that the Lord is still on the throne. I'm glad today continues to make a way out of nowhere. And whenever I I'm tempted to take a shortcut. I think about what he's done for me. When I want to take a shortcut, I realize he's brought me through. Has he brought you through today? You might be in something right now, but it continues. to make a way out of nowhere. Thanks be to God today, that one day, soon, and very soon, we're all going to see the king. And when I get the glory, I won't be trying to hunt down salons. of what we're having that day. I won't be trying to find John and James. Did y'all think y'all was going to get it? No. I'll be giving praise to my God. Anybody want to praise him today? Praise him because he's been good. Praise him because he's keeping I get joy when I think about all he's done for me. I get joy when I think about what he's brought me through. I get joy when I think about how. He uses me. And how he uses you. And I get excited today. I want to just celebrate the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. I don't know what my tomorrow holds, but Right now, for I've got breath, I want to give him praise. Right now, I've got a sense of mind, I want to give him praise. Taking Praise the Lord. The shortcut. No, no, no. Can I get in that line? You linebreaker. Taking the shortcut. That is the word of God today. It's already done. I'm not gonna criticize. Oh, did you hear? About Salon, she went to Jesus and tried to get them boys in. It's bigger than that. We we've got some some Mama Saloon shoes on. And we've answered to the question. Yes we can without analyzing what it takes to be a Christian. Lord, I want to be a Christian in my heart. Let your desire today. Lord, I want. To be Christian in my heart. In my heart. Lord I want to be. In my heart. In heart. In my heart. In my heart. That's what it's now today. In my heart. Oh Lord, oh I want to be a Christian. Father, we come in the name of Jesus We thank you for the biblical characters. Because we find ourselves in them. But God, I thank you the day that you have so chosen to save us. And the users. You didn't get mad at Jordan James. You didn't kick them off the team. You didn't penalize them. That's right. But they kept spreading the good news of Jesus. Father, today if there's one in this place, or one by way of the broadcast, who has been taking shortcuts. There won't be joy, but there's a shortcut. There won't peace, but there's a shortcut. There's no shortcut to you. The Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God is raised from the dead, the Bible says that shalt be saved. Today, in the name of Jesus, Lord, touch that heart today. Change that situation today Oh God, we thank you for sending Jesus Christ. We thank you for salvation. You do the work today, God. We spread the word in Jesus' name. Amen? Take your seats just for one minute. Amen. God bless you. Amen. Just want to.