Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many know today that The world has all kinds of definitions for what it calls love. We thank God for his love. A love that will keep you, a love that will carry you through every situation. I want to ask even now as you're taking your seats, let us bow for a word of prayer. Father, we thank you. That you so loved us that you sent your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die for us. That's still pretty amazing that you would have him to sacrifice his life for us. But because he died Because he shed his blood and because he rose again, we have life eternally. And we thank you. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Amen. God is good. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the gospel of Luke. Amen. Luke the 11th chapter, and there at verse number one. And it reads as follows, you heard it shared this morning. And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place When he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. I want to preach today from the Samonic title Teachable Moments. Teachable Moments. Rabbi Stephen Carr Rubin in his book Children of character says one of the most important things that we can engage in as a parent is the ability to recognize what he calls teachable moments That is taking the opportunity to uh share with your child anywhere in the supermarket on the way to soccer practice uh at home setting the table. These are all teachable moments. And when you think about it, those are moments that you don't plan. Those moral lessons that are passed on. You can recall yourself there are times when your parents did things and when you did things that it was unintentional and more was caught than was taught. Teachable moments. Jesus, our Lord and Savior, had an earthly ministry, but he was known as the rabbi or the teacher. That more than 60 times in the Gospels, and we call the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, John, and Luke, that he was referred to as teacher. Now he was the same one who at the age of twelve baffled all the great minds when he began to share with them things they did not know, but he talked with them. Amen That is such a wonderful thing that a middle schooler would be able to outpace and outwit uh persons who call themselves smart. The Bible says there in the temple courts there were doctors and lawyers, and Jesus was able to teach them at a time like this. I believe teaching is a noble profession I think back to my first grade teacher, Miss Frances Shelton Green, second grade uh Miss Elliott Third grade, Miss Holmes, and fourth grade, Miss Alexander, and fifth grade, Miss Jones, all persons who have an impact on my life and on yours Uh my sisters Evelyn and Pauline are both retired school teachers in Florida. My sister-in-law, Edna, is a retired educator in West Virginia Retired. My daughter is an educator, but not retired yet. There are six or more persons in this church, some of you in the building this morning who are in education And you know about teachable moments. In our text this morning, we find Jesus holding really what amounts to a school of prayer. Can you imagine having Jesus as your teacher? Amen. You would act right in class then, wouldn't you? To think that he didn't have to tell your daddy he was your daddy. Amen. But to be in this place, Jesus is praying. His disciples are there with him. He didn't mind praying in public. He didn't mind lifting up unto his father right where he was, but most often Jesus was still awake. He would go to a quiet place early in the morning. That's our a passage for the year of Mark 135 before day. Or in the country before day. Go way out to himself and have a little talk with the master Isn't it something about being able to take time and just to commune with God? It's a beautiful thing when you slow down long enough to say, Lord, it's just me and you. I'm putting my cell phones away. I'm turning the television off and I'm going away from my desk. I just want to have a little talk with Jesus Have you ever been there before? And tell him all about my struggles. He'll hear my faintest cry. He will answer by and by This morning I want to suggest that as a teachable moment that you the student must have a teachable spirit. There's some things we see in this text and first and foremost, the importance of paying attention. The passage says there Luke eleven and one and it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place they watched him they observed him they noticed him praying can you imagine Being in the presence of Jesus, actually hearing the Lord of Lords pour out his spirit, to hear the King of Kings say, Father, I come to you. Isn't that amazing that they were in close proximity? to the very one they'd be praying to. Oh that you missed that. Can you imagine being in the presence of the Lord, the one you seek, I mean the one you pray to, to be in his space in a particular place. And that's what took place in this text. They looked at him. I think about as a boy growing up We would hear prayers. We would observe the deacons of old. We would get down on our knees and uh, you know, kind of hide behind the benches, but we'd hear the deacons pray. And they would come up with one of those old cadences. Well Lord, we're down here just waiting for you to come. I don't know if we actually heard the prayer or we imitated how they were praying. But at least there was observation. We paid attention to what they were doing. Have you paid attention to how prayer takes place in your home? Your children ought to catch you praying They ought to stumble upon you and see you on your knees, praying unto God. Oh God, my daddy prayed. My mother prayed. You ought to get caught praying. I'm not talking about a whisperer, but showing up. I know God is not deaf and you can whisper to him, but every now and then oh Lord, you have to just say, Lord Help me. You ever been in that kind of situation before that acute prayer wouldn't do? But you needed to say, Lord, it is mean out here, and I need some help right now. Calling on him. They saw him and heard him and paid attention to him. Let me flip the script on that. That's not to say that we're to pray so folk might hear us. Amen? I mean, we've heard some prayers, might have been guilty of ourselves. I'm gonna pray up and here today You know, because people are hearing you, but when you pray even publicly, you're not really talking to anybody in the house. It's between you and the Lord Y'all just happen to be eavesdropping on somebody else's prayer. Amen. But there's something powerful about paying attention to prayer. And when I talked about whether we grandstand or not, there's a passage over in Matthew six and five where Jesus says, and when you pray Do not be like them the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and being in Potom In the street corners to be seen by others, but truly I tell you they've got to receive their reward in full. But it's something about praying under God. Amen. I tried this even on yesterday. I I didn't say anything, but I challenged myself, I'm gonna challenge you later, to pray for one hour Is it possible? Yes. To put everything away, I was praying in the store. I was okay now. I'm gonna pray the whole store, just walking around and looking at folks in the name of Jesus I ain't say nothing, but my milk was moving. I was just praying. The person behind the register just praying for him. As I walk out the door, just in the name of Jesus, praying, praying, praying, praying. And you'll find that as you go from place to place that you can look at a person, I love the flash prayer that Richard Foster talks about in his book, Celebration of Disciplines, about being able to flash. Somebody might come in and just raise my hand. I'm praying for you. But I didn't hear nothing, but I'm praying for you. Didn't take a long drawn out, but paying attention to where people might be and knowing that they may need a word of prayer. It's not always about you and what you need and you'll give me list and and bothering God like that. But Lord there's somebody else who stands in the need. Anybody you've been praying for? My God, if you're a parent, you stay on your knees. Know your praying in your relationship. Keep praying. On the workplace, keep praying. God will answer as we pay attention. But not just that There's also a point that comes when you must ask. It says it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, that was being really uh Having good manners, wasn't it? After he finished. They didn't interrupt him and said, excuse me, but after it had ceased, one of his disciples, didn't give a name, said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. Lord teach us to pray. They were not ashamed, not afraid to know that their prayer life was not all that it could be. They were vulnerable to say, Lord, we we've been following you, but we don't quite have this thing yet. We heard you praying, and I ask you as the great teacher, teach us. Aren't you in the class of prayer today that they wanted to improve? They wanted to be more effective in their prayers? And sometimes we pray for things and we kinda come at it a little, you know, kind of slouching in prayer. What's we got? Lord here's specifically what I'm asking for. Make your request known unto God, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. There was a point where they say, Can we just ask you to teach us? See we'll fake it sometime. I got this. But they were so honest and so transparent. Lord, help us out. You know, if I was in that ancient text, I'd have been right to Lord. My stuff is slipping. I'm not quite sure I'm hitting the right note. Can you please teach me I'm in class? Amen. And you know what? Just being prepared to ask the Lord, the one who is able to keep us from falling, to help us in our prayer life. Anybody want to ask the Lord today to to help you ask him everything else? Why not say, Lord, that's an area I need work toward? Let me just testify that. That's an area I can always use improvement in. I'm busy like you. If you're not careful, you just run the whole day through and won't stop long enough to say, Lord, thank you. You'll give a quick one over your meal, eat the sandwich, and keep rolling. Amen. And so the thing that I can ask you, Lord, I think I'm praying all right, but can you help me? Can you teach me how to be a better prayer? Teach me what it is I ought to say to you in my time of being in your presence. That helped me already. It really has. You can't talk about something unless you say, wait a minute, examine yourself. And myself. I can say, Oh, you can do better in prayer. Be more specific. He goes and say, I will father put y'all in heaven. But I mean if you got that one, that'll work. Lord help me will work. Lord forgive me for my sins will work. Lord, thank you will work. All of that works in his prayer. He is the one who is teaching He says to them, here's how you pray. In Jesus' name. There's power in singing in Jesus' name. Now some years ago in Maryland, It may still be the case, but if persons came to the legislature to say a prayer, uh there was some debate about whether or not they would let you say in Jesus' name. I said, Oh really? And so some folk were not being invited anymore. Because they said, No, you can't know you're gonna offend someone. Oh, it's in the name of Jesus. Only name I know. What about you? I can't sit there and not put that name in there. I can talk in generalities, but just to know he is the one you can ask. And in fact, he says so Further on in Luke, he says, so I say to you, ask, and what it will be given to you, seek And you will find knock and the door will be opened. He helps us to talk to him. You missed that. He's helping you what to ask for and helping you how to ask. Now that's not tutoring. If that's not after class, if that's not a one-on-one, I don't know what it is. The importance of paying attention. These disciples had a point where they were able to ask Out in the open, help us. But finally, there's a sense of passing alone. In the text It says, and it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, when he got done, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught us to pray his disciples. They were observant. Now John is referring to John the Baptist, the one who was the forerunner of Jesus Christ. The one who said there's one who's coming uh whose buckle I can't even uh unloose this sandal I don't know you know he he's coming the kingdom of heaven is at hand but they observed John's disciples and said we like when they pray Can you help us? And sometimes you need a model in which to refer to. Amen. My mother still prays for me. I would hear her pray on Sundays I would hear her get happy on Sundays. And I was like, Lord Jesus, but there was something going on that I knew not of until I became a parent. Call me when you get back to school. Ma I'll be all right. And no cell phone, get the end of the hall and you know person to person call. Some of y'all too young for that Ma I made it. Well good I can sleep now. But these prayers make a difference. Oh God, don't you know that you are a recipient of answered prayer? That somebody even now is praying for you Oh God, I thank the Lord that I'm here on the wings of prayer today. But they noticed what John's disciples were doing and said, Look at that. Can you teach us to pray like this? And Jesus thought a lot of John. Man, there's not one you will find more than any woman like John. He loves some John. Amen. He was baptized by John in the Jordan. John was out eating uh You know, bugs and honey saying repent for the kid. There's one who's y'all hadn't seen him yet, but he's on the way. He was talking up Jesus. And we're gonna talk up Jesus today. So you've not met my Jesus. I know you bad, but you ain't met him. Won't he make a wave? Won't he bring you out of a tough situation? Oh yes, he'll do it. The sense of being able to pray. But you know, there's a concern, and I see it over in the book of Judges, that we seemingly have kind of dropped the ball when it comes to passing along these disciplines. Judges 2 and 10 says, after that generation died, another generation grew up who did not acknowledge the Lord. Or remember the Lord, or remember the mighty things he had done for Israel. Shame on us. That your children can't pray? Why not? They don't know any kind of Bible verse, they don't know anything. Amen? And and so we have a responsibility, even if it's not your child. I ain't got no children, Reverend. You got a neighbor. But you somebody share with them, say, you know what? Here's what got me over, young man. When I was coming through, yeah, I was trying to make it, I got my degree, but I prayed And let them know how prayer has made a difference in your life. Testify that when you start praying, your children will see that and they'll model it. I saw a video this week. You may have seen it on social media. Down in Seneca, South Carolina, a preschool teacher, posted a video They put their two-year-old daughter to bed and turned the lights off and they had the little monitor on. Don't you know the babies start praying? They listen to the baby as the baby thanked God for Santa Claus and thanked God for his grandparents. Thank God for her and keep saying the pay over and over again and kept saying thank you thank you thank you thank you and then said amen Now if a two-year-old don't mind lifting up the name of Jesus, my God, we got work to do. She must have heard somebody in that house praying. It didn't come off TV Somebody was lifting up the name of what are you doing today that you might influence another generation? Tugnam that pressed your works Amen. I believe that we got to have a a a prayer sheet. Amen. The Bible is filled with all kind of cliff notes and All kinds of cheat sheet that you might be able to say what? That it's all in the word. Can I just go through a few? In Genesis, we can learn we were made in his image In Exodus, he's our banner. In Leviticus, we know he's holy. In numbers, he can't lie. In Deuteronomy, no one can compare to him. In Joshua, tell him to be strong and courageous 1 Samuel, no one is holy like him. 2 Samuel, he's sovereign. 1 Kings, we must walk in his ways. 1 Chronicles, love endureth forever. Second chronicles, if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then will I hear from heaven, I'll forgive their sin, I will heal their land. Esther says, Give us joy, gladness and honor. Job says, He giveth and he taketh away Psalm says he's our light and our salvation. Proverbs, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Ecclesiastes, he made everything beautiful in his time. In Isaiah, we're on a mission In Jeremiah, he knows our history. In lamentations, his mercies are every day and new. In Ezekiel, he'll remove our stony hearts. In Daniel, he'll be with you in our line then. And Hosea, he'll show you love. In Joel, he'll pour the Spirit upon you. In Amos, he's got a plan. In Jonah, run, but you can't hide. In Micah, keep watch on the Lord. In Zephaniah, he's mighty to save In Haggai, he'll grant you peace. In Zechariah, he'll offer invitations to return to him. In Malachi, he'll remind you that his name will be great And Matthew, take the yoke upon me and learn of me. In Mark he'll forgive you of sins. And Luke he'll show confession. And John is all about his word. And Acts will be his witnesses In Romans, all things work together for good to them who love God and who are the called according to his purpose. First Corinthians, our bodies are what? The temple of the Holy Spirit. Second Corinthians, we are a new creation. Galatians, keep your focus on things above, not on things on the earth. Ephesians, we are his workmanship. Philippians, he'll forgive us. First Thessalonians, glorify his name. Pray without ceasing. First Timothy, lift up holy hands. Second Timothy, give the Spirit of power. You won't be fearful. Amen. Won't he do it today? In the book of Titus, his grace is available. In Hebrews, he's got an open door policy. In James, every good and perfect work comes from him. In Peter, cast all your cares upon him. In second Peter, he'll keep his promise. And first John, he'll forgive you. And second John, he'll remind you, you must walk in obedience to him. And third John, keep doing what is good. In Jude, he's able to keep you from falling In Revelation, standing at the door, and he's knocking on your heart. Amen. Knock knock. Who's there? Jesus, the one who came to save you. Knock knock. Who's there? My Lord who comes to save me. Knock knock. Who's there? The one who went to the cross and who shed his blood? And knock knock who's there? The one who died but rose again. My God, the Bible is filled with all kind of prior material. Lord Teach us how to pray. This is a teachable moment. My God, I'm excited. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Thank you for teaching me Thank you for helping me in my time of learning. I'm gonna pay attention. I see what you're doing, God. Can you help me too? My prayer life is about a C. Can I have some extra credit? He'll do it today, won't he do it? If you would just say, Lord, I don't know what to pray. I'll give you what you need. Thank you, disciples. For raising the question that everybody wants to ask. If you're able to stand today, stand all over this place to thank God for all that He's doing in our prayer lives. Thank you if you give us the avenue of prayer. May I get caught praying? Get pulled. Why you weaving? I was praying. While you crossed the line, I was caught up in the Holy Ghost. Make a decision today to follow Jesus. How many have decided today to give up your world to like say, you know what? I'm on Jesus' side now. My God, I thank those disciples for being so bold and so transparent and so honest. Let's take a little bit of this. Come on, stand with us today. I just started to fall I have decided to follow to follow No turning now. No turning, though no one joined me. Oh no one join. Still I will is that your commitment today Oh no one join me still I will fall no turning back No turn. Let me take a moment right now. Jesus wouldn't ask you to do anything that he didn't do. He didn't say y'all need to pray now. Come on, pray with me. He said, No. Watch me. And you'll see that I spend time with my father. You know, prayer is such a powerful discipline, but one that can easily get short-circuited. Why? Oftentimes by our own mind. We're thinking 10 days ahead. And won't stop long enough to say, Lord, I just want to come to you right now in the name of Jesus. Here's the prayer that he wants to hear from the lost person I'm a sinner. Save me. That's prayer. I don't know the Lord, but I'm praying. Well, let me just drop this on you. If you don't know him and don't have a relationship with him, The prayer he really wants to hear is I'm a sinner. Let me back it up now. Theologically say, Reverend, hold on now. How can it be I'm a good person So I'm praying to a God somewhere. But once you allow Christ in your life and you become a believer in Jesus Christ, you pray it in Jesus' name. Why? Because you believe in the power of that name. As you bow your heads today, I'm praying in Jesus' name for the lost in the house today. I'm praying in Jesus' name that you might open your heart to him. I'm praying in Jesus' name that you might say, Lord, I'm a sinner. I've fallen short, but your word says if I confess With my mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in my heart that God raised him from the dead, the Bible saith Thou shalt be saved. For just 30 seconds right now. Examine your own heart. Ask yourself that question. Am I a believer? Am I saved? And then hopefully yourself will say, Oh yeah. Or yourself might say, No, I'm not. But right now you can begin to whisper that prayer. Say, Lord, save me. By your power divine, He'll do it. He did it for me and for so many others in this place. He can do it now. Just take a moment, even now, to process that. Thank you. A couple things, but first and foremost, very quickly turn to someone near you today and let's have a word of prayer with that person. I don't know who you happen to be next to But somebody's near you. They've been placed there strategically that they would be right near you. Take a moment even now to pray. Brother Brown, so good to see you. William Brown in the house. Praise God. Take a moment even now. And begin to pray for that person. Father, in the name of Jesus, for the hand that we hold, we pray. We don't know what their situation is. They don't know ours, but God, right now, we stand in the gap for them. Pray for them Whatever they need, God you've got it. Whatever they've come through, let them know this is not the end. Whatever they're facing. Give them hope. Give them the kind of peace that passes all understanding. God, the hands I hold, I pray for the hands I hold. I lift them up before you the hands I hold. That person may be going through an illness. I pray for the hands I hold. That person may have trouble in the home. I pray for the hands I hold. That person may be in a financial crisis. I pray for the hands I hold. That person may be low on joy. I pray for the hands that I hold. In the name of Jesus God, we believe it today. We believe in the power of prayer. God, we thank you that you so positioned us that we'd have this hand. I may not even know their whole name, but God, you know their names. And you know that situation in the name of Jesus. God, we claim victory today in the life of that person. We claim victory today in the life of that child. We claim victory today, dear God, that they might hear us praying. That's my mama praying. That's my daddy praying. They may hear them praying and you might influence them because you're praying. In the name of Jesus. The Bible says, I'm not ashamed Of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God and the salvation to everyone that believes it. God, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. What you're doing. Thank you for that breakthrough that's taking place right now. What? We pray We didn't mind asking. Teach us how to pray. We count it done. And we believe it in the name of Jesus. Amen. Somebody celebrate God today Hallelujah. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's com the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.