Amen. There's a word that comes from the Gospel of Luke and Bring your attention to the 11th chapter of Luke and there in verse number one. And two is what we'll deal with today. And throughout the course of the month, we'll continue to look at that series of passages. Father, we do come today and we thank you for this time. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. There in Luke 11 1 and 2 it reads, And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place. This is the King James Version When he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray as John also taught his disciples. Verse 2, and he said unto them, When you pray, say our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. Again, we'll be doing this for the balance of the month. From the title, Teach Us to Pray. Teach us to pray. The story is told of two friends having a conversation, and one said to the other, If you are so religious, why don't you quote the Lord's Prayer? And if you get it correctly, I will give you $10. The friend began to recite these words. Now lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep if I should die before I wake. I prayed the Lord my soul to take. And that friend was so he said, man, I didn't think he was going to get that. Here is your $10. I'm not a joke guy, but did you get that? That was not the Lord's prayer. But he paid it. I'm not coming to place best today. I've just come to challenge each of us in the area of prayer. And the area of prayer. And that is so, so important. The Lord's Prayer is what we call the model prayer. And it has been a standard in my life. That's why I went to the King James Version. That's the way I learned it. I know there are other versions, but I don't know the prayer that way. The one I've been praying for so long is the one that we find here, not to be uh compared necessarily with the Matthew 6 prayer. Uh this is the Luke prayer. Amen. And so we'll drop our anchor in the Gospel of Luke, eleventh chapter, is that Jesus was praying. He prayed often, he prayed early, uh not just in public, but mainly in private. His disciples took note of a lot of things that he did. They watched him preach. They watched him teach. They watched him work miracles and they watched him pray. He prayed before his baptism. He prayed during the times he was tempted. He prayed uh when he picked his disciples, he prayed throughout the day. He prayed in the garden. That's why it's a model prayer because Jesus has the template. Let me just open the book of my life right now. Can I tell you, can I confess that I need work? in the area of prayer. That I can do better when it comes to praying. May maybe you that's not You. Maybe your prayer life is like a ten. Maybe you're on it. I'm not And the Holy Spirit has convicted me to do better in that area. And that's why we're talking about teacher. But I can pray. That that you're insulting me to think I can't why do I need for anybody to teach me how to pray? We do. And so the question came up, not sure which disciple said it, teach us how to pray. That was the question. Lord, we want to pray like John the Baptist taught his disciples. Can you help us? Isn't that great to have someone say, listen, I need some extra credit. I need some tutoring in the area of prayer. And Jesus responds And you'll see from your tablets and your Bible verse 2 is where we'll we're going to spend our time today. When you pray, tells me that Jesus expected us to pray. Not not if you pray, but when you pray, uh say our Father. Which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. We also know who we are praying to. Anybody tells me I'm just praying to the big guy, I said, give me some distance between you because there's a name Amen. And this is serious, though. Don't play in that area. I'm talking about my heavenly father. And we should know who we are praying to. We ought not be a stranger to God. What's your name again? The woman go to him enough that he is he's familiar with who we are. And his name is Hallow, and Hallow means very simply to separate or to sanctify. Albert Moller, theologian in his book, The Prayer That Turns the World Upside Down, the Lord's Prayer as a manifesto for revolution says, when Jesus petitions God to hallow his name, He's asking God to act in such a way that he visibly demonstrates his holiness and his glory. So from that, I want to really suggest that God's name speaks to his identity. God's name speaks to his character. God's name speaks to his actions. In prayer, who are we praying to? Our Father. Amen. I'm a father. My father was James Jim Tutin. But I'm talking about this heavenly father. Amen. Now, was there anything you wouldn't ask your daddy for? I don't want to start anything. But folk think daddy just got it like that. Even if he don't. Ask your father. Nothing on my wife. I'm just saying ladies don't we ask your father. Our father in heaven Is the ruler of heaven and earth and he has everything. Exodus 3. 14 says, and this is the name. Moses, that when you go to Pharaoh, just tell him that I am That I am sent me. Isn't that powerful that that that that who no that I am sent this message to you? It's about knowing who He is and knowing who you are. This week I had to produce some documents to an employer and they asked me for information, driver's license, no problem. I got that Passport expired. Okay, am I good? No. Birth certificate. What? And so I had to produce it all. I said, no, you know who I you know? Yeah, we know you But we need proof. Amen? I'm going to say proof. Identity. And that's important that you know who you are in Christ. And the most important question we can ask concerning our identity is, who does God say I am? You remember in the Bible and the narrative that Jesus raised the question, who do men say that I am? Some say you're Elijah, some say you're John the Baptist. What do you say about the Christ, the Son of the Living God? We often know who we're praying to. Amen. You don't want to be praying to the wrong person, praying to an object, but praying to a God who is real. Anybody believe God is real? Hallelujah. I'm talking about show not real. 1 John 3 and 1 remind of who we are. See what great love the Father has lavished. Don't you love that word? has lavished on us that we should be called children of God. Who are you? You are valuable. You are redeemed. You are somebody in Christ. Your name may not be on the marquee Amen. You may not be in the Hall of Fame, but blessed be the God, I am a child of God. I was like, You got that thing yet. Anybody can identify that I'm a child of God and that ought to be enough. Amen. His identity, but his character. In prayer we're reminded that God is holy. God is nobody to play with. If you're gonna play, then again I'm I'm out of your space. And and people curse using the name of God in it. Amen. And that makes me want to get more distance. Shared the story a few weeks ago, it wasn't long ago when I was at the the ball game here, all kind of stuff. Until I heard the right stuff. Amen? But people will take the Lord's name in vain. Shame. 1 Samuel 2 and 2 says, There's no one holy like the Lord. No one besides you. There's no rock like our God. I don't know about you, I'm starting to feel good. But I know God. Okay, what's next, Reverend? No, I I feel pretty good that I got a father. Amen. I'll go back to you like, y'all kind of seriously. No! I'm a son of the living God. I'm glad about that. Amen. God who is a creator of heaven and he loves me so much so and and and 316 ought not ever get old. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in will not perish but have everlasting life. If you got what you that was, aren't you glad God loves you today so much so that he will send his son. You gotta know who you're praying to. Character. Since character is is who we are because of our relationship with God. Not our personality. Big personality, but what's your character? What do you do when the lights go off? What do you do on the business trip when you're all by yourself and nobody knows? What do you do when you're on the cruise? On the island. With your sunglasses on and nobody knows who you are. I think I just stepped on a toe or three. Who are you then? That is character. And character is what we're doing. When nobody's watching, God is a God of character. And we're praying to Him, knowing His identity, His character, but knowing He's a God of action. God gets things done. We talk about it. Oh, I got this. God gets it done. Have you got it done in your life? Some things that you've been praying about and and that we've been procrastinating about. And we still waiting to get the we'll get back with uh no see none of y'all procrastinated. Anybody got that much of procrastination? Just a little bit. I do. But God does not procrastinate he's a God of action. He does not break his promises. He cannot lie. You can count on God to do his part. Psalm 12 and 6 says, the words of the Lord are pure words I like this. As silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times We fail to take action. We are still waiting to do something that the Lord has already told us to do in prayer. And we've been trying to negotiate with God. What is it? We don't trust God. Don't say that. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not to your own understanding in all your ways acknowledge him and he'll direct your path. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. This is some hip pocket stuff right here. That's some pull out on the side of the road tape it on your dashboard. That's stuff like that that you need in a bind to get through. He's a God of action. I know we're all grown now, but how many folk had action figures that you really were into? And God knows when they put it on cartoons, uh somebody represented A person, a fictional character, your Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman. I mean you left with your bowl of cereal thinking you were somebody. I mean I know I missed a couple, but it gave you something, you know, I am now and you would dress up. In the outfit. Amen? But but the ones I'm not as familiar with, the Avengers. I had to ask Tim about that now. Well, who's in there? The defenders. But I know this. I figured out that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. That in prayer I figured that out. I figured out that He died for my sins. I have figured out that he was put in a borrowed tomb. I have figured out that he rose on the third day morning with all Power in his hands. And so when I come to the Father and when I pray, I believe that God is a God who's able. Is he able? A God who's accessible. He's not saying, can you get back with me? Go to line two. He's a God who's on Time. Amen? He's an all-time God that it may not come when you want him to come, but don't you get an attitude and stop praying because it didn't go your way. I'm taking my joy and I'm going home Some of us just stopped praying because we didn't think God did it the way we wanted him to do it. Any witnesses in the house? You just stopped praying. I'm done with that. And then you realize that God has already answered. Because he knows what's best for us, but he's trying to teach us how to Pray. Prayer ought not to be a situation where it's bad. Have some things just driven you to your knees. Otherwise, I'll catch him. But when trouble comes, When disappointment comes and when sickness comes and when loss shows up, the first thing we say, Oh Lord Amen. I need you every hour, and we do need him. Amen. And what I have found, what I am learning, what I am still trying to figure out is that when I come away in a time of prayer, I come away a little lighter. I come away with peace. I don't come away saying I did it Monday about Thursday. No, this is not Amazon, baby. By Thursday, I ought to have my prayer. Answer no. But there's something about the peace, and I'll close with this. It's about walking away from a time of prayer Feeling for the good, amen. Amen. What would I think you prayed for this week? Do you feel peace with it? Amen. You you didn't really think that you asked the Lord for it, and he spoke back to you some peace. I love the hymn when peace. Like a river. Attendeth my way when sorrows like sea billows roll. Whatever my life God has taught me to say, it is well with my soul. I don't know about you, but but but just talking about prayer has caused me to spend more time in prayer. Talking about prayer has caused me to document my prayer. Talking about prayer has called me to go back to a prayer journal I began this week. Yeah journal but not a prayer journal And every time I write in that journal, I realize it's not just for me. But maybe my grandson will get Bop Bop's prayer journal. Maybe one of my children said, you know what? He prayed and God showed him up yet. Am I excited today about what God can do? There is no secret what God can do, but it don't come automatically You got to pray. Amen? You got to pray. You got to pray. You got to pray. Come on, MC Hammer. Just to make it today. Or y'all do that one, didn't you? Anybody want to commit their lives to pray? And then commit to going in the classroom and say, Lord. Teach us how to pray. I'm glad for that disciple said, wait a minute, I'm not I'm tired of thinking this. I want you to teach me. Anyone on the front row in the school of prayer Anybody staying after class in the school or nobody here? I'm glad today that he's a God who answers class, but he answers what he's already given me to say. And then when I begin to Say his word back to him, he recognizes it. Not just a list of verbiage. But Lord, you said that goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. You said that you would be my shepherd. I shall not want. You said it, and because you said it I'm throwing up to you something that is familiar. Anybody feel like praying today? Amen. And prayer does not have to be a long, drawn-out prayer. You ain't got to have two towels in front of you. praying, but I declare today, you can pray anywhere. Amen. In the streets, in your home, on the highway, on the byway, you've got to just whisper a prayer in the morning. And whisper a prayer at noon and whisper of prayer in the evening I declare it will keep your heart into. Have you done it today? Do I have a church that knows what it means to pray? Pray and cry. and pray. Doubt and pray. But pray. Whatever you do, just pray. Amen. Aren't you glad today that you can connect with the master? Teach us. Our Father which art in heaven howlow would be Thy name. Next Sunday, thy kingdom come. Thy will be Done in earth as it is in heaven. See you next week. Come on, stand today. Thank God today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Yes, sir. Teach us. We've fallen behind and got a few failing grades in prayer. But I pray in the name of Jesus that you might allow us back into your course. That you might teach us and tutor us and help us On how to pray. Even now, we pray that there's one in this place that knows not the master. We pray that they might open their hearts today. That they may pray. You heal the prayers of sinners. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised them. From the dead, the Bible said, Thou shalt be saved. Save someone today. That is our prayer. In the name of Jesus. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen.