Well they're off the right one. Wish you I will let me. When we have all the Nothing in hunger. Given day are daily red, I'm going to. That the way for the home and lead us not into temptation. But he never promised. Oh no, let's get there if they For thine is the key. Isn't it great just to glorify God? Aren't you glad for the avenue of of prayer Amen. Oh come on, y'all won't style like you. You don't need a cube for me to praise God. You sense the Spirit of God moving in your heart. Just always give him permission to praise him. You don't have to wait for anybody to push you or do you anybody want to just praise him today? Just because. Just Hallelujah. Father, we come today in this moment Ask it even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Bless the Lord today. So again, welcome those who are joining us online. Thank God for you. There's the word from the Lord today that comes from the gospel as pinned by Luke. And there in the eleventh chapter. We've kind of been there for a minute, haven't we? If y'all say we have, then that means you've not been here, you've not uh been following us, but we thank the Lord today and I don't know about you, but I've just learned and been uh energized by uh sharing the Lord's Prayer. They're in the fourth Verse just one passage it reads, And forgive us our sins. Yes. But we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. I want to preach today from the Samanic title Teach Us to Pray Part 4. Teach Us to Pray Part Four. This week I got a chance to step back a moment and to remember Ernest Hemingway. American novelist and journalist. And I uh don't remember what class we had to read this book, but we had to read it. The old man at the sea. How many had to read that? Really? That was not required reading for you. I don't know if I got a book report or I passed the course. But Hidden Way was an interesting fellow. He certainly won a few of the surprise for that work. But he had written many short stories, one in particular called The Capital of the World I was drawn to that work in a real way. It tells the story of a young man named Hockey. And somewhere along the way, Parkle and his father have fallen out to the degree that Parko left home. And there he was on the streets of Madrid walking aimlessly. Dad didn't know where Paco was Whatever had been their issue, Dad felt the need to reach out. So he went and he took out an ad in the newspaper there in Spain, and he said Pockle all is forgiven love papa Meet me at the Montana Hotel at noon on Tuesday. When that day came, there were 800 young men whose names were Paco. And they were all there looking for someone, some father to forgive them. Maybe there's some parko in us. Maybe God has brought us to a place that we need to let down our pride and offer forgiveness. Oh, it's going to be tight today. Because this is an area that gets at the core of our experience And when I think about this sense of forgiveness, it also is akin to temptation. Sin and temptation, they know each other. They run together. They are familiar with each other. They slap each other five because sin is real. Amen. And sin and temptation uh they can be personal It can be painful, it can be persuasive, cursive. Verse 4, and keep in mind the backdrop. Is that Jesus is minding his own business, and one of his disciples comes to him and says, Master, teach us to pray as John taught his disciples. And so the prayer is what Jesus said to them. It's how he responded. I was driving back from an event last night, and it just hit me. Who is at the core of this text? It's Jesus. And so Jesus is saying to his followers, this is how to pray. Amen. It is personal. Forgive us our sins. What what is sin exactly? What is it? And saying that nine things came to mind. Well that's sin, that's kind of sin. Maybe it's not sin. You know, uh God understands You know, I'm not there yet, please be patient with me. Then actions by which humans rebel against God Miss his purpose for their life. And surrender to evil. Romans three and twenty-three reminds us That all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Amen. All. And because sin is personal It belongs to us. My sin may not be your sin. I love the Bible signal that says that Christians aren't perfect. They're just forgiven. And we can't blame other folk for our sin. Amen? If they had not said that to me I wouldn't have done it. If it had not got on my last nerve, I would not have lived there. Oh, I told you it's gonna be it's gonna be rough riding today. Amen And we may have said in the words of the late Flip Wilson, the devil made me do it I say that you helped them. And I helped them as well. In our spiritual DNA all the way back to the garden, there was the brain game. Adam and Eve and Adam blamed Eve and and then Eve blamed The serpent. And and so at the result of that, sin has still taken place. And that's why Christ came To redeem a broken humanity, he came for sinners, just like some of y'all still processing that I'm not really a sinner Yes you are. And so am I. I want you to stay on board and not pop off. And because we are sinners, first John 1 and 9 says, if we confess our sins He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and then cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Sin is personal. Jesus knew what he was doing when he wrote that he had already detected in the guise their own issues. And that's how He is able to prescribe for us because He knows who we are and what we're going through. He may not give you the same medicine that he gives me. Yours might be twice daily. Others might be with a meal at night only, but hallelujah, he's prescribing something for us sinners. But you know Sat can be painful. For we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us. Painful. You've hurt somebody. Not yesterday. This week. Someone has hurt you You determined that I ain't gonna let that go. You must not know who I am. I'm not gonna take it. Well yeah, Christian ball left this out Jesus didn't take it and we'll find a scripture that you know. He kicked the tables over. Uh you know, he Yeah But it's painful because hurt people hurt people. And that should not be the reason for you to forgive, and we can't be selective. Well I forgave two people this week. And the other two I'm just not gonna stand for it. Now I I I love the fact that you're loose, but We are selective. There's some folks be forgiven very easily. Other folk we're still holding. Amen? Because we're hurting and it's been painful, but you said that Jesus paid it all. Amen? Amen This sense of forgiving, Ephesians 4 and 32, and it says, and be kind. I could stop right there. Be kind one to another, tenderhearted. Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. That's right. The forgiven must be the forgiver. That's right. Right now, that person that you have written off. That person you say it'll be a cold day and not a man. The prophet gives it. Think about it. Think about it that you have allowed that to fester in your spirit. That you came to church with that issue still today. I went to church, but you still have not forgiven someone. Came across uh the writings of the late African Anglican bishop and theologian Desmond Tuto. He said in one of his works these words Forgiving is not forgetting. It's remembering. Remembering and not using your right to hit back. It's a second chance for a new beginning. Tutu goes on to say, and the remembering is important, especially if you don't want to repeat What happened? So there's a lot to unpack there. But you say, I'll forgive, but I won't forget. Well It's in the forgetting that you're able to grow. It's in the forgetting that you're able to grow in the Lord Jesus Christ. But You must and I must make the commitment to forgive somebody I've already kind of checked my list. So well wait a minute now I I'm not goody to shoe, I'm not good Timmy, but Most of that just kind of flown off my back. I say, you know. Uh you know I'm waiting for somebody to ask for my that may not happen, but as long as I've got peace Amen. Maybe you've tried, and the person I don't even come to me with that. But but you and I have an obligation to forgive as we have been forgiven. Jesus Wrote that specifically for his disciples. I mean, everyone the ones that said, can you teach us to pray? And yet, temptation and pain can be persuasive. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. It's not happenchance that both are in the same passage. They were placed there. Same prayer. And I believe that we can be tempted not to forgive. Amen? That the enemy is so strategic, he'll say, well, you you know, you don't really have to do that. But it's where God gives you peace and knowing. And we know. Because the Holy Spirit will work on us. The Holy Spirit will reveal the things that we need to do, and yet temptation is. Real. Amen. Tempted to hold a grudge. Tempted to be downright nasty and then do it under the guise of I'm a Christian. And then people are watching us. Oh, if that's what a Christian is, I don't want any part of that. Amen? James 1 and 13 is a key passage It didn't say if tempted. It says when tempted, no one should say, God is tempting me. That's a good one to write down. James one thirteen. When tempted, no one should say God is tempting me, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. Verse 14 of James 1. But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed. Then after Desire has conceived in verse 15. It gives birth to sin, and sin when it is full grown, gives birth. to death. Man, that's powerful. I mean, you see, there's steps along the way that you you messed up and you continue to mess up and you continue to mess up. Am I on anybody's street today? I'm on my street. I'm I'm on the ill estate in the fast lane. But here's the good news. First Corinthians 10 and 13. No temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind. And God is faithful. He will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. Hear this again. But when You're tempted. He will also provide a way out so that you can endure it. He he gives us an exit sign. We got into the building, the fire marshal said you need ways of escape. That that door is there in case somebody needs to get out. That door is escape Or go this way as an escape. And so the Lord will give us a way out if we want to access it. Amen? Oh bless the Lord today. God will deliver us from evil, from temptation. I love the hymn that says, yield Not the temptation. For yielding is sin. Each victory will help you some other to win. Oh, you like to win. Or you want your team to win today You want to win on the baseball diamond and win on the golf course, we want to walk a sin. Amen. Anybody want to win today? Oh yeah, I I want the victory. I don't want to be in the law column. I want to win. And in my winning I'm able to win somebody for Christ. Amen? That when God transforms me, it's not really about me, that in that forgiving In that not yielding to temptation, God is able to use you to reach somebody. Everybody's not listening to what you gotta say, but they watching you. And then watching me say, you know what? He's still a man, that's a co-worker. And so therefore you have been brought In your witness, because your witness and my witness is not lining up to the words. Hallelujah. I feel that thing today. Amen. And this is good medicine to help them all out. Amen. That's why we have to pray. Why? Because we know temptation will come. That's why we gotta pray. Because we'll hold on to things and we'll let them. That's why we got to pray. Because the enemy is all it goes, it takes all that. And someone preach it. Will not be the prayer. Think of how Matthew six thirteen ends. It says, Is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. What is amen? Amen means truly Amen means so it is. Amen is connected to praising and giving God praise. And so We often say, Let the church say amen. When the building came off, you are the church. And when God has brought you from our Father to Amen My God, why don't we still shouting in between our father? Hallelujah. Amen. What has he done between your father? And your Amen. Has he brought you food between your our father and your Amen? Has he put food on your table between your our father and your Amen? Has he healed your father? To be Lord, our father and amen. As he delivers you from something, to be Lord, our Father, and your amen. All I know is this That since Jesus came into my heart, oh what joy! I am since Jesus began to work on me, I'm not done with it. I thank God today for the avenue of prayer. I thank God today for sending Jesus Christ. I thank God So don't you take this prayer rightly? It's just the Lord's Prayer. Oh, hallelujah. There's some power in that prayer. But most of all, know that there's power in the blood of Jesus. There's something about the blood of Jesus. That will do what it will wash all of our skin away. I know you got Mr. Clean. I'm talking about why it's Jesus He will take stuff that you refuse to let go, and he'll wash you vitamin snow. I'm glad today. That I've got a prayer. Amen. Our Father Amen That is the word of God today. Well what he left. Who won't stand today in this place? I know the Lord's prayer. I memorized that. I was a child. Yeah, go back and start digging in it. That forgiven temptation, that thing should have had you twisted. Because it brings to mind somebody you still I ain't gonna do it. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your your word. I'm glad that the disciple raised the question. Master, teach us To pray. He spoke for the others who didn't speak up. Teach us to pray like John taught his disciples. Yes. And Jesus didn't beat around the bush. He says, When you praise, say our Father. Father, we come today and every part of the scripture that applies to us might we receive it and might we live it. Even now. There might be one after all this time has never confessed their sins to you. Never said, Lord, I'm a sinner Save my soul today and make me whole today. I'm a sinner, but I believe God that you sent your son. Jesus Christ to die for me. And the Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says Thou shalt be saved. Save save someone today. Is only you care. Saved has has blocked fellowship. Sin has Giving us a detour. But today, like spiritual draino, I pray God you might open up our hearts today. Open up our minds today. And we'll be a whole lot better. Once we've laid our burdens down, we ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Come on, give God a praise today. I need it. Every day, every hour, every real life. People, people that you know, people in your house, people on your job, people down the street you laugh with and At the core they need your car Open door. Come on, so let you know it, people. Oh, we need you, Lord. People need hungry. Amen. Just take your seats for a moment. Thank God for that word.