Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. How many folk know that their Redeemer lives? For he lives in the hearts of the believers. That's reassurance today that in a world that promotes dead things and dead ideas And dead concepts. It's good to know that we serve a God who's alive and well. Man, that makes me feel good today. I can make it Why? Because the God that I serve is still sitting on the throne. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, as we come In this moment, we're so humbled that you've chosen us to declare the good news. We pray for now that we might decrease. And that you might increase. Save someone today and encourage another That when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. It's so great to be alive. Praise God. Great to be on the Lord's side. There's a word from the Lord today That comes from Romans, the sixth chapter, and verse number 23. It reads, For the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. It's so short. Can I say it again? For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life In Christ Jesus our Lord. I want to preach today from the Zemonic title, The Side Effects of Sin. The side effects of sin. Medical professionals always warn us about over-the-counter or prescription medications to make sure that we look very carefully at the label. Label will tell you whether to take one or two and when to take them. But if you look further down on the medicine bottle, you'll see sometimes in glaring colors something that talks about the side effects. In fact I was kidding with my wife last night. There was an advertisement on something, some medication, and the list went on forever about the sound effects. You say, Well my God, you want to risk just taking that when you think about the side effects. You been there? It may cause dry mouth. It may cause a loss of appetite. It may cause drowsiness. It may affect something you're already taking, but you have to make sure that you see that there are side effects. Things that could affect you. Nonetheless, it even says don't drive. There can be some side effects to driving with medication that you shouldn't be behind the wheel after you've taken. You know, sin is described and often defined as many things. But sin essentially is when you and I miss the mark. It's when you and I, at one point or another, fall short. And we all fall short. But sin most of all is a rebellion against God. It's when we become hardheaded and do our own thing. When we want to do it, how we want to do it, whatever we want to do it, we just pretty much get big and bad in the flesh. And so when we talk about the side effects, their consequences to sin And of course the text will talk about that and the word says the wages of sin is death. You say, well I'm still alive, but there's a spiritual death that I'll get into. But I want to talk about why it's important for us to change our prescription. The prescription that you're on now is causing too many side effects. Perhaps you need a new doctor visit and get something else prescribed. Not a generic medication, but you need the real thing that's approved by heaven's pharmacists. Amen. You know, in the book of Romans we certainly hear from the Apostle Paul one who's written the better part of the New Testament, those 27 books. But Paul finds himself at this writing in Corinth. He's writing to the church at Rome, and he takes up a topic that is not really a hot topic. It talks about sin. Romans reminds us of who God is. It reminds us of what God has done. It shows us what can happen when you live a life that is pleasing to Him. How many folk are glad that God is one who specializes in before and after? I used to be amazed at I may as well go ahead and tell it uh reading those little uh cartoons and little magazines back in the day and they would have on the back that it had a real small guy. He was drooped down and they said, now that's before. But if you buy the bull worker, you'll look like this. Can I testify? I bought that thing. I don't know what I paid for it. And when it came in the mail, I was doing like That, but nothing ever changed. I'm still the same Tim now as I was then But when you live a life that is pleasing to God, when you connect with the Savior, Paul was simply saying that something ought to change. About our walk. Something ought to change about our talk. Something ought to change about how we see the world as we know it. Oftentimes I remember in the days of war we talked about the Romans road. And take time even this week. to just read uh the book of Romans. That's six chapters loaded with all kinds of information. Bless you. Romans 3. 10. There's none righteous. No, not one. Talking about us. Romans three and twenty says, all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans five and eight says, For God demonstrated his love toward us that while we were yet In sin or sinners, that Christ died for us. The Romans rolled, helping folk to see. But most of all, we can never forget what God did for us. By sending his son Jesus Christ to die for us. He died, shed his blood, but he rose again with all power in his hands. That there were some side effects to sin. Amen? That that sin will cause you to be guilty And rightly so. Sin will cause you to feel that you're empty. And rightly so. Sin will cause you to sense, even for a moment, a disconnect with God. Amen. We've all fallen out of fellowship. We've all done some things that none of us are proud of, but thank God for grace Amen? By confessing our sins, that we know that there's so many different side effects. I want to just talk about this today. It's one of those topics that may not make you shout today Amen. But it'll help us. That's what I like about the word. Every word ain't a shouting word. Amen. Every word ought to be a word that ought to make us better. The Bible talks about that for reproof, for correction, though the man or woman of God might be what? Thoroughly furnished unto good works. First of all, we know that uh this sin that we deal with allows us to become disoriented, confused, not quite sure how we got in the mess that we got in, and how we get out of that I don't know whether we're going or whether we're coming. And it says the wages of sin. We work on our jobs not because we love the job, but because they're wages. I know you all agree with that that every two weeks you hope to see something. They may take out more than you want taken out But thank God for wages. But the wages of sin, when you get on the devil's payroll, it is a reduction in your life. Amen. The devil just take out what he wants to take out. There's no investment plan, there's no 401k. You just leave disoriented, not able to find your way, because sin has that effect. Not talking down to you, not trying to make you feel bad, not trying to make you feel convicted because guess what? When you start preaching this kind of word all during the week Yeah, I was finding myself in check. You said, Reverend, the wages of sin is death. What do you know about it? I've sinned But thank God I can go to him and thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. Thank God that he died so that what? My sins might be forgiven. Shame on folk who just point their finger at you and tell you how bad you are, how you messed up when they know deep down inside they've done the same. But thank God He allows you to get back in fellowship with your confused self and your disoriented self and your off-balance self and not being able to get yourself together. But thank God He brings you out of that maze so that you don't have the side effect of being disoriented. Amen? Thank God there was a time that I used to think that there were categories of sin. Always thought I wasn't as bad as the next person. You know that. Say now I'm bad But I'm not better than he is. I might mess up, but I'm not doing that. But sin is sin. Just want to drop that in there. Amen. But I'm glad that the word always gives us an out Always gives us an exit. 1 Corinthians 10, 13. Says that none of us are without sin, but he always provides a way of escape. Always gives us an out. So we don't mess up. Ever had an outcome and you didn't take it? Well no, I I see it, but I'm not ready for that yet. But it's not because the door did not open for you to get out You were disoriented. You were confused, and the enemy had his way in that regard. But sin will cause us to become disoriented, but also delusional. We start believing stuff that don't make no sense. False stuff. Unrealistic. We start believing a lie. Start believing our own lie. Keep telling yourself up it's not bad. Keep telling yourself I won't do it again. Keep telling my own your street today. I'm on my own street Keep telling myself, well, I know it's sin, but it's still not. You know, I mean I can justify it, but it's still a lie. That's the lie of the devil. To make you think that what you're doing ain't that bad Do I have a witness today? And yet we keep saying I'm not gonna do it again. But you still keep going to the same places and doing the same thing. I think you follow me. But we become delusional. in this sound effect because sin will do that. You'll be almost out of your mind. Won't you glad when you're able to conquer sin? Aren't you glad you say, you know, ten years ago that would have whooped me, but now it's not an issue. Five years ago I would have caved in, but now I'm better. Yesterday it had me all locked up, but thank God for Jesus. I'm no longer delusional. Why? I don't have those side effects anymore. I'm not drowsing anymore, but thank God for Jesus. The enemy will tell you it's alright. You're not a bad person. You okay. And you'll find people who will help you say, that's right, I'm with you. You're not that bad, though. Pats you on the back and you say, Oh you know, see there. I didn't think I was that bad. But that's nothing but a lie. And the Bible says in John 8 and 4 that Satan is what? He's the father of lies. He'll make you think it's all right John 8 22 says you shall know the truth and the truth shall do what? It'll set you free. How many folk won't know the truth today? Amen. I know you we we we we don't want to hear the truth. Ever ask somebody to pull you up? Who didn't know your business, but they thought you did. And you pulled them up in love and they got mad at you? Maybe not at y'all. I've had folk who I thought knew my business, they didn't even know. And I'm all shaking, thinking they know something. But thank God that Jesus knows and He wants to deliver you from your sins. I shared this story before. We were teenage boys doing things that were not of the Lord. I remember being in the back seat with some brothers. I shouldn't have been there. But I remember I saw Deacon Sam Martin's Buick drive by. I said, oh my God, it's Deacon Martin And whatever I was doing, I got convicted over seeing Deacon Martin's burial. He didn't even know I was in there. Never even paid attention to me, but I became convicted because I was kind of delusional at the time. But thank God I've gotten past that now. I don't worry about Deacon Martin. I worry about Jesus. I don't worry about the brother or the sister. I'm saying, Lord, I got an answer to you. Amen. Disorient. Delusional. But know that God is deliberate. Amen. That because he knows what we're going through. Being deliberate is to carefully think something out. It is to talk through it. It is to be slow and measured in the process. And God did that. He saw a broken humanity and says, I'm going to be deliberate about what I do. I'm going to send my only begotten Son. It says, but the gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord. That over two thousand years ago he was deliberate about what he did. By sending a gift. Who don't like a gift? Oh you have to do that. You wait for that gift though. Amen. How many folk at Christmas that would you shouldn't have? I don't know why y'all spend that money on me. I don't deserve it. And you'd be waiting for that gift. Amen. Aren't you glad that God sent his gift? In the person of Jesus Christ to deliver us from our sins. I am. I'm glad about it. I wake up every day, Lord. Thank you for the gift that you've given me. Because of that gift, it makes sense. A difference. He is deliberate. My God. And the think about 2 Corinthians. It says, if any person in Christ He or she is a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. But here's a foundational scripture. First John 1 and 9. I like this. If you confess your sins. He's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and then cleanse you from all unrighteousness. I dare you to look at verse number 10. If you say that you have not sinned, you make him a liar. And the truth is not in you. My daddy quoted that, but it wasn't that scripture. He said you are a liar and the truth is not in you. Now I didn't know that daddy knew some stuff, but that was scripture based. Because he knew when I was lying and not telling the truth. And our father knows the same thing. But thank God for grace. His grace is sufficient just for us. You know, John Wesley, who was really the father of the Methodist movement, tells a story. He had just finished preaching. As he headed to uh his area of leaving, somebody robbed him. God came up and took everything he had. As the man sped away, Wesley called, hey, come back. I got one more thing for you. The man came back and Wesley began to tell him. I want to give you more. I want to tell you about Jesus Christ. Man took off and well they never saw him again. I wouldn't recommend you try that nowadays. Somebody robs you, let them go in the name of Jesus. Don't call them back But Wesley said that there was one Sunday afternoon he was preaching, greeting people after church, and one man came and said, Sir, you don't know me A Christian, successful businessman, and also the man that robbed you that day. Most of us would have given the beatdown. He said, and I owe it all to you. Wesley said, no, no, no. You don't owe it to me. You owe it to Jesus because the blood that was shed covers a multitude of sins. And I'm glad today that as I think about that, I think about the hymns. Jesus paid it off. All to him I owe. Sin has left the crimson stain, but he's washed me whiter than snow. Can I go in the hymn book? What can wash away my sins? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of all precious is that flow. Aren't you glad that the flow of the blood continues today to wash you from all unrighteousness? The blood that Jesus shed for me. Way back on Calvary. The blood that gives me strength from day to day. It will never lose its power. It reaches to the highest mountain. It flows, oh I feel my help coming today, to the lowest valley. The blood that gives me strength From day to day, it will never, never, ever lose its power It will never lose its perspective. It will never lose its patience. It helps me in my predicament. And it gives me a peace of mind. But I'm stuck on never. I'm stuck on the fact that the blood that was shed will never, ever, at no time in the past. At no time in the future, on no occasion, not ever or never. Can you say never? Never never never never this blood Well take care of my side effects. All of a sudden I'll feel my life changing and my walk will change And my talk will change. I'll have the proper side effects because of who I know. I'm glad today that Jesus died and he rose again just for me. So that when sin comes by saying, Will you work for me? No thank you. When sin knocks on my door and says, I'm looking for some workers, I'm paying good, no thank you. When sin says, Let me take you back to the old days, you remember when? I'll say no, thank you. When sin comes along to try and lure me into my own life I'll say no thank you. Anybody want to say no thank you today? Oh Lord, I thank you that you've given me the power to resist. No longer am I disoriented. No longer am I disillusioned, but I'm glad for a God who takes care of me. Side effects of sin. Take two and call him in the morning. Take it with a meal. Take one, three times y'all on medication a day. But most of all, no, the Lord is with that. Is the word of God today? It is already blessed. Come on, let's stand today and give God the praise. The side effects. Got that twitch? Side effects. Got that potty mouth still? Side effects. Doing things that you've been doing and thought they were all right, style effects. Oh Lord, we thank him for his word today. It would never Blah blah shared for me. Way back Way back from Caleb. The blood that gives me strength. The blood that gives me strength. From day today. He will never lose its power. It reaches Oh yes. The blood that gives me strength from day to day it will never One more time it reaches. Oh, yes. The blood negative will all day today will never lose. It will never do. It will never do. Amen. Amen. Come on, celebrate the Lord today. Father, we thank you for the blood of Jesus Christ. As we come today Open ourselves up. Say first of all that we're sorry for that sin that we've committed, but we thank you. Then you'll bring us back into fellowship by confessing it unto you. The Apostle Paul says early on in that same chapter, shall we continue in sin? That grace might abide. No. Help us to know better and to do better As the people today. Father, I come even now and I plead the blood of Jesus Christ over that life that knows you not. You said that you would save. And I pray by now, if someone is here today and never accepted you as their personal savior, they might Go down to Romans 10, 9 and 10. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Just with the mouth. It's with the mouth. Confession is made. With the heart, God, you make that difference. Save someone today. In Jesus' name. In the name of Jesus. We pray but now, God, that you might cover your people. From the head to the rear. Give us the strength we need. To beat that sin this week, the one that catches us. On certain days, at certain hours, at certain places. Give us victory today, God We declare it in the name of Jesus. Amen? Come on, celebrate the Lord today. Amen. Maybe you've come today and desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest, the doors are always open. We'll love on you. We'll walk with you. As you go through life, we bless them today. Walk for the Lord. It can always be without deacons afterwards. But nevertheless, don't forget the blood. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cometh the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.