This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. It's great to know who made the day. It's great to know who made each of us. Let's bow forward a prayer. Heavenly Father, we come today and how grateful we are that you've given us this opportunity to share the good news of Jesus Christ. It is our prayer. That we might decrease and that you might increase. In Jesus' name, amen. There is a word this morning that comes from the book of 1 Timothy. the first chapter, verses 15 and 16. That's 1 Timothy, the first chapter, verses 15 and 16. It reads as follows. Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst. Verse 16. But for that very reason I was shown mercy, so that in me the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his immense patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive eternal life. I want to read These same two passages in what we call the message translation. It's more of a down-to-earth translation of the Bible. It reads this way Here's a word you can take to heart and depend on. Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners. I'm proof. Public center number one. of someone who could never have made it apart from sheer mercy. And now he shows me off evidence of his endless patience to those who are right on the edge. Of trusting him forever. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, The Freedom of Forgiveness, Part 2. The Freedom of Forgiveness Part 2. Just to recap from last week and our last time together, we defined forgiveness simply as a release or a dismissal of something It means to hurl away. We looked at Matthew 6, 14, and 15, where Jesus is sharing with his disciples during what we call the Sermon on the Mount. And they were able to sit with him and he began to describe to them the Lord's Prayer as we call it. But near the end of that prayer, right when we say Amen, Jesus declares this to them that if you forgive those who sin against you, I will forgive you. If you do not forgive those who sin against you, I will not forgive you of your sins. It's worth going back and reading there, Matthew 6, 14, and 15. And we talked on last time that really these passages lifted up a couple of areas. The promise that the Lord made, the warning that he made, and the choice that we must make as well as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. So this morning I want to pick up where I left off last time. But the focus is still on the freedom of forgiveness, but more specifically, forgiving ourselves or self-forgiveness. Forgiving ourselves, or in another way we say self-forgiveness. Now perhaps Uh you and I are walking around even today struggling to forgive ourselves of something that we did. Battling night after night and day after day to forgive ourselves for something that we said, something that we feel guilty about from many, many years ago. forgetting or having a senior moment to remember that Lord Jesus Christ died to forgive us of our sins. Now, even though we believe that and we've embraced that, we still sometimes have a problem shaking our past. a problem getting over what we did yesteryear, not realizing, forgetting, having a moment That Jesus Christ died for sinners like us. The Apostle Paul mentions in Philippians 3:13 and 14, one of my favorite passages. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and pressing forward to those things which are before I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. If there's anyone who knows what it means to Be a habitual sinner, one who has a track record of trouble, and one who knows what it means to receive forgiveness, it is the Apostle Paul. What a story. His resume will show that he was one who went out and he would hunt down Christians and bring them in for a bounty. He was a Christian hater, to say the least. He did all he could to destroy Christians, but one day he met his match And one day we will all meet our match. He met the Lord on the Damascus road, and he was not from his beast. In fact, he was going to start more trouble When the Lord tripped him up. Isn't that something that when we were headed into more danger, more trouble, we didn't have any more sense to know when to stop and the Lord had to come and to knock us off our beast, our high place and to remind us. that I am in charge. That was Paul's situation. But I believe that Paul is a model of what it means to forgive one's self or self-forgiveness. You know, self-forgiveness is a life that is transparent. It is a life that is transformed. A life where there is evidence of a transaction. And so there in that 15th verse of 1 Timothy 1, 15, it says, here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst. I am the chief sinner, as some translations will add. And so Paul is writing this letter to Timothy, his young son in the ministry, and he really lifts up, and I just like this because I think we all walk in these shoes if we're honest today. That Paul says I am really a public sinner, number one. If you want to know what it looks like to sin and to get knee deep in it, I am Paul. He does not say, I used to be the chief center. Paul says, I am the chief center, which tells me he's still working on it. Amen. We talk about what we used to do and who we used to be, but God is yet working on us even now. But the fact that He is transparent. I mean, all of us chief centers, we don't often share with other folk that, hey, I am a chief center. We give them the best uh video role of our life and where we've come from and we went to Sunday school and all of that. But to be transparent I think is a step in getting us to the area of being self-forgiven. Now Paul knew that the Lord knew everything about him. And there was nothing to hide, people couldn't twist his story. And he knew, I believe, that his story could benefit someone else. That's what self-forgiveness would do. Once you get over you, you're able to help someone else. Have you been transparent about your sins today? Just start in the household telling the children that you were not always that good. Letting your children know that you did mess up. You made some bad decisions, but you made some good ones. Amen. So there's this sense of being transparent. And Paul could be transparent. He says in 15 that he came into this world, meaning Christ Jesus, to save sinners He knew who it was who could forgive us of our sins. And based on that, he could practice and embrace Self-forgiveness. Amen. John 8 and 7. We know that Jesus was there minding his own business, and some of the leaders, religious leaders, brought a woman there Zahled her in the act of adultery. They said, you know, according to the law of Jesus, she's supposed to be stoned. You want us to grab a brick? He begins to work on them. John 8 and 7, let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone. Man, he looked around and and uh those folk who were suggesting that Jesus went down and wrote something in the sand, he looked back and they had gone. Of course he forgave her. Amen. Said go and sin no more. And we've got to be transparent enough to receive Self-forgiveness. Not only was this sense of a transparent life, but also a transformed life. Verse 16, Paul lifts up in 1 Timothy 1:16. But for that very reason I was shown mercy so that in me the worst of sinners, that Christ Jesus might display his immense patience, as an example to those who believe in him and receive eternal life. That's a big chunk of meat, all to say That Paul says, I've been there. I know what it means to be a sinner, but I know what it means to be able to walk in the transformed life of Jesus Christ. Amen. And I like what the message version says about verse 16. It says, and now he shows me off evidence of his endless patience. to those who are right on the edge of trusting him forever. Do you want God to set you up as a kind of a trophy, an example of what he can do through your life? Oh, God is so good. Have you been transformed? Or you're the same person you've always been. When you allow the Lord to come into your life and you're able to accept his forgiveness of you, you can move on. Transformed for the better. I'm so glad the Lord changed my life, and none of us thought we were that bad. But not just a makeover of the physical, and there's a lot of that going on. That's a business all by itself, but the makeover of the spirit man and the spirit woman. I love what Paul says when he writes to the church at Rome. And Romans 12, 1 and 2 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. That's the least we can do. And verse 2 says this And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Do you feel transformed right about now? Uh yet once you allow the Lord to come in to clean you up and once you accept what he has done in your life, you feel different. You're not the same. O you. The saints of old would say, I've been changed. And that's the blessing of our walk with the Lord Jesus Christ. Transformed, transparent. And finally, we can talk about this sense of a transaction. There's that part of verse number 16, 1 Timothy 1, where he talks about this sense of receiving eternal life. Paul knew the end game. Paul knew that what he did on this end was only temporary, and that's why he got in a hurry. He wanted to be effective. For the time that he was here. And when you talk about a transaction, uh we think about money off the bat, a finalized agreement between a seller And a buyer transforming goods, services, or financial assets. That's a transaction. But God made a transaction where he sent Jesus Christ to die for our sins Send him to a place, to a world that was hateful. Send him as a transaction. What for our sins? And he died there on that old rugged cross. The price was paid. It was a transaction that took place. And when you think about what the Lord has done in this type of situation, this type of transaction, and we're the beneficiaries of it. Paul knew that he would receive eternal life. Paul would talk about, listen, I really want to hang out with him, but I'll hang out with you. He said, I'm torn between what I want to keep serving in this life. I am excited about the next life See, when you've done the work of the Lord and been effective, you're okay with the next step. Amen. You and I are part of this holy transaction. Another reason why we ought to forgive ourselves. Amen. Lord, yes, we are sorry, but we know that we have been made free. Jesus says in John 8 36, if the Son therefore makes you free, you shall be free indeed. It has been suggested. I think it was Charles Stanley who lifted up. He says, it's been suggested that we spiritually incarcerate ourselves, despite the fact that there's no place in the Bible Where God says He's forgiven us of all of our sins, of some of our sins, but all of our sins. In other words, there are not any sins that you have committed that the Lord cannot forgive you of. And so this sense of being free, we got to be free today. My God, you've been locked up in sin, beating yourself up for something you did not just yesteryear, but today But do you believe that God can forgive a sinner like you and forgive a sinner like me? Yes, I do believe it I also believe that I don't have to walk around with guilt. Man, you ought to shake that thing today. So you know what? I'm so glad that Jesus lifted me Above my situation, above my dilemma. I'm free. I'm not perfect, but I'm free. Amen. I'm forgiven. And that is the good news today. Being forgiven has nothing to do with feeling forgiven. Being forgiven has to do with what God did for us on that old rugged cross. Amen. So I can walk around singing this song. Oh, oh, oh, what he has done for me. I never shall forget what he has done for me. That is the song of somebody who's forgiven themselves. He picked me up off the Maury clay. Oh, that's what he's done for me, and I can forgive myself. Amen He picked me up and turned me around. That's what he has done for me. My God, today you can walk away free in the Spirit, knowing That God has forgiven you and knowing this, that you've got to forgive yourself. Talk to yourself. They say, self, I got to move on. Because God has new plans for me. Self, I'm tired of you holding me down. I've got to walk in the newness of life Self, I got to go because I'm walking in the spirit that I don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. You ought to have a little talk with Jesus and tell him all about your struggles, but also you ought to have a little talk with self. And say self no longer am I going to feel this way. Let self know no longer am I going to walk around with this guilt because Jesus has made the difference in my life And so today, be free. The freedom of self-forgiveness. Let's pray today. Heavenly Father, we come even now and we thank you for a friendly reminder. Thank you for a poll in the biblical text that will let us know that listen, you want to find the baddest sinner. I am he. So I pray today, God, that as you have already paid the price, we've already been pardoned, help us to embrace today self-forgiveness. And even now, if there's one who has not forgiven themselves, not crossed over that bridge, today is the day. The same Jesus who saved back then is still saving today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, God bless you. I pray you've been blessed by the word today. I want to encourage you to go to our website and to check out part one. of the freedom of self-forgiveness, you will be blessed. Have a blessed day in the Lord. God bless you.