I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries Well workshop experience already in progress. Amen. Do you believe that today the world Perpetrates that everything else is love. But I declare today that Jesus is Love, how many know he loves you today? The song would say Jesus loves me, this I know For the Bible tells me so. Let's bow today all over this place. Heavenly Father, that's on target. That in spite of anything else that we may have heard or folk may have said about us, we thank you that you love us. So much so that you sent your only begotten Son to die for us. You showed love. And God, I thank you today that as we come, that your people might sense your love and feel your love through the preached word today. May we decrease and may you increase. And when it's all said and done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. It's a good day to be in church and in community because the Lord is just that good. Ah, that's where I am today. Isn't he a good God? Don't let me push you. Isn't he a good God? Is there one thing you can think of in your life? And you know without a shadow of a doubt that it was the Lord who brought you through, the Lord who made a way, and it's not happenstance, but God did it. Do you know he'll do it today? In your life he'll make a way. Out of no way he'll keep you in your right mind. He'll supply all of your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. So we come today to declare the word of God. Comes from Philippians 2, 5 through 8. In your relationship with one another, have the same mindset as Christ Jesus had. who being in very nature God do not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage. Verse 7. Rather he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. I want to preach today from the Samonic title. The mind that matters most. The mind that matters most. Subtitle and Attitude Adjustment An attitude adjustment. The mind is a terrible thing to waste. I used to hear that advertisement on radio and television as a young man growing up in the 70s. uh a slogan coined by the United Negro College Fund, and it reminded you that anything was possible as it related to people of color and in particular those who were less fortunate But it was always that thing that stuck in my mind. Just eighth grade. Saying, now you can use your mind for other stuff, but the mind really is a terrible thing to waste And that comes to what we talk about when we say having an attitude adjustment, getting your mind in the right place. When I say attitude adjustment, I mean it determines how you behave. And how you think. And some of us, if we're honest today, we have good attitudes sometime. And sometime we have a bad attitude. Now some of you country folk know that when your parents wanted to keep you in line, they would say, You need an attitude adjustment. And what they meant was they were gonna adjust you in some way, form, or fashion. I I'll make you follow me. Our attitude is our state of mind. It determines how we view life circumstances It determines how we go about our daily lives. And we live lives that have to be always adjusted Whether it's from the workplace, whether it's at home, we're constantly trying to fit into a certain mindset. And if there's anyone that we can think of who always comes to mind is that Christ made adjustments on our behalf. And as a result of his coming and his dying and his resurrection, humanity had to adjust. A heaven and hell had to adjust. Because what? The sent one was coming In this Linton season we're really preparing for the coming uh of Christ to the point that he goes to the cross. And he dies on that cross. And he gets up on the third day morning with all power in his hand. That's theology 101. So I believe God sent him I believe that he died, but I believe that he rose. Some faiths stop at he died But I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. The apostle Paul takes an old hymn to make a point to tell the people at Philippi you need to get your mind adjusted to have the same kind of mind as Christ. Not what would Jesus do, but really don't lose your mind, but pull your mind together. Don't you know that the mind is the battlefield for the enemy? He can get you to think about it long enough, you will do it. Oh I know I gotta save church this morning. But some of us used to plan stuff After church on oh Lord on Sunday, what we're gonna do on Friday night and then on On Saturday, you did it. On Sunday, you well, let me just all I'm saying is that we are adjusting to this new life in Christ. Don't you love this new life in Jesus? Every day with Jesus is sweeter than the day before. I like it. I like the new adjusted me. I like the new tuned up me. I like the me who don't mind giving God the prayer. I I I like that kind of me. What about you? Have you seen the adjustments in your life? You're not who you used to be. Folks think you have the reunion and say, Oh you don't change. Is it your hair? No, no, it's my life. You look good. Yeah, I've been I've been with Jesus. Amen. And as a result, we can adjust our attitude. And what Paul is saying is Let's have the same mindset as Jesus Christ. And so really when we think about the mindset of Christ, we're talking about the mind that surrenders. He had a mind to surrender. He had a mind to serve. He had a mind to suffer. Jesus the Christ. That he was thinking about you and thinking about me. That's kind of heavy to think that he's thinking about me That I may be thinking about him, but that you're always on God's mind. Does that blow you away? That he's always saying, I know how they're doing, but you're on my mind And that's the good news today that he did not mind surrendering his life for the cause. And that's really giving up something And that's my first point today. Surrender. Verse 6 say, who being in the very nature of God did not consider equality with God something to be used to. He didn't have to submit. He didn't have to surrender. And when you surrender, you say, you know what? I'm waving the white flag. I I give up. I give in. And so he really reduced himself to the point he said, you know what? I can surrender who I am. One person says he emptied himself. I don't know what that means to you, the fact that he didn't really have to because he was holy God and holy man, but he is the kind of God who knows what we are going through and can feel our pain. And feel our struggle. And so he does just that. He said, hey, I'm surrendering. There's some things I can surrender in my own life. Maybe not you. Some stuff I said, give up, not just for Lynn. But for life. Amen. I didn't give chocolate up. I ain't gonna tell no story. I didn't I never said that Amen. But it's some stuff we give up for 40 days. And on day 41, we go right back to it. Oh, I'm talking to a saved church today, amen. And all I'm saying is that there's some attitude, there's something in your own spiritual life you ought to say, here, I surrender. I give it up. And Christ did not mind doing that. There he is. Christ all by himself, but he chooses to get low. Isn't that good news today to know that we serve that kind of Savior who's so concerned about us that as he makes the adjustment for us, amen? He didn't do anything wrong. He was without sin. But yet he surrendered himself. He said, you know what? I'm holy man, holy God. But I'm not going to take my position and use it against you. I'm going to help you out. Isn't it great to serve a God who understands what you're going through? Let me say that again. Don't you know he understands what you're going through? Jesus knows all about our struggles? He will guide us till the day is done. There's not a friend like the lowly Jesus. He surrenders himself. He he waves the flag and said, you know what, I care that much about you, I don't mind getting low for you. I like that. And he made it a requirement for those who followed him. There in Luke 9:23, he said, you know, he said to them all, those who follow him, whoever wants to be my disciple must do what must deny himself Pick up your cross and follow me. There's some stuff that we ought to shake off even during this season, some things we ought to surrender and not go back to them. Now you've thought of those two things in your life already. That you've just held on to and that you refuse to surrender. Anybody just get some stuff like old shoes that you ought to be getting rid of? Oh coach, I hide them from my wife. See that that's out of style. No girl, that might come back. Amen. But that's some stuff in your own spiritual life. You need to surrender and deny yourself and instead pick up what? Your cross. And follow him. Surrender. He have the mind to spirit, but also we have a mind to serve Verse 7 says, rather he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness. Go to a restaurant, you expect the server to treat you well. They don't, you get funny with the tip. If you've been on the other end, you know the attitudes that come along with that. Amen? Well, this drive through or table folk get funny. And to think that our Lord and Savior says, I am going to be a servant. I'm going to get the lowest position in here, and my mind is I want to serve. I like that. That Lord helped me to be a servant. My pastor always says, Dr. Bond, I want to be a servant and not a celebrity. He said there's a real difference Celebrities want to be served. But if you are servant of God, you don't mind getting down and and shoveling snow for somebody, you don't mind uh giving them a dollar, they don't you don't mind because you don't mind serving your mind and your attitude is of such You will serve the Lord with gladness. Amen. Anybody want to be a servant today? That's not a popular thing in this culture. Now you're going to do for me. Yeah, if not, I'm going to hold back your your kip. I like to mess with people. I figure if I can give the Lord 10, 15, 20 and I'll give it to the restaurant, amen. And you come in a big group, they don't ask you if they're gonna f it takes your ten percent. Uh-oh Stewardship Sunday is coming up soon. We'll revisit that, amen. But just knowing that he is one who serves. And once you get that attitude that you know what I don't mind serving my brothers and sisters because I'm doing it as unto God. It's not really about you, but I'm doing it and I'm looking up to heaven from which my help comes. I don't mind serving. You know I do a little drive-through and I'm always impressed by Chick-fil-A. How many ever been there before? Man, I don't know if they put a chip in their head and say, Hello? How may I serve you? My size wrong. I'll change it. It's been our pleasure. You say wait a minute, it's just a chicken sandwich. But they take the attitude of serving. Isn't it great if you serve your brothers and sisters in such a way that your mind was, is it all right? No problem, my bad, I got you. That's a real attitude adjustment. Amen We said, I don't mind serving you. I don't mind bowing before you as unto the Lord. Jesus was a servant He had that kind of mind. My God, I just want to change the cartridge now. When I come on Sundays, I'm coming to serve. Amen. And whether it's on Monday, I'm still serving. On Tuesday I'll serve. On Wednesday I can't wait to serve. On Thursday I'll serve. On Friday I'll serve. No matter where I am. Anybody want to be a server today? I mean, put something on your back that says, Hi. I'm a servant for the Lord. My, isn't that a great thing to have? And Christ talks about that over in Matthew 20, 20. He says, you know, just as the Son of Man, talking about himself Did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for me. He said, you know what? I'm the blueprint of service. I'm what service looks like. You want a model? Look in the Word of God and you'll see him always serving. Whether washing his disciples' feet whether giving up his last, whether going to a town that nobody didn't want him to be, he was always serving. What a mind to have. Has your mind been adjusted yet to know that I don't mind serving him and serving him with all that I have and all who I am? Serve him finally He had a mind to suffer. Nobody wants to talk about suffering. Ouch. Why me not now? Verse 8, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself By becoming obedient to death, even the death on the cross. He says, You know what? I'll take it for you. You know what? I've got you. I played Little League Baseball years ago, but even before that, we played in the community and you hope they picked you on their team. But if you weren't that good a batter, they would take your last You don't struck out bad on one, you'll strike two, say get somebody who can hit to come to back. And then you get to run even though you didn't hit the ball. And that's what I see when I think about what Christ did for me and what he did for you. He took your last. You couldn't get on base by yourself You couldn't go through your pain by yourself. You couldn't get for your circumstances by yourself. But he took your last. And then you are grinning on first base. And God knows that it's a home run, you get to come across the place and say, look at that, we just won. And you never even touch that ball for the third pitch. Is that good news today to know that we serve the kind of God who will send his son, but send him to suffer, to go through the anguish. That went along with not just a tap-tap on the hand, but I mean a crucifixion in which he was nailed to an old rugged cross There's some things in our own lives that have caused us suffering, both physical, both spiritual, both mentally, emotionally, we have suffered. But on the back end of that, won't God come through? And won't he make a way for you in the midst of what you're going through? He allows you to adjust to what's going on around you, and he gives you what you need to get through that time of suffering. That's good news to me that no matter what I may be facing around the corner, no matter what I've gone through, that whatever I'm going through it, I am not alone. Never alone. He promised never to leave me. Has he ever left you alone? I mean, some friends have left you and some family members have left you, but he says, you know what? I'm also trouble for you And that's why he went to the cross. And that's why he died on the cross. And that's why he rose again with all power in his hands. Paul talks about that in Romans 8. 18. He says, you know what? For I reckon the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to what? With the glory which shall be revealed in me. That whatever I'm going through, it won't last forever. Whatever I'm facing, it'll be over soon And no matter where you find yourself this morning, it ain't done until God says it's done. And he says, you know what? I'll be with you always, even to the end of the earth. I'm glad that I serve a risen Savior today who don't mind saying, you know what? I adjusted my attitude for you. What are you gonna do? Amen. And one day he adjusted my attitude. Yes, he did. Young boy there in church and hadn't given my life to Jesus. And I like the old songs that I went to the church last night and my heart wasn't right. But after I got there, something got a hold of me. Amen. Amen. Not something, but somebody got a hold of me, and that somebody was the Holy Ghost. Now, Rebel, what did you do? Did you shout? No, no, I felt something warm though happening in my life. Amen. And what that has done, it has adjusted my thinking, adjusted my living, adjusted my character, and now I can live right. And now I can love right. And now I can talk right. And now I can walk right. And now I can speak right. And now I can serve right. Why? Because he's adjusted who I am. Oh you need an adjustment every now and then. Yes you do. In your life, you'll say, Lord, I need you to give me straight in my walk. And that's what I like about him. He will pull you in the right place. He'll put running in your feet. He'll put clapping in your hands. He'll give you joy divine. He'll put a smile on your face. He'll give you a piece. Why do he do it today? Why? Because you've said, you know what? I'm going to adjust how I'm thinking. I'm going to adjust my mind. Amen? That's the good news. That Jesus says, I can do this, I can handle this, and this is the real mind that matters most. That he would put you at a safe place. Put you on solid ground. Because see the world, it's a quicksand situation, and you're always thinking, but won't he raise you up? Won't he change your life? Won't he make you new? And you'll leave this place. You know what? I need to get my head on. That's what the sports guy said. My head wasn't in the game I dropped two past the why my head but my hand is in the game and my mind is in the game and my life is in the game why because I'm running for Jesus And I'm not tired yet. Amen. Anybody feel like running for Jesus today? Said I got a made-up mind that I'm going to run on and see what the end is going to be. I declare I'm not tired yet. I'm going to keep running till I reach my destination. Because my attitude has been fixed up. My mind is is right now, and the Lord makes the difference because he says, you know what? I have got a mind to surrender And a mind to serve. And a mind to suffer. Today, trust God. That is the word of God today. It is already a blessed. Stand all over this place today. Anybody want an attitude adjustment? Yeah, there's still time to allow him to adjust your attitude, amen. And to do that, make it for your mind that I'm going to come to Jesus. Other folk may be calling me, but I'm coming to Jesus. Other situations are stinking to change my mind. But my mind is set Come to Jesus Come to deal, come to Je Is God just now just now Come to Jesus, come to Jesus Chu only trust him. All each ra no one else Only trust only trust here just now just Now only trust him he's able He do you believe that today? He has he done it for you? Come through in your life But no one else was there. Oh, he is a He will save you. He will save. Won't he do it today? He will save you. He will save you. Now just now he will save you, he will save you As I come today I I believe what I try to declare. So when I preach, it's a Tim message too. And I'm asking the Lord daily to keep my mind right. I'm focused because the enemy is always playing. He's supposed to play tricks on you. That's what he does well I declare that you can defeat him today by putting your mind on the Lord and having the mindset of Jesus Christ. We have two calls today. The calls for salvation and a call for those who might want to join the church or be a part of this fellowship. She bowed your heads today. This is the most important call That I can be born again. I can be new in him. So I'm going to pose the question to you. They sound like a broken record or a scratch CD, but I want to ask you today, have you given your life to Jesus Christ? And if you are not sure about that or what that means, let me go a little bit further. The Bible says if you confess the Lord Jesus, that is, I believe that God sent his son I believe that he died. And I believe that he rose again. And the Bible says that you believe that. Confess it with your mouth. Say it unto him And then believe it in your heart that inner part of you, your emotional self, the Bible says, then you shall be saved. That's it. That if I believe that God sent his son Jesus Christ to die for me, I believe he died, but he rose again. If you believe that today And confess it, you shall be saved. And boy, that's good. That's good. That's good. Anybody saved today in this place? Who can testify that I know what that means and know what it feels like? But Why you bow your heads today? I don't want to miss anyone today. If you've come and you're not sure about this, about salvation, as you bow your head today, I want to pray with you. If you raise your hand I want to help to guide you in this salvation, and what it means to be converted, what it means to be born again. While those heads above, nobody's business but yours. I want to pray in the name of Jesus. Hallelujah. Amen. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Keep your eyes closed today. Praise the Lord. And so even you there, don't be afraid, don't be ashamed. If you're not sure, you kind of know I've been to church for 20 years, but I ain't sure about salvation. Right now, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And even for those hands that are held up, I pray even now that as they confess Christ unto you, and they may say, Lord Jesus, I believe that you died. I believe that you rose again and I want you to be savior of my life. I I'm a sinner and I want to be saved. The Lord Jesus said he would answer that prayer That's the spray you want to hear, really, is the one that you sing, I confess. And I pray in the name of Jesus, God. The pastor can't save, the deacons can't save, the choir can't save, only you can save today. Save that soul today That soul that raised the hand, but more so that soul that confessed unto you. It's a new day. And God I thank you that you might fill them with your Holy Spirit And by their profession of faith, you can say, Thank you, God. I asked it all in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's celebrate the Lord today, amen Ah, hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. I pray you were helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, C D podcast. or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tutan. Have a great day in the Lord. And you can get done if then just bend.