Good day, my friend. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland Inviting you to join us for our worship experience every Sunday at 845. We meet at 7660 Bel Air Road in Baltimore County, Maryland. And now for today's message, this joint harvest already in progress. Thank God. Old Saint would say that you have your ticket. For the train. Amen. We bless the Lord for He's good. And He's worthy to be praised. Let's bow the day all over this Place. Heavenly Father, we come and we we bless your name. We come to declare your word. And you take a risk by allowing us to put your word in our mouth. That we don't twist it or turn it or misrepresent it. So we ask even now that your Holy Spirit might guide us step by step and line by line. Save someone today Encourage another, but when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We want to share today from the book of 1 John, fifth chapter, verses 11 through 13. This is not the Gospel of John But first John, so you go way back near the end of your Bibles. Here's how it reads. And this is the testimony. God has given us eternal life. And this life is in His Son. Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. I want to preach today from the Semonic title, The Haves and the Have Nots. The haves and the have nots. It's hard to ignore the headlines day in and day out. To hear the talk shows taking up a very important issue in our country, that of health care That we all look to the point of our first job, our half a salary, but most of all We look for some venies that God allows you not to just work, but to have benefits. If you listen to what's coming from Capitol Hill, you're hearing two words, repeal and replace. Now I'm not getting political. I'm just saying there is a segment of our society that have health care. There's a segment in the tens of millions who do not have any type of medical coverage. Somehow our parents in the days of old just made it. They came up with old-time remedies to get them through. But now you need a checkup. And now you need to go in to get the best of medicine and thank God for those who Now the God I serve always makes a way out of nowhere. He's a doctor who has never lost a case. But I'm using this title not to uh get into the debate or not to talk about Oprah show that y'all thought I was gonna talk about at the beginning. Now I watch TV. I never watched that one, but I know it does exist. But when I say the haves and the haves not, I'm looking for those who know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. You're in the category of the has This is not based on your economics. It's based on your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. And there are those who have not, those who have never uttered confession unto Jesus Christ, and know this. There's still people who don't know Jesus. They know a lot of other things, but they have never accepted Jesus. Christ as the personal Savior, they are the have not. Aren't you glad you're in the have crowd today? Amen. And if you're in the have not club, before the day is out, we want to flip the script and have you to come to Jesus. In our text today, we hear from the gospel writer John He's the same one who Jesus recruited along with his brother, one by the name of James, and he is one who really stuck with Jesus. When it came down to that moment at the cross, the disciples had gone into hiding, except John. Isn't it good to know that you've got uh what you all call a ride and die, a partner, somebody who won't just give you words and lip service, but John Stay right there at the cross with Jesus. John was a witness to all that had taken place. You know that Jesus spoke from the cross and said, John And behold your mother. Mother, behold your son. And he was just simply saying, Will you take care of my mama Everybody won't let folk take care of their mama. Amen? Because you can do it like no one else. But he said to him, I want you to behold this woman. There was that kind of relationship And so we find John today writing to the church. He's speaking from personal experience. And what he's addressing really comes down to false teachers That as much Jesus as you have, there's still folk out there with theology that this don't sound quite right. Have you heard it lately? I mean stuff that sounds like what you think you know but there's a small twist. Amen? It's good to have conversation but it's good to know what you know and who you know And what was taking place in the church is there were folk who were twisting the Word of God. Gnosticism. They had a good look at the text. And so he wanted to make sure that they understood the importance of knowing Jesus Christ. He wanted to give them the assurance of their salvation. It's good to know That you know, that you know. Can I stop for a moment? There was a day when I kinda knew, kinda knew, kinda knew But one day I really got this thing that I understood that Jesus Christ died for my sins. I understood that he got up out of the grave on the third day. That's what I believe I understand that he's now at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints. I believe that, but there are others who did not believe it, or at least tried to twist it And so he makes his case today, first of all, by going on the record. And this in verse 11 is the testimony God has given us. eternal life and this life is in his son. This was important for John because of what he had seen It's important for John because he hung out with Jesus. It was important for John because he'd seen so many miracles being worked. He had a relationship with Jesus Christ. He didn't mind going on the record. Can I talk journalism for a minute? In our area of leaked news, when you interview someone, they may say to you, I'm going on the record In other words, I don't mind using my name. I won't say sources told me. I won't say documents obtained. But when you go on the record, you're saying, yeah. Tell them what my name is and what my title is. He was saying in this text, go on the record, make a testimony. Our grandparents and parents did not mind giving a testimony. Oh yes they did. Some of y'all too young to know about testimony services. Amen. Do y'all remember that when the old saints would say I want to just thank the Lord today? Give me up this morning and start me on my way. And they would give a testimony. They didn't mind going on the record saying, God has been good to me. Some of them were in the cotton fields. Some of them were in the pea patch. Some of them were in the tobacco fields. And every now and then God will visit you right where you are. Oh, you know your story. I don't know where He found you, but He found you. Amen But this sense of a testimony is so important to be able to have this as a part of the conversation. That I don't mind owning him. I don't mind speaking up for him. The Bible says I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the power of God. You know, and there's some stuff we ought to be ashamed of. Am I by myself today? There's some stuff you hope folk don't find out about you But when you can testify what God has done in your life and testify what God is doing, you don't mind saying, can we go on the record? Can we talk about the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living? He was saying, in spite of what you've been hearing, make sure you remember your testimony How you came to know the Savior. You hear me every week at the end of service talking about Romans 10, 9 and 10. Thy shall confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus. Testimony. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. Testimony. And then what? You'll be saved based on your confession. Anybody's shame Are you shy today that you are afraid to tell the world that I love Jesus? I'm just talking to a church today. Anybody shy I'm shy, but with everything else, you don't mind speaking. But my God, anybody today want to say, I love the Lord. He's heard my cry. Yes indeed Word says, if you deny me down here, don't get all cute in glory now. I'll say depart from me, you workers of iniquity, I know you not Have a testimony for the record. We'll also know that there is a requirement. Whoever has the son Has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. The haves and the have-nots. See, there are no shortcuts to our salvation. There's no take to and call me in the morning. You have got to have the Son. You can't come to Christ except or God except by Jesus Christ. How many believe that today? Amen? That you can't get around. I may as well say it. I thought it. I was meeting with someone this week and I was sharing with them a testimony. I don't want to offend anyone. We started to talk about Jesus. And the person said to me that he prayed to St. Francis I said, well, praise God. I said, but St. Francis had to bow his knee. Amen. Mary, the mother of Jesus. Still said, He's my Lord and my Savior. And so there are no other things in between that you can come to Christ except by accepting Jesus Christ As your personal statement. There is a requirement for you to do that. Amen? And if you do that, then you are among the hats. If you don't do it and you're still contemplating, you don't have I'm just thinking what the gospel says. You don't have the Savior, you don't have that seems kind of harsh I'm a good person. That seems kind of mean. I paid my tithes. That seems kind of rough. I buy Girl Scout cookies. That don't seem right. I help senior citizens. But do you have the son? Amen. It is a requirement. This week I was able to go and do my normal back to school story about how you have to have those sh There's no around I got one shot. You will be kicked out of school or you can't come unless you have all of your shots done I couldn't pronounce some of the fancy words. I knew one prevented smallpox and one prevented meningitis and one prevented the hooping cough, but devil was acquired And so there are always requirements. Nicodemus had to realize that he was a big shot. Ruler said, I want to meet you at night I can't see you during the day. I I I can't be caught with you, Jesus. But he says, you know what what is it that I must do? Is there a way I can get in this thing and oh man, you've got to be born again. No, is there another way around Can I take a pass? Can I try something different? There's no other way to God but through Jesus Christ Can I do theology 101? If you get nothing else today, know that there is a requirement in order to be born again and to become in the body of the has John 3. 16 ends out that Nicodemus story by saying what? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son Whoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. A requirement. Amen? That's so important as we look at the Word of God today, going on the record. But finally, today. Know that you'll have some reassurance. Verse 13 says, I write, I John, write these things To you who believe, it is again, in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. Amen. John says, I want to I want to talk to you about that. I I I want to let you know that I Am reassured based on what I know I can share that I know Jesus in the pardon of my sins. Not scratching my head, not kind of sort of, but I am sure that I'm saved. There was a day I wasn't so sure There was a day that I kind of thought that maybe I had some church in me, but I was still kind of Uncertain. You ever been there? That don't press me on it. But I'm I'm kind of sorta, kinda. But one day This became real to me when I realized that, you know, I I know the sun. When I realized that this is how I can obtain eternal life That life beyond this place, some glad morning, when this life is over, we're all gonna fly away. And that gives us comfort when our loved ones who know the sun have gone on We can get comfort in knowing that they're in the presence of the Lord. Doesn't that give you hope today that where they are, that one day you will be? Why? Because that is what it takes. To know Jesus Christ. Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. Air of salvation. Purchase of God. Born of experience. Washed in his blood. This is my story. And this is my song, praising my savior all the day long. All the day. When I get up, I got a little praise. Around midday when I think of what he's done sitting at a job that you're not really qualified for and say, oh, I'm praising my Savior When I realize that all is well on the home front, I'll give my Lord the praise. When I realize I've gotten everything that I didn't really deserve I can give him the praise. I'm reassured that God is in control. When I lay my head down at night, I may have a thing or two on my mind, but once I let the Lord is all in your hands Ever been there? You've been so burdened. You know what? Let me just pray and go to bed. Amen. God will bring you through. And that's why I have decided to follow Jesus. How many folks are in the have crowd? I have decided to follow Jesus. No turning back. No turning back. Listen, though no one joined me, still I will follow. The world behind me and the cross before me, I have decided to make Jesus my choice It's risky when you when you turn back. It's risky when you turn around. God told Lot's wife, don't you turn around now? She said, but we have a good time in Solomon Gamor. No, if you turn around, you become a pillow of salt. And what did she do? She sneaked the peak. And she became a pillow of salt. Jesus told his followers. That once you put your hand to the plow, if you look back, you're not fit for the kingdom. How many know about them old plows you have to really go ahead and push? That when you get on the Lord's side, don't keep looking back. He says in doing so, you don't really want to be with me. Paul says to forget those things which are behind and to press forward to those things which are before, I press Toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. Jesus did not turn back. He carried his own cross. Can you imagine that? That you've already sentenced me to death, and you're gonna make me carry my cross, but he did it just for you And did it just for me. He went up that mountain and carried that cross. The cross he was also nailed to. The cross he also died on. Aren't you glad that he rose from that grave on the third day morning? That's all a part of the halves with all power in his hands. And because he lives. Let me say it again. And because he's alive. And because I can touch him. And because he knows my issues, and because he keeps me, and because he holds me, and because he keeps me secure, I can face my tomorrow. Life is worth the living just because he lives. Aren't you glad today that he lives? Well he lives inside of me I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today, and I'm not ashamed. His name is Jesus. And so my assignment is, as a have, is to find a have not. And tell or have not. Didn't you know that Jesus died? Tell her have not. He'll be peace. Tell her have not, he'll give you joy. Tell her have not, he'll make a way out of nowhere. Tell her, have not, look at my life I used to be a have not. But now I've moved over and I have everything that God has promised me. Anybody today know the difference between a have And I have not, had it not been for the Lord on my side, my God, I would have fallen never to get up again. But I am glad today. That I know the Son. He who has the Son has life. He who have not the Son has not That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Let's stand over this place today. You won't watch that show the same. Some people on that show are real have nots. Or they're playing the part of a have not. But every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Let's make up our minds today. I know who I serve. I know where I stand. I'm a half-child. Yeah. Not based on material things. My bank accounts. I got Jesus. And that's enough of me. Won't he take you through? Yeah. Won't he guide you every step of the way? Come to Jesus. Let's say it together. He's waiting. Come to G Come to the Come to Jesus. Here's just one reason. He'll save you. He will save. He will pay you, he will pay you now. He will play He will say. If not here, maybe somebody in Facebook world has never confessed Christ. As their personal savior. It's more than what you think. A lot of folks put on a good air. But when you press them, or when you bring it up, you say, Ooh, they don't know. And that's the time to share your testimony. Let them know you're not always church boy or church girl, but give them an insight into your life. Before you found Jesus. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There's power in that name And deliverance in that name. God, we come today standing on the promises of Jesus If there's one today in this place, one today over the internet who has never confessed Christ. May they do it now by allowing the Lord Jesus to come in. He's never forced his way on any of us It had to be our choice and our decision. Save that soul today, God. One thing we know is that Jesus is still saving. Amen. Use us today to be a witness. If you're here today and you don't know him, right where you stand, you can whisper that prayer, Father, I am a sinner In need of a Savior. I believe that you sent your Son Jesus Christ to die for me. I believe he rose with all power in his hands. The Bible says once you get that into your DNA and believe it, the Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. God saved someone today, we pray. In the mighty name of Jesus. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. I pray you were blessed today by the message and that it might find a place in your heart today. Share it with someone that you know that they may be encouraged. Let me talk about a couple of resources I want you to know about as it relates to Harvest Christian ministries. Check out our app, our new church app. Just go to HCM Baltimore if you have Apple store. Via Google Play, check out Harvest Christian Ministries. There you'll find our daily devotionals called Seeds of Encouragement. You'll be blessed day in and day out. And also I want to tell you about a brand new resource we're really excited about. My first book. It's called Leading by Example, a Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith. At home. Pick up your copy today by way of Bunny Noble, also Amazon. com, or check out my publisher, a great group of people, at Zulon. com. That's X-U-L-O-N. In the meantime, check us out on our website. It's comthenumber twoharvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have yourself a great day. De Lord