Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. What the saving is that play softly. Just came by to encourage you today. So what I can tell by looking out into the audience When you brought something with you today. That's what church is all about. You ought to be able to come to a place where you can lay your burdens down. Amen. So often I will look out and I know that each of us are going through something. But let me just say this: God is faithful. Amen How many believe that God is faithful today? Yeah, he said, I'll be with you always, even to the end of the earth. No matter what you're facing, God is bigger than that situation. No matter what you're going through, God has already gone ahead The Bible says he'll make the crooked places straight and the rough places smooth. Has he done it in your life? We all hit a rough patch every now and then But God has a way of bringing us through no matter what. Let's bow today Heavenly Father, we come and we stand in your power today. We come, God, because you've called us. to declare the good news of Jesus Christ. God, you already know what each of us is facing. And we know that you have the answer. So I pray today that your word might meet that need, might target that saint. Might provide encouragement to that head that's held out, to that body that desires healing. Do it today, we pray in Jesus' name. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. You may take your seats in this place. I want to shout out live to the folks down in Florida. Thank you for your hometown hospitality and grips like no other place in the world I made the mistake of going to a restaurant yesterday in the north and order grits. Now I knew better than that. They were not the same, but thankful certainly to uh the Bethel family there in Libel. God bless you uh pastor bibbins and the great people who welcomed us with open arms. There's a work from the Lord today that comes from 1 John 5, 11 and 12 1 John is not the Gospel of John. That's way in the back of your Bible. 1, 2nd, and 3rd John, written by the same John. And this is the testimony God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. I want to preach today from the Samanic title The Haves and the Have Nots I give a disclaimer out the gate that I've never really watched Tyler Perry's show by that name. I've heard about it, so I I can't begin to go there. But I can go here. As we think about uh the lives that we live, we recently uh left Baltimore, went to Live Oak, Florida, spent some time there in Revival, uh had a few days of mini vacation and then back home. But when you travel, you get into a certain mindset. Beyond just packing, you want to make sure, first of all, that you have your proper identification. No matter how popular you are, or you may know the people at the airport, unless you can produce some sort of an ID, uh they won't let you through the gate or on the plane But just as important as having identification, it's important to have all the confirmation materials. confirmation uh for the flight, confirmation for the uh hotel, confirmation for the rental car, and the list goes on. You need to put that someplace where you can find it. Ever go to the airport and you notice that there was someone who didn't have their confirmation for that flight? And they were standing by hoping that someone would not show up. And because you had your confirmation, you either were on your cell phone, uh, talking to friends, or maybe you were asleep. But even in the spirit realm, it's important to have the proper confirmation. Amen? God forbid that we get called home to meet our Maker and we're fumbling to find confirmation. Wouldn't that be something you searching every part of your person trying to find something that indicates that you ought to be at the right place. Oh some of y'all filming this morning. You ever go to the wrong place and you realize that your name was not on the list? Can I tell you a country story? When I first moved from Florida uh to just visit DC for an interview I didn't realize that there was more than one major hotel chain. And so when I got to the bus station, I said to the cab driver, I need to find the holiday in. He said, which one? And I couldn't figure out you mean there's more than one? He was so kind to drive me, literally to every holiday in in northwest DC, I would run out the cab, run and say, hey, do you have a reservation for Tim Tootin? Sorry. By the last one, my name was on the list. Well, y'all know I'm country. But thank God in this life it's so important to know. That you know Jesus. And that's why I spend so much time, Sunday after Sunday, making sure that I try and reach anyone who has not heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. Anyone who may be in the category of a non-believer, it is my passion, even beyond these doors, to go on the streets and to somehow, and I'm not by myself, to let someone know what the Lord has done for you. Isn't it something to be able to talk about your faith? All you can talk about is child, let me tell you where I was And where God has me today. Anybody can testify today where you were and now you don't mind sharing with the whole world What you used to be and where God has, oh Lord, I feel that thing today, what He has transformed you into now. Folks, he believed now you They may not know the old youth, but thank God for Jesus. He's constantly beginning what? To work a new work in us all the time. So John writes today. The Bible is a collection of letters written to specific churches, letters to encourage. John writes a letter to encourage the Church of Jesus Christ. In that letter, he's warning against false teachers. False teachers in the church. adding their own formula to the word. See, God's word don't need anything added to it. Amen? It's potent enough all by itself, but there were those within Christendome who would add a little extra A little a little a little this, a little that, in order to really impress themselves. Now would you say they're false teachers today? Absolutely. Anyone who begins to twist the word of God, anyone who begins to have their own private interpretation, it's best to keep it on what God has done for you. My God, everybody got a story. But John detected that in spite of what he had shared with the people, that there was an invasion of those who were putting out falsehoods. They were pretenders. He wanted to shed light on the real message of Jesus Christ. It is good to keep talking about Jesus. It's good to remind ourselves what happened. It's good to keep on the forefront of our minds all that God has done. All that God continues to do, call it a broken holy record. God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten Son. That that still works. And the son's name is Jesus. Oh God, do y'all film with the day? I mean, it's an old Old story that's power packed. An old old story that saved generations before you, an old, old story that will keep you if you but believe it and Declare it. He wanted to make clear the identity of Jesus Christ. He wanted to make sure they didn't get confused. He wanted to make sure that they knew the truth. And so there is a group that's called the Haves. And a group that's called the Have nots. Amen. Are you a true believer? Do do you have him? Or don't you have him? It's kind of an either are, but Reverend, why are you pressing me today? You know I come to church every Sunday. Why are you pushing on me like that? Because I want to make sure that we all know where we fit. within the realm of faith. And so there's some things that I believe that can be gleaned from this text that will help us. First of all, we got to put it on the record. What we believe. Verse 11 says, and this is the testimony. This is the witness God has given us eternal life. And the life is in his Son. There's documentation. You got to have documentation. You got to have a spiritual passport. You've got to have a photo ID. Where God has brought you from, there has to be living proof. Amen. Remember the old thing, just back it up. You know, I mean there were guys I knew growing up who could could talk stuff. On the basketball court. I may as well name him. Brother named Frank Reed, you know, uh Frank Jones. They could talk stuff and then back it up on the court Well some of y'all used to talk that way. But have proof that you know that Jesus Christ is Savior. And and the Bible becomes that document, 66 books. 1,189 chapters, more than 31,000 verses, all there as a way of proving that God sent his only begotten Son. Never forget that God and God alone has given you eternal life. I I know you like me, but you didn't give me eternal life. I know you support me, but you didn't give me eternal life. You may have given physical life, but you have not given eternal life. Anybody can feel that today? Life forever. Go on the record to let that be known. First John talks about that. It talks about really our status Can I testify that I used to be a have not before I gave my heart to Jesus? I was a have not. Am I by myself today? No. Oh was I the only have not? Yeah. Before he washed my sins away, I was the have not Before he made me new again, I was a a have not. But now I'm a have Why? Because I know that Jesus dwells within me. Do you feel that way today that if anybody had to get a box and say are you a have or have not, you wouldn't hesitate? You say I'ma have. Ephesians 2, 1 and 2 says, as for you, and Paul is writing to the church in Ephesus, you were dead in transgressions and sins. That wasn't old you. And old me. A past you. And a past. I'm trying to get y'all to go with me today. I'm trying to get y'all to say, Reven, you ain't by yourself today. I'm with you, amen. There was an old you. And you know what? The old person still exists. You've got to get up every morning and do what? To slay the old you. There's an old Tim. Get back and get down. That's all you that remembers win. And all you that practice sin on the regular basis. But thank God for Jesus. You can now go on the record saying, you know what? I am a new creation in Christ, and I don't mind going on the record Public and saying it. Anybody will like go in public today and say, I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I'm not ashamed. His name is Jesus. There might be proof in your life. Might be documentation in your walk. Might be something different about your talk. Might be something that's really unique about your actions. Why? You are a have and not a have not. But not just on the record, but there must be a requirement that is placed Verse twelve says, Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. The scripture is very clear. There's no in-between. I I kind of got some of him but not enough. I got two teaspoons, but not quite a whole table. I mean that's the way it works. There are no shortcuts. To becoming a half. No secret codes. No detours. You must have the Son of God. Amen. That that that that's got to be a part of the conversation that God sent His only, I feel like I'm in Sunday school class, his only begotten son, whose name not was, his name is Jesus in the present tense. You must have him to have eternal life, to become a half. The conversation must be about Christ. It's a part of your conversion experience. If you want to have life, if you want to go beyond just the physical. See, we're physical beings, but we're also spiritual beings. Amen? There's a physical you But there's a spirit you. Amen. And so oftentimes they're at war. The spirit man is fighting against the fleshly man. Amen. It's all that you won't do what you ought to do. That's a war going on Well, y'all know what I'm talking about today. Even without wood, do good. Evil is always press. There's a constant knock-down drag out. Why? Because the enemy wants to take you down, but you say, I've got the son. I passed the requirements. I know who it is that makes the difference in my life. And and I don't know that. I don't have a life detector. To find out whether or not you're saved. You can tell me you're saved. I can tell you I'm saved, but I don't know. I've seen your life. It portrays that of a godly person. You've seen my life, but we've all seen people who on one day In one way, but they changed the mask on the other day. Amen. And you don't know who you're dealing with. Oh, you've got a few masks in your drawer, and so do I Who's the real you? But know that you have the son. Philippians 1 21 says, For me to live. Is Christ. And to die is gain. I'm going to stick with Christ I know now, I'm clear, I'm convinced that I cannot have life without the Son of God. And reason I'm saying this is because you'll hear different uh interpretations that if you're just a good citizen, that's all it takes. You help your neighbor, you get brownie points. If you buy Girl Scout cookies, you get something on the side, like some reward points. That's not the case. You've got to have the sun There's no way around that. Making sure you put it on record. Having the sense of knowing what the requirements are The fine print but finally knowing that there is some reassurance. Verse thirteen and first John five says I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. I love the word of God. I love How how clear it is. I love how it just lays it out. And so John seems to be saying you you gotta be one or the other. That you either have him or you don't have him. But you need some some reassurance so that you know That you have eternal life. Not what somebody told you, but that I know, that I know, that I know, that I know, that I have life eternal. And that's something about knowing. And knowing Christ for yourself. I came across this humorous quote from an author and blogger named Jarek Kent. It goes something like this. He says, you know that I know you know, but I want you to know That I know, you know, I know you know, I know. It's important for you to know that you know. How many folk know today? Had it not been for the Lord on your side, you'd still be lost in your sins. How many folks are sure today? It's been written that there are three kind of categories on being assured of your salvation. First of all, there's a group they're secure, but they're not sure. Believers who lack assurance And then there are those who are sure but not secure. Christians who say even though I'm living in sin. I I'll make it. I'm not as bad as the next person. I know once safe, always safe. I'm sure, but I'm not secure in what I believe. And then They are those who are secure and sure about who it is that you serve. Where do you find yourself today? I I I pray that you are sure. During World War II, uh Ruth K. Jones, a Pennsylvania housewife uh tells the story of how she was doing chores around the house. And uh God inspired her to begin to to write uh as she was ironing a note and a pad and she wanted to respond to the stresses of life that were taking place uh during World War II, but needless to say, we have stresses even today. And God gave her a word A song. And when her son came home from school, he was a gifted musician. She said, I uh Bert, I need you to help me to put this thing together. And so they wrote it down, and he began to play it for the first time, and the family began to sing that song. And it went something like this: in times like these, you need A Savior. And in times like these, you need a real anchor. In times like these, you need the Bible. In times like these, I have a savior. In times like these I I've got this anchor, and I'm very sure that my anchor holds and grips the solid rock. That rock is Jesus. Yes, he's the one. The rock is Jesus, the only one. Be very sure. Your anchor holes and grips the solid rock. And that rock is Jesus. He's a rock in a weary land. Amen. And a shelter in the time of storm. The stone that the builders refused became the cornerstone. And this morning can I testify that I'm very sure. Did I need Jesus in my life? Can I make my case? He's my all in all. That's why I need him. He blesses me over and over and over again. That's why I need him. He cares for me. That's why I need him. He is my everything that I will ever need And that's why I need him. That's why I'm so sure he will fight my battles if I would just keep still. I need him because he'll go above and beyond anything that man could ever do I need him because he helps me and thank God that we all know where to find some good help. I need him because he works on the inside. And thank God something shows up on the outside. I love him and I need him because he keeps me in perfect peace because my mind is stayed on him. And guess what? He loves me in spite of me. He makes a way for me. He'll never leave me nor forsake me He's always on time. He's worthy of praise. He's quick. He's the resurrection. He's my savior. There is none like him. He understands what I'm going through. He understands what you're facing. He gives you the victory. What he doing today? Has he ever given you the victory? You thought you were defeated, but you realize that you serve that kind of God. He's excellent and that's why I need him. And that's why I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to stay with Jesus I decided to walk with him. I decided to run with him. I've decided to serve him all because of what he did. Well what did he do? One day he went to an old rugged cross. And he did it just for me and for you. Can't you see him now making his way up to the cross? And he's carrying the burdens of the world I want you to see this bloody scene of a Savior who loves us so much that he gets to the cross and allows himself To be crucified. But here's the good news that he dies. But he gets up on the third day morning. And I'm sure about that Because when he got up, he got up for me. And he got up for you. Are you sure about it today? And that's why I have him. I have him in my heart. I have him in my life. I'm a have and not a have not. Well, it's quiz time Do you know who you are? Are there any halves in the house? If you are halves, you ought to stand and give God the glory. If you have the Son of God You want to praise him with everything that's in you. If you have them operating in your life, then you have a praise to give him And you have a God to glorify. Is there anybody who knows without a shadow of a doubt? I have him. Yes. I have him. Yeah, I have him. Yes, I have him. And I'm glad about it today. Aren't you glad that you have him presiding in your life? Have not. Well well some days I I I feel like I I I have him, but then I'm discouraged, but then the Holy Spirit comes along. And reminds me to go on the record. Reminds me To look back at the document and to see the requirements. And then without doubt, to be reassured of who it is. Someone said, Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. All I want to say is I close today. This It's my story. This is my solve praising my Savior all the day long What is your story today? What has he done for you lately? What has he brought you through? What has he manifested in your life? In politics, they do what's called an exit poll. They hang out at the polling places and wait till you come out. I want to get some information from you uh just in terms of you know how you voted. Don't you know that as you leave the world will ask you, are you a a have? Or have not. How will you respond to that today? And how will you know that you know That you know that you know that you know you'll say well it's all because Jesus died for me and tell him He that has the Son has life. He or she who has not the Son of God does not have life. They're walking around, but they ain't got life. They breathing, but they ain't got life. Come on, give God a praise today. And what's great about that is you gotta come just as you are. But Reverend, I'm still a half not, but no, no, no. Still come. And allow him to work a new work in you. No in-between. Come just as you are. Hear the spirit. Do you hear the spirit today? Come and see, come receive Come just as you are. That's why you took the sun. So that you might be able to receive him into your life No need to fix up. Come and come receive. Come receive. Come and live for life everlasting. Everlasting. Oh yes, living water. And I want to say to you today, right now, you can be sure about your salvation. And here's how you can do it. The Bible says that something that that you must comes from the Bible, Romans 10, 9. It says if You confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says you're saved. Reverend, how are you so sure? Because I followed that. How you know? I know by faith that because I opened my heart one day, say Lord Jesus, come in. God and direct my life. I have this assurance and this peace of life eternal. I want you to have it today Enemy is always trying to place doubts in your mind. But that's there. If you've got the Son, you've got life. As you bow to me, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. There may be one either in this place or One who's watching over social media who is not sure of their salvation. It is our prayer today that they may do what the Holy Writ declares, confess it. I'm a sinner in need of a savior. And then ask the Lord to come into your heart. Just like that. Lord Jesus, come into my heart today. And the Bible says, if you confess it and believe it, thy will be saved. Save someone today, we pray now, who may have whispered that prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com. All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You'd also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.