Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we are privileged to be able to declare your word. We thank you, dear God, for this opportunity. It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. If you have your Bibles handy or your tablets turn to the gospel as penned by John, John the 14th chapter, verse number 26, John 14, 26, and it reads as follows, but the advocate The Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything I have said to you. John fourteen, twenty six. Today from the Semonic title, The Great Advocate, the Holy Spirit. The Great Advocate, the Holy Spirit. For you baseball fans, if you've ever gotten a look at a roster up close, you'll see you know pitcher, you'll see catcher, first base, second base, shortstop, third base, and of course those in the outfield. But you'll also notice on that roster a DH of what's called a designated hitter. This is someone who steps in and really bats for the pitcher. The concern is always you don't want to risk your pitcher going down with an injury, so the DH steps in to help out the ball club. And the same can be said for a pinch hitter. That is someone again who steps in as a substitute. Now get in in mind here that these are people who can really hit. You'll become a DH or a pinch hitter if your average is Okay. But we've had situations where they come in and they win games. But where I grew up and where some of you may have grown up, uh sandlock baseball or softball, you had something that uh people would do, they would take you last. Amen. You would get two strikes and your team was down, and somebody who was stronger, somebody who had a better eye, would come in and take your last to become kind of an advocate. And really an advocate is Someone who pleads the cause for someone else. Aren't you glad today that God is sent by people who will help you, uh, those who have been trained and licensed in certain fields? Take, for example, an attorney. An attorney serves as an advocate for those he is representing, his clients. Don't go into the courtroom by yourself. Get an attorney. That's an advocate. Doctors have patients that they look out for. Someone who is in that particular area. It could be a realtor, it could be anyone that you trust to come in on your behalf and to plead your case. To God be the glory. In the field of social work, Case managers will take on situations and they will advocate for different people. We all need an advocate. And the Holy Spirit becomes that great advocate. But first, let's talk about this particular book. John the 14th chapter, John in general, written by John the Apostle, who also wrote 1 John, 2nd John, 3 John, and Revelation. John is the brother of James. And John was there in his father's boat mending nest. That's when Jesus came by there in Galilee and he began to follow him. Amen. He and his brother were disciples. They were followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's great to follow someone who knows where they're going. Like that. John, I believe, could be a modern day I teen reporter because John took notes of what was seen. He took notes of what was heard. He took notes of what Jesus said. And that becomes so important to document. And that's what the Bible is. It is a document that teaches us the importance of holy living. And John wrote John, that is the book of John, the Gospel of John, so that That persons might believe that Jesus is the Son of God and might believe that there is power and love and forgiveness in his name. That becomes so key. I'm glad today that This is a document that we can take in and to learn from. So John is writing many things, but it is in this particular passage today that he talks more about the Holy Spirit. He documents what Jesus Christ says. about the Holy Spirit. Amen. That becomes so key. So we want to talk about the Holy Spirit from the perspective of his identity, his itinerary, and also his intention. Let's talk about his identity. Just who is he? Amen? If you look at the text, it says, but the advocate, the Holy Spirit. The advocate, the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is a person. And the Holy Spirit Is not an it. The Holy Spirit has feelings. The Holy Spirit is the conqueror. The Holy Spirit has emotions. And that's good news today, is that knowing who the Holy Spirit is. The third person of the Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Amen are often called the Holy Ghost. But I am so glad today, as I'm sure you are, that the Spirit of God God is present. Present in such a way that even we hear from Paul in 1 Corinthians, he talks about it in 6 and 19, he says, you know what? Know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. What does that mean? The Spirit of God resides in you. At the moment you confess Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, the Spirit of God resides in you. That should be convicting. Amen? That I know who is in me, that wherever Whatever I go, whatever I say, wherever I do, I am taking with me the Spirit of Christ that resides in me. I don't know about you, but knowing the identity and knowing that the Spirit resides in me. It's like an alarm that I know that when I may say or do something that does not run up with the word of God, the Spirit is grieved in that moment. Blessed be the God. But knowing who He is, I'm You felt bad about something you did, and you may have just moved on. But when you feel the Spirit of God convicting you, you will begin to change in that moment. Amen. Again, I'll say it. We don't want to grieve the Holy Spirit, knowing who the Holy Spirit is. Holy Spirit is. He's like an alarm that goes off. Has it happened in your life that you really thought you were big and bad and and you were going to tell folk a piece of your mind? And all of a sudden you realize that wait a minute, that's not the spirit of God. God. Okay, I'll confess for myself then. I've said things and really left and I told them a thing or three. And before I could get home, the Spirit of God said, Now you didn't handle that right. You shouldn't have said that. And here's the blessing to go back to the that person. You know what? I am so sorry. It becomes a witnessing moment. I'm sorry that I said that and I want to apologize to you. That's what the Spirit of God will do and they will see you as a real Christian. Amen. That's why the Spirit of God is the advocate. He is one that we can identify with. Oh I'm again excited 'cause when you talk about the Spirit of God, you begin to sense the Spirit of God. We can't do things on our own. We need the Spirit of God to be an advocate for each one of us in this life that we are called to live. Isn't it a good life when the Spirit is the one who's guiding you, guiding your Tongue, guiding your mind, guiding your thoughts, identity, but also the spirit has an itinerary. Amen? You know what that is, because you were just went on vacation, didn't you? You you know when you go get on the plane or car or you Had everything lined up, it was a certainly a way of your journey to track your journey. What happens next? Jesus is very clear. He says, But the advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will Send in my name. Jesus makes the request that I'm asking my father to send the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit will come because Jesus said, Listen, I've got a reputation. I've got the credibility to ask my Father to send the Holy Spirit, the advocate, and we're talking about Pentecost Sunday because Pentecost Sunday talks about when the early church received the Spirit of God there. It actually framed the early church some 50 days after Easter. And we know that they were there in this setting and it was called Pentecost. And so we celebrate Pentecost Sunday. It's all about that. That moment when the Spirit of God shows up. Aren't you glad when the Spirit of God shows up, stops by your situation, stops by your circumstance, stops by what you are going through, and provides clarity. The early church would tell you that they sought the mind of the spirit. They didn't want to just say this and this sound like a good idea, but what does the Holy Ghost say about what we were about to do? Challenge yourself today. Before you do something. And say, I want to seek the advice of the advocate. I want to seek the advice of the Holy Spirit. Amen. What is the Holy Spirit thinking about this? And so there, on The day of Pentecost. We know what happened based on scripture. Jesus promised. He asked that my father's going to say. And it happened. It happened. And this is a passage you want to read in full in the book of Acts 2, 1 through 4. It says that they were. There in the upper room. And we can talk about there being this moment when a sound like a mighty rushing wind comes in, and what looks like tongues of fire sets upon them the place. To be on fire. You're in Jesus. Amen. And as a result, something happened. When the Holy Spirit shows up in your Pentecost, something happens. In this case, they begin to speak in tongues, and folk thought they had been drinking Boons Pharma. Some of y'all know about Boons Pharma. Whatever that might be for you, but they thought that they were drunk because these persons were speaking in different languages, and the Holy Spirit, when he comes in into your Pentecost moment, you will get some clarity about who you are. Blessed be the God, that there is an itinerary. He shows up as promised. And one thing about when you work for the Lord, when you live for the Lord, he keeps things on schedule. Many of us will have an itinerary. Wait a minute, we changed it up. The person is going this way now. Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want. He sticks with his itinerary. Thank be to God. And even now, you ought to welcome a Pentecost moment. You ought to be glad that he stopped by. You ought to be glad that he showed up and chose to come to your house and to your home and to your what? Your body. Again, that body is the temple of the. Holy Spirit. I'm so glad that he's got my residence on his itinerary. I'm so glad that he's got my workplace on his itinerary. I'm so glad, most of all, that the church is on the itinerary of the Holy Spirit. My God, we need that advocate in our lives today. Itinerary, identity, but there is really an intention. What is this all about? Amen? So the Spirit comes. Yes, and so what happens? What is it that he seeks to do? But the advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will do what will teach you all things, and will remind you of everything I have said to you. you. My God, he is your favorite professor. Praise God. The Holy Spirit will do what? He will teach you, uh, even though you think you know it all, you got seven Bible verses under your belt, the Spirit of God is designed to teach you. And we gotta have a teachable spirit. We don't know it all. But when it comes to spiritual things, this advocate comes along and teaches us what all things, not some things, he won't Hold back a chapter or two, but he'll tell you all about your life. And I'm so glad today that the Holy Spirit continues to teach me. Oh God, thank you. Why? Because even though you may read a book, you may read the Bible. Bible, but you need to have the Holy Spirit as your great teacher. He comes along and makes sense out of what you read. Has it ever happened to you? You were reading a passage or two, you might have been in a Bible study, and all of a sudden a light went off, so you You thought it was not your smarts. It was the Holy Spirit shedding some truth on what you were reading. Oh I'm getting excited about that today. He will teach you all things if you want to be taught. the class. Maybe you're a person who misses class and you don't want anything to do with the teacher. But I'm glad today that Jesus Christ is the great teacher. They called him rabbi. Teach us things. The Holy Spirit, his intention is to teach you all things and get this. I love this part. To remind you of everything I've said to you. Oh, I don't know about you, but I need the Holy Spirit to jog my memory. Amen. We have long-term memory, we have short-term memory, but the Holy Spirit, the advocate, comes along to remind you of everything that you have heard. And that's why Bible study is so important. That's why reading a devotional. That's why putting the Word of God in you is so key because at the right moment, the Holy Spirit will bring it back to your remembrance, will remind you of what has been said. Ever had a moment you were sharing with somebody and you couldn't remember the verse exactly. You say, listen, all I know is here's what he did for me, and I'm not sure if it's John, if it's Mark, but all I know is I'm so glad today that the Spirit brought it back to my remembrance. Thank God he reminds me of who he is. Thank God he reminds me of where he's brought me. me from I'm so glad today that his intention is to educate you in the spirit. Reverend I didn't get my diploma this year. That's okay. You got a heavily diploma. I didn't get my bachelor's, master's, or doctorate degree, but my My God, when you get versed in this word, that's what really matters. He will make sure that you get everything you need if you want to. Paul talks about open first. He says, you know what? He says, I'm not just speaking here. Missed himself. I'm not just speaking what I came through. I'm not just speaking about the old days. I'm speaking about what the Spirit of God reveals to me. He'll surprise you when you begin to speak things that you knew not of, but the Spirit of God brings me. Brought them back to your mind and your spirit, you've had those God moments. Amen. That you said, wait a minute, that sounds like something. And you may have witnessed to someone and didn't even realize what you were saying and they said, Lord, child, you bless me. That word. And you say what word? The one you spoke the other day. He will remind you. He will teach you all things to God be the glory. I'm so glad today that Jesus made the request. That you know you just wait here. Uh my father will send the advocate, the Holy Spirit, to see about you and to show you more what I've been trying to tell you for these three years. But you know, Jesus, at this moment of his ministry, when he began his ministry, Luke talks about that he was baptized by John the Baptist, the other John, and then when he came out of the water, he prayed. Look at the sequence He prayed after baptism, and the Bible says that a dove appeared on him that represents the Holy Spirit, and that God the Father Looks down to heaven and says, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased that the moment That Jesus comes out of that water. The Spirit of God is present. The Spirit of God, who's the advocate, is always there In our midst to God be the glory. And you know what happened three years later. They didn't want to hear the message. Amen. And so he was crucified. On an old rugged cross. That's the story that we know and we believe. Amen. The Spirit of bringing it back to your remembrance. He died, but here's the good news. He rose on the third day morning with all power. in his hand. And the Bible says that the same spirit, there we go again, that raised Jesus from the dead can also quicken your mortal bodies. My God, shake you and make you. I'm glad today that he got up. I'm glad today for the role of the Holy Spirit in my life. Maybe you don't need an advocate. I need an advocate. Why he He walks with me and he talks with me and he tells me that I am his own. I am so glad and so thankful for the Holy Spirit. The story is told. The little boy Who's out flying his kite? It's perfect kite weather. The wind is blowing. Everything seems to be right. But at some point, the kite got so high. Is the boy could no longer see the kite. And a man walked by and says, Young man, why are you holding that string? What are you looking at? And the boy came back and said, you know what? I can feel it. He had his hands on that string, and oftentimes with the Holy Spirit, you won't see him, but you'll feel him. Amen. Every time I feel the Spirit moving in my heart operate. Anybody feel the Spirit of God right now? Every time I feel the Spirit, I want to shout for joy. Every time I feel the Spirit, I want to say thank you, Jesus. Every time I feel the Spirit, I want And I'll thank God that those times frequent now why because when you tune into the Holy Spirit even though you can't touch it oh my god you can feel him and you don't wait for an organ to go off you don't wait for somebody to scream the Holy Spirit may be your quiet moment it may be one tear coming down. It may be this sense of peace that passeth all understanding, but I tell you, the Holy Spirit will come. In fact, He's already here. He resides in the heart of the believer. Thank God for an advocacy. Oh Lord, I thank you. For being that person who guides me, being that person who leads me into all truth, that is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen.