Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries It's already in progress. Oh, we bless the Lord today. Lord, help me. To hold out. Sometimes we get a little shame faced. Think we could handle things all by ourselves. But the song says it well. Lord give me strength. Lord give me perseverance. To run this Christian race, let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. For there's no other name by which men and women can be saved, but at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. As we come today, God, may we decrease. And may you increase. May your word speak to a heart today. May someone be saved. May others be encouraged. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. I wanna look at a few passages from Psalm forty one, two, and three. It reads, I waited patiently for the Lord. He turned to me and heard my cry. He lifted me out of the slimy pit, out of the mud and mire. He set my feet on a rock and gave me a firm place to stand. He put a new song in my mouth, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see and fear the Lord and put their trust in him. I want to share the day from the Semonic title, The Power of Patience. Power of Patience. Moved to Baltimore with my family more than three decades ago and very quickly I understood what it meant to get on the beltway The town in which I lived didn't have a beltway. Two, three lanes maybe, but As I experienced this new traffic pattern, I would find myself wondering if I'd taken the wrong route. And just for research purposes, Baltimore is one of the most congested cities in the nation. Somebody ought to say amen. In fact, the average commute one way is thirty-one point five miles But for me it's 45 minutes on a good day. But like you, we've all had times that we seen the traffic, got caught in it, still, and felt like if we took the exit, we'd save time. We wanted to keep moving. So getting off on what GPS told us, we kept getting rerooted back and forth. But I believe today that movement does not equal progress. The fact that you're moving does not mean that you're going anywhere fast. I've become a shortcut person. That's why it takes me so long. I refuse to get stuck in traffic, so I'll take back roads. Anybody back road people today? I thought y'all were back road people. But there's a degree of patience you have to develop. When it comes to navigating uh in that realm, but even in life, life would teach us some patience. It's been said that patience is a virtue. That means it's the ability to wait for something without frustration. I want to suggest this morning that there's power in patience Patience rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. In our text today, we meet the biblical character David. Here's a long resume. He was a shepherd boy there minding his father-in-law sheep. He first made headline news when he killed a bear. And he killed the lion that were trying to destroy the sheep. And then one day, he went down to take his brothers a lunch. And there was all the talk about this big giant named Goliath. Fokel worked up. And he politely took out five smooth stones. Wound up and took out the live and then cut his head off. Well, some of y'all seen those glory-type movies. But he was one who would go on then to become king. After more than 15 years of waiting, David's life was one of ups and downs. Has that been the case for you that sometimes life is up and sometimes life is down and sometimes you make the best of your situation, but it requires waiting. None of us like to wait. David wrote half of the Psalms, 150 of them, and he was one who wrote, but he was also a musician. He could play and write, gifted in such a wonderful way, but he knew the power of patience. And so there are four reasons, I think, or four things that come out of this text. He knows that the Lord hears him. He knows it is the Lord who helps him, it is the Lord who gives him a new song, and the Lord who makes him a testimony. I waited patiently for the Lord. He turned to me and heard my cry. He heard me. But look how David waited. He waited patiently. He didn't wait fussing. Didn't wait cussing. He just waited on the Lord. As he looked for an answer to his prayers. Amen. I said custom. How do you wait? Now we look back and say, oh, the Lord brought me through. But when you're in the way, it can be challenging because you already have predetermined how you want things to turn out. But the result was the Lord turned to him and heard his cry, God paid attention. Isn't it amazing that he takes time to look to us and to let us know that I have heard you? Amen. God pays attention. Isaiah 4031 says it was. It says, But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. There is something so spiritual, so deep, when you know that it wasn't through someone else, although God can use other folk, but to have your prayer answered. Have you ever prayed for something and you got tired of praying? Lord, I maybe you don't hear me. And in the midst of your praying, he'd already worked it out. He'd already come through. He's already provided. David knew that God, I waited patiently for you. And then you came along and you heard me. That's good news today. I I'm excited about that. That he is a God who hears. We give him human attributes to understand him better. I just see the EM God That amen since you saved my soul as I lift up my voice as I look to the hills that he does here. Can I take a poll today? Has he heard your prayer? I don't want to stand alone out here. I mean, I don't need to know all your business about what you pray, but then he answered. And you knew it was him. And him alone. But he says he also helped me. He didn't just hear me, but he helped me. He lifted me out of a slimy pit, out of the mud and mire. He set my feet on a rock. and gave me a firm place to stand. Verse number two. David was helped. He knew he couldn't do it by himself. And he got some assistance. But can you think of how the Bible assigned me to it? That sounds kind of gross. That the muck and the mud and the mire and we've all been in some places in life that can be like that. And for you it may have felt like you were in a pit and could not get out. For you it may have felt like you were stuck in the mud. But thank God that he comes along to help us. And maybe you can describe your own condition. Reverend, it wasn't that, but it was this. And there were nights and days I didn't think I was going to get through. But thank God he helped me. That when I called for help, he came along. I'm just, am I talking to anybody today? I mean he really helped you And how many folk know you need some help today? You can't make it without the Lord on your side. Mud and mire, slimy pit, he helps him from that condition. And then he puts him on a rock. Put you on a solid rock. Look at you now. You are standing on stable ground, but there was a day when life had you uh out of sync and Life had you in a tough way, but thank God he put you in a place. Other folk couldn't understand that how did you get there? God lifted me. I'm so glad he lifted me singing glory hallelujah. And I thank God today. That he lifted me. Otherwise, I would have still been in the pit. David describes it. Does not get into all that's happening in his life, but he was hated. And he was on the run and folk wanted to take him out. He just wanted some security and he found it in the Lord. A solid place. Psalm 118. 22 says, the stone that the builders refused became the cornerstone. I do believe that God is a rock in a weary land. A shelter in the time of storm. I used to hear that with the old folks singing. I mean, what are they talking about? A rock In a weary land. I don't I I can't I can't picture that until a few rising and setting of the sun and I realized, oh, I got this thing. Anybody used to hear you, folks? Talk like that. Oh that's old fogy, old deacon, old yes, oh but until you got an encounter with life and you realize that God you will set my feet On a solid place that you will help me. You have heard me. And verse 3 says, He put a new song in my mouth. A sim of praise to our God. And isn't that amazing that you may not have the right note, but every now and then when life gets a little tough, you might sing one in the car. Nobody's recording. You just come out with one. You might have all the words may not be right, but it becomes your song. And David had written many songs, but he says, God, you've given me a new song That goes with my new experience. Amen. And so whatever you're going through, you ought to place a song with it. Amen. Some of y'all knew about Bill Board and Casey Case and Number One And you get a number one hit because God has brought you through some situations in life. And all you have is like I I can't tell it all, but can I try to sing a little bit? Amen. And so David says he gave me a new song. He describes it. It is a hymn of praise. Sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord, all the earth. And a song means that it describes something that you're going through. A song lays out your testimony that while I can't tell you Can I do one that works with my situation? And you may do that. But thank God that in the midst of his waiting That God transformed him and then he had a number one hit. Amen. What is your favorite song today? You ought to have one that you say, Lord, I I don't know who put it out. But I like it, amen. I don't know when it was recorded, but I like it. You got a song like that, and no matter what people say, you might hit it in the shower, but it's your song And it makes you feel better. And it gives you joy because I got a song that not even the angels can sing today. The old folks would say, and you just gotta moan every now and then because when you moan, the devil don't know what you say. But my God, you ought to have us make a joyful noise unto the Lord Oh, ye lamb, it's something about getting a new song in my waiting. I love this. Matthew 26, 30. Jesus could sing. Yes, he does. The Bible says it. It says, when they had sung a hymn. They went out to the Mount of Olives. Can't you see Jesus pulling one? He he obviously knew how to sing. He knows how to heal. He knows how to deliver. He knows how to give you peace. He knows how to give you joy. But my Lord and Savior can also sing. The Bible says they sung a hymn and went out into the Mount of Olives. He knew what it meant. A song, new song. He heard me, he helped me, and then he made me a testimony. That after you come through your season, a lot of part of verse 3 says, many will see and fear the Lord. and put their trust in him. Somebody has you under surveillance. They want to see how you're going to handle what you're going through. Somebody is watching your church going self and they're watching your Bible study uh palm branch around the rearview mirror self to see if you really gonna come out. Amen. And that might help them to know the Lord better. The word says, many will see it. And many will talk about it. How did you feel when you come out of the wilderness? Leaning on the Lord. Amen? And they will see it, and that might be the moment they need to find the Lord. They said now if he can come through that, if his God can bring him through those tough situations, if his God can deliver him and Take him off the unemployment line and take her from where she was living and give her a new song. I want to try that God. Amen. Isn't that good news today? That there's a witness somewhere looking for your testimony, checking you out. Oh, you've done it before. Say, Lord, it sure looked bad for Brother Joe. I don't know. And then God raised him up. So oh Lord, he's a good God. So Sasu had been going through you know this past week I was at a an event And a woman came up to me, she said, I want to thank you. I was being all cool, but praise the Lord. She said, one day, you saw me in the parking lot of giant food store. I was homeless and you stopped by and you prayed with me and you gave me a C D. And I don't know what the service you know. I've been listening to it and look at me now. I say, well, to God be the glory. I didn't have to remember what happened, but the fact that there was a testimony taking place. Somebody might tap you on the shoulders and say, you know what You forgot it was April 1994 and something had happened in my life and and you had gotten through and you didn't realize how you that ever happened to you before? You totally forgot it But thank God for Jesus. I began this message talking about being stuck in traffic being bumper to bumper Some years ago the technicians developed something called an ABS system. Your car is so old you got one. Anti-lock brake system. That's when it allows your vehicle to maintain traction so that when you press the brakes, it won't lock and scare. Some of y'all looking like y'all don't have that. That that that's kind of standard now. That you would go way too fast and but by the time you you pump your brakes, it already had grabbed it. I thought about that thing. I said, you know what? In life, that God has an A B system. Ask, believe, and then shout. Amen? That that when you have come through some things, you can turn to God's ABS system. God, I ask you, and I believe you'll do it, and now I've got a shout today as proof that you brought me through. Why? Because I was patient. Amen. You know, the old enemy, the devil, thought that he really had Jesus under the ropes He thought he had put the brakes on the Savior, but there was another plan that as he hung from that old rugged cross, he continued to give us hope. And the Holy Spirit took the brakes off and allowed the blood to flow, but he died, but he rose again on the third day morning. It was God's timing. He said, in three days, I'm gonna raise him from the dead. As I close today, all I can say is if you find yourself in a situation that you're tired of waiting, the old song says, you can hurry God. You just have to wait. You have to trust and give him time, no matter how long it takes. You see, he's a God that you can't hurry. He'll be there. Don't you worry. He may not come when you want him to, but is there a witness to say He is on time. Is he on time, God? That while you were down and you had run out of patience That God came along and he lifted you. I'm glad about that today, that I don't mind waiting because what He will come through. Has he ever come through for you? Don't make me push you today, but you found yourself between a rock In a hard place. And he came through. Bills would do and he came through. Note was due and he came through. Sickness in your body, but he came through. I waited patiently for the Lord and he heard me and he helped me. And he gave me a new song and he made me a testimony. Hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. Hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. I'm happy today. Why? Because my waiting has paid off. Won't he do it? Won't he do it? Won't he do it? The power of patience. Don't don't don't get worked up, Jeff. Just know it's all in his hands. But you know, on Monday, no, no, no, no, no Just follow the David method. That is the word of God today. Come on, stand today, all over this place. Had to wait. Oh yes, man. Couldn't go ahead of him. I I I I felt stuck at times and my degree couldn't fix it. My connections couldn't solve it But oh God, you came through. That's why I've decided to follow you. I have decided to follow Jesus. That's your song today. That's your new song I have decided to follow Jesus, no turning back. No returning back. Just for a moment. You walked in today and you frankly had kind of got tired of waiting. You gonna fix it yourself. First chance you got, you go fix that thing. Make this word today Give you the wide view of what God may be doing in the midst of your waiting. Father, we come in the name of Jesus There's one in this place today who run out of patience. May they run to you. The word said you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead Thou shalt be saved. Just just he he's been patient. The Bible says he's long-suffering. Not willing that any should perish that all might come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Father, today if there's one We declare it in the name of Jesus. Touch that heart, change that heart, save that person today as only you can In Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today. You desire to be a part of the Harvest Family. The doors are always open for you. More than welcome to come this way. We bless God today. For this opportunity. Come on, give us a praise, amen. Amen. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course, by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comethenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.