Well, I got a I got a perfect church this morning. Yeah. Come on, give God some praise today. Give a next up. God had to come back. Listen to the Lord now. Father, we do come and we glorify you and we magnify you in this place. And we thank you for reminders. Things that you've already done in our lives and the things that you continue to do. The word says He who's begun a good work in us will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. We come even now asking that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the glory and the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Good day to be On the Lord's program. Good day to be able to stand and be able to share. Well, there's a word from the Lord that we're going to share today and that we kind of pick up from last time. It's over in 1 Kings, the 19th chapter. And we're just gonna do verse number thirteen. Amen. First Kings nineteen And thirteen. Them phones are going crazy on there. Last week Brother Roy had music. That could be a word. Watch those apps. Verse 13, when you found it disfame. If you want to cheat, it is on the screen. Amen. When Elijah heard it, he pulled his cloak over his face, and went out and stood at the mouth of the cave. Then a voice said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah. I want to preach from the Sharmonic title, The Power of a Whisper Part 2. The Power of a Whisper Part two. Every now and then you'll preach a sermon or you'll do a study and then you just can't let it go. So all week I've been thinking about last week's message. All week I have been thinking about that whisper. Have you has it come to a place during this week that you pause long enough Hear the small still voice of God and gentle yet powerful. Can I testify? On yesterday I was minding my own business in the man cave. And as I was sitting there, I wouldn't sleep. Uh I switched a nudging in my spirit to go and to pray. I was like, now, is that a whisper? I stopped what I was doing, went into a back room, and began to pray for a family member I knew not of. I didn't interrogate God. He said just pray Amen. Now I may find out in years to come or days to come that God moved at that moment. It may have been in my own house. But I was like, now you can't talk whisper and not live. Whisper. Come on, yes. Amen? I don't want to miss anything that God may be saying to me. I've played the radio less this week because I want to be in a state to where I can hear the voice of God. In other words, to tune into heaven's channel. And to do that, you've got to turn some things down. Turn down disruptions and turn down doubting. turn down fear and then turn off the speakers. Some of y'all old school. Uh you got the speaker in the car. My mother only had a little Bell Core radio, but I tried to blow it up. You know, I didn't have the big box, but you know, you drive by, you want to turn up. Is everybody's story today? In fact, uh being in college uh back in the day before we had all these devices I would move back to the dorm and all I had was some jeans and a few shirts but I had my speakers and they were about this high. I had my speaker wire I connected them and I was jamming because I wanted to let the guy upstairs know I got new speakers. All I'm saying is that you gotta turn off the volume of your spirits so that you might hear God and that you might put him on brass. Amen. You know the enemy always comes along with static. He always wants to uh make you think Speaking, why he's he's quite the rascal. The Bible says he's like a roaring lion, seeing whom he might devour. So you got to have your your spiritual antenna up. Got to have the volume up so that you might. Hear what God has to say. God is a God who never sleeps nor slumbers. And that's good to know that when you're in the situation, that you're not serving a God who's on break, not a God who is on uh on vacation, not a God who's taking uh a lunch hour. He's a God who's ever present. Is that the kind of God you serve today? I don't even want to push you, but is your God always on duty? Is your God always ready? Amen? Elijah, we met him last week. A prophet, a spokesman for God. And when we met him, he was in hiding. As big and bad as he may have been, he found himself in a cave. A man on the run scared to death, Jezebel was after him all for telling the truth. Enemies on his track. And Elijah was in a place that he could hear the voice of God. But unbeknownst to him, God did not come in the wind. As impressive as that was, he was not in the wind. There was an earthquake there on that mountain, Mount Horeb, and that was not God. And then there was a fire, and that was not God, but God came in a gentle whisper. A small steel. And then we left the clip hanging up because it says, what? Why are you here? Question mark. And what God had in store for him, he sent him back from the place he had come. In other words, I don't need you here. I need you there. And that's what we do on Sunday. We take what we get and we take it out there in the world. Praise God. And so you have to go back. And retrace all of his steps to do what God had in store for him, but I declare it is a new hymn But once you encounter God, you're not the same. Your homeboys know it, your sister girls know it, they think you're a little strange. Now what's wrong with you? I remember the day when you yes, but God is at work in Moses would tell you that there he was on the mountain, the same Mount Herod. And God spoke to him by way of a burning bush that would not be consumed with message with an assignment at the same time. But how can we be so sure? That God is speaking. How do you know? Amen? How do you know if that prompting, uh whether that feeling, whether uh that thing that seems to speak to you if there is a difference. How do you know if this nudge is really from God or is it just your idea Glad you asked. God speaks by way of the Bible. His written word. He speaks by way of his Holy Spirit. And then God will use other people and even circumstances to reach you. The Bible. written more than fifteen hundred years ago, the Bible, uh the canon, the approved books by the Council of Nisi, uh that it talks about having thirty nine old testament books. Come on, Bible scholars. Look at the concordance if you need to. Genesis, amen to Malachi. 27 books, quite a few of them Paul wrote in the New Testament Matthew the revelation, amen. And when people say to you, Oh, the Bible, a man wrote it, yes, he did. Some forty authors over time But they were inspired by God. You ever been inspired to do something for the Lord? 2 Timothy 3, 16, 17 says that well, all scripture is God-breathed. And it's useful for teaching and for reproof and for rebuking and for correcting and training in righteousness so that the man and woman of God might be fairly furnished on the good works. I love good works, amen. And so if this book will help me to be about a good work, Call for it. Remember my first Bible. Ain't Dollar gave it to me at my nineteen sixty five baptism Little white Bible, I was oh man, I was excited. And I used that Bible when I did my first sermon more than 20 years ago. But I was inquisitive. I ordered the binogram Bible. It came in the mail. I had my own Bible. Now you thought about your first Bible didn't you? Some of y'all might still have it. But blessed be the God having a Bible and using a Bible was certainly different. Amen. My first seminary course, the professor was so excited, he says, Oh, this book is alive. I was like, you know what? He's got a point. Is the book that you read alive? Is the book that you have in your home on the coffee table? That's old school. Uh half in your car. Is that book? A why? Is there instruction in this book? Joshua 108 says to do what? To keep this book up. of the law always on your lips. Meditate on it. Day and night. Why? So that you may be careful to do everything in it, then you will be prosperous. And successful. Now we say, Well I I like that. That's not like a a ten day plan. Well the word of God will lead you and guide you and keep you and send you in the right direction, not your connections. He'll allow you to see folk. Amen. Have God ever directed you you to an opportunity that you were not qualified for and yet God put you at the right place at the right time. Oh you wasn't that smart but it was a break. Yeah, 'cause I knew somebody. Ah I knew Joe's uncle's brother who sits on that boat. No, no, no, no, you better give God the glory that he deserves. Pour in the praise today? Oh blessed be to God. I I I'm I'm thankful today. The Bible speaks. The Bible instructs The Bible allows us to do what it says to. I'm amazed that our foreparents, some of them could not read But what they told you came from the Bible. That discipline. Turn up a child in the way he should go and she should go. And when they're old, they will not depart They may not have known that scripture, but they knew how to apply it. Well, y'all know where I'm going. They applied it to you so that you might be a better you. Amen? But let's talk about the Holy Spirit. The third person of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, so often there's some faith that stop at just God. Amen. And believe that Jesus was a great prophet. But thank God for the spirit. Amen? Hallelujah. It may not make you shout, but it will instruct you in a real way. I used to watch as you did as a young child and we would sit there and look to see who the spirit hit so to speak. Amen. Amen. And it may have just been something so gentle that Brought a tear to your eye, uh Amen. But the Spirit also will convict you. It won't just make you shout. It ought to make you live right. Amen. The Spirit has a personality. The Spirit is a person. The Spirit has feelings. Amen? And I'm glad that the Spirit is promised to each of us. At the moment that you accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you are filled with the Spirit of God. Oh Lord have mercy. Amen. And guess what? There is a continuous feeling. You don't get one feeling and you're done for the year. No. You need the Spirit of God to continue to speak to you and to John 14, 15, 17 says, if you love me, Jesus, keep my commands. And I So ask the Father and he will give you another advocate to help you and to be with you forever. The spirit of truth. The world cannot accept him. Because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you You know him. Do you know him? Yeah. Well, don't make me push you today now. Do you know the Spirit of God? Do you know it? What that feels like has the Spirit of God ever put you on a trajectory going in a different direction than the way you want it to go has the spirit of God ever changed your path your mind was made up you were ready and spirit Make you turn around. Make you do things that you didn't plan to do. The Spirit of God speaks. It has a voice he will come alongside you and to help you. I don't understand the Bible. It's as the Spirit of God. He's a teacher. He will help to open it up for you. in such a way. To Turkey some years ago and I needed a translator. I was laughing in the way I was laughing about I got one word. I said on this trip I'm gonna get one word. Good night. That meant good morning. Now when the song was done, I was out of stuff. But thank God there was a translator, someone to make sense out of what you you would do and has God by way of the Spirit ever opened something up for you and that makes sense to you because he said I'm not that smart it has to be the Holy Ghost. It has to be the Spirit of God that speaks. That's right. But you've got to have your ears on. Amen? The old church saw The mind of the spirit. I know about you, but as I become more seasoned, I'm less knee-jerk. Ah, I'll o over things sometimes. Lord, is this is this really it? Some years ago uh I had a good new card, I didn't want one. Uh-huh. I had to give a I I I was fighting it. And I said, Well, I'm gonna pray. I would have gone before then don't just give me that one I took time of that thing and prayed about it and God gave me a release with it. Okay, simple, it's a card, but as God through his spirit of giving you some release. Ah, but you said, okay, I got peace with this. Because I think that God, I believe, I know that He has spoken, and I have a Peace that passeth all understanding. You need to have some discernment to be able to distinguish have some examination of that. First John 4, 2, and 3 says, every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus Christ is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist. What you have heard is coming and even now is already in the world. God speaks through his Holy Spirit. He speaks through his word and he speaks through People. Yeah, he does. You say, Well, I I heard nothing. God has sent somebody your way. In other words, Christians who have lived a minute or two. Aren't you amazed how wise you've become uh as your hair has changed colors and Children come to you for wise counsel. And they didn't realize how smart you were. And you were the same with your parents. You thought you knew it all. It ain't been nowhere. But thank be to God that they are able to share with you. But you want to Connect with somebody who has some real God experience. Somebody who has a testimony. Somebody who's been through something. They may not tell you what to do, but they may be that listening ear. God puts people in Amen. Amen. Probably four says where there is no counsel The people fall. But in the multitude of counselors there is safety. Pray to God today that He might send you not who you want to come into your life. But someone who has wise counsel. They may not necessarily have to be a certain age, but they may have had an experience and someone who spends time with God, they're worth listening to. Amen? And you know what I'm saying here? But thank be to God that they will come your way. Amen. And so often it's it's the way they live their lives. I love the scripture, let your lights shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. Look for wise counsel. But you know Total strangers can also help you. Sometimes you dismiss people if they don't have a cross. If they don't go to church. If they don't look the parts, I don't want to hear what you're talking about. My God, the wider on the corner can get The screeny boy can be a blessing to you. You just miss him there. Amen? You gotta be careful But strangers, the Lord may put someone in your path that you least expect who is not looked apart and you're not gonna give because you're in Bible study. Amen. And they'll go to nobody's Baptist Church. But God can use it. Hebrews 13, 3. Do not forget to show hospitality to strangers. For by doing so, some people have shown hospitality to angels without knowing it. Be careful who you give the hand to. Be careful, get out of my face. I've heard it said that when you come across somebody who may have a a issue, you gotta walk in their shoes. hit at one time or two. Never had a drink in your head, never smoked one. Come on, church. And that way they can relate to you. If they affect you and never believe that wrong, then I want to throw you. But God Has brought you through some things so that you might be wise counsel to other people. Isn't that good news? And guess what? What's the whole goal and the mission of you hearing the whisper. That's right. Say I heard the whisper this week. Or is God trying to use us and put us on a mission to be able to share what He has given us with someone else? Don't force it on him, but he'll give you opportunity to share the good news. Like they'll say, I'm just one baker. Trying to tell another baker where to find some bread. Amen. I remember the song that said I said I wasn't gonna tell nobody. But I just couldn't keep it to myself. Amen. He asked me, but can I tell you what God has done to me? I'm not gonna ask my opinion. You probably don't even want to talk. I do it in the coffee shop. But they say, how are you? If I can slip one in for the Lord, I'll do it. Just to encourage somebody in him. on the elevator. I don't need but one elevator, bitch. Give me twenty seconds. He's good. Amen. Having a fantastic day. So God be the world. God has spoken to you and whispered to you so that you might not be spiritually. greedy but pass it on to somebody. You are so heavenly minded, you're no earthly good. God wants to use us in that way. Share with people. Let them know. Child, you gotta have a ticket. to get the glory. Didn't your folks tell you that I got my ticket? What ticket? The ticket that lets me know that I'm saved and sanctified and filled with the Holy Ghost. John 14, 3 says, I go and prepare a place for you that where I am, you will be also in my father's house. There are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. Story is told about Ever Einstein. Great business, Nobel, Peace Prize winner. And he's taking a train from Princeton. Conductor comes along and says, oh my God, that's that's Einstein. I know him. He said, how you doing? And he said, you take it And he's looking. He's trying to find this ticket, look at this jacket. He can't find it. And he looks for this trouser pocket. He he can't find his ticket. He looks at his briefcase. He's not able to retrieve it. Amen? He he looks at the seat next to him and he cannot find the ticket. How many of y'all vote the train? Now you can be nice, but when they're come through, they want to be able to, you know, or you got to get off. Amen. Mr. I speak everybody know you. We all know you, Doctor. He said, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then the conductor went to the next car He looked back and saw I see on the floor, looking under the seat, trying to find that ticket. And the other man says, What what what's wrong? I say so. Let me tell you something. He says, look, look, look, look, look, your man, I know who I am, but I don't know where I'm going. And sometimes in life You got to know where you're going. Amen? How many of that tickets, the Lord? The Lord has spoken a word to you, and you've been reassured that when I die, then I'll go to heaven. When we all get to heaven. What a day of rejoicing that will be. When we all see Jesus, we will see and shout for victory. That's good to be around here, but my God is coming a lot knowing that the Lord will speak to you. In every situation, he'll speak. Speak, Lord. Speak to my heart. spirit. And I tell you this week keep your ears on because the Lord is speaking. And sometimes we just put him on room. But blessed be the God today. You've got to say, Lord, I'm here. Speak. That's what I'm here. I'll tell you this story. from the word Samuel. Just a boy. Prophet. Laying there asleep in the temple. And he hears this voice. He is sure that it is Eli speaking. So he goes to him and says, Did you did you call me? No, no, no. I didn't. He goes back and he goes back to sleep again. And he hears another voice. He said, I'm gonna go back and see each other. Did you call me? No, I did not. And when he came back the third time Eli says, now next time you hear that, say speak, thou servant here. Can I tell you today that that was my call story to the ministry? I was waiting for somebody to tell me, Rather, you can be a preacher, but nobody would tell me that. I had to hear it for myself. But I'm glad today I heard the voice of Jesus say, command them in the rest, that I knew then that Lord, you called me to join your word. Not based on what somebody said, but you said, I want you to preach it. I heard that whisper more than 20 years ago, and I thank the Lord today. That's my call story. My name is not Samuel, but I thank God today. Has he called you? Is he calling you right now? Can you hear the whisper? Can you hear the voice of God? Amen. The preachers of all didn't have microphones. And they didn't have technology. And they would put the hand over the ear. David to hear what was coming out. Can you hear what God is saying to you? Help your ears on. I know, Reverend, you said it one time before, but can you hear him today? The power Of the whisper. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Just five step plan for how to hear, but I'm it's not on the talk shows. What you mean? It's right here. That's right. That's right. Well, I got a bottle. Uh-huh. Have you read it? Are you using it? It'll show up in your devotionals. Let it now and then just read To be reading. Yes. You will be amazed. Anybody can justify that today. I don't want to think like, oh, yeah, if I can justify that you have heard him through the word, heard him through That small still voice of the Holy Spirit, yes, or heard him through that wise counsel. Yes, sir. He speaks today. Hear what he's saying to those who are lost is come to me. Come to me, all you who are heavy laden. I'll give you rest. I can recall the old song of the church. Usually revival meeting. And when you weren't saved, you don't want to hear them kind of songs. Oh please, they stopped playing that. You know, if you weren't right, you was like, why is mother gonna sing in a Again, humble Jesus. Come to G. Com to G. Is that the ball? Come to G. Unto Jesus. I can hear one of the mirror starts saying, he will save you. He will save in his garden. He will save you. And the light, he will say you just now just you will say you He will save you. He will save you. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you that we Yes, we do. There might be someone in this place, might be someone scanning the internet that desires to hear you and the voice that's speaking says, Come unto me. The Bible says about shall confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised them from the dead the Bible says thou shalt be saved. Save someone today God you did it for us unworthy Unkind, lost in the Maury clay, and you pulled us up and dusted us off. Yes, so and now we are being used as servants. Yes, Father. Save that person. Yes, Lord. In Jesus' name.