Let's bow today. Father God, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for this opportunity just to share the good news. God, we thank you that our focus is on you and what you did by sending your darling son, Jesus Christ. Even now we pray that we might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done We'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord This morning that comes from the Gospel of Luke, and we've said on numerous occasions that gospel means good news. Amen? There in Luke chapter 1, beginning at verse number 26, it reads as follows In the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The Virgin's name was Mary The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel of the Lord said to her Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you are to call him Jesus. I want to preach today from the Samonic title as we continue our series, The Cast of Christmas, Part 2. The Cast of Christmas, part two. I've reserved a seat for you on the front row as we sit in the theater of life. and look to the big screen of humanity. We talk about how God reigns and rules. And I want you to use again your spiritual imagination. Uh last week we talked about Isaiah the prophet and the role that he would play. One sent with the message one sent by God, and he shared there in Isaiah 9 and 6 He said very clearly that there comes a time that unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given and the government shall be upon his shoulders. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Should be called mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And in each of those words, there's something to digest. That Isaiah as the major prophet, a major biblical figure, would make a prediction based on what God has shared with him Well move a little bit further today and go down the list and find another biblical character of sorts I want to talk about Gabriel. Gabriel is an angel on assignment for God. His very name means warrior. And God is one who is in charge of setting apart those which he would call angels or messengers, angels or spiritual beings who praise God. And who give God the praise. So whenever you feel like you don't want to give God the praise, uh there's no lack of angels who are there even now worshiping him And giving him the praise. That hits you right there. Amen. You say, I don't feel like it. Well, he's not liking anybody who wants to give him praise. Amen. Hallelujah. I can stop right there and get excited about what the Lord can do. And will do. Gabriel had a high profile position. He was a messenger. And over 600 years he had some pretty high level assignments. Uh back in Daniel 8, uh Daniel asked for uh Gable to come by to break down a troubling vision he had had and And Gabriel came by and kind of helped him out a bit. And then not long after that, back in the Gospel of Luke. Earlier we find that Gabri shows up and he is met by one by the name of Zechariah. Zechariah is a priest in the temple, serving God. And the Bible says he was a righteous man, and his wife Elizabeth also was one who gave reverence to God. That sounds like a holy partnership. I'm glad that I can give him praise, but when Mama gives him praise, amen. That means that we're on the same page. Uh you gotta be equally yoked. I could go there in a minute, amen? But we knew that for some time that they had been trying to have a child and against all odds because Elizabeth, his wife, was barren and did not seem possible, but as Gabriel goes by, he gives the news that your prayers have been answered. That God will allow this to take place. Anybody ever had a prayer answered and it seemed like nothing was going to happen? And people told you, I don't know why you're wasting your time. They may not have said it just like that, but we find Find that it is going to take place because Gabriel Angel said, and you will have a son Yeah. And his name will be called John. I like how when God sends a message, you know asking you to take an online poll. What should we call him? No, his name will be John. Amen? Praise God. Well suddenly one of the high profile, major role that Gabriel plays is when he goes to Nazareth of Galilee and he is there to bring a message to Mary. A virgin in that town. And you say, Reverend, I know how this story is going to end. I already know Uh I read my Bible, I've got two Sunday school lessons under my belt, but you know, sometimes we are so familiar with the text Sometimes we think we know it all until we can miss key parts. Never watch the movie. And you said, I missed that. Let me rewind it and see what exactly the actor said. Let me w hold on for a second. I may have missed two or three episodes. Can I confess today? I'm the worst movie watcher. Man, I'll see y'all one episode like a whole week Y'all laughing at me. I'll fall asleep. What what was I in that episode? And sometimes in life oh sorry, I got some witnesses today. Sometimes in life we do The same thing. But when Gabriel comes and shares this news with Mary, it is breaking news There was no casting call, no audition, but Mary has been selected by God to play a major role. I'm talking about the cast of Christmas One that begins with an announcement, followed by an endorsement, and ending with fulfillment. Verse 28, the angel went to her and said, Greetings. What Gable shared was an announcement He had something important to say and he approached her greetings. Sometimes it's how the news is delivered. Sometimes we can swing a punch. Greetings. Hello. Salutations. Hi. Just to get a person's attention. And Mary, perhaps, like most people of her day We're not surprised to see an angel, but whenever an angel would show up, persons would get afraid, they would become uneasy, and their appearance alone would cause persons to shake. in their boots. A bit later in this text, the Bible says that Mary was greatly troubled. at the words and wondered what kind of greeting is this? Keep in mind what has been shared. Mary minding her own business. Mary gets a visitor. Mary hears something that does not make sense. And yet she's trying to digest it. Ever had something come your way and God has moved on you in a particular way and you said, wait a minute, you Sure, you got the right one, you got the right Tim, or did you mean uh it was that Jim and not Tim? Uh and God will come like that, amen. And Mary is there trying to digest this And God today is still sending messengers. Amen. He's not stopped being the God who he is. I remember some years ago, I did a seminary paper on dreams and visions and it was a late night class and every now and then I would nod and have the professor say Tutan are you are you dreaming or is there a vision? But I did a paper about dreams and visions and I called my hometown and talked to Miss Nettie B. Haynes and I said, Miss Nettie B. it's come to I'm doing a similar paper. Do you still believe That God speaks through dreams and visions. Don't you? And she began to explain Explain the ways that the Lord would show up and how His presence would manifest itself. God still Does that. Have we missed the messages that God has been trying to share with us because we had too many things going on and Too many issues going on, we just totally missed it. I like what Hebrews 13 and 2 says says don't Forget to show hospitality to strangers. So by doing so, some people have shown hospitality to angels without knowing it. Hallelujah. God has corrected you and I to play a role. We've got a part to encourage humanity to give them hope in Jesus Christ. Don't you know folks still need hope? Hallelujah. They may not look like it. They seem to have it all the gas, but you speak a word and my God just get excited because they need somebody to tell them about Jesus. I know I told them every Sunday Amen. That there's an opportunity that we have to share the good news of Jesus Christ. It's still in, it's still affected. Didn't somebody tell you about Jesus one day? You didn't want to hear it. But it changes. Right, but now that you know why you're gonna hold on to it, but other folk need to hear. Not only does Gable make an announcement But I believe he also passed along an endorsement. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. Now endorsements you think of politics. I've got an endorsement from this association, or this person has come to endorse me, and hopefully it carries some kind of weight It gets you more votes. Y'all know what I'm talking about? Well, I'm endorsed by we put them on our campaign stickers. But don't you know that God is the one who gives endorsements and his endorsements of us always lead to a victory There's not a recount because God is a God who does not make mistakes. I'm glad to have the endorsement of God the Father who sits high and looks low. And the fact That Gabriel told Mary that you are highly favored, that meant that God chose her. And the prover. He didn't call a meeting. He didn't pull a committee together. But God said that you are the one who will bear the Messiah, the Christ child. Mary did not campaign for this. There was no commercial or radio. Hi, I'm Mary and I want to bear the Christ shop. There were no TV ads, but God does what God wants to do. Aren't you glad that God shows you today? Oh my God, I know. I mean, I mean he didn't have to do it. But he picked you, amen. She was chosen. John 15 and 16. The word says you did not Choose me. But I chose you and appointed you so that you might go and bear fruit, fruit that will last. Mary highly favored within uh Christian circles I've heard the term and you may have to that favor ain't fair. We do it with a little attitude, yeah I you just you know, I got the promotion of favor. Favor ain't and we use that a different way than we ought to, amen. It is God who picks you and chooses you not because you are qualified. Not because you've done everything right. Not because you've come back. But God does it because God Aren't you glad he picked you today, aren't you glad today he chose to use you in his army? You know all that and neither am I. But the fact he would take a country boy to rival Well, it was a fusion better, man. Didn't know nothing about no middle world class or somebody who had a loving family, somebody in the neighborhood that told me I could make it. Sunday school attending, revival meeting going. God is so good. And when I look back over my life, I thank God for everything He's done. And here's the good news, he's not done with you yet. Oh, you can retire from God. You might retire from the job. But God has you always on the payroll. Amen? Hallelujah. This puts off an endorsement. An announcement and I think lastly it leads to fulfillment. Now I get excited on this. It says the angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. The Lord is with you. And at the moment that thing jumped off the page into my oh, I'd be reminded that the Lord is with me. No matter what you're going through today, the Lord is with you. No matter how deep it looks in your situation The Lord is with you. I know it don't look like it's going to turn out in your favor, but the Lord is with you. And Mary needed to hear those words. They were fulfilling. And these are words that we need to hear as God puts us in the center stage in the spotlight. And you know what? As we change the scene, can I use my remote here and go about 15 verses or so in Uh we find around the forty-sixth verse that Mary is no longer afraid. Mary is no longer troubled because Uh Gabri had told her, now even though I've given you this news that's blowing you away, I want you to go visit your cousin Sister Elizabeth. And when you go up to Elizabeth's house to your people, uh, just go up there when Elizabeth saw it, you know, my God, I'm six months pregnant, but when I got closer to you, that my baby leaped in the womb because they knew something was going on. You know to know that God is still leaping in our experience. Amen? And she's now singing a song. Trouble scary Mary is now singing. just to be singing. Amen? It's evident that she found fulfillment in the whole process and she is singing a song called Magnapica She sang, My soul doth magnify the Lord. And my spirit hath rejoiced in the God of my Savior, for he hath regarded the low estate. of this handmaiden for behold from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. That's a different Mary than we saw when Gabriel first came by He says, For he that is mighty has done for me great things, and holy is his name. That ought to be a cue. For you and I to remind us what God can do and what God will do. Can we change the scene from Nazareth? To Bethlehem, to Calvary, where Jesus gave his life. On an old rugged cross. Now you didn't change the channel on me, did you? I want you to stay with this episode And just like a rookie actor cast in a movie scene, I forgot my lines, but there's one thing I don't He will never leave me lost to sleep. I never shall forget what the Lord has done for me, God. Preach in here a little bit this morning. He picked me up out the Maori clay. That what he's done. What does it look like, Reverend? Were you in clay? No, no, no. I was in some stuff. And told you. And God had to fool you and live with you and hustle you from where you were. Amen. And God has picked me up and turned me around. But what does that mean? Because I was headed in a wrong direction. Anybody know what it means to get off on the wrong Excellent life. And to have God to say, wait a minute, I can turn your life around. I'm glad today that He has cast me in a new role as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't mind telling somebody that the way of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. I've got a new land now. Lord, make a way out of no way. Wait a minute, I was reading a late last night. uh going through the internet saying how do actors ruh remember their lives amen and one like to say I just keep saying it over and over again. And and so what I did with the sermon last night kept saying it over and over again. And the thing that kept adding up is that God is still good. And don't you know that Jesus is On the main line of just telling what you wrong, I feel that even now that God wants to use you in service. Anybody want to come up with this script and say, Listen, I want to be a voice for the Lord Jesus Christ. Make the announcement today that God is able to do all things but fail. So we come today saying the angels are watching over me, but I'm not so much and fresh with the angels, but the one who sends the angels. Amen? Ah, God has sent a messenger your way to let you know it's gonna be all right. My God, don't worry about what goes on the tree, but think about he Who went to the tree? Hallelujah, the one who wrong, bled, and died just for you and just for me. I'm glad today that I'm a part of the cast. Amen. So we come today knowing that we serve a risen Savior and He's in the world today, and that's what we have to keep in mind. Yes, sir Thank you, Mary! Thank you for accepting the role. Some folks will tell you, oh, this role was just for you. You played that part perfectly. But God wants to use each of us to give it. Don't give him Lift about why you can't do it. Say, here I am, Lord, send me. That is the word of God today. It's always just angel. Showing up. Marilyn, did you? Did you have any clue? No, no. That your baby boy would save the world? No, no. Did you have any equality? No. And the things that God would do, he'll have to inform us in advance. What he wants is a willing heart. What he wants is someone to say yes. Yes, that's right. Use me to your glory. Yes, yes. We thank God today. Thank you, Father. Even as we come. Accept the assignment. Yes, sir. Play the part. Yes, sir. Father, we come even now. And we thank you. For your provision. We thank you for your word that it speaks. It has a voice. May we hear today. He that hath an ear, let them hear with the Spirit. is saying to the churches. We come today, dear God, praying that your word will go forth. Someone might be lifted up from a story they thought they knew in and out. But there's always something that speaks to our heart. If there's one today in this place who knows not The Savior knows not Mary's baby, knows not you in the pardon of their sins. I pray in the name of Jesus. In the name of Jesus that you might touch that. hearts today. Do it today, God. We pray. Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth, Lord Jesus, and believe in our hearts that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says, thou shalt be saved. Save someone today. We pray even now. In Jesus' name. Amen. God bless you. Just keep your speech for a moment.