I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries Or worship experience already in progress. Amen. Thou hast spoken. Let the church say, Amen. Amen means so it is. Amen means I agree. Somebody else say amen. Amen. So y'all go ahead now. We come today Acknowledging that Jesus Christ is Lord. How many folk know that God will come see about you? God will take care of you. God will keep your enemies at bay. He'll bring joy to your face. He'll bring peace to your heart And because of that, you can say, Amen. I'd like to talk often about my father and ministry, Dr. A. C. D. Vaughn. He said, Amen. I take that and use it. That means you are right. Let's bow today all over this place. Father, we come. And we thank you. Thank you for the preaching moment. Thank you for your word and how you can take a word, put it in a vessel, touch your heart as it amazes us today. As we come, it is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Lord, save somebody today who may have come and Their heart is not right with you. She might change that heart. They may say, I yield, I yield, what must I do to be saved? And then encourage another who may come this way, just down in the dunks. And just need to hear a word. They're on the ledge, about to jump. And say, is there a word that will keep me in perfect peace? We ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from Acts of the Apostles. We've been there for past four weeks now. It's been a good place to be, just to walk through that book. Uh but there in the fourth chapter today, verses seventeen through twenty, it reads, But to stop this thing from spreading any further among the people, we must warn them to speak no longer to anyone in this name. Then they called them in again and commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. Verse 19 says, but Peter and John replied, which is right in God's eyes? To listen to you or to him? You be the judges. As for us, we could not help speaking about what we have seen and heard. And then verse 21, after further threats, they let them go. They could not decide how to punish them. Because all the people were praising God for what had happened. Don't you look how clear the text is? It lays it out. And so I'm going to preach today from the continuing series, The Day the Church Caught Fire, Part Four. The Day the Church Caught Fire Part Four. I brought with me this morning a book That I happened to come across called Good Night Moon. Some of y'all may be familiar with it. As a father, I read this book, try to put my kids to sleep. And it's the boy in the room, uh good night moon, good night everything. He was trying to beat sleep. And by the time I got done reading this book I realized that I could have been put down for sleep. But it's all a part of what's called show and tell. You might recall that during your summer vacation you came back first day of school and said, What did you do over the summer? And you may have brought something in uh to help to encourage you to say I brought back something from my trip. If I want to follow you home, I would find a your favorite teddy bear I'd find your G. I. Joe, I'd find your doll, I'd find your blanket. I'd find something that you have kept as a keepsake that you may have used in life's show and tell. But I've come with another book that's really a show and tell manual. It is the Word of God. It is the Holy Bible. It is 66 different books. Amen? And as we come today, we think about this early, early church in the book of Acts. And so Acts really is about the early church, the going-ons of the church. And over the past couple of weeks we've been talking about the church and how they started. Well just a few, but how by way of the Holy Spirit the church has grown. The fire has spread it And so Peter preaches. 3,000 people are saved and baptized. The church hangs out together. Everybody's on one accord. Slapping five. But keep in mind to declare the name of Jesus during this time, you took a risk. It was dangerous to say, yes, I am a Christian. Today we can carry our Bibles where we want to carry them, but no matter but not mess with us either. We keep a palm branch around the rearview mirror. We'll put a Bible on our dashboard and I dare you to say anything But back then, just to proclaim the name of Jesus could mean your very life. Isn't that amazing how time has passed? And yet we see people Peter preaches. Peter is the one who's the called person for that particular body of people. But there comes a time when the church has to go on the road. Amen It's one thing to say, man, we were really doing it here in Jerusalem, but there comes a time when they take this fire. These body of believers have to go on the road to go someplace and declare beyond their surroundings the goodness of Jesus. Here's the story. Peter and John head to pray. It's 3 o'clock in the afternoon. They make their way to the temple. And on the way there, they run into a man who's at the gate called Beautiful. It's beautiful because it's a real nice gate, I hear. And they get there, he's looking for a handout We passed somebody this morning who had a sign-up and they wanted something. We pretended we didn't see them or we looked as if we were looking for a cup of coffee. But this man came and said, I'm looking for a handout. Everybody knew him. He would hang at the same spot right near the church. And so Peter and John says, you know, silver and gold have we none. But can I add in pastor tooth a little piece? We got fire. You want some of that? And so they say, in the name of Jesus, get up and walk. Isn't it something how they were able to declare and speak something and it happened? What if you spoke to people? What if you spoke to places? What if you spoke to things and declared, get up and walk? Move out of my way. I declare it in the name of Jesus, God has given us that kind of power and that kind of fire. So don't be afraid to declare something in the I'm getting excited about that. To declare something in the name of Jesus. All those brothers did was say, you know what? Don't have any money, but in the name of Jesus, I dare get up and walk. This brother starts skipping and jumping and giving God the praise and where's the next prayer meeting gonna be? But The scene changes. The word gets out. Two brothers are on fire talking about Jesus, and there's a crowd showing up. And they throw them in jail. They lock him up because of what they've declared about Jesus Isn't that amazing that you would think, man, they're talking some great stuff, but there was this whole sense of being threatened, and so those who were in the upper councils had heard about these two rough-necked radicals, fishermen, out talking about Jesus, and more so the people were following them. See, it's one thing to talk some stuff and nobody's following you. When you start talking some good stuff about Jesus and the flame keep going up, folks start talking about you in a good way, the enemy will get busy Oh, you know he will. You keep on talking some good stuff, and you see if stuff won't come up against you. But there again declared in the name of Jesus, get thee behind me, Satan. Amen So we continue and really wrap up this series by finding this church, these body of believers who are now on the road. And so let's walk through what they faced during this time. They had to make a choice. They have been brought before the council The important people. Ooh, they're in trouble. And they come out before them and they got to make a choice Because the rulers say, okay, you cannot declare that name. You can talk about anybody you want to talk about them. We can talk politics You can talk NBA, you can talk French Open, you can talk Ravens, Orioles, but don't you talk about the name of Jesus. You can talk shop talk. You can talk whatever, but don't you don't don't don't you better not anybody feel that way sometime that you're in an environment that you have to hold back a little bit And say, as long as you're fine, but that's against policy to talk about Jesus. I may as well declare since I'm already here. Maybe I'll get in trouble for saying it on tape. Within our organization, classes are being offered for yoga. And I got the memo, and it says, you know, yoga classes at 5 o'clock today. And then one line says, mind, body, and soul. I said, oh, soul. I called up and said, hey, you need me? And I was half playing, but I was half serious. That now I can give you a nugget Right next to yoga. Amen. But I was ready to declare that Jesus is Lord. I don't mind what about you? You look kind of funny. You don't mind declaring that name today I don't care what anybody's family on Saint Jesus. They have a choice to make. What do you do? And they put it back on them. Which is right. In God's eye. What do y'all think? Should I listen to you? Or listen to him? Don't you love the text? I don't know. You tell us You be the judges, you bear. Y'all in control? What ought we to do about making this choice They couldn't help themselves because they were body of believers. The fire of the Holy Ghost was in them. They couldn't contain themselves, but they could not make a deal. They had to speak the name. Amen. And so you be the judge. You tell them. Now don't that sound like they setting them up? Now I don't know. What do you think? I love what uh Joshua writes over in the book of Joshua. Folk are you know they a little hemorrhaging home about whether they want to go to the promised land, and Joshua said, Well I'll tell you what You know, the Zay, it may seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, but choose this day, who will you serve? As for me and my people, we're gonna serve the Lord. You gotta declare some stuff today. So you know what? I don't know. We gonna we're gonna hang with Jesus. Amen. It may not seem popular It may not sing men, but I'm gonna stay with Jesus. And so I'm gonna declare, I'm gonna make a choice today that I'm gonna stand for the Lord. But y'all don't sound too bold. I'm gonna look too bold today. Come on, man. Y'all gonna stand for Jesus today That you're able to declare in your own way that I'm going to stand for what's right in Jesus' name, even if you don't always voice it I'm gonna sit in y'all and say Reverend Tutan say be a radical. I just got fired. Reverend. All I'm saying is stand for Jesus. Amen. It however the Holy Ghost leads you, but don't be a coward. Don't back down. You might have to go in your office and turn your plate down for a minute, but you're going to stink Jesus. They have a choice to make as the church on fire But not just a choice. They found their voice. And there again, they're still before the authorities. They're still at Bell Review. They're still being declared and told you can't speak the name of Jesus. They say you tell us what to do, but we ain't doing that. Verse 20 says, as for us Peter and John, we cannot help speaking about what we've seen and heard. Lord, I got excited when I saw that text. I can't help it. We've seen too much stuff. We've heard too much stuff to be quiet. God has brought you from so many places. You've seen some things in your life. You can't be quiet. Based on what you've seen and what you've heard and what you've experienced and the things you've gone through and the people who've been a part of your life who may have left your life, you cannot be quiet They found their voice. One day I found my voice. I don't care. I can talk some stuff, but everything else, why is Jesus off limits? I've seen some stuff in my own life. I've heard some things that I may have said that God has brought back to remind me of, but find your voice today. Declare today that you don't even in drive-through. Thank you. God bless you. Please supplement the drive-thru. Amen. When you buy a product and you want to receive, thank you in Jesus' name. Find a way to declare that I am a saint on fire for Jesus. Anybody gonna try it today? And just look at your bill and say, Praise God. Did you get the tip? Have a great day in Jesus. Amen? Praise the Lord. And so they talked about what they had seen and heard. And your vocabulary has changed over time as your walk with the Lord has changed. There was some stuff that you would not even declare. Wouldn't think about it. But something happened to you in your life that caused you to say, you know what? I'm going with Jesus. That I have seen situations turn for the better. I've heard some stuff in my life That mama and them said I didn't really believe it till I got a little older. Come on now. And now they man they were right. Huh? Let's say I'm not gonna live your life, but let me tell you a thing or three That's the good news of Jesus Christ. I can declare it. Find your voice today. Should be shy and afraid to declare Jesus My God, you gotta wear a big cross, just smile. You know, I found that to be true. That a smile begets a smile. I'll see folk that they start they didn't give a smirk. I said A man wants to do that. I'm about to alright. Good morning to you. I don't know him, but you started him with a smile. I'll leave it with a God bless you. Amen. Find your voice today. We as believers have to have those show and tell moments. To let folk know that there's some things that I've been through that will help my testimony. Right in your home. Right in your home. Let me just stay there for half a second. Right in your home, find your voice. Don't say when I leave here today, when I no no in your home Find your voice. At the breakfast table, find your voice. Over dinner, find your voice. Amen. Anybody found their voice today That I don't mind saying what I've seen and what I've heard, and I'll declare it in the name of Jesus. I love the story in Gospel of John where he meets the woman at the well. And you know he's not supposed to be talking to a woman in public. His boys are going in town for something to eat and they come back. He'd already declared to her Sheila who she was talking to Talking about water and the living water. But by the time he got done talking to her, what did she do? She headed back into the Lord, you ought to sing him Come and see a man, John 4. 39, who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Messiah Could this be the sent one? Could this be the anointed one? Isn't that amazing when you have contact with the Lord? You can't help yourself. She dropped that water bucket. Poke and town said you heard him, and they got happy. And they got saved because of what they had witnessed. And somebody will get saved by your testimony. Why? Because you found your voice. Amen. But finally. As this church on fire. You have got to never lose your praise. Guess how the story ends. Verse 21. After further threats. So they kept on picking at him. They let him go. The bell bond man wasn't there. No bell was set. But they cannot decide how to punish them. Folk don't know what to do with you. Because the Christ is living in you. And you won't fire you. They don't know how to handle you. Don't know how to punish you, can't mess with you because of what is happening on the inside. Isn't that amazing? That folks meant to get you. They were out to get you. So We don't know what we're gonna do with you. Why? Because there's some fire on the inside that's burning in you, and it's your praise that makes the difference. They were lost for a plan. What what what do we do? Can you see the big shots? We told them but what but people were outside waiting And God has called a community of faith around you because all the people were praising God what happened. Don't inject that. When they get out, folk were like, Thank you, Jesus. Hallelujah. They've been set free. Amen. And folk are waiting, and they're praising as you come through your situations. Somebody's praising Somebody say, Lord, we've been praying for you, bro. Yes, we had you on our minds. And when God frees you, you say, Yes, they were and the praise makes the difference in the situation Isn't that something? That praise will break some yokes, praise will change some minds, praise will give you peace, praise or give you hope. Folk will say, yes, come on out of there. They didn't know what to do Praise made the difference. Praise changed the atmosphere. Them brothers walked out of there. We out. Ain't God good? Won't He do it? Didn't He do it? And that's the good news. That's why the church has to remain on fire. I love what David says in Psalm 150. Let everything that has breath Praise ye the Lord. Amen. You gotta keep praising him. I wish I could tell you that this church on fire never cooled down. Life was good. They hung at the beach. They're like, yeah, we just carrying the fire of Jesus. But some things happened. Did they live happily ever after with no challenges, no problems, no hardships? That was just not the case. But the one thing they knew is the Lord would be with them Whatever you're facing, know that the Lord is with you. I love that song of the church says, I've decided to make Jesus my choice. The road is rough. The going is tough. The hills are hard to climb. But I did what? I started out A long time ago, and there is no doubt in my mind I decided to make Jesus my choice. And one verse says, some folk would rather Have houses and land. Some folk would rather have silver and gold. Some folks will take a beds and a rose. Some folk will want to be on knobhill only These things they may treasure and forget about this lobby decided to make Jesus my choice. And you with your own fire yourself have decided no matter what I'm facing and going through, I will make Jesus my choice. The day the church caught fire. The day the Holy Ghost showed up. The day they got locked up. The day they had the praying church. The day they declared that I'll stand with him no matter what. Is there anybody today who know the Lord will stand with you Through seen and unseen dangers, my God, you've got a victory even now. We call on the power of God. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Let's stand today. Come to Jesus right now. That's an invitation to you, is to come to him. How many have decided today To make Jesus your choice. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Sister Williams, so glad to have you Look at that. Let me just let me pause for a moment. Sister Williams hit me up on Facebook and say on join Sunday. Rem said, Yeah. I like it. And so she's come today to be a part of this fellowship She actually connected with me on Facebook where we had the movie that we showed here. She came to visit. And let's declare today that the church is increasing to the glory of God. Amen? Amen. I'm going to ask Sister Michelle Washington to come on up. Want somebody to stand with you today to let you know that we welcome you in the name of Jesus. Afterwards our deacons will meet with you and get further information. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever given Jesus your heart? Have you declared, Amen? You believe he died for your sins? And rose on the third day. Praise the Lord. Amen. The Bible says if you believe that in your heart and declare it, thou shalt be saved. This is Michelle Washington. Amen. I want to welcome you in This is my wife, Charlene 2. Amen. We'll connect with you in a moment. But just say right here. Amen. Amen. It's good to have a have a vision Amen. Maybe there's someone at the gate who want to come to Jesus. Holy Ghost, ah, you're not going to sing that song. Go and do my work And so on that, there might be another today who wants to give their heart to Jesus. There might be one today who has never been baptized. Last week we got a candidate for baptism. Maybe you've come today and say, you know what? I've never been baptized, but I want to be. It's my way of getting to know Jesus. Come on, walk for the Lord today. It's an invitation to you who are out there. Come on and become a part of the family of God. Are you out there today? I want to say to you, the Lord Jesus Christ is prepared to change your life and to change your heart and to give you a voice. Amen. He'll do it today If you're here today, come to Jesus, amen. Come to Jesus, come to Jesus just now Just now come to Jesus, come to Jesus, He will save you. He will say. How many know it today? He will say, He will say you just now. Just now. He will save you, he will save you just right now. Make a choice for Jesus Christ. You make choices every day about what you're gonna wear. What you gonna eat and all these what route am I gonna take to work and make a decision? Today I want to say to you, the Lord Jesus Christ is waiting for you to declare, Lord, I want to be saved There's nothing like salvation. I'm so glad he found me. I'm so glad he kept me from running into that wall and said, Boy, I got something for you Anybody feel me today? Yeah. I mean, think about where you could have been had the Lord not I could have had your mama to snatch y'all up. Yeah New age folks they don't snatch. Yeah, they just come on baby. Old folks say And sometimes the Lord said I need to just Snatch you. Kidd, snatch me. Yeah, yeah. I was walking a tight roll. Little church, little world. One day I told it you're unemployed No money for the family. Now give me a spongy school verse. I turned and I came to him. Today I declare to you, He wants to save your soul. He wants to make you whole. You make your decision today. I want to walk with the Lord today. Let's bow our heads all over this place. Lord Jesus, we we thank you. For your holy word that excites us, but it instructs us on how to live, what to do, how to get eternal life. Through you. I pray today, God, that there is one in this place who has never said I want to be saved or have never declared To you that I am lost. Save their soul today. That they may speak in. That they may speak it today. That they may speak it. Do it now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Are you here today? Are you here today? Come on, walk for the Lord today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.