Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Somebody give God a praise right now. Let all your praise And all your worship flow to the one who deserves it all. Oh, you didn't sound like I heard any worship and praise in here. Let all your worship and all of your praise flow To the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank the Lord today, just for his word. As we bow in this place today. To the words of my mouth Meditation of my heart. Be acceptable in thy sight O Lord, our strength and our Redeemer. Amen. Praise ye the Lord. Couldn't you see that in your own mind's eyes they were singing that song? How many people think in pictures I'm a visual Lord. I can see. I can see it floating. There's a worship of the Lord today that comes from 1 Kings. 1911 through 13. It reads, the Lord said, Go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the Lord, for the Lord is about to pass by. Then a great and powerful wind tore the mountains apart and shattered the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind there was an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. After the earthquake came a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. After the fire came a gentle whisper. When Eliza heard it He pulled his cloak over his face and went out and stood at the mouth of the cave. Then a voice said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? I want to preach today from the Semonic title. Simply called the voice. I've watched that program a time or two. Others in my house love it more than me. It is a reality program aired by NBC in which Uh talent, unsigned talent, gets the opportunity to win the whole thing. And you the viewer will call in or text in or go on and say, I really like that person They got my vote. Aren't you amazed by the electronics that you can hear somebody saying they did it tonight and they got my vote? And America says Well the prize is $100,000. That's enough incentive. And a record deal. And since this all started, there have been about 14 winners of The Voice. And here's what's neat about it, is that persons come, they sing their hearts out, and they hope one of the four coaches will hit the button Oh y'all know what it does. And they turn the chair. And they compete to find the best person who they can mentor. But it's really all about what they hear. It's the voice. They can't see the person initially, but there's something about their style that attracts them and causes them to turn. The prophet Elijah knows something about being chosen. His resume showed that he had highs and lows, and we all do. There's some mountaintop experiences and there's some valley experiences. How many have had both? Amen Did you realize that the God that we serve is on the mountain and in the valley? He never leaves us nor forsakes us. Elijah's resume really includes one who prayed to God for it not to rain for three and a half years. And then turned around and prayed to God that it would rain and the skies open up. No abricular, but just trusting in God, he was one who heard And obeyed the voice of God. Well, the last time we checked in with Elijah, he was riding high He had gone to the top of the mountain, prayed for rain, seen the cloud that was the size of a man's hand. He takes off And uh breakneck speed beats King Ahab to the real. He gets there and things change Ahab told his wife all that Elijah had done. Jezebel was mad. Jezebel said, you let him know right now, I'm gonna kill him. Not next week Not next month, but tell him tomorrow he's a dead man. Come make the text alive today. And so he takes off. Is on you ever been there? So afraid of something or someone you say you know what? It might be best just to change location I'm not saying you're in the witness protection program. I'm just saying that it can get a little hot sometimes With the death threat, he takes off. He's so afraid. He complains to God and said, you know what, just take my life. Rather than have Jezebel track me down, I'd rather just give it up He runs for forty days and for forty nights and finds himself in a cave. We've all had some cave experiences. Right now you may be in a cave in life, a dark and a dreary place. A place where there's no hope. A place where you feel partially protected. Big bad Elijah. Mr. E finds himself afraid and goes in to hiding. And while he's there, he hears the voice of God. He tells them, Now go out. And stand on the mountain. You know, and God gives instructions. That's what I like about how God, God just said. Go from where you are, stand on the mountain, and I'm gonna pass by. And then as he is standing there, I'm sure shaking and nervous and don't know what's going to happen next, this man of God witnesses a couple things that get our attention. Amen. He is able to hear the wind and to see the wind just tear the mountain up. But the Bible says that God was not in the wind. And then there's an earthquake. That's breaking news all by itself Shakes the foundation of the earth, but the Bible says that God did not speak through the earthquake There was a fire that took place. I mean that one thing is enough to have all three. A fire took place, and the Bible says that God did not speak through the fire. But he spoke in a whisper. He spoke in a still voice. And sometimes we've got to get rid of all those distractions to really hear God. We're looking for the great thing, but it was a steel voice. This morning we focused on Elijah's response to the voice of God. Voice of perfection. Voice of reflection, voice of direction. When Elijah heard it Heard what? When he heard the voice of God, he knew it was God speaking. Why? He was familiar with what God's voice sounded like. And once you go through some things in life, you'll become familiar with God. No one has to tell you who God is. You have history. Well let me tell you about 79 when he brought me through this. 81 I had an operation and 2002 I lost my job and 2007 my car got repossessed. I'm just on somebody's street. Those things have happened, and so he knew When God spoke, whose voice it was. After all, he was a prophet. And a prophet could not say anything unless he heard it from God. There might be so-called prophets. Hey, bruv, God told me to tell you. Okay, and that may not come true, but prophets of God would listen distinctly to the voice. of God. When Elijah heard it. When he heard the voice. You know, we can hear God's voice today. Through his word. He still speaks through his word because his word is God inspired. He breathed on mankind as they wrote the Bible. If you pray and read and pray, And read and put that Bible aside and sometimes get your first cup of coffee. And you might hear him saying, do this. Now can God speak audibly? Yeah, he can. But he'll press upon you sometime at a traffic light. Sometime in the bathroom. Oh, there's some bathroom prayers in here. But wherever it is You know the voice of God. He will speak through what. And so we cannot ignore. He knew it was a voice of perfection because it was God. And see sometimes we, us, y'all, everybody, we look for the dramatic. We look for the earthquake. We look for the storm and the wind and we look for the fire. We look for the dramatics, but God is speaking. Through a grandmother in a rocking chair with a fan that's homemade down south and a jar of lemonade And a can to split snuff on some of y'all from the country. And my mind, she hears from God. And then tells you, you better mind. God still speaks. His voice is still perfect. Jesus said in John 10 27, He declared, My sheep. Hear my voice and they follow me. And sheep are not very smart. He was speaking in the vernacular of followers. We are his sheep. He's the shepherd. So look for the perfect voice. But also there's a voice of reflection. Now that Elijah has heard the voice, he knows who it is. It's not a prank call. It's gone It says he pulled his cloak or his mantle over his face and went and stood at the mouth of the cave He does something in response to hearing the voice of God. Now a cloak or a mantle is a long kind of a robe that prophets wore. In fact, if you had one on, that meant that you were probably a prophet. That meant that you had a calling on your life. Amen? And so he takes this and puts it over his face. Why? There's something about being in the presence of God. Amen. You know, there's something about knowing that he's near you, but this reference that he gives God He covers up and reflects on what has been said. You gotta digest what God says to you. Sometimes it may take a day or two, so he really mean that. Yeah I admit that. You ever had that just be on you And folks would say, you know, the Lord told me to tear you. I just felt this move of God. I just felt something directing me to a certain place or certain people or a certain thing. And that he reflected. By covering himself in the presence of a holy God. We can't come any kind of way. But you've got to give God the glory and the honor that He deserves. What are you wearing today as a sign that you are called of God It may not be your three-piece suit, but what is it spiritually that you are doing to say, Lord, I need to reflect on who you are and what you have done in my take a moment just to reflect. So you may not have a physical mantle, but bow your head and let God know that I hear you, and I'm just trying to process it. Why he he's so deep and so heavy, you gotta take a moment in a cave on the run. Jezebel after you, you heal and yell get give me a moment Just to reflect on the voice I have heard, I'm familiar with. It is the voice of God. Moses would go up and spend time with God. He'd come down from the mountain and folk were afraid of him. Why? He had a glow about him Why he had spent time with God. Anybody look at you strange lately? Say, what's wrong with you? So I just been praying today. You might have been in prayer for look at you with two hands. Why? You've been in the presence of God. And you've reflected on what God has said to you. And I like that about God. He still speaks. How many folk believe that today? I mean I don't wanna I don't wanna twist your arm, I don't want to force you, I don't wanna trip you up, but how many people believe that God still speaks? Through circumstances, still speaks through trouble, still speaks through people, still speaks through his word. God has a voice. Oh yes, he does. And he uses it often. Voice of reflection, a voice of perfection, but finally a voice of direction. The last part of verse thirteen, God asks a question. What are you doing here? Wait, wait, wait, you know what happened. I was scared. People were crazy. I got out of there. What are you doing here since you did not belong here? If you keep reading in that text It says he comes out and stands at the mouth of the cave, and the question is raised. And Elijah's still complaining about the people, and he's saying, they almost killed me. And God says, what are you doing here? Go back the same way you came. Retrace the route and go back. I need you to take care of some business. Did you hear me, God? He says, Yeah, yeah, yeah, I hear you. Go back the same route Here's your direction. And when you go, begin to crown this king of Israel. And when you go, uh you'll meet Elijah, and you will also, he will be your follower that you cannot stay where you are. God has direction for you. And although you may seem like you are afraid, God is speaking and he says, What you doing here? Anybody else said that to you? What you doing here? Can I give an inflection? What you doing here? Because God got some place for you to go, and that's why He continues to speak. Trying to give us new direction Isaiah mentions in Isaiah 6 and 8, then I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? Isaiah had been worshiping the King Uzziah. But in the year that King Uzziah died, he saw the Lord high and lifted up when his strain filled the temple. He says, Here I am, Lord, send me. Heard the voice, took the assignment, and said, I'm not really worthy of this assignment. I'm a man of unclean lips. I can fix that. I'll send some heart cold you away and I'll change your life. It's about directing and hearing the voice of God. Well, God has always had a voice. He's always spoken. Adam heard his voice. And Eden in the cool of the morning. He says to him, Where are you? There again. God knew where he was. God will ask those kind of questions, even though he knows the answer. Abraham heard from God go to a country and your people to a place I'm going to send you. Where? Just go. Moses there on the back side of the mountain watching his father-in-law's sheep. And a bush catches on fire, and in the bush, God speaks. And he turned like, is there a voice coming from that? Take off your shoes, for the ground you stand on is holy ground. David testifies that his voice is powerful. His voice is majestic. Paul reminds us that faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God John the Revelator on the Isle of Patmos in prison kind of sorta, he says, on the Lord's day, I was in the Spirit. And I heard behind me, oh God, a loud voice that sounded like a trumpet. It's a voice that sounded like rushing water. It's a voice that sounds like the rumbling of thunder. No matter the sound, God has given you a voice. Oh yes, he has. So today find your voice. Today, locate your voice. Today, call up your voice. And God has given you a voice not to be shy. Not to be cool and not to be calm and collected, but I believe in so many ways that he gives you a voice to speak out against some of the isms. In our culture. Atheism, the belief that there is no God. Casualism. A belief that chance governs all. Conceptualism that universal truth exists through mental concepts. Idealism, belief that our experience of the world consists of ideas. Legalism, belief that salvation depends on the adherence to the law Materialism, belief that all things can be described in physical terms. Speak out against your isms. Polytheism, belief in multiple deism. Racism, belief that all members of each race possess characteristics or abilities specific to that race, especially so as not to distinguish inferior or superior. Another is them, sexism. Believing in equalities between the sexes. But don't forget Speak out against sin. Amen. God has given you a voice to call sin just what it is. Even when you were committing sin, call it just what it is. But there's one more ism. Baptism. Jesus was baptized in the Jordan River by John the Baptist. And God looked down from heaven and said, This is my beloved son. And whom I'm well pleased that it was the only time in the Bible that God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit were all together at one time And then the writer of Acts said that for John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Not many days from now. What does it mean to be baptized in the Holy Spirit? It's when God places the believer into union with Christ. And in that union with other believers, it is the moment of salvation. Well, all I can say is I heard the voice of Jesus say, Come unto me and rest. Lie down, thy weary one, lie down, thy head upon my breast. I came to Jesus. I'll talk about myself for a moment. I came to Jesus just as I was weary Wounded and sad, but I found in him a resting place. And he has made me glad. It was all because of what I heard. And the six-year-old boy on the mortalist bitch, I heard The voice of Jesus saved. Yeah, I got older. I heard the voice of Jesus saved. In my mature age, I hear the voice. Anybody hear the voice of Jesus and what he's saying to you? He says, I was glad. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. I was glad that he went to the cross. I'm glad that he died on the cross. I'm glad that he rose on the third day morning. I'm glad that he's going to return Monday. I hear the voice Now, right now, put your ears on. Your spiritual ears, and tell me what do you hear? Do you hear a God who's ministering to you? Do you hear a God who's telling you you can make it If you try. You hear God is telling you that nothing shall separate you from the love of Christ. Do you hear Do you hear it? I hear the voice. Do you hear the voice of Jesus? Do you hear him directing you? To live life to the fullest. I heard the voice. It wasn't just Elijah. There's some Elijah in all of us. A voice of perfection. Familiar. A voice that is reflective. Cause you to Bow down in a voice that says, what you doing here, that is the word of God today. It's always come on stand today all over this place You won't see that program the same anymore. My God, you'll be turning your seat around because you hear the voice. The one That really matters. His voice. Still and silent. And the voice is saying, Come unto me. All you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Just as you are In the spirit command. Come and see. Come receive. That's the voice of God. Come and forever. Just as you are. Don't fix up. But follow his nudge. And this was comment Come with thee. Come receive. Come and live. Life. Oh, yes. They never thought. As we come today, I want to share Jesus Christ with you. How is that possible? Jesus came as a baby, wrapped in swathing clothes and lying in a manger. That's Christmas time that we celebrate. But the Bible says he grew up as a pre teen, as a tween. He shared with those who were supposed to be real educated. But one day, he went out to share all the good news. with other people. Can I put it on the elementary level for a moment? That Folk didn't like him and they bullied him and they hated him and they plotted to kill him They thought they had won. He went to the cross, he died, but he got up again. With all power in his hands. And because he has gotten up, we can have life eternal. The Bible says if you believe the narrative You see him? He taught, healed, delivered, died. But got up again and will return again. If you believe that, do you buy that? And confess that and say it and believe it that God Through Christ will save you today. Can't put it any simpler than that. How many believe that today? If you don't believe that Close your eyes right now, just take a minute. Use your spiritual imagination. Think in big pictures Do you see what I see? Oh, that's a little baby. That's Jesus. It's Mary, Joseph. Oh, okay. Wait a minute. Why have they been so mean to him? He keeps saying that he's gonna die, but he's gonna get up again for us who didn't do things right. He's on the cross. That's not right Oh wait a minute three days have passed oh there he is he's up out the grave like he said he would I believe that Do you believe that story? If you do, and you confess it to God today, the Bible says you will have life forever. His voice is speaking to you right now. He said, come on, receive me into your heart. Do you hear that voice? Hear the voice today. Say we pray now in Jesus' name. Come on, give brother praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.