Good day, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland First of all, happy Thanksgiving to you. I pray you are having a fantastic day with your family. I want to share a message that was shared today with the Harvest family in Baltimore County, Maryland. It's entitled The Power of Thank You. And we bless your name. We thank you that this morning you allowed us to get up and to come to this place. We thank you for your ministering angels today, and we thank you for your holy word. We pray now that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone today, encourage another, and we'll be careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated in this place. There's a word that was shared first by my grandson. I'm going to pick it up and expand it from the Gospel of John, the sixth chapter. A beginning there around, oh let's say, let's take about the third verse. Then Jesus went up into the hills and sat down with his disciples around him It was nearly time for the annual Passover celebration. Jesus soon saw a great crowd of people climbing the hill looking for him. Turning to Philip, he asked, Philip, where can we buy bread to feed all these people? He was testing Philip, for he already knew what he was going to do Philip replied, it would take a small fortune to feed them. Then Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, spoke up. There's a young boy here with five barley loaves and two fish. But what good is that with this huge crowd? Tell everyone to sit down, Jesus ordered. So all of them, the men alone, numbered 5,000, sat down on the grassy slopes. Then Jesus took the loaves, gave thanks to God, and passed them out to the people. Afterward he did the same with the fish, and they all ate until they were full Verse number 12. Now gather the leftovers, Jesus told his disciples, so that nothing is wasted There were only five barley loaves to start with, but twelve baskets were filled with the pieces of bread the people did not I want to talk today from the Samonic title, The Power of Thank You. The Power of Thank You. Thank you is a polite expression. It's a response when somebody does something for you, a gift, some sort of service, or a compliment. Thank you is what parents insisted we should say in response to people, be their friends, neighbors, family, even strangers. But I want to say that thank you seems to have lost its luster. It's hard to find people who will tell you thank you. Thank you is an international response. If I were in Africa, I'd say donkey. In China, Doger, I'd say say. If I was in France, I'd say mercy. In Israel, I would say to. But in the US of A, I'm saying this morning, thank you No matter how we look at this day, and I thank God for the Plymouth columnist and the Web Indians who shared that very first Thanksgiving back in 1621. But I declare today that the first Thanksgiving, I believe, took place in first century Palestine, when Jesus 2,000 years ago had a meal with his disciples. I'll go back that far. And I want to suggest this morning on this Thanksgiving day that I believe that Jesus our Lord and our Savior is the only one really qualified to recognize the power in thank you. Amen. So the story goes. Jesus is out sharing He's preaching the good news, and there are people who follow him just because of the miracles. They are grouping. They're hanging out with him. They want to see the excitement And there comes a time during this travel that they get tired. And Jesus recognizes that the people are tired and hungry. Aren't you glad that Jesus still recognizes when we've had enough? When our camel is being burned on both ends. He says to his disciples These folk are tired and they are hungry. Let's get some food for them. And Philip says, are you kidding me? It would take a small fortune to feed five thousand men, not counting women and children. And Andrew says, wait a minute, I see a boy with a lunch. I'm going to go and ask him if we can have his lunch And Jesus said, tell the people to sit down. I like that. Jesus gives us instructions even now, and it may be Sit down and do as I've instructed you. They sit down. And here's the part that really helps to lift this text up. Jesus took the bread And he said, Thank you, God. And then he took the fish And said, thank you. That jumped out at me. I'm saying, wait a minute. There must be power in thank you. That Jesus, our Lord and Savior Took time to give the grace. Took time to bless the food, even though it didn't look like much. Don't you know God will take your little bit and make much out of it? When he says thank you. I believe today that becomes so important and there's power. First of all, I believe there is multiplication. Let me tell my age. I remember the multiplication tables And you had to run those tables. And that was my first real experience in having a kind of a thing about math that I never really did master. Can I confess today and you won't look at me funny? But multiplication Becomes important. So after Jesus feeds them, there is multiplication because what? Everyone was full. You telling me that two fish And five loaves of bread and everybody is tight, like you're gonna be later? That that took place, I believe, because of what Christ did with the meal. He asked God, thank you for the meal. How many folks have a thank you in their spirit today? And I know it may not look the way I want it to look, but thank you anyhow. In other words, there was an increase. He took little to nothing, and the people came away Full to overflow it. I'm glad today the Lord is still filling me up. It may not be fish or bread, but I'm glad that every now and then I can sense A divine filling from him. He will multiply what little I have, what little faith I have, what little peace I have. He'll say, I'll do that time times what you already have. Isn't that good news today that we serve a God who deals in multiplication? I am The Bible says, there's a text over in the Gospel of Luke 6 and 28. It says, give and you will receive. Your gift will return to you in full, pressed down, shaken together, to make room. Room for more, running over, and poured into your lap. I serve a God that deals in multiplication. And so no matter what little you have to be, Reverend, my faith is so little, I dare you to multiply. Reverend, my joy is at an all-time low. I dare you to multiply what God has already given you. Sometimes you want more, but no, take what you got. Take the low number and keep multiplying it and multiplying it and multiplying it and you'll find that God will come through. Won't He do it today? And that there's power and thank you that on the backside of thank you. You, there was multiplication, there was increase. But not just that. There was also a time of observation After everyone was full, Jesus told his disciples, now gather the leftovers so that nothing is wasted. In other words, check out what's left over. Be observant. Don't look at me, but look over and see the people full. But look, we have some leftovers. Now y'all look real serious today. Like you've never asked for that bag at the restaurant to take home with you. you've never warmed up Sunday's dinner and took it in a greasy bag to oh well you got containers now praise Jesus but we love leftovers and so he says I see leftovers but can you see them? So that was that. Jesus already knew what the deal would be, but he wanted to know whether or not they had observed the miracle. My God, there's some stuff we just missed And I'm glad today that he takes time to say, have them to look, and together, everything So that nothing will be wasted. We become a wasteful generation. I mean, we throw stuff out and we can get one more meal out of that. And can I confess today when I eat chicken, I eat everything on the bone. Amen. Come on now on that wing. I'll work that wing until there's some meat up in there. And that nothing is left over. Amen. And so he says to them, You've got to see what I'm doing here. And you can't. have a responsibility to check everything out. You know, and that's what the Lord will do. He will take some leftover places in your life. And begin to bless you through that. Amen. See, we would come to uppity now. We don't want leftovers, but my God, there's some stuff that's been leftover from your experience, some leftover hurt, some leftover situations that you have. in life and you want to throw them away say no I can make something out of what you've gone through I can make something out of what you've been challenged by give me those leftovers and see what I mix up in. Come here grandma you know they would take what was left and nothing and make a whole pudding out of that. God wants to do something great in your life based on what he sees in your leftover. Oh my God. I'm excited all about that. My God, when you get done today, you're gonna look for leftover. God, don't throw that out. We can work with that, amen. And there's some places in life that would look like leftovers. God says, I'll bless you through your leftovers. Love Romans 8:28. This is all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who called according to his purpose. Now there's some observation. We miss that which can help us along our journey. We dismiss that that can help us as we're going through He says, keep eye on that. Amen? But finally, there's a time of celebration. Verse 13 So they were obedient. They picked up the pieces and filled twelve baskets, and the Bible says, with scraps. Left by the people who had eaten the bread. They left a mess. But what got me is that nobody records the people saying thank you That kind of caught me that maybe they whispered it and maybe John didn't write it, but Jesus said thank you, but they never said thank you. And we gotta be careful that the celebration comes when we say God thank you. for everything that you've done. Anybody got a thankful spirit today that he'll take what you have left and you say, you know what? I am so filled in him. I just stop by to say, God, thank you for all of your many blessings. The Bible reminds us to make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All ye lands to serve the Lord with gladness coming for his present with singing, know ye the Lord. He is God. It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the Enter into his gates with what? Thanksgiving. And into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and to bless his name. Now are you still out there with the crowd now? Did you get your carry-out bag with you? celebrating the miracle that God has done in not just a lot of those people, but God wants to bless you. Even if you would just dare say, Anybody know that's power in thank you today? Anybody know that power is all in those two words? Thank you for everything you've done. But I don't want to leave you wrong. There's power and thank you, but there's power in the blood of Jesus. Amen. Now I'm glad about that today, because even when my meal went out, the blood covers all of my sins. Amen. What can wash away my sins? Nothing. but the blood of Jesus. What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of oh precious is that cloth that makes me white as snow. No other thought I know. Nothing but the blood there's power in the blood. I'm glad today that there's power in that glove that Jesus did not come down from that cross. He was still saying, Father, thank you. Even though they beat him, he was still saying thank you. Even though they put him on a cross, he was still saying thank you. Even though The witch of the grain He was still saying thank you for all that you've done. And when you go through, don't let the devil tell you you can't say thank you. My God, I declare today, I will say thank you in the morning. I'll say thank you at noonday. I'll say thank you in the evening. I'll say thank you around the Thanksgiving David. I'll say thank you on the road. Every time I get a chance, I realize there's power in he who died for me. My God, there's power in thank you. Anybody want to give God a thank you praise today? That I thank you for you. your peace. I thank you for getting me up this morning. I thank you for calling me on my way. I thank you for giving me my right mind. I thank you for food on the table. I thank you for a home. I thank you for a job. I thank you It will draw the van I thank you for peace. Anytime I get a chance, I say thank you. Oh, thank you, Lord, for everything you have done. I know it don't look good, but look at it, I'd beg you to dig deep and find a thank you. Anybody gonna thank you in that spirit today? Anybody want to just say that? I just want to say thank you, Lord, for everything you've done. There is power in thank you. You'll find yourself all day doing multiplication. And then you'll look over the table and say, wait a minute, there's something left In my life experience that I can work with and to know a miracle has taken place. And God wants to work a miracle in your life today. He'll take your two-fish experience and your five-body loafed experience and work a miracle if you but believe. That's the word of God today. It is already a blessed. Stand over this place today and give God a thank you, praise. I mean a show enough. Thank you, praise. God, I thank you. For everything you've done, I thank you. For the good time, I thank you. For the bad time, I thank you. For my uprising and my down city. I thank you. With everything that's in me, Lord, I thank you. As we come today. Let you know that God hears your thank you. That God is able to respond to your thank you. We thank Him today. And that's why. We give thanks. I pray you were blessed today and if you enjoyed this message and that it might have uplifted your soul today You can find out more about Harvest Christian Ministries by going to our website. It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's www. comethenumber to harvest. org. There you will find sermons, you will find seeds of encouragement. I pray your thanksgiving is a blessed one. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord