Good day, my friends. Dr. Tim Tooten with Harvest Christian Ministries. I'm so glad you've taken time to listen to this broadcast. Today's sermon is one that will lift you up, one that will encourage you to run this race with patience, looking to Jesus Christ, the author and finisher of our faith. We're a small ministry with big ideas who serve a great and mighty God. And now, today's message. There's some things you just you just ought to know. Not based on what somebody told you and not based on what you may have guessed. How many folk know that? That it is God who holds our tomorrow. Amen. It is God who holds and directs our right now. Who wouldn't serve a God like that who makes time to create The heavens and the earth, but it's never too busy, never too busy to see about us, never too busy to respond to our prayers. Oh, you're not feeling me today. You serve that kind of God? I mean a God who will come and see about. about you. A God who will lift down, lift up your head when you're down. A God who will bring you joy when you're feeling defeated. A God who will give you peace that passeth all understanding. That's God. Amen. Other folk turn to other things. But how many folk just turn to God? When you get down in the trenches and there's nobody to call on, how many call on God? Amen. Let's bow our heads. Father, we do come today. And we're just privileged to stand before you and your people. We thank you for the document, the word of God, the word of life That gives us everything that we need to live holy lives. As we come today, God, as we approach your word, May Tim decrease and may you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory that it so richly deserves. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Praise ye the Lord. There's a word from the Lord that comes from the book of 1 Corinthians, the second chapter. Verses nine and ten. And it reads, Bus as it is written I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. Verse 10 says, but God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. We want to preach today from the Samonic title, The Best Is Yet to Come. The Best Is Yet to Come. Aristotle was among those ancient philosophers who describe our five senses, sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch as windows of the soul. That's the way it's been described But I came across a few illustrations this week that talks about our senses. When it comes to sight, it's been said that we can see a candle's flame 30 miles away on a dark, clear night, that we can pick up a scent of a single drop of perfume diffused in a three-room apartment That our taste buds, that less than an ounce of table salt in 530 quarts of water, we can tell there's something there. Our sense of touch can detect pressure that depresses the skin a fourth of an inch on the face of the fingertips. And we can tell where sound is coming from even when it arrives at one ear just three-tenths of a second before it arrives at the other ear. Amen. As as children we were told not to touch the stove. Why? It's hot. And you realize and learn touch at an early age. There were certain foods even to this day that you just don't like. Why? You tasted it, it has never sat well with you. And you usually know what those foods are based on the smell. Amen? But thank God for our sight that whenever there's a bright light like what I'm standing under, it might cause one to squint. And then there is a sound that so much so we may hear a loud sound we'll put our hands over our ears. Or, throwback, we love the big headphones. I hear they're coming back now. But I recall the day when I got my first pair of earphones, they almost got me in trouble. Because I could not hear my parents calling me And I've learned also that in this age I've gone on college campuses to interview students and I'm walking going high, not realizing that they've got earbuds in. And so they don't hear me. They just see me motioning. But thank God for all of the senses. And some have said there are other senses, but I know of these five that we've experienced And scientists say that these senses all work together to let our brain know what's going on around us. Even when we asleep, those senses are always working. But I believe that there are also spiritual senses to help us become aware of the things of God. In our passage today, it is the Apostle Paul, who wrote the better part of the New Testament, those 27 books, who appeals to what I believe is the spiritual sense of the church at Corinth. And Paul writes a letter to a people in a place that he spent time. Paul was a tent maker. He was a bi vocational preacher. But he would go around and start churches. And Coreth is one of those places. Thanks to the Harvest family about Uh six years ago I got to spend some time in Corinth. We took Holy Communion in Corinth and what's left of it. Uh we had lunch. in Cormaath. But to think of those places still existing, Paul wrote to offer solutions And when he wrote a letter, and we see the letter today, it's it's very relevant to what's going on. Paul wrote to the church, to the people, because he knew that they were living in a corrupt society. And they were full of pride, and so he writes them to encourage them. You know the Bible does just that? It is a document that helps us in our daily living. It is a document that allows us to live the kind of life that we're called to live. The Bible really tells it all. Did you know that the Bible can address every need, every concern, every problem? It's all in the Bible. And so Hall quotes a passage within his letter from Psalm 64 and 4. Ever study the Bible and you see a passage and you realize that, wow, that came from somewhere else? Well, Paul took this passage, the one that we shared earlier. It is written that No eyes ever seen or ear heard or entered the hearts of man. What great things that God has in store for those who love them. And so we use this to help them. Amen We must realize God's best for us. And don't you know God has choice blessings just for you? That God has made promises he'll keep in your life. Let me just poll you today. Has God ever made you a promise and then kept it? Amen. Have you made a promise well-meaning and not been able to keep it? But we're reminded of the promises of God. And so let's frame some of these verses, some of these words, with a spiritual eye. As we think spiritual sight, it says, but as it is written, I have not seen. I, I, the the natural I. Second Corinthians five and seven says, We walk by faith and not by sight. Psalm 34 and 8 says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusts him. Let's think sound and hearing, nor ear heard. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Matthew 11, 5 Whoever has ears, let them hear. Oh, some of y'all remember your parents. They would say something to you, and you pretended you didn't hear it. Oh, y'all some holy folk. You egg them. And they said it again. My parents would say, Don't let me tell you again. We've heard it and we've seen it. We've experienced it. But when it comes to the heart We're talking not about the physical heart, but we're talking about the spiritual and emotional you. 1 Samuel 13, David was a man after God's own heart. When David got in trouble, Psalm 51, create in me a clean heart and renew a right spirit within me. So there are spiritual senses. God will take that we have in the physical and help us to do what? To realize his best. So I've got to tag these spiritual senses in knowing what these things are. What is God's best for you? There has to be a relationship. The letter part of that verse says, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. I almost shouted on the job the other day because I kept looking at nine and ten and then ten kind of came alive for me. That when you say I want God's best for me, there has to be a relationship. Amen. There's gotta be some stipulation and some fine print. The things we might get lost in Lord, you know what I need. Tell me what these things are, but he says, prepared for those who love me. Oh, you mean you got yeah, you have to love the Lord. He don't just come up and say, God, give me everything that I think I need to have, but he prepares them based on those who love him. Do you love God? Let me ask that again. How many folk love God? And how do we learn that? For God so loved The world that he sent his only son. And so God showed love to us. And so we've learned what real and true love is all about. We sang that song earlier. What theology in that? Oh How I love Jesus. Because he first loved me. To realize those things he has in store and prepared for us, we've got to have a love. Relationship. It it's got to be personal. We got to feel it. We don't deserve it. We can't just like God. But love God with all of your heart and your soul and your mind. Romans 5 and 8 says, but God demonstrates His love for us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You you get it, that those who love him If you love him, then you're in a love relationship with him. Anybody love God? I keep asking again. But that is the love that we have toward one another. John mentions that how can we say uh you know we love our brother uh or hate him and then we say we love God and then we can uh we've never seen God But we don't love our brother and sister. Uh-oh. That's for another Sunday. But this sense of relationship Means that Christ has died for us. So that's it. To think about what these things are, prepared, you must be in relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. But not just that, also there must be a sense of fellowship. Verse 10 says, But God hath revealed them These things unto us by his spirit. You don't get to know what these things are unless you are saved, because when you're saved, the Spirit of God fills you. Amen. At the time of confession, you are filled then with the Holy Spirit. And so God has revealed these things unto us by His Spirit. And now God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the Trinity. That's a fellowship. That they they work together. God in three persons, blessed Trinity. And by the way, that's a key piece in your salvation. That's a key piece in knowing your faith is that believing that God exists in three persons. Some folk believe in God the Father. Or in God the Father and just the Son. But not God the Holy Spirit. Can I do basic one-on-one Bible study? That that's the Holy Trinity. And so true fellowship is to be with the Spirit of God, the same Spirit that the Bible says that raised Christ from the dead. And so the early church gives us a real uh pattern because they would fellowship together once they were there on the day of Pentecost and you remember the Spirit came down upon them that cloven tongues and it filled the place with smoke and and and so they were fellowshipping. And so to receive the Spirit of God, you can't have fellowship without the Spirit. You can't be a grumpy person and not have the Spirit of God working in you. You follow me? They all work together. Now the early church in Acts 2. 42, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship. To the breaking bread and to prayer. That's why we love to eat together. Because we take it from the Bible. I don't know what their diet was But we love the fellowship, don't we? What a fellowship, what a joy divine, leaning on the everlasting all. Can you pass the biscuits please? Fellowship is important. Being in fellowship with one another allows us to be connected to the Spirit of God. And you know the Spirit of God is powerful. The Spirit of God uh fills us and to think that it would reside in a vessel like this. Can I just testify? That the Spirit of God will reside in this Isn't that amazing for you that that God resides in you and me? That He would choose to fill us with His Spirit And so when the Bible says, but God hath revealed them to us by his spirit, when we have the spirit, we are on our way to knowing what these things are, these best things, he has prepared for us. Are you with me this morning? Relationship, fellowship, but then also discipleship. For the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things. of God. Anybody want to get deep today? So so the spirit goes beyond just the surface. That that it really gets heavy. It really gets deep into who we are. And so to be a Christian disciple is one who again is spirit-filled and who spreads the good news of Jesus Christ. Not with a staff, not with long clothing as the club. You know, a disciple might be on a bicycle. Amen. A disciple might be in drive-through. A disciple might be somewhere that you would least expect them. Why? You are a disciple and a follower if you're carrying the word of God. Amen. Are you any of the disciples in the house today? I know your name may not be Matthew and Mark and John, but you are a disciple of Jesus Christ. And so therefore, you've got access. To deep stuff. Some of y'all come to work and put a certain passcode in or something, or you won't. If you're not there anymore, they'll let you know because it's not working. Amen. But but God gives you the insight why I am a disciple. Sons that want to be a follower of Christ. I want to be one of his disciples And so the spirit search all these deep things, but when it comes to being a disciple, the things we must do, we've got to walk like a disciple. Spirit filled. We gotta talk like a disciple in the spirit. We gotta study. Uh oh. We got to to to do to study the word of God. Amen? Disciples have a handbook. Disciples have the Holy Bible and study to show thyself a prove unto God, a workman. rightly dividing the word of truth who is not ashamed. Amen. So make sure you become a studier of God's word. How would I be It might be your morning devotion that you get that sticks with you on the beltway and the work and back. That's devotions. But you need to have that word. Make it a habit. To get some word in you. And a disciple is obedient to the word of God. That's how we get the deep things. And what's deep is also best. James twenty-two, one twenty-two says, Be what? Ye doers of the word and not hearers only. So we started by saying that, you know, no eye has seen and no ear has heard is not yet the hearts of men. What great things he had for us. And we talked about how do we how do we know what these things are? It's relationship and fellowship and discipleship and the Spirit of God. But then you ought to know that God will keep his promise. He promised that he would die for our sins. And he did. He promised that he would be raised from the dead. Can I get an amen? And he was. He promised that he's going to return and claim his own. And how many folk believe that he will? Amen. And so I come today standing on that Standing on the promises of God. Standing on not so much things, but I'm glad that I've got Him in my life. See, if you're not careful, you'll be chasing things and miss Him. You'll chase things and miss the author and the finish of your faith. You'll chase things and miss your peace. You'll chase things and miss your joy. You'll say, God, you say things. You mean things in the here and now or things later on? Aren't you glad you have Jesus in your life? I am. You never stand alone with him. You may have been knocked down, but you can stand in him. You might be confused, but you can stand in him. You might be discouraged, but stand in him and on him. God's best It's right here. Reverend, I was looking for a list. I got five things I was looking for. Once you have Christ You have everything you need. Would you agree with that today? That he is the best thing that ever happened to you. No need to worry about things. Well I've got he who made the heavens and the earth. No need to worry about things when I've got he who has made me No need to worry about things when I've got he who has accepted me just the way I am, low down, missing the mark, got a criminal record in Not the criminal system, but in the world. Oh, y'all almost got me on that one, didn't you? Oh, Reverend been to jail. No, he hasn't. But he also gives us His love he has called us. He's completed us. He's delivered us. He's forgiven us. He's redeemed us. He's saved us. He's sent us. He's sanctified us. And so I'm glad I've got him. I ain't worried about things, all what he's done for me. I never shall forget all of the things he's done for me From my childhood, what he's done. From my teenage years, what he's done. In my adult years, what he's done. And what he's doing even right now. You know one thing about Hollywood. Hollywood has a way of having a storyline based on movies like what you might see here. There has to be a plot You wouldn't follow it. There has to be tension. There has to be a storyline and sometimes that we don't like the ending. So that was a good movie, but it ended bad. But there's a story there. And through life's tensions And through life's twists and turns, we all need to have a story. Massine Avenue knows what your story is. It knows what you like to drive. Would you like to eat? It knows your storyline based on your age. And so the world knows your story. But the question is: do you know your story? Blessed assurance. Jesus is my oh what a foretaste of glory divine and so there's a lot this is my story This is my song, praising my savior all the day long. And so once you know He who is the only one, you ought to have a story. Now I don't know your story. I've not read your script, but God, I thank you for today just getting me up. It's a part of my story I think that you got me up in my right mind. It's in my script. I thank you that you saved me. It's all in what does your story say? Does your story have a main character? Does your story have a leading actor? I pray it's Jesus. I pray he's the one you've given your Academy Awards to. Jesus will come see about you. And so his promises are always true. What great things he has. Aren't you glad that you are a great thing because you are God's creation? Do you feel great right now? Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. And the I'm glad today that he reminds me that my best is not just to come. My best is here because I'm being loved by the best. And because the best has saved me. Relationship Fellowship, discipleship, don't depend on your physical senses, but have an ear and an eye for the Lord. That is the word of God today. It is already best. Come on, stand today. All over this place. God, you you promise these things. You mean over yonder in the by-and-by? Huh? But also the here and now. He can do great things in you right now. But something we have to do. We got to come to him. Just as we are. Oh sacred thing. Warned. Beaten down. He'll make you happy. Come just as you are. Bring your best. He'll make it better. There's that spirit again. Come. Don't dress up. Don't fix up. Comedy Complete Comever Hear the spirit call always calling. Oh yeah. Come and see. Come and see. Come with me. Come and Wherever Everlasting. Oh, yeah. Never I want to appeal to you today. That as you consider where you are right now in your own life, I came by the offer of God's best. To you. His best is his son. And if by chance you've not given your life to Jesus. Christ. Now is the best time to do it. You see, all the time that we have is right now. Saying early, I don't know about tomorrow. We don't. But just make sure and be very sure that if Christ returned today, If he called you home, wouldn't be any doubt about am I on the list? I love the old saints. Is your name on the road? Man, that used to disturb me. I wasn't sure. My name on the road. What role? In heaven's book of life. I think so. But one day I realized that my name is on the road. Is your name on the road? Are you sure? If you're not sure today, let me tell you about this Christ. God looked out, he saw a broken humanity, a mess. Because sin had entered. And by way of the serpent. And so he sent prophets to give a word. They got stoned. They were killed. And he said, You know what? I'm gonna send Some of me. Yes. I'm gonna send word to a small town To a Mary who will bear the Christ child, the Savior of the world. Enemy just pass one. He came, he died, he rose. And the Bible says that if you believe that God sent his son Jesus, that he died, if you believe that he rose, With all power in his hand, if you get that into your person, your spirit, man, or woman, your your heart, that emotional you, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. And the day I realized that and grasped that, I was the happy somebody. Because for so many years I was on the fringes. Can I just testify for a moment? I had some church in me, but I didn't have Christ like that. But but the day came when I that thing connected. Never had a dead battery? They just would not turn over. And once you gotta jump. My life was jump started. At the moment I realized That all of my sins had been forgiven. And the moment I realized that even a wretch like me could find a place in heaven. It still blows me away. That he loves me like that. That he loves you in spite of you. And so now, with my still improving self, one thing. Is not in question. I'm safe and I'm sanctified and I'm filled with the Holy Ghost. Do I have any witnesses today? Anyone know that you're safe? Anyone know that? that heaven will be your home? If so, how about some crazy praise? Did you know it? Did you know it? I mean some crazy. Some crazy praise. I mean some thank you Jesus. I mean some hallelujah. I mean thank God I'm free. That kind of praise. Just because that said. If you don't know him today, you can join the crazy praise folk. That I know I'm saved, folks, today. As you bow that head, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I pray. For that soul that's not confessed to you yet. May they do it. May they receive you. Touch that heart today, we pray in Jesus' name. This is my story. This is This is my soul. Yeah. This is my song. What's your song? Raising my stay. Oh don't you feel good today? This is my story. My story. This is my story. Praising my sav. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Maybe you come and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. Doors are always open. So as you look for those things, you already got them. You got Jesus. My dear friend, I pray you were blessed by today's word. It's been our pleasure to uplift you in some way. Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. You can of course see this message by way of Facebook. There's a live version of it. And also check out our new Harvest app If you have Google Play, just go to Harvest Christian Ministries. In the Apple Store, just put in HCM Baltimore. It is our pleasure to bring you a word of encouragement. Spread the word with someone else. If you're in the Baltimore area, come by and see us on Sundays at 8. 45. at 7660 Bel Air Road, Baltimore County, Maryland. It's all on our website. Directions, encouragement. anything you might need to get your day going and to also be able to live a holy life. That website is wwwcomthenumber twoharvest. org I'm Dr. Tim Tutin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord.