Praise the Lord. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice. and be glad in it. Welcome to the live broadcast of Harvest Christian Ministries, right from the Harvest campus. And guess what? It is our anniversary, 16 years of giving God the glory. And you know what? I'm not going to hold back. I'm so grateful today that the Lord has allowed us to be on the battlefield, to be on the wall for 16 years. Amen. Oh, blessed be to God today. I remember the day that we did the paperwork It was a Monday on the 31st of January 2006. I remember going up and signing the document, and I said to the attendant How long is it going to take? Amen. I want to know how soon can we do it? He said, well, it may take a week or two, or you can pay $25 more And have it expedited. So what did I do? I found $25. Amen. And we were able to expedite the process and to God be the glory for all the great things he has done. So many people to thank. Many of you who are watching or listening today, thank you for your prayers and thank you for your support and thank you for your encouragement. I thank my family. They've been right there uh from the beginning. Some of them were in high school, college, to God be the glory. And for you who are there, uh be it Indiana, uh where the oldest is, or be it Florida Uh we're a family. I could go all over the country, amen. But thank you, West Virginia, Washington State, Georgia. I could call the road, Carolinas, but I won't do that Well, even with my excitement, as we always do on any Sunday, is to open our time with a time of prayer. It has been prayer that has brought us thus far. A prayer in the midnight hour, a prayer early in the morning, knowing that the Lord is faithful. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come and we bless your name. Thank you. The Bible says in everything to give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. As we come today with the heart of thanksgiving, we don't overlook the fact that all things are possible through you. So we lift up the larger community of faith, those who may be going through something right now, those who may be in a hospital room and Those who might be in a place of grief, we ask in the name of Jesus that you might be that healing bomb. So we thank you, God, that you said in your word that on this rock I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So we thank you today, God, for this moment. But we know had it not been for the Lord on our side, we would not have made it. So we thank you, God, for this moment. And it is our prayer now that all that we do will be to glorify you. It is in the marvelous name of Jesus Christ that we pray. Amen. God bless you. We're just so grateful in this season that God has allowed us to purchase a property at 4318 Fitch Avenue. And while we can't welcome you in at the moment, the day will come when you'll return to the Harvest Campus. Stay tuned. But it's amazing how we can reach folk here and there just by being uh those who are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. So uh thought about what we preach on this anniversary Sunday And I was led to the Gospel of Matthew. But even before we go to the Gospel, that's going to be the fifth chapter of verses uh 13 actually 14 to 16 but we'll throw 13 in there as well. Let's look to the Lord. Father now as we prepare To share this word. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we give your name the praise and the glory. We certainly honor those who have gone on there's not a Sunday or so that goes by that we're not thankful for Me and my wife's parents and what they have done by way of encouragement. We thank them. What a legacy. There in Matthew, the fifth chapter, let's begin at verse number 14, it says, you are the light of the world. A town built on a hill cannot be hidden. Verse 15, neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. Verse 16, in the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. I want to preach today on this 16th anniversary of Harvest Christian Ministries from the Samonic title. The church, a credible witness. The church, a credible witness I don't know of any attorney who prepares for a case in the court of law who does not look for a reliable witness. Someone who has seen something, someone who has heard something, someone who didn't get secondhand information, but someone who can come and bring before the jury good information. And you have them to come before the court and to sit next to the judge and say, I swear to tell the truth. On the Bible, the whole truth, so help me God. And you watch enough TV programs, enough people can lie right on the stand and have their hand on the Bible. But you know a credible witness can either break or make a case in the legal system. I recall back in the 1980s, I was on the other side of this part of journalism. I was covering a murder trial. They're in Huntington, West Virginia, and somehow the prosecution thought I had credible information. And they called me to be a witness My knees were buckling. I got behind the stand and somehow the prosecutor, Mr. Cummings, I remember his name. He thought I had some information. I guess he had seen my story and says Tim Tutin can be a help. Well, I was not much of a help to the case, but they did win the case, nevertheless. It was nerve-wracking, but I believe this morning that the Lord Jesus Christ is counting on the church to be a credible witness to a dying world. A church that will speak of its goodness. A church that will speak of the life-saving power in a dark world in which we live. Let me just say something. The world didn't just get bad. Things were happening even back in the time of Israel. There were problems. Nations had turned against God. And so it didn't just get bad. Amen? But thank be to God that through it all we've learned to trust and depend on Jesus. The church has a role today. Let me just put this in. Some people like to talk down the church. Oh, the church is not doing this, and the church is not reaching young people, and the church is not giving the church a failing grade. And always think about this. Do you realize who the church is? The church is you, the body of believers. And the pandemic has taught us that you're not able to go to the building. And so therefore, church has to take place away from a structure. The church is the body of believers. In the Greek, the ecclesia, the called-out assembly, the called-out congregation of voice to the lost. 16 years harvest. That's what we've been trying to do, to be a church that is making a difference in these lasting evil days. But we've got to be a church Willing to share the light. In the text this morning in the Gospel of Matthew over in the fifth chapter, we find Jesus giving a hillside Bible study with his disciples. He's talking with them about the mission. And the mission is to send them out. The mission is not to hang around with Jesus all day and Send them in his presence, but he would send them out. And that's what we're called to do, is to go out to the highways and to the byways, telling folk about Jesus. That's where a real ministry takes place. I talk often about finding an opportunity at the coffee shop You'll be amazed what a good morning would do holding a door for someone. And in that moment behind your mask, you smile and say to them, God bless you You'll be amazed how far that will go. But in the text, even beginning at the 13th verse, Jesus reminds those disciples that they are the salt of the earth. Matthew 5. 13 says, you are the salt of the earth. But if the salt loses its saltiusness, it is not good for anything. Amen. Except to be thrown out and trampled under your foot. But he goes from talking about the salt to the light. He says, you are the light of the world. This is not just a message for the disciples. But it's a message for those of us who say that we are followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. And in this 14th and 15th verse, Jesus paints the picture I love when I read the text. Jesus has a way of making it plain, a way that you can see it in your minds. Amen? He talks about a town or a city on a hill that cannot be hidden. I remember leaving the mostly dusty roads of Live Oak, Florida and moving to Washington, D. C. And man, I was excited because I was in the big city Riding up in the Greyhound bus, just glad to be out the country for a minute, didn't know anybody. And I recall looking at the bright lights Without knowing that people were looking at me, looking at the monuments. It was a amazing that what that you cannot hide a city in its life. Another illustration that Jesus gives in this fifth chapter of Matthew, he says, neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl instead They put it on its stand and it gives light to everyone in the house. There was a time when we didn't have a light bill. There was a time when our forefares let me go down the road, some of y'all might remember the day uh when you had that burning lamp, oil lamp that provided uh light in the house. And when it went out, you had to go to bed. Amen. I recall when the electricity came along and persons got it. My father was big on conserving energy He'd walk to the house and says, that light should not be on. There's nobody in the room. And I picked that up from daddy. I'll walk around the house and see, is there a light on With my grandson's visit, I would often say to my youngest grandson, Elias, Elias, I'm putting you in charge of turning lights off when there's nobody around Some stuff you take with you along the way. Amen. But as we talk about the word today It's in that 16th verse that we want to suggest that as witnesses, the church, we need to follow the plan of Christ. And fulfill the purpose of Christ. And the result is our obedience will produce praise. Verse 16 says, in the same way, let your light shine before others. Same way. The same way as the city on the hill. The same way as the lamp on the stand. He tries to connect what he has shown to real life. Amen. In other words, he commands each of us to let our light shine. It is our Christian duty. It's what we signed up for is to be a light. Your light was given to you the moment you open your heart and allow Jesus Christ To become Lord and Savior, you you got a light there. When you said, I confess of my sins, I want to be a follower of Christ, at that moment, you got a life. Amen And blessed be the God today. It was given to us at the moment we received salvation. Jesus talks about this in John 8 and 12. He reminds them, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. I don't know about you, but when Jesus promised it, I can buy it. Amen? And some stuff I don't go for. I don't do spam calls. I don't do people trying to sell me things, but when Jesus says it, I take it at his word. To let your light shine before others. Who are the others in your life? Is it a spouse? Is it a family member who fit the category of the others? Is it a co-worker? Is it a friend who might be considered other? Maybe it's a complete stranger, but our goal is, as the church, As a credible witness is to tell somebody about Jesus. Amen? To let them know what he has done for you. To let him know that there really is a plan. I don't know about you, but I get joy. Out of letting folk know about Jesus. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't tone it down. I don't try to overbear be overbearing, but somebody ought to know that there's something about you The Bible says that we're a royal priesthood. Yes, that we are peculiar people, kind of strange, but strange in the spirit. Amen. Know that as the church We have a plan and which to follow. It's to be a witness. Amen? But also to fulfill the purpose of Christ. Verse 16, that same verse says, In the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good deeds. What are your good deeds or your good works? You must do good. for people to see good. Let me say that again. You must do good for folk to see good because they are watching you. Why? You've got blessed on your tag You've got an old worn-out palm branch around your rearview mirror. You've got something that says, I'm a believer, and because you have displayed it People are looking for something for you. You know, on your job when situations happen, they don't want to talk to somebody over at that desk. They want to come by your desk because what? You are a church person, so to speak. I've said it before. People say, Reverend, Tim, can you pray for me on Sunday? I said, Sunday, today is Monday. I might forget. You got a minute? With your permission, let's find someplace to pray. That the people ought to see in you the light of Jesus Christ. Your light ought to be visible to others You know when you drive to work, there's that billboard you see every day that you have to see because they're advertising something for you to buy. Amen? Or maybe you're on your social media feed and something pops up. These things are too smart for me. You talk about something and the advertisement will come up. Amen? I need some new tires and all of a sudden tires pop up. These things are nosy to the glory of God. Amen. But we have got to let our light shine. Our light needs to be seen. Over in 1 Thessalonians 5 and 5, Paul writes and reminds us that you are all children of the light. And children of the day. Isn't that good news today that you're in that category of children of the light? Call me everything but a child of God, but I don't mind if you call me a child of the light. I'll accept that today. And as a witness, we get to share the good news of Jesus Christ. But let me just add this on. Don't forget in your light shining that others might see that you tell them the whole story And that you pull back the covers of your own life so they don't think that you're high and holy So they don't think that you've never done anything wrong. So they don't think that you're Mr. and Mrs. Goody Toshu. Let them know that I walk in sin. I've been where you have been. I've been in some dark places and some dark situations. Folk need to know that. Otherwise, they'll think you're perfect. Wrong, let them know that what you see is what you get. You you don't see the scars behind my testimony. Let them know today, child, I've been through something I don't look like what I've been through. That is life to help the world. Amen. Don't forget to mention that you once was in that place. First John 1 and 7 says, but if we walk in the light, as he is the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all of our sins. Oh Lord Not only as witnesses are we to do what? Fulfill the purpose of Christ, that others might see and follow the divine plan of God that they may see these good deeds, but also that as a result of our witness, that praise will be produced. In the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. To glorify means to give glory to God. The word translated glory means dignity Honor, praise, and worship. And when you put the two together, we find that glorifying God means to acknowledge His greatness He and he alone deserves all the praise. Amen. Do you agree with that today that yeah poke and pat you on the back, but don't you know Had it not been for the Lord on your side, you would not be where you are today. Had it not been for the Lord on the side of harvest, we would not be where we were today. There were times I'd be driving along the road and And the enemy would try to discourage me and say, have you lost your mind? Starting a church, what you think you're doing? But look at God. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus, for 16 years. And then we know that his greatness supersedes everything. He deserves it, and glorifying God begins when we start to agree with his word. I believe as a witness when you see these that you can help folk know that it is that you will not look at me, but I want you to look to the hills from which cometh your help All your help cometh from the Lord who made heaven and earth. Isn't that good news? Glorify your Father. In heaven. That's what the focus ought to be. Heaven is now where Jesus is sitting at the right hand of the Father. Right making intercession for the saints for you and for me. He defeated the cross, death and the grave. And don't you know that as a witness that you carry some sensitive and some soul-saving information? that not everyone will be happy because you're talking about Jesus. Folk might take you to HR. They felt uncomfortable, but guess what? Get uncomfortable. Amen. I'm just telling you about what the Lord has done for me. Amen. In the world, they want you to tone it down. Brother, it don't take all of that. No, it takes all of that and more. It's not because of what I said, but may my life and your life shine in such a way that we become a credible witness to a dying world. And because the enemy is mad to aren't you glad today that God has a witness protection program. Oh yes he does. I will move you from where you used to be in the world. Oh you were rascal and so was I And to take you to a place where you've got a new identity. If any person being Christ, they're a new creature, old things are past the whole, all things become new, you'll get a new identity. In God's protection program. In God's protection program, it is divine. You don't need extra security coming in black automobiles Getting out with things on their hip, but you've got Jesus and you've got the Holy Spirit. Amen. And the Holy Spirit will give you credibility, but you need to have them operating in your life. He will guide you into all truth. And you need truth as a witness to the Lord. Truth to tell the old, old story about a Savior who came from glory. Truth to win somebody to Jesus. Truth to let them know that I've got joy unspeakable. Truth to let them know that I have peace that passeth all understanding. Child, I can make it because what I'm in God's protection program. You know, we didn't start a church because it was a fad or because of popularity. We started the church so that we might reach somebody for Jesus. If it's only one person who is better now than they were sixteen years ago, to God be the glory. If there's somebody who feels love, who didn't feel love before, to God be the glory. Is there somebody who just needed some fellowship and didn't have it before? Thank God the witnesses were available. Amen. The church is a credible witness. Amen. Some years ago, a national motel chain they had a popular commercial It says, we'll leave the light on for you. When was the last time you left the light on for somebody? My God, when was the last time that somebody came into a situation, came your way, and it happened so that the light had been left on I know, I know. Don't worry about the bill. Jesus paid it all. We've got to leave our light on. In fact, this little light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine. Amen. Everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it shine. I I I can't help myself. Amen. Even when I try to maybe cover it up, it'll peek out Blessed be the God today that we as the church, as the body of believers, have to be credible witnesses. You may have a 30 watt because God is growing you. You may have a 60 watt. You may have a 90 watt, but now we got LED But blessed be the God today as we are going on this mission. You are the church. Amen. I'm a member of the so-and-so. No, no, no. You are the church because of the light and which you carry. That becomes so, so important. On this 16th anniversary, that is the word of God. It is already blessed today. That's the mission of the church. It really is. It is to do what. To let somebody know that you can make it. And that's it. As we come today, Father, in the name of Jesus, We ask even now that someone might let their little light shine in such a way that others may say, wait a minute. I see what you are doing. Is it because of the life? Is it because of your relationship with Jesus Christ? So Father, even now. From the state of Maryland and beyond, we pray that your word might reach a heart and might change that heart so much so that folk may know that you are real. Even now, I pray that you might touch that heart today. Let them know we can make it. Father, the Bible says if thou shalt confess with thy mouth, The Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, Thy will be saved. Do it today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank God for sixteen years to the glory of God. Want to take a moment even as we're prepared to leave this place. To thank you for your prayers, encouragement, support, and thank you for your financial support. You can give right now online. You might have an anniversary offering to God give the glory The Bible says you have not because you asked not, and you have been a blessing, even with our building campaign, our capital campaign, $100,000. Some of y'all didn't even blink on that. Amen But thank God we're at a point now that we're about the halfway mark and we continue to look to you uh in the Harvest family, in the wider church community, if the Lord so leads you. You can find it right there on our website, come to Harvest. uh slash building fund. If I said that correctly, I want to get in trouble with the webmaster. But listen, we thank you for all that you do. We look forward Of the seeing you in person, real soon, stay tuned. On behalf of the entire team, we want to thank you Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Amen. We celebrate the Lord today. Thank you for everything, and we look forward to just being that light. When you leave today, turn your light on If you're just walking around the house, turn the light on. If you're going out to get a bite to eat today, turn the light on. The church. Is a credible witness. Now to him who's able to keep us from falling and present us faultless before the presence of God with exceeding joy To the only wise God our Savior be glory, majesty, dominion, and power both now and ever. Amen. See you on next Sunday