Well there's a worship of the Lord today on this Resurrection Sunday that comes from the Gospel of Matthew. Twenty-eighth chapter, verse number six, just one passage for today. It reads. He is not here. He has risen. Just as he said, come and see the place where he lay. I want to preach today from the Samanic title, The Fight is fixed. The fight is fixed. It was the spring of nineteen eighty that as a young went behind the ear radio reporter. Word had got around the Florida State campus that the champ was coming. To visit. I made sure I got a chance to get to the stadium early with my recorder. And as I stood on one side, Muhammad Ali was coming across the field. I walked up, tried not to look excited, and as we got about midfield, Myself, uh Al Lee, and a deputy sheriff walked across the field. As I began to question him about his visit and about his retirement, I couldn't help but to look down at his fist. I said, these are the fists. That have knocked out people over the years. And whether it was Al Lee or whether it was Frazier or whether it was Holyfield or whether it was Tyson or Speech Uh whether it was Duran or Leonard, Johnson or Jeffries, Lewis or Schnelling, there have been some great fights down through the years. I mean even non-boxing fans will pause for a moment to say, Now they're about to go at it. This is no schoolyard fight, but this is for not the faith of heart. And from real life to the silver screen We've seen movies like Creed in all of the Rockies. We've seen Million Dollar Baby. We've seen The Hurricane and Raging Bull. My wife has Did you see all those? Well, I saw most of them. Amen. But I believe that the greatest match uh ever to be fought happened in eternity and was shown here on earth It was a fight that started on a Friday afternoon. It lasted to Sunday morning. In one quarter. was Satan. And the demons and all of hell. In the other corner there was Jesus the Christ. Yes. The Son of God, there was the Holy Spirit, and it was God the Father Himself. The bell sounded and the fight was underway, and you and I had a ringside C to this battle. You know, back in the day they would call them the thriller in Manila. This has to be the countdown at Calvary. But there came a point where Jesus, our Lord and Savior, was on the map. He's declared dead. He was put in a borrowed tomb, but on the third day morning, he got up with all power in his hands. And that remains the breaking news. Because hope is on the horizon, he has risen. And so it's dawn, it's before the sun comes out, and Mary Magdalene and Mary And the mother Mary went to the tomb to look for Jesus. All the gospels give you a different view of how that took place, but they all agree But he was not there. When they showed up, there had been an earthquake prior to that. And the stone had been rolled away, and the angel was sitting On the stone when they showed up. Isn't God good that the very thing that had you sealed up God has put down and you are able to sit on that. So you will never harm me again because I can sit on the It says the stone that the builders refused became the cornerstone. Isn't God good? And later on we know that Uh bad information got out that the centurions, the guards who were there, they were told, now listen, when you go back for a little piece of money, you tell them that the disciples stole Jesus' body Unfortunately, there's some people today that still believe that. I don't believe that. I believe that he got up with all power in his hand. Amen? Amen. So no matter what the enemy has. had in store, I believe that the fight was fixed in our favor. And when we step into the ring with the adversary, there's some things that we need to make sure we've got. First of all, the right mindset and the right gear and a pre-fight workout. I believe, and I've said over and over again, that it went first from my mind and then to my heart about the resurrection. Paul wrote that if he did not get up, then all we're preaching is just for naught. If he didn't get up, why come to church on Sunday? If he didn't get up, why take Holy Communion? If he didn't get up, why read? The Bible if you don't believe He got out. Amen. I've been in the ring a few times, and so have you, the ring of life You don't get to pick if you go into the rain. We all will face situations in life the Bible says that we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and spiritual wickedness in high places. It's just no way of life. Good and there's evil. Aren't you glad that you're on the Lord's side today? But in getting into the ring, you've got to have the right mindset. Here's why The enemy, like any boxer, wants to go for a headshot. He figured he could hit you enough times in the head, you're going down. It's a hard sport to watch because boxers are hitting blows to the side, but they want to hit the head. Amen. And when it comes to the life that we live We know that too many head blows can take us out. Too many head blows will affect the way that we think. Too many head blows will cause our minds not to be recognized. The enemy is going for the head. He's going for the mind if he can get you to think about it long enough. Amen. And get you to go back and rewind your life long enough. Oh, I feel the hope coming right now. If he gets you to say, wait a minute, don't Don't you remember when? And he'll give you a flashback or two to throw you off balance. But just know this. Philippians two and five says let This mind be in you. That was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. And the Apostle Paul gives us another warning. In the letter of the church to Corinth, 2 Corinthians 4 and 4, he says this the God of this age Has blinded the minds of unbelievers. Can I just stop it right there? That you have been witnessing to somebody telling them about the goodness of the Lord. You've been trying to convince them that the God that you serve is the only. God, but some somehow the enemy keeps trying to blind them, saying you don't have to believe that, it doesn't take all of that. He is trying to blind the mind. minds of the believers so they won't get oh you know he tried to blind us we didn't want to hear anything mom and daddy was saying you thought it was just too much but oh one day something got a hold of you one day you begin to have Your mind in a place that you can understand what it meant to accept Christ in your heart and what it meant. Oh, I feel good about that. I'm glad that the God of this world can no longer Blind me. Amen? And so when it comes to this sense of being in the ring with the enemy, you gotta have the right mindset. But also The right gear. I know a little bit about boxing and I put it out there earlier. I saw some hands go up and that made me afraid. I said, I tell you what, if anybody started anything I'm going Week at the boxes in the house. We're gonna beat somebody up in the spirit today. But blessed be the God. Boxers know that you gotta have the proper gloves. You can't go to the a dime store and buy a pair of gloves. Those who won't work with it, you need to get the quality of gloves. Make sure that you have what you need and to have a backup pair. In case those uh begin to wear and also to make sure that you've got what's called undergloves or boxing wraps so they'll protect the tendons and ligaments of your hand. And that's what I showed off boxing. Amen. And you also need a mouth guard because the enemy in hitting your head You might lose one or two. Amen. I'm talking about teeth. And just making sure that you have the right the enemy will do anything to take you out. Blessed be the God. But when it comes to our spiritual wall. Paul reminds us in Ephesians 6, 11 through 17 to put on the whole armor of God. Don't compromise. Don't leave any peace off. That you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Stand therefore having your loins girl about with truth and having the breastplate of righteousness and your feet charred with the preparation of the gospel And above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation And the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. My God, my God, my God. How many folk know the Word of God is what a gift for? Leave me alone won't cause them to stop. I'm going to get my big brother one. You need the word of God. God that when things get tough and you can't come up with a great sentence, just say in the name of Jesus, greater is he that is within me than he that is within the Lord, just say goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Amen. Just say, oh, magnify the Lord with me and then exalt his name together. Amen. Just know that you need the word of God. That's the kind of gear you need. You may not have much, but keep the word of God in your heart. What the Holy Spirit will do, he will bring it back to your remembrance. Has he ever done it for you in a moment you just needed a word, didn't have your Bible on the Bible app, but you say, you know what, I just remember what the Lord said. He said he's gonna be with me. And you remember that it is It's the word of God that made the difference. Having the right gear when you step in the ring with the enemy. in this fight that spits for our favor, uh having the right mindset, but also having a pre-fight workout. And boxing, you just can't jump in the rain. You show up and I've seen the boxers come in with the outfit and they got their favorite music on, the fans are going crazy, they're coming in. But hopefully they've taken time to warm up. Amen. Hopefully they've done some stretching before they come into the rain. Hopefully they've done some shadow boxing. You know, just swinging, getting ready so that the muscles and the joint so warmed up and then as you prepare for the bell to sound I asked Brother Paul if you could come to our corner And remind us in First Timothy six and twelve, he says to fight the good fight of faith. Take hold of the eternal life which you were called and about which you made the confession in the presence of many witnesses. About that time Moses said, Can I put a word in? Moses who led God's people across the Red Sea. Moses who continued to press his way even the folk got mad at him. Moses comes to the corner in Exodus 14. It says, The Lord will fight for you. And you have only to be still. I could hear grandma saying, the Lord will fight your battle if you just keep still. You ever been in a fight showing up to where the world seemed like it was winning against you and you know that you had the Lord on your side? Can I get you excited today? I mean I know you may not be known for fighting, but you have to fight. We are soldiers in the army. to fight although we have to die. We have to hold up the bloodstained battle. Let's talk about fighting. My God, fighting, fighting, fighting, and knowing that the judge, the righteous judge. When the bell has rung, he is able to say a unanimous decision. Aren't you glad that you made the decision to follow Christ? I have decided to follow Jesus. Jesus, no turning back, and the celebration is on. But in the midst of our fight with the enemy, Know that God wants to fix us. Fix us for our low white robe. Fix us for our story crown. Fix us for our journey home. Fix us for our dying bed. And before I leave you, why do you need fixing? I think I'm all right. I don't need to be fixed. Yes, you do. Because life is a 12-rounder. Amen? Round one. The enemy may be. May give you an arm punch that will throw you off below. In round two, he comes up and gets you below the belt. But for a moment you begin to bend. In round three, you got cut, and all of a sudden, when the Sees blood, he gets excited, and you've been cornered. Round four, the fighting has gotten dirty. You gotta keep ducking. Every time you turn around, the enemy is swinging. Round five, you're running out of gas. You are evasive and you're empty on the rope and round six you're beginning to fall through those ropes. In round seven, you're just trying to go the distance. In round eight, that rascal comes back with a hate. Maker and puts you down on the mat. In round nine, there's an illegal blow, and you look into the ref saying, Did you see that? In round ten, you'll be jolted and you'll be jabbed in. The world. Oh, it's not over yet. In round number 11, he's knocked you down with a kidney punch. You ever had a kidney punch? Knowing that you also bend over. But I thank God for round number 12. Ah. Oh, he thought that was the lucky punch, but there's a long count, and all I can hear is that love lifted me. That when nothing else could help, it was love that lifted me. If you've ever been knocked down. You know that you need love. You can bring me the ointment, but I need love. You can bring me some encouragement, but I need love to lift me. And even as you're raising the belt in victory, saying, Yes, I've made it. through and you're looking for the prize, notice that Jesus paid it off. And all to him our old sin has left a crimson stain. And he's done what? He's washed me white as snow. The fight was Fixed in my favor and your favor. And as you leave today, don't you forget your fighting instructions because the enemy wants a rematch. He doesn't like that you've taken him down. The enemy wants a rematch. match. He wants to meet you at your weakest point in life. Make sure that you're ready for the good fight. Know that the fight is already fixed and you won't be defeated. Hallelujah. Old victory in Jesus. my savior forever. He sought me and bought me with his redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew him and all my love is due him. He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing flood. Even when there's trickery, there's also victory. Aren't you glad today that when the enemy tries to show you up that God says you got the victory in Jesus? And that's the good news today. And I know Oh, you not like to fight. I was never known as a fighter. My brother Junior was a fighter in the house. But no, not me. I was a talker. But every now and then you may tell somebody to meet you at the bus stop. And they just want to fight. No, the enemy wants to fight you. You better have a move or two and let him know that in the name of Jesus I take you down. In the name of Jesus, I'm more than a conqueror for him who knows. Love me. In the name of Jesus, you've gone to prepare a place for me that where I am, you'll be off. And don't you know that in my father's house, there are many mansions. Had it not been so, I would have told you, I'm ready for a fight. I'm ready for a fight. I'm ready for a fight. But I thank God that I know he who is the righteous just. That even when I get knocked down, he'll lift me up. Even when the deceased bitch score up the wrong way, he adds it up. Blessed be the. of God today. I'm glad today that I know Jesus for myself. I'm glad today that I know him in the pardon of my sins. I'm glad today that I know I can fight because there's a choir saying I know that my Redeemer lives, and how do I know? Because he lives in me. And no matter what you're facing in life, you think that you've been defeated. Oh no, you haven't. Just make sure you Throw the right foot. Make sure you got your feet planted in the right place and don't sit there. You may need to duck every now and then and turn your head to the side. And when you're on the ropes, don't worry about it. God is faithful. The fight is fixed in your favor. That is the word of God. bless oh bless the Lord today you'll never watch a boxing match the same again But I trained. Yeah, but it's not over. Yeah. Right? But at Calvary, it was over. And every Now and then you'll get hole covered blindsided. And you'll blame the person. Said, I can't that person get on my nerves. That wasn't them. That was the rest of the heart. You ever been in a fight and somebody tried to hold you and you was just trying to reach around? That's what the enemy is trying to do. But God the Father says, I've got you. Let's look to the Lord today, Father, we thank you to take a world's analogy to reveal. Remind us that the fight was fixed. And we are the victors because of it. If there's one today who knows not the Savior, Jesus Christ has already worked. won the battle. We just got to scrap on our gloves today for the master. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in our hearts that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. Thank you for saving me today. Thank you. Save someone. Your power is of such you can save through an internet stream. Hey, yes you can. Somebody could tune into their phone and be saved. Oh, we thank you for the power of the Holy Spirit. We thank you, Lord. Thank you, we thank you, we thank you, we thank you that we're on the right side. Thank you, we're in the right corner in Christ's corner. Do it today we pray in Jesus' name.