Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. You can trust in people. And they will let you down. But when you put your trust in the Lord, He will stand with you. And fight for you and protect you in whatever you're going through. Do you serve that kind of God today? Come on, give God a praise today as we bow. Heavenly Father, we stand before you today, mindful that you've given us this precious word to share. I ask even now, God, that I might decrease and that you might increase. God, save someone today Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Always grateful to stand before you. One of the teenagers asked me, why do you do that? Why you why you preach? I said, if I can just help one person Then it's all worth the time of study and prayer. It ought not ever be about the preacher, but all about the people of God. Sometimes I'll ask God during the week, now I like that text. I'm gonna preach that. And I'll say, Lord, what do the people need? And he'll switch that right on up He's never led me wrong. Certainly thankful to all of our friends out in Facebook land. I'm glad to hear from you. Amen. Thank God for this medium that we might use it to lift up the name of Jesus. Amen. There's a worship of the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of John, and gospel simply means good news 16th chapter, verse number 33, it reads as follows, I have told you these things. So that in me you may have peace. In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart, I have overcome the world. What a priest and shamanic title: The Struggle is Real. The struggle is real. I was thinking back this week to my elementary school days when at recess they would just let you out. Going outside, you'd go out and you run around and you didn't keep time on how long you were out, you didn't have a a cell phone, no video games, you just ran in different directions. Some people would jump rope. That sounds kind of old-fashioned, don't it? They would play dodgeball. uh hopscotch, uh maybe even marbles. There was always one particular event that I enjoyed and that was tug of war. That mean that you would find some of the strongest people in the school and say, be on my team. And what you would do is there would be a line in the middle. And you would pull to see if you could pull the other team over the line. That would declare you a winner. Even better if there was mud in the middle. Which means if you really messed up, you would slide in. But it was always a struggle. And nobody knew where you were on the roll. If you were the first person, it did not mean that you were doing the most But somebody had to pull. In order to win, there was a struggle. And in life, we all struggle with something. Amen Amen. We all have a struggle that we're dealing with. It may be a private struggle. It may be a public struggle. It may be a painful struggle It may be a power struggle. And your struggle may be people, it may be places, it may be things And the fact of the matter is your struggle may have followed you to church this morning. You got up early hoping you could shape your struggle. But as you walk into the building this morning, you realize that that thing that you've been dealing with is yet present. It may be on your your social media feed, but we're all going through something. Let me just set this first. I don't want to ever assume. You say, Reverend, the wrong person, I don't have a struggle. Can I just take a poll then? Is there anybody who has nothing you're struggling with? Well God bless you. I didn't see one hand. We all have something. And you may not call it a struggle. You may call it a dilemma. You may call it a concern. You may call it an issue. But the struggle of life is real. I just stopped by to remind you that the struggle may be real, but so is the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. The struggle may be real, but he's real. Amen? Aren't you glad you serve a real God? That no matter what you are going through, that you've seen him work it out for you. I say to a friend of mine, I said, you know what? You got a history with God. When you look back over your life and you think things over and you see where you are today, it's not how you started out. But my God, He's given you some victories. He's given you some high places. You've been in the valley, but God has lifted you up. My God, can I just testify? I was saying to someone, I said, you know what? Uh that was my son. I may as well just put him out there He was saying, you know, I was watching this game. He said a guy was really rolling this year, Dad. He he had you know 35 points. He won the game. He was the star. They ought to retire his jersey. I said wait wait wait a minute wait a minute not not so fast because life oftentimes is judged over time that you know over time you you are not who you used to be but look how you've seasoned yourself and How God has brought you to some bumps and how he's led you some places. And then you can retire some stuff. But starting out, you gotta just live. Amen. And in living, you will find a struggle In our text today, it is Jesus. His eyes are already set toward Jerusalem. He knows what is to come. And so he's having some parting words with his disciples. He's about to be betrayed, about to be double-crossed, about to be beaten And about to be murdered, can I put it in modern terms? He's about to be killed. Because there was certainly a an amount of jealousy, but it was no surprise to him. He already knew what would happen He would often talk to them and say, My my time is not long. But when I when I leave here, I will send some help I will send you a helper. Amen? I will send you the paraclete. I will send you someone you can deal with in the midst of your struggle. In our struggle, we've got to remember his promises and to see our struggle from his perspective. And then to rest in the power of God, that no matter what you're going through, that God has the power to bring you through every situation. Let's talk about his promises. Beginning of verse 33 says, I have told you these things. What things? The things that he had mentioned all over the past three years. I won't be with you long now I'm going to be beaten, I'll be betrayed, but I'll rise again with all power. And so you've got to listen to the things that the Lord has said to you and the things that he puts in his text It's all about the things that he promised. And he has never broken a promise. Amen? I will never leave you nor forsake you. He promised them that he would not leave them alone. And you know, his promise also is his peace. And not not the hippie peace. Not not the peace sign. Not I'm chilling, but this peace that is embedded that comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. Ever been in a situation in a struggle and everybody thought you ought to be loose in your mind and you were cool as a cucumber? So you know what? I'm not gonna worry I'm not going to lose it. Why? Because his promise to us is I will give you my peace. my divine peace in the midst of what you're going through. And there again, this is assuming that there's somebody here who's in a struggle. Yeah, let me put a disclaimer. All the sluggle people. John 14, 27 he says earlier, peace I leave with you. Peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth. The world will give you a hot shot. The world will give you a five-minute uh you know opportunity to be able to share. But that is not what the Lord will do for you. Amen. So we always take the opportunity to know that there's a certain peace that he gives us. Isaiah 26. 3 says, He will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on him. Now you can't be uh have peace and you just say I'm gonna worry myself to death. But there ought to come a part and a place in your life that even as you struggle, know that God has promised you his peace. Do you believe that today? Have you received the promise of peace that even though you are struggling, even though you're trying to get it, there ought to be some peace moments within your struggle. Amen. And peace means that I'm just not gonna worry about it again. Oh since if you're gonna worry, don't pray If you're gonna pray, don't worry. Amen? And so he's sharing with them, even though you'll be seemingly lost when I move on. It really is about the name of Jesus offering you this kind of peace. But not just the promise, but being able to see things from his perspective He says, in this world you will have trouble. Trouble? Yeah, yeah, you'll you'll have trouble But I thought this Christian life was just, you know, you you find the Lord and everything is all right. You got no problem. Everything is corpusctic. Amen. But but in this life You will have trouble. Anybody ever had some trouble in your life? I mean, trouble that you couldn't get out of, trouble that caused you to have some midnight hours. Trouble will come and find you. You don't want anybody to go looking for trouble. Trouble will come. In this world, you not might, but you will have trouble. But look at the perspective. It's how you you see trouble. It's how you view trouble. We had a writer this week who says the typical view of the Christian life is that we're being delivered from trouble. Yes, Lord. But he suggests that we are in our trouble. There's not being lived. That trouble is already present. And there's a difference that no matter what I am going through, that God, you're with me. Do you feel that thing today? That that that no matter how bad it looks, no matter how bad the report That somehow I see it from the way you see it. That nothing is lost, that you will be with me, that you will take care of me. None of us know what our tomorrow is hold, but thank God for Jesus. He's always with you. Even to the ends of the earth. Yes, I'm struggling, but it was supposed to come. Yes, I'm trying to get by, but my God is with me. Matthew 11, 28 says, Come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You gotta come. You've tried your method, you've tried to work it out, you've called different people, they've given you their advice, uh, but yet you've not gone to the Lord. I declare if you go to Him. And pray to him and ask him for direction. He will give you direction. He will give you a path in which to take. But you can't rush it. You can't force his hand. You gotta believe that God, I know you will work it out. That yes, I'm struggling. Yes, I'm tired. Yes, I'm fed up. But you know what you gotta reset your faith. I remember the days of driving to Florida before I was able to fly. We just drive all the way. Leave four day in the morning. And I'd be driving. I can do this. But there were moments in the trip where I would see something cross the road, but it was nothing really. And I said, Lord, I need to find me a rest stop. And there came that point that you would count the miles down to get to the rest stop. Praise God for Jesus. And don't you know God will give you a rest stop if you want to pull over? He'll give you that peace if you just pull over, and know that He will work it out for you. Overcoming your struggle. It's seeing your struggle as God sees your struggle. It's not a big deal for him. He'll get you through it. And knowing that there's the promise of peace, but then finally, rest in his power. Letter Paula verse 23 says, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Take heart. Be of good cheer. Take courage. Have confidence. Don't worry. Don't stress. I have already beaten the world. I've always Been at a place that even if I can't work it out, I know someone who could. Can I just pause for half a second because you're looking at me kind of funny And I want to say to you, has there ever been a place in your life that you tried to work something out? I mean you did your best and you couldn't, but then God came along and in a moment's notice changed your situation. Give you a new outlook in life, and that's what God does. God specializes in the tough stuff. God specializes in the things you can't seem to get through. God specializes in your down moments. God specializes in whatever you are facing. We know the struggle is real. But thank God he's real. Amen. Can I just clap myself on that? That he is real, and I'm glad about it. It takes the pressure off of me, knowing that he's got it. He's already proved it. Power to heal. Power to raise the dead. Power over sin and death. And that's what the cross is all about. This morning you woke up to a new time because you again you reset your clock. You gotta reset your mind. You say, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, God. I I keep thinking about what you said in your word. I see what you've done, and I'm just gonna trust you. Amen. That's the good news. Struggle is real. You know, the Bible is full of people who struggle. My God, Abraham struggled. You're telling me I gotta move my family to a place that I don't even know where I'm going. But just based on what you said, I'm moving. Moses struggled with the people of God. They won't do right. I keep trying to leave them, and they're still hard-headed Joseph struggled. My brothers were jealous of me. They put me in a pit, act like I was dead, sold me into slavery. A struggle. Jacob says, I I struggled and I one night had a wrestling match with God. It was a WWF in the spirit. And guess what happened? I lost. In fact, he knocked my hip loose, and then he changed my name. Jonah said, I struggled. I was not wanting to go and follow your lead, God, and because of that, I ended up in the belly of a whale. John the Baptist says, you know, I was locked in prison struggling. God, are you the one I've been talking about, or shall I find another? David says, I'm a war hero. I got medals, but yet Saul is trying to kill me. I'm struggling, and my struggle is real. Paul said, I've been shipwrecked, I've been beaten and thrown on death roll, yet I know that God will deliver me. Mary says, I'm struggling. My boy is on the cross. He's dying on the cross. I can't get through this. I'm struggling. Jesus struggled on the cross saying, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. God will deal with you in your struggle. There ought to be a backstory to your struggle. Ought to be something that comes along with your testimony. Ought to be something that connects you with your struggle. You may have heard the story of Horatio Stafford, lawyer, businessman there in Chicago. Things were going great for him Wife, five children. But tragedy came in his life. He lost his son, who died of pneumonia. In the same year, he lost his business in the Great Chicago fire. And in a way of getting his family the safety, he put them on a ship to go to Europe And during that voyage, the ship went down. And his four daughters died. His wife survived. And when he came back, They came past that place. And the captain says, Let me show you. This is the place where the ship went down. Now you're talking about a struggle. He was dealing with all of that pain. But it said that there was another daughter who was born sometime later. And she wrote that at that moment, in the midst of his struggle. He wrote these words. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea, bill roll. Whatever, my love. Thou hast taught me to say, it is well with my soul. So no matter what you're going through today, it's well. No matter what you're facing, it's well. No matter what your struggle, it's well. It's well because he made it that way. Amen. That no matter what you're facing in the course of this week You ought to say, you know what? It's well with my soul. Yes, it hurts, but it's well. Yes, it's got me confused, but it's well. Yes, I might get a little angry, but it's well with my soul. How many folk can say today, it is well that no matter what may come my way I still declare that God is bigger than my struggle. And because of that, I will make it I can make it. Does anybody feel an extra energy today? The fact that you came in thinking you were defeated. Oh no, you are not defeated. Why? Greater is he that is within me than he that is within the world You're not defeated because goodness and mercy shall follow you all the days of your life. Yes, you are struggling, but you serve a Savior who makes the difference Yes, my struggle is real, but my God can get me through it. That is the word of God today. It's all come on stand today All over this place. I refuse to give up. I admit it, I'm struggling in some area. So are you. It's real, but God is real. He supersedes. Amen. That would give you some hope today. Letting you know. And no matter what condition you come in, broken, resentful, he'll fix you. As you are, as you are the spirit Broken, wounded, disgusted. Come rece I'm just as you are. As you are. That's the way you watch it. Yeah, yeah. Oh, we thank God today. Come with me, come in for every life everlasting. Yeah, yeah. That bit of trip Take the beauty water and give the birthday Ma Ma Ma Ma. Let me just say to you today that whatever you're facing It may seem small to me, or it's not it's not my business. Your struggle is your struggle. But if you take it to God, He'll remind you that he will give you peace in it and that he's bigger than it. Amen. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's one today who is struggling about whether they ought to give their life to you, struggling about whether or not they should choose the life of faith, struggling about accepting you. I pray in the name of Jesus that you might touch their hearts today. There are many things that are fake in this world, but God, we know that you are real. We believe that you sent your son, Jesus. We believe that he died. We believe that he rose again with all power in his hands. God, right now, your words. We confess that and believe it in our heart that you would save us. Save someone today. Oh God, we need you today in such a mighty way. Do it we pray even now in Jesus' name. Maybe you've come today You desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. Our arms open, we're just a struggling group, depending on the power of God to bring us through We love you in the Lord. This fellowship is the Lord's fellowship. Not Pastor Tutan's church. It's the Lord's church. Amen? Always feel welcome. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed. Definitely.