Oh no, we're good on the world. Pero de la mayoría de uno por los acabamos de un poco preguntas, pero estáis viendo cualquier cosa. So Well No he I don't have to make a range of a lot of things. Okay, It was a Tuesday morning, January 31st, 2006. I remember going downtown, Baltimore. to register as a congregation with the State Department Assessment. And it was 11 o'clock in the morning. We were taken to the elevator up uh to that particular floor and signing the paperwork uh explaining what we were doing and that is we were starting a church And I remember the intendant saying, well, that's 150. You know, I got my cash ready to go. I said, well, well, can we do it sooner? He said, well, for 175, you get expedited. I said, $25 more, let's do it. And so God has been so faithful. We had a more formal signing ceremony with all the documentation. And not long afterwards We had met with a core group and this group was there from the start saying that yes we'll be on board. I was ordained a short time later And then God began to send the people. In fact, he starts sending them even before then because we had done a service in 2005, in November of the year before And people had expressed an interest and I was the one holding it up, saying, Well, what what are we doing? And my wife said, What are you doing? You're starting a church? And I was like, Well, I think so But after praying to the Lord about it, I knew it was the right thing to do. And the name harvest came right out of John 4. Because Christ looked out and said, Stay not that there are four months into harvest. Now is the time. So people have come Over the 15 years, they've come to work, they've come to love, and they've become family. You know, moving to this area many years ago like three decades or more you meet people. But when we became a community of faith, uh at that point we began to see people and understand their walk with Christ And uh these were people who said, well, we we want to try this out. And I was excited if anybody showed us, oh well, good to have you. He must be coming back next Sunday. But God has been so faithful to keep us on track and to keep our mission and is to serve the community from the cause of the kingdom. And I don't have any candles or no cake today, but 15 years I'm so thankful for my family They've been right there and saying, we're with you on this journey. And so many of you, with your encouragement, with your calls. With your tuning in online, you've become partners. And so believe it or not, you're part of this ministry, whether you like it or not. And we thank God for folk locally, nationally, and even a global footprint we've made All because we stepped out on faith 15 years ago. Harvest Christian Ministries, happy birthday. God bless you and thank you. Well, praise God. We are so thankful that you could join us today and happy anniversary to you. This is the day the Lord has made. We can rejoice and be glad. The Bible says to make a joyful noise until the Lord. All ye lands to serve the Lord with gladness to come before his presence with singing, know ye that the Lord He is God It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? For the Lord is good, his mercy is everlasting, his truth endureth to all generations. Happy anniversary again, 15 years to the glory of God. Let's pray right now. Father, we do come In the name of Jesus. And we're so, so grateful that you have chosen us. body of believers to be about the mission of spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. My, do we need some good news? Father, we we thank you. You could have picked anyone, but you picked this body to be effective. And may we spread the good news to those who are Downtrodden, those who need to be uplifted. But help us to never forget it's all really about you. So I pray on this 15th year anniversary, God, that you might keep us on pace, that each day and each hour and each week We might continue to do that which pleases you. And we ask it all right now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Fifteen years and some confetti. Look at that. That's that's homemade confetti. Praise be to God. At this time we will have our choir to come and get us started. Amen. Let me heal the worship. We're all not crazy. I want everybody all over the world to put your hands together because all of Praises belongs to God and the grace is to our God and we were to worship one of the worship. Praise every praise is to our God hallelujah. Say hallelujah, you are God, Hallelujah, Hallelujah. Is to our God every praise every praise is to our God knowing how we do it in the world every praise to us Every word of worship with one of the Lord. Every grace, every praise is new our God. Hallelujah. Say hallelujah, you are God, glory, hallelujah, is you like God, and we pray, and we pray, it's new. Our God And we pray to our God and we will worship one we pray Every place is your God, hallelujah. Every way, every way is to our God, every way is to I God. Every word I worship with one eye for the praise, every place is to our Hallelujah, you are God, glory, hallelujah, if you are God, every way, every way, if you are God. The Hadmart Yan Mary David. Ja le sp And we pray to our God everyone with one pray Every way every way every way every way every way is to our God, Amen. How many believe that today that every single praise is to our God? We thank God for the choir. You know what has sustained us over this time. has been the Word of God. I mean there are many things you can try. There are many workshops and there are many things that will assist you in leading a fellowship and being a pastor and being a church, but there's nothing that sustains you more than the Word of God And everything is right here. It is our instruction manual. So we're excited every time we get to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ with you. And so once we hear from the choir again, we'll come back with the word of God. Go back to the old time place. Didn't have no keyhole, didn't have no drum. Don't change up in the Things are trusted. We come to go to the You know the truth and trusting for me. We come in for day I will trust from I I will try to work to the heart. I want to stay on the battery. I want to stay on the bad news. I don't think all the battle is. I know it's straight up. I love the stay on the. Every body writing, I love the tree, every body writing, I treat. Amen, Amen, Amen. That is that's it. Bible says to trust in the Lord with all your heart and to lean not to your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will direct your path. Let's pray today. Father, we come. In the name of Jesus, and we thank you for the Word of God today. Even as we come, it is our prayer, dear God, that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word of the Lord today on this anniversary Sunday from the book of Hebrews, the 11th chapter. Verse number six. Hebrews 11 and 6. When you have found it, say amen. And you can see it. Thumbs up. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's read it together. It says, and without faith, it is impossible to please God, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who earnestly seek him. I want to preach from the Samonic title, The Journey of Faith. The journey of faith. I believe that we're all on a journey. We may be at the beginning of our journey. in the middle of our journey or near the end of our journey. You know, a journey can really be like an adventure It may be for you, an expedition, or even a pilgrimage, but whatever the label, we're all trying to go. someplace. Nobody wants to be stagnant. Nobody wants to be on pause. And one thing about a journey, you may agree with me on this, that A journey can last a day. It can also last a lifetime. But I believe that when you go on a journey, I want to suggest this morning that we ought to have with us and within us Faith. Faith. Well, faith is our belief in God, the only true and living God, and what Jesus Christ has done Now Hebrews 11 and 1, the beginning of this chapter, gives us, I believe, some foundational scripture and also a description of what faith is. It says, now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see. And then let me throw in verse number 2, 11, uh it says, for by faith the elders obtain the good report. The elders passed because of faith, the heroes and the she wrote. If you read uh the uh balance of the eleventh chapter of Hebrews, you'll find the names By faith, by faith, by faith. And you ought to just add your name in there as well. As a community of faith, Harvest Christian Ministries began this journey 15 years ago today. And God has led us to this place and to this moment that we can't help but to give him glory. And that's why I am drawn to the eleventh chapter of Hebrews. The author, and some have debated who wrote it, was it Paul, was it Luke? But if it's good and meat, it's good meat. Amen. It gives examples of those biblical characters who live by faith. It's a letter, it's a sermon of sorts to the people. Because see, they were struggling With their identity, these Hebrew Christians, their lack of understanding. Ever been there before? Sometimes we can become frustrated in life And turn away from that we don't understand and that we don't fully comprehend. But God sends along somebody if we're willing to listen, who will help us learn the faith and who will help us to walk with the Lord. Amen. It's good to walk with people who have your best interests at heart. They come alongside. I was at the barbershop a couple of days ago. And I walked in one of the barbers, a young man, I can say young man because I'm over 60. He was sitting there in his chair waiting for a customer reading his Bible And I said, uh, man, that's some good stuff there. And I said to him, I I quoted this particular scripture about faith. He went back and he found it. And as I sat down, he he just assumed because I was an older gentleman that I knew the stuff. He said, Oh man, you I got a catch. Oh bruh. I said each day we get up, we're learning more about him Nobody has a corner on God. Yeah, you might know 111 scriptures, but are you living in? And we conclude by saying we've got to be not just hearers of the word, but also doers. Faith has been our leading scripture. Faith has been our leading piece that has helped us. So let's unpack this passage in Hebrews 11 and 6. And in doing so, I believe we'll learn a few things. First of all, faith is necessary Faith is voluntary and that we can become the beneficiary. Amen? Faith that is necessary. And without faith, it is impossible. to please God without faith. Without faith it is impossible to please God. Faith is necessary. Faith is required. Faith is needed. Faith is essential. And without it, you can't please God. I remember some years ago there was a famous commercial for a big time credit card, and the announcer would say, don't leave home without it. And you can't leave home without faith. Of course that card can get you in trouble. But it was a slogan that that really helped people to say, you know what, I don't want to be caught anywhere without my card. I don't want to be caught anywhere without my faith. Faith, anything and everything is possible. Faith can move mountains. If you check your history, you may have called it something else, but it's because of your belief. and what God can do that has you where you are today. Faith that's led to miracles. Faith the size of a mustard seed But it's all about pleasing God. Without faith, it's impossible to please God. You know, you try to please loved ones. And you try to please friends and family and employers, etc. But it's really about trying to please God at the end of the day, isn't it about pleasing him? And without our faith, it just can't happen. It is impossible. Paul writes to the church in Roman Romans 5 and 1 and says, Therefore Since we have been made right in God's sight by faith, we have peace with God because of what Jesus Christ our Lord has done for us. That without faith, that when you've got faith and you'll have peace. When you got faith, it'll bring you to another place When you've got faith, yeah, you'll be a little shaky in the boots, in this, in the flesh, but thank God for just look back over your life and see where God has brought you from because you just believed in him. On this journey. Faith is necessary, but it's also, I believe, voluntary. Amen. Alright, it says, because anyone who comes to him must believe that he exists. That's so important. Your voluntary means that uh it's on you. Amen. God does not jack you up in the back alley and get a Bible says you're gonna believe me. It is a choice that you and I make. Uh it's not by force. We have free will. And that's what's amazing about our faith is that uh even though mama and grandma and Granddad said you ought to get to know the Lord. You're like, yeah, please. But there came a day, oh I know I'm right, that you had to see what they were talking about and experience it for yourself that you've got to believe. Well how how is that possible to to come to God if he's not gonna gonna force you the Bible says that God is spirit And those who worship him must do it in spirit and in truth, for the Father seeketh such we can come to him by way of our faith. And prayer and believing. And sometimes it's the simple prayer that makes the difference. But this is a requirement Anyone who comes must believe. We believe in Santa Claus. We believe in the boogeyman. Amen? Yes, we do. But I remember the choir singing back at the Springfield Baptist Church in live. I think it may have been our choir. It might have been the choir number two. God is not dead. He's yet alive. I can feel him in my hands. I can feel him in my feet. I can feel him all over me. Our journey of faith has to be voluntary. Again, this letter was to the church, and it was something that was laid out, it became so important. He who comes to him. Must believe it is not optional. I love what James, the half-brother of Jesus Christ, writes to the church The persecuted church. The Bible says Christians were scattered everywhere. And he says, for as the body without the spirit is dead, So faith without works is dead also. Having faith in your wallet is one thing, but what are you doing with it? Well you can have all the faith in the world but you refuse to budge. All the faith in the world and you refuse to get off the diving board. Amen. I needed a nudge. I remember getting up there with not the best swimmer, still not the best swimmer, and I was uh all the guys were like, come on man, and they just go hit the board. I go up there and say, I know Michael Phelps I'd get right on the edge and and uh finally jump in. But but faith is is like that. It is voluntary, something that we have to do. Our journey of faith is voluntary, not forced upon you. It is necessary and needed on this journey for 15 years It's been people of faith who have continued to come alongside this ministry to help and to encourage us to God be the glory. voluntary, necessary, but also we become a beneficiary. Amen. It says in that he rewards those who earnestly seek him. Okay, I've got faith. And as a result of that, there there's something that takes place. within this experience. Now beneficiary means that your name is on a document, a legal document, that's something you're supposed to get. or has been promised to you. Amen? Death benefit, property, etcetera. But it says he rewards those. Something that we don't earn. God is not a game show host. He doesn't say to us, look and see what's behind door number one, behind door number two, or door number three. God is not trying to make a deal with us Amen. After all, he's God and we're not. And he's saying that yes, there are things that come from this, but his rewards, he's thinking, uh, eternally. Not that you've got so many or you got rewards points. You got a free coffee today because your reward points on your abs. Wait a minute. Uh let me let you know I got a free I got something free coming. God does not work that way. That those who earnestly seek him, those who chase after him, those who really desire to be a follower of God is so important. Because see, here's what it comes down to. With faith, it's not what we what we see. Because our eyes can play tricks on us. But I believe that when it comes to this sense of being a beneficiary, that even in the next passage I want to show you. God is saying in 2 Corinthians 5 and 7, and this is Paul right to the church at Corinth, he says, for we walk by faith and not by sight. Reverend, I can't see it. And for me seeing is believing it. I I just I don't know. We began this ministry, you know 31st of January. I just don't see uh what this means. I don't see where this is going. But God is so faithful for we walk By faith and not by sight, because with sight you might stumble. With sight you might uh uh you know fall down with sight You might need a new prescription, but my God, faith is the unseen. Faith is reaching out and saying, God, I believe this is possible, and it's between me and you That I know what you can do. Oh, right now, I I didn't want to press you on this, but there's something that you're trying to believe God for. And everything that comes up, every sign says you know you you don't qualify Uh your credit's not that good. Uh you know, you don't have the looks, you don't have the education, you're from the wrong side of town, and guess what? God destroys oh y'all some of y'all with me. God destroys all that because of what we see. Amen. Amen. Now that that means we've got to take care of our business. Amen. But we've all come crippled in that way. And God makes a way out of nowhere. Hebrews talk about those who have completed their faith journey, those who died in the faith, trusting God, those who have crossed the faith finish line They're described as this great cloud of witnesses looking over the balconies of glory, saying to us, run this race. with patience looking under Jesus Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith. And two thousand years ago, another journey began as God so loved the world that he sent Jesus Christ His only begotten Son. And we believe in him. That there's a faith moment that he might save us. He went to that cross and died for us. Amen? But then he rose again with all power in his hands. And that's that's that's faith. I I do believe that. And the Bible talks about what do I believe? You know, Ray Palmer was a prominent pastor back in the 1800s, a Methodist pastor, taught for many years, but he led a congregation, and he also took time to write. And he pinned these words. He says, My faith looks up to thee, thy lamb of Calvary, Savior divine. Now hear me why I pray. Take all my guilt away. Oh, let me from this day be holy thine. Thank you, Pastor Ray Palmer. But what about my faith? And what about your faith? Amen? Think about the journey God has brought you from. Faith for me began with big dreams. As a starry-eyed young man at seven or eight years old, big dreams led to big breaks. Well yeah, God put you in the path of somebody who helped you along the way, but I realized it was bigger blessings. My faith for me translates into a rock in a weary land. And a shelter in the time of storm. My my faith translates to me as a battle axe in the time of oh come on, grandma in the time of battle. My faith translates to me and God will be offense all around you. It translates to me That God will be a doctor in a sick room. Well, you've heard your grandmother and granddaddy say that. He'll be a lawyer in a courtroom. He will be whatever you need along your faith journey. And that becomes so important. I remember the passages of scripture we learned back at an early age in church. Well, you say your pastor, you learned them, is because you heard them every Sunday. And while you didn't understand them, as you grew in your faith, as you learned more on this journey, you realize how important they were. For me, it was Psalm 121. I will lift up my eyes to the hills from which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Behold, he that keepeth thee will not slumber. He that keepeth Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. Amen? That becomes so important. Why? Because the Lord is thy keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee From all evil. He shall preserve thy soul. He shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth and forevermore. Put on your faith shoes It's time for a journey. That is the word of God that's already blessed. Let's pray today. Father, we thank you for this word. And we realize that just speaking of faith does not make you have faith. But faith is something that we experience. As we come today, there's someone who needs to learn of you and accept you, and they are dealing just with their head knowledge, I pray in the name of Jesus. that you might touch that heart, they may confess unto you that they need a Savior. And then faith kicks in. Believing God that you sent your son Jesus, that he died, but that he rose again. Save someone today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Are you on a journey of faith today? I am. Let's keep walking up the King's Highway as the saints of old would say. I don't want to rest this moment. I want to just have another song as we I make transition, but I want you to really feel this hair, my hymn of the church. Race is my faithful death, all that my father There is no shadow attorney with me. Thou changing not thy compassion may fail not and thou hast been thou for it. Well free in my playfulness. I have me and have no idea my gracefulness and join on top. Summer and winter spring. I let my death unknown and started. Nature in manifold witness to thy great faithfulness, birthday and love. Is thy faithfulness, bring in thy wakefulness, morning by mourning no All I had me in my hand had thrown my head, break in my faithfulness, and Lord. To cheer, spring for day and point home for tomorrow. Wait in thy faithful death Rain faithfulness En coret The way it's my faithfulness, the way it is my faithfulness, the way it thyfulness. Bless God, great country. Is thy faithfulness. Amen. We give God the praise and give God the glory. It has been a faith journey. Amen. We thank the Lord today as we move now to our news headlines with our capable anchor man. Good morning. I'm Tim Toon Jr. It is January the 31st, the 15th anniversary of Harvest Christian Ministries. It is our desire to keep you up to date on all of the harvest hazards. We'll be glad to keep you informed. Send your text or email to come thenumber2harvest. org slash updates We can't thank you enough for your financial support. If you'd like to plant seeds online, contact us at comethenumber2harvest. org slash give online With your financial support, Harvest is becoming a global ministry, reaching listeners and viewers now in 40 states and 30 countries. To God be the glory. For prayer, reach us at contact at comethenumbertwoharvest. org. For WHM News from Studio C, I'm Tim Titon Jr. Now back to you, Pastor. Thank you, sir. Blessed be the God. We thank you for your support over the years. And want to tell you about another great resource. You find the link on our website, Rejoice Musical Soul Food Radio. They're reaching all over the world as well. And it's good to have content from Harvest Christian Ministries to be a part of this ministry. You can find it there. Amen. To God be the glory for all the great things he has done. One more step away, one more time as we close. And we'll come back for one parting word. And as we bless the Lord, the great God, and all people's answer, amen. Worship the Lord, let's just Can I give a witness? God is a touch of shit, man. Whatever And the church is saying amen to God be the glory. We're so glad you've joined us today on this anniversary, our 15th year anniversary. We thank you for your support. And for your prayers. I want to have a special shout out to my family because we've been doing church. Amen. We've been doing church at the house. And so it's not necessarily where you are. But it's the great things that God is doing. So from each of us to your family, thank you and to God be the glory for all the great things He has done.