It's time now for the broadcast ministry of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland, where I serve as chief servant, pastor, and founder And now today's message in the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. Thank him for getting you up this morning. Thank him for providing for you along the way. Thank him for keeping you through seen and unseen dangers. Now I don't want to press you or prod you, but if anybody wants to praise today in the house, anybody know that God has done something for you and You don't need a preacher to push you or twist your arm, but you just come to give him praise. Is there a praising church today? Anybody thankful for what God has done for you? Anyone grateful for how he's brought you? I'm talking about a church that says, you know what? I'm just gonna go on and give them some praise. Amen. Well, go ahead. Let me tell you. Can I just praise them today? Lord, I thank you for waking me up this morning. Lord, I thank you for starting me on my way. I thank you that when I got up, I was in my right mind. I thank you, I had shelter and I had food on the table. I thank you, God, for your provisions. We have to just pause in the midst of all the craziness that's about to take place. And give God the praise. Folk gonna cut you off. They're gonna cuss you out. They're gonna do a lot of stuff But you got to just keep saying praise the Lord. Let us bow today all over this place. Father, we thank you For everything that you've done in our lives. And that seems like it's not enough just to say thank you. But we do. The Bible says in everything. Give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. As we come today, God, it is our prayer that we might seek you first. God, for that person. Who came in with the need today, you said you would supply it. For that person who has a hurt heart today, you said you'd be a healer. For that sad spirit today, you promised that joy would come in the morning. And we trust you today, God. As we stand to proclaim your word, may we decrease. And may you increase. May someone be saved today. May another be encouraged. When this time is done we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Want to look at some scripture today and it's great about having the narrative in front of us because it lays out everything that we need. There in the gospel, as pinned by John, I always say gospel simply means good news And uh that it was written by followers of Jesus Christ. On the third day, a wedding took place at Cana in Galilee. Jesus' mother was there, and Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding. When the wine was gone, Jesus' mother said to him, They have no more wine. Woman, do not involve you why do you involve me? Jesus replied, My hour has not yet come His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind used by the Jews for ceremonial washing, each holding from twenty to thirty gallons. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water, so they filled them to the brim. Then he told them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet. They did so. and the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He did not realize where it had come from. Though the servants who had drawn the water knew. Then he called the bridesgroom aside and said, Everyone brings up the choice wine first, and then the cheaper wine after the guest have gone or had too much to drink, but you have saved the best till now. What Jesus did here in Cana of Galilee was the first of the signs through which he revealed his glory, his disciples believed in him As we continue to talk about the miracles of Jesus, I want to lift up a semmonic subtopic topic, the first Miracle. The first miracle. R. R. Nieber, who was a professor at Harvard School of Divinity, wrote It's not that modern man cannot believe in miracles. It's just that he needs to be shown how. Miracles are taking place every day and all the time and so often we miss them because of life's distractions. But God is always doing things right in front of our eyes that we miss. I think the world's condition us to put miracles in a category. We look at the menial things of life and we call them miracles. But God can do the supernatural. On last time I took a harvest poll about those who've experienced miracles, and hands kept popping up. Maybe you weren't here last time. Has God performed a miracle in your life? Just raise your hand. Praise God. Praise God. He still Doing it. Here's a story that's worth repeating. Some 27 years ago, God performed a miracle within the midst of our family. It happened on Mother's Day in the month of May. At that time, a little baby boy was born. His sisters were excited to have him, and they take care of him even today. Tim Jr. was born at less than two pounds. Put in the intensive care unit for more than two months. But God has brought him through I often remind him that he's the miracle boy because so many in that unit didn't make it. And now he's able to walk around here and give you a hard time. He's able to walk around here and give the announcements. But you have that kind of miracle in your own experience. I don't want us to forget during this Advent season of the miracle of Jesus Christ. The fact that he was born to a virgin says that's a miracle. Never been done before, never to be repeated. And in our text today, I want you to put on your spiritual imaginations. Sometimes we read the Bible and we we make ourselves get caught up into the does and the dows. But can you put on your glasses for a second? And and just walk with me to a place called Cana of Galilee. It's kind of dusty, it's a little rocky, a little hotter than what you might expect But but I want you to come to Cana. Cana is not too far from Nazareth. That's where Jesus was born. And the word goes out that there is a wedding going on. Not the kind of day that have all the frills, no lemos uh no touch seatals, but a wedding was taking place. And Jesus gets an invitation, he and his disciples And Mother Mary. And so I like the kind of Jesus who hangs out at weddings. Amen. Do you see that kind of a real Lord who, while He's done many things, He shows up With his fellows at a wedding. Some have surmised that maybe Mary knew the people. Maybe they were kinfolk. May uh just possible uh that Mary uh was the wedding planner. But she had something to do with this wedding, and she wanted to make sure that Jesus was there. You know sons when your mothers say they want you to come someplace and you may not want to do it. Can I talk to the fellas for a minute? But when mama speaks you kind of buckle down and you do it. So they find themselves there at this wedding. An invitation had gone out And we have to invite the Lord into our situations. Maybe you're not having a wedding, but you need him in your life. Yeah, he could forcibly come in, but isn't it great to say, Jesus? You are invited. You are invited into my predicament. You are invited to my pain. I need you to be present. While other folk may be there, aren't you glad when Jesus comes in the house? Is that when he runs through and shows his face? I'm still in Cana. I'm still in Galilee. It's still hot and the road is still rocky. But Jesus somehow makes everything alright. In the text today, we get to see Jesus in action. Something big is about to go down. Now I know sometimes wedding and events can have a little drama But this is good drama. The fact that he's here, something powerful is going to take place. And so let's unpack these verses. Let's begin to go through and find out what it is that God is saying to us. First of all, Jesus is informed. That's interesting because he knows everything. It says, when the wine was gone, Jesus' mother said to him, They have no more wine. He says, woman. He wasn't being disrespectful. That's the tone of the text. Why do you involve me? He replied. My hour has not yet come. His mother said, Servants Do whatever you're told. Isn't that something like mama? She didn't respond to him. She said something about to go down. Y'all get ready. Isn't that something? And so they didn't really inform Jesus He already had it in his plan, but he had to let mama know that it's not my time yet. But I'll make it my time. Amen. But can you imagine that they had to inform him and sometimes We've got to inform he who knows everything. Well, Lord, you know what I'm going through. No, no, no. Inform me. You know my struggles. No, no, no. I want you to say it in prayer. Inform me, but God, you know everything. Yes, I do. The song says Jesus knows all about our struggles. He will guide us to the day is done. There's another friend like the lonely Jesus. But he says, what is it that you desire? Don't you like that kind of Savior that he didn't have to ask? But you might want to inform him of where you heard. Inform him of what you're going through. Bring him up to date on what your dilemma is He knew something was going down, but they want to let him know the wine is out. And there's some things that have run out. In your life. There's some things that you were full of at the beginning of your relationships that you've run out. There's some things that you had going on in your life, but all of a sudden now you have run out Let me ask you a question. Have you ever run out of joy? Run out of peace? Run out of hope? And you just needed Jesus? To turn your situation into something that it should be and ought to be and that you want it to be? He knows what's going on, but I dare you just to say, you got a minute? Yeah. And inform him He was informed. Amen. Matthew seven and seven says, ask. And it will be Given to you. You gotta do something. Amen. Seek and you will find. Knock and the door shall be open. We have a faith that we don't just say, well, but we have to be active. Who wants a dead faith? A lazy faith? Oh, well, no. You got to perk up and say, Lord I'm down here. I can do a thing until you come. And here's my situation. And won't he come see about you? Oh yes he will. He'll do it every time. He's informed. But he's also inclusive. Verse 6 says, Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind it was about the Jews. For ceremonial washing, each holding from twenty to thirty gallons. And Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. So they filled them to the brim. Then he told them Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet. They did so. Jesus chose to use the servants He didn't really need mama to suggest the servants. He had options. He could have just turned the water in the wine without anybody helping him. He don't really need our help. He can do whatever he wants to do, but He chooses to become inclusive. He involves those who are nearby. Okay, you go do that, and then you go do this And something to happen. And he's saying that to us today. You want something to happen in your life? You can't be a lazy Christian. You gotta do something, amen? You need to yeah, you need to go you need to go down there and put your application in. You need to follow up on that job interview. You got to go and ask them, can they bring the price down? There's something you got to do And not just saying, well, God, you're gonna do it for me. He is inclusive by inviting in these servants. Didn't have a clue who they were working for, didn't have a clue what was going on, but he chooses to bring them in. I like that That even as you work toward a miracle in your life, know that the Lord desires to use you in the process. You're not the miracle worker. But you involve. Oh my God. Is that thing missed y'all yet? I'm talking about pulling your bootstraps up and saying, wait a minute. I'm ready to work for my blessing. Amen. I'm gonna do something and say, Lord Here I am. Send me. I'm ready. Not just it'll come to me. We become a society where we just give everything, don't we? So y'all remember your mama. You want to drive my car You go wash it. You go vacuum the car. You go take me by Miss Johnson's house. Are you kidding me? Just to get the keys. Now we give kids the keys, the car, and and and gas money. Praise God. That's a little throwback But you gotta get involved, you may I washed that car, I vacuumed it, and I made sure I took a body visit somebody, went to the store And got the keys. Praise God. Now they're we're giving two dollars to kind of move on. But this idea of being inclusive. I mean take what I'm trying to do now with this preaching. Is that The word can still go forth. Is that he don't really need temptude or any other preacher to say, I need you. He just chose Uh the foolishness of preaching to save the lost. First Corinthians 121. God was pleased through the foolishness of what was preached to save those who would believe. He don't really need This mouthpiece. He don't really need your testimony, but he chooses. He chooses to include you In his word. I'm I'm I'm trying to move old. Let's get excited. You mean I'm I'm involved? You mean you gonna use me in yeah you You can be a part of what I'm going to do that's gonna blow folk mine and blow yours too. You might just be in the Amen corner. You might just say thank you, Jesus. But you all in we all have a role. Jesus. Was informed. He was inclusive, but then I found this one that I just kind of brought in. He was in Cognito. Yeah it is. And the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He did not realize where it had come from Though the servants who had drawn the water, they had a clue. Then he called the bridescroom aside and said, you know what? Everybody brings out the choice wine first. And the cheap stuff Uh they wait everybody had too much to drink. Now wine was uh prevalent in Biblical times. I'm not suggesting you do any of this. Um but you save the best for last. Amen? In other words It wasn't Boone's Farm. That was for last. May I me maybe a Chardonnay. I just want to drop that in there because y'all were you were thinking about it. Anyway. But The bridegroom was confused. He couldn't understand somebody setting me up. Because I'm embarrassed that it ran out and then all of a sudden somebody hold off To the end, but a miracle had taken place. And Jesus never revealed his identity. He was incognito. He didn't say, well I'm glad somebody finally realized. It's me. Excuse me. Give me a soapbox. I'm the one who changed the water and the wine. Don't get it twisted. No, no, no, no. He stayed back Behind the scenes. The bridegroom didn't know. The servants had kind of pitched in, but they didn't know who they were dealing with But he did not want to make headlines. Isn't it great that we serve a savior who's incognito? He blesses you and makes Folk wonder how it happened? I serve an incognito Jesus. How did you get that? He was incognito. Who did that? Your credit wasn't that great. Incognito. I don't how'd you get that Incognito, he allows it to happen and sits back. Amen. And it's not about showboarding, Matthew 6 and 6 says, but even when you pray Go into your inner room, shut your door, pray to your father who is unseen, and your father who's seen in secret. Will bless you and reward you in public. Amen? Aren't you glad you served an inclusive Christ, an informed Christ, an incognito Christ. But here's the rest of the story. After it was all said and done, the disciples were baffled They had never seen him work a miracle. This was the first recorded miracle, but through it They grew in their faith. And the word says that sometimes things have to happen in your life for you to grow. You wouldn't grow as long as you think you're doing it all by yourself. But let the Lord come through and put a miracle in your life. All of a sudden, uh oh. I understand now who it is Who makes a difference? As I close today, I want to just leave you with this: that Jesus is more than a miracle worker. Amen. He's alive and available. He's beneficial and he's blessed. He's caring and compassionate. Divine and dependable, excellent and effective, forgiving and faithful, godly and gracious, holy and helpful, inspiring, insightful, just and jealous. Kind and keen, loving and loyal, mighty and matchless, needed and necessary, overcomer Overyun, they're powerful, passionate, quick, quiet, righteous, responsive, supernatural, superior, trustworthy, truthful, upright, undeniable, victorious, vigilant, wise, wholesome. He's all that. What is he to you today? Have you decided what he is for you? I can't tell you what he is for you. I'm glad he's my Lord And my savior. And that's why he died. And that's why he rose again, all because. And that's why my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust. The sweetest rain. But holy lean on Jesus. On Christ, the solid rock I stand. All of the ground is sick and sand. Ever been in sicken sand before when you couldn't get out But aren't you glad today you serve a God who will take care of you? A God who will look out for you? A God who will give you a new perspective on what a real miracle is. Looking for a miracle? You're looking at one. Amen. He took a little nothing and made something. Look at yourself today. So you know what? I'm glad I may not have been the first miracle, but he still Performing miracles. He's not out of the miracle business. He's not put out A sign saying liquidation. He's not said Black Friday. He is at full value. Why? He's a God who can save to the other most and so you know who you serve today. You serve somebody who will just blow your mind. And those around you will wonder What's the matter with you? I serve Jesus. Isn't that good news today? The first miracle turning water In the wine, but turning a Tim into a slate. Turning a jar talker Into a Jesus freak. Turning a liar into one who loves the master. Amen. Amen. Can I just say turning a player? Into a preacher. Oh, some of y'all players. Amen. But what he doing? He will transform you. And it's miraculous. That is the word of God today. Come on, stand today. And let's give God the praise. A miracle is on your street. A miracle is in your home. A miracle about to take place on your job. Others may not see it, but you'll recognize it. You'll know. There's nothing different here. It must be the hand of the Lord. Why you save the best for last? You know, he does it like that. He takes us just the way we are. And fixes us up and transforms us into something that's usable. Only God can do that. The No need to change up. Life everlasting, everlasting. Living water and That's not like about serving the Lord. You don't have to fix up. try to fix up and make ourselves ready and right. Ever done this? I'll come to Jesus, but just give me some time. Some things I want to stop doing and then I'll be I'll be ready then. You can't do that. When you come to him, he works the miracle in your life. You can't change yourself. Today, perhaps there's somebody in the audience today or by way of the Facebook who really has never accepted Christ into your life. I mean you you really haven't. And don't be ashamed about it. It's nobody's business but yours and and his. But today That can all change for you. On the spot, you can be saved right now. No, fill the form out. Come back next week. Press 2. Right now. Bow your heads today. I don't know who I'm speaking to. But the Holy Spirit knows. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. For that person today, who Is unsure about whether they're saved or not. And being saved means eternal life through Christ Jesus. It is our prayer today. For that heart that's not surrendered to you, that they may do it, your word says, if you shall confess with your mouth that God sent Jesus. And that he rose from the dead. And believe that. As best you can in your heart. But you've got to confess it. The Bible says you'll be saved. You mean like that? Yeah. The scriptures promise that. And so today, as you're here, let's take 30 seconds for each of us to take inventory. To ask myself, if I left this earth today, am I am I sure? Well I'll wake up in heaven. If you're not sure that if God came right now, if you're not sure that when you open your eyes, you would Be in his presence, then you need to do it today with all this in me. Don't let this moment pass. I pray you were blessed by today's word to find out more about our ministry. Go to our website. It is www. comthenumbervest. org. Also check out our brand new book. We're excited about it. It's entitled Leading by Example. a parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home, get details on our website. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries, wishing you a great day.