Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Praise you the Lord. This is the day the Lord has made Let us rejoice and be glad in the day. How many persons are glad to be on the Lord's program? Amen. Let us bow today. Heavenly Father, we do come and we do proclaim your goodness. On this blessed morning, we think back to what it must have been like To see the Christ shall come forth. There lying in the manger Kings were worried. Humanity was excited. And we thank you for that moment. A holy moment. Now, as we come to declare your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase Save someone on this Christmas morning. Inspire another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. How many folk are just glad to be on the Lord's side? Amen. As we come today, we're certainly visiting a scripture that we've been sharing for the past month or so. And I believe that together we can share it and let the world know what we believe. Amen? Isaiah 9 and 6. Let's read it together. I want to share for the final part of our series, and its name shall be called Part 4. His name shall be called Part Four. It's been said that we're living in challenging times. In fact, the Bible talks about perilous times Turn your television on or pick up your smartphone and you will see what's happening in the world that we live in. A world that seems void of peace, a world that you can look down the street or around the corner and see many things happening. You have the same phrase in conversation, my, what is the world coming to? On yesterday, I got a chance to go out and about and And was able to encounter a ninety-five-year-old woman. And she was full of the Holy Ghost And said, I got hope. And when you hear a senior saint say how much hope they've got, my God, you too ought to be excited about what our future holds. See, we're different citizens. We are citizens of the kingdom. And our perspective is a bit different. I would say that we're branded with our belief. To trust in a God who can truly make a difference in our life He'll turn your midnights into marvelous mornings. He'll turn your trials and temptations into triumphs. Has it happened in your situation in your life? Has he turned your joy into peace? And so peace is what we're talking about today. Isaiah writes this particular passage, some 700 years ahead of time, and says, the one who's coming The one who will show up in that manger will be everlasting Father Mighty God, and that he'll also be the Prince of Peace Don't we need some peace today? I would declare that we need peace of mind. In the Hebrew, that word is simply shalom. I like to encounter my Jewish friends and just say to them, shalom. It means peace. And God is the only one who can give you peace. Shed open the Gospel of John 16 and 33. In me you should have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. Why? For I've overcome the world. Now that was a shout moment right there, that no matter what I go through, no matter what I face, that I've overcome my largest obstacle. I'm a step above that thing that's tried to bring me down. Anybody feel God's peace this morning? There's something About his peace. I want to suggest that the peace of God, by way of his son Jesus Christ, can really transform our lives. You know, when you think about this workpiece, I'm thinking about when God is able to shift your mind From something that may have depressed you and put you in a state that folk may think you crazy. Why are you smiling? I know what you just went through, but you got a smile on your face. What is that? That is the feast of God. And so I want to just ask you today, just me and you talking today, about the quality of your peace. About the quantity of your peace. and about your quest to find the peace of God. You know, when we say quality, we think about how things are made. We'll do research to see what folks are saying about the latest product. How many stars does it have? What are people saying about that new item before I buy it? We rate things, but what about your peace? What kind of peace do you have? Is your peace the kind of peace that somebody cuts you off and you lose it? Is your peace so fragile that somebody talks about you and you get all worked up and you get mad? What kind of peace do you have? What is the quality of your peace? What is your peace made of? I love Philippians 4 and 6 says, be careful for nothing. But by way of prayer and supplication With thanksgiving, make your request known unto God, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds In Christ Jesus. Right now you ought to take a real deep breath. So you know what? I've got that kind of peace. Peace that comes along when you're confused Peace that comes along. Does anybody feel that peace today? The kind of peace that allows you to be in a chill mode. You should be pulling your hair out, and there you are back with a lemonade. Talking about God is good all the time. Folk think you crazy. Man, you just lost your job. God is good. Man, the doctor say he don't know. God is good. I don't know where my next meal is coming from, and you just chilling, God is good. All the time. And all the time, God. Do you have a good peace? Is your piece the color piece that has that quality? So much so that you can stand on it. So much so that you know it's nothing but God Himself. But what about the quantity of your peace? How much peace do you have? A little bit? Are you running on E? Or do you have great peace today? I love that commercial and the billboard that says Got Milk. You know the one that gives you a a white mustache No matter what your gender is, you want to have the kind of peace that would say, God, peace that I know you're looking at me funny, but no matter what I've been through I got peace. No matter what hills I have to climb, I've got peace. That's the quantity. Even when things may run out that I can still go back and get a supply of the peace that comes from the Prince of Peace. You know, just thinking about this. This week, I start to chill in my own right that there's some things that we all go through that might worry us But I declare, I double dog dare you to say, Lord, I'm not gonna worry. Lord, they won't get on my last nerve because I got peace on top of peace. I got peace for today. I've got peace for tomorrow. I have got the peace of God. It's not watered down peace. It's not peace that is not genuine, but this is the peace of God that we have John 14, 27. And Christ says, I leave you my peace. He says, I want you to have what I've got. Can I give you something that's kept me through 33 years that it's not as the world gives it? Uh-huh. But I give my peace to you. And then he says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, you also believe. Can I just keep on going? In my father's house, there are many mansions If it were not so, I would have told you. Therefore, I go to prepare a place for you. That where I am, you will be also. Amen. In my father's house, there are many mansions. You already got a place all set up, your rooms all set up in a place called glory. The quantity of God's peace. The quality. It's good. It's genuine. I got enough to give you today. I see you looking sad here. Let me tell you the Lord can make a way. Let me tell you it's gonna be alright. I know you can't see, but so far, and we've talked about it. Our kids think we're so wise. And we messed up so bad and just didn't tell them. But the peace of God has brought you through. The peace of God has made a way just for you. But there's got to be a quest for peace. How bad do you want it? And to have a quest is to really go after something. I mean really say I'm gonna get this no matter what it takes and you may have come today and you're a void of peace Put on your peace chasing shoes and say I'm going after what God has for me. He's got his peace because he is the Prince of Peace That when things are out of character and out of control, I'm just gonna run to a mountain that's higher than I am And that's what's great about what the Lord does for us, is he provides his peace. It says later over in the book of Isaiah that he will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on him. Now your mind can't be over here and over there and what they said on a particular talk show and and what you saw online Or somebody was lying. But make sure that you go after the peace of God. Anybody ever had to chase peace down? So much so that you said, you know what? I don't know what's going on in my life, but I need the peace of God. I'm not gonna get it just Sydney. I'm gonna get his word Open his word up. I'm gonna look at his word. I'm gonna make sure that I'm gonna have that kind of peace. Why? I serve the Prince of Peace My God, I know you've heard of the Prince of Bel Arab and the other princes. I'm talking about the prince. Amen. The prince of peace. You know. The Bible says, Matthew 5 and 9, that Jesus is preaching the Sermon on the Mount, the Beatitudes. He says to his disciples, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called The children of God. I know you used to be a rabbit rouser, but now you have been labeled as a peacemaker. Yeah, oh oh bad you. Yeah, oh you at a drop of a dime wouldn't take no stuff. Now all of a sudden you and I are being called peacemakers. Jesus is our peacemaker. He was born and died so that we might have peace I've been singing this song all week, had no note, but I like the words. Let there be peace on earth. And let it begin with me. Let there be peace on earth, the peace that was meant oh somebody knows that song was meant to be. I should have had Joel and said, Quiet. With God as our Father. Brothers, all are we. Let me walk with my brother. Can I add in, sister? In perfect harmony. I don't just want to walk in peace. I want to experience the peace of God and not just experience his peace, but also fight for his peace. And not just fight for his peace, but also give peace. And not just give peace, but also keep the peace. And not just keep the peace, but also to live in peace. And not just to live in peace, but also to try and make some peace. And not just to make peace, but to practice peace. And not just to practice peace, but to receive peace. The Prince of Peace. You know, there's only one Prince of Peace. And I'm glad about that today. And so below that, there's nobody of any rank No one can measure up to the Lord our God. But I found out what the word says. It says that the family of God, old Peter reminds us, so you know what You may not be a prince, but you are a chosen generation. You are a royal priesthood. You are a holy nation. You are a peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. That was a shout moment. That peace don't mean you've got to be all laid back. Peace means I'm going to give God the praise. Peace means because I've got peace. I've got room to praise him. And because I've got peace, I can walk in the light. That beautiful light. Come where the dewdrops of mercy shine bright. Shine all around me by day and by night. Don't you know Jesus is the light of the world? Amen. When peace like a river attendeth my way. And sorrows, you know that song, but all I know is it is well with my soul Is it well with your soul today? Don't you end this year and you're troubled? But tell the devil to get off your track. Why? I know the Prince of Peace I've got some good quality peace and plenty of it to pass around. And I'm gonna run till I get the peace that God has for me. I'm glad I know the Prince of Peace. Do you know him today? My grandmama would say, I know a man from Galilee. If you I'm just trying to stop, he'll surely accept, oh, do you know him? Anybody know him today? I don't want you to leave saying I'm not quite sure who he was talking about. I'm talking about Jesus The one who died, Jesus. The one who rose? Jesus. The one who got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands He went from that cradle to the cross. Amen. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed Come on, stand today. Come on, give God the praise today. I know somebody Who can make me cool out in a moment's notice? I know someone who can say, alright now, just take it easy. Don't get worked up. Come on, the Jesus come to Jesus Only trust them Only trust him, holy trust him, only trust him down Just now, only trust him, only trust him, J will save you. He was taken, he was taking, he will take you God now. Just now he will save you, he will save you just now as you come today Maybe you've opened your gift up already and you got what you thought you were going to get or maybe you didn't, but that's alright. I want to offer Christ to you A gift that will never go out of style. A gift that will always be it. And the thing about it is that he can save your very soul. Can I just say this? I don't want you to leave 2016 kindness sort of. Like, you know what? Next year, I'm gonna get saved. All we have is right now. I really mean that you have just this moment. And so you have come today and you've never confessed Christ As your personal Savior. What does that mean? That is to say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. But I believe that God sent you That's why I celebrate Christmas. I believe he came and that he died and rose again. That's Easter. You only got two. Holidays under your belt. It'll get you safe. I believe in Christmas. And Easter. You're on your track. Receive that into who you are today. And the Lord will save you. Any witnesses today that know he will save you? He will save you from yourself. No, that's another you. Who's always battling? Always talking to you, giving you bad advice. That's the flesh you But there's another you that is the spirit man and the spirit woman. And once you accept Christ, He lives inside of you. You've got a chip in you. And that amazes me that a God would set his son to die for me and to put his Holy Spirit in me. His presence. He would take that kind of risk that you mean you're putting it in him and in her? I want to belabor. Let's bow today Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Only you can save. I pray today if there's somebody who's in the valley of decision. Not sure what all this means, your word says just speak it. Just confess it. I'm a sinner and I need to be saved. Upon the confession of faith, you promised that you would come in and save them Do it today. In this place, or by way of technology. Do it today. Help that person to get right with you. The space of all which they time is winding up We believe that today. Every day is the day of thanksgiving. So by your power divine, save us all today. Do it, God. On this Christmas day. What a day to get saved. I got saved on Christmas. At a movie theater. I got saved on that day. Do it today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Somebody give God a praise today. Give us what me. Maybe you've come to date, so you know what, Reverend? I'm gonna join the church before 2016 is over. It's your minute. Walk on down for the Lord today. Become part of this fellowship. Meet with other teachers afterwards. What's most important is that you know Jesus. Amen. Let me do this one question How many folk really know Jesus? Yeah. I mean, really. I mean Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Ask for the chairman to come on down. You're gonna dig a scroll. This is evidence for you. Don't bother people. They'll come Now I've been shitting with her every Sunday and you know how bad I am on names. But I know her. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.