1 Kings the 19th chapter verses the 11 through 13. It reads as follows The Lord said, Go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the Lord, for the Lord is about to pass by. Then a great powerful wind tore the mountains apart and shattered the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind there was an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. After the earthquake came a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire came a gentle whisper. When Elijah heard it, he pulled his cloak over his face and went out and stood at the mouth of the cave Then a voice said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? I want to preach today from the Semonic title, The Power of a Whisper. the power of a whisper. The society in which we live has conditioned us in part to embrace, to expect the bold. And to look for the breathtaking and the dynamic. We are often looking for the wow of life. Whether it's watching a movie, we look for something to conclude, some crescendo of sorts. And that may be in For people that we know, it may take place somewhere, or it may be a thing that causes us just to look for something, wow. Never happened in your life. There was just something that you expected to happen. They were going to assure you that was alright, but I thought the last song was going to be a good one I came out spent my money and it was okay. I may as well testify. We go every year, me and my wife, to see the average white man That's right. And at the end we know what they're going to play. Pick up the pieces. They don't play that The show is not very well. But we we we look. But Madison Avenue, those who are in charge of advertising know how to reach us. Amen. They they know how to grab our attention, how to appeal to our senses And I say uh they appeal to our touch and they appeal to our sight and our smell, our taste, and even our hearing. And the messages that they send are loud and clear. Amen? And sometimes borderline corrupt. I don't know about you, but you ever heard of advertisement that just keeps ringing? over and over and once you hear you can finish it off. Because you've been so conditioned to expect that and it may cause you to go to the store and to buy that product based on what you have heard. Be it television or newspaper on the radio or even in your social media feed. But I want to suggest this morning That when it comes to hearing the voice of God, we must learn to adjust our spiritual ears. In such a way that we pick up on the whisper. The whisper. And to whisper is to do just what I did. It is quiet and soft and using one's breath to make a statement. God is a God of the whisper. Yeah. In preparing for this message, I uh turn the radio off and sometimes you gotta just ride and just listen. Sometimes you gotta put your remote control away and do like the mothers of old did on the front porch with a homemade fan down in the south. They would just wave the fan and wave at you when you drove by. Didn't have any electronic devices, but they listened to the voice of God. In our text today we meet Elijah the prophet on assignment for God. God uses him during an important time in Israel's history. A prophet is one who is the mouthpiece for God. The one that God uses to deliver a message. Amen? Mainly to speak out against wickedness. But God, we need that today. Sometimes we're too silent. I didn't say guilt in somebody's face, but some stuff ought not just be right. And you all not act act as if it is, amen. But when you speak out, expect opposition Expect folk to talk about you behind your back. Elijah was just coming off of a major victory there at Mount Hormouth He was being challenged by the prophets of Baal, that God. And he begins to challenge them. They say, well, say, well, we're going to put up all these sacrifices. How God is going to come And I Elijah waited and and and all of a sudden he called his God and fire came down and consumed their offering. Amen? But not long afterwards He finds himself as a person on the run. I mean sometimes when you had your highest moment, be careful that the next thing that may happen may be a challenge of sort, but be not dismayed. God is yet with us. Nothing to be afraid of. Jezebel was after him. Oh y'all know Jezebel. You called folks Jezebel. Why? She was a bad somebody. She was going after. She wanted to find out how 450 of her prophets were dead, and so she goes after Elisha. He's a prophet on the run, defeated. Done, deceived, and yet a complaint with God. He said, notice God I've told the people about you I've shared the word and now here I am shaking in my boots. Amen? Ever been that way before? Feeling down and wondering what's going to happen next. God, I I I I serve you, but right now I don't know what to do. He was feeling sorry for himself Have you ever been there? Yeah. Life's predicaments have forced you into seclusion. You found yourself discouraged and even depressed in life But God takes care of Elijah. Even in the run, he provides for them He goes more than a month and at each station God provides water for him in order to make it, and then he changes his itinerary. And Elijah ends up in a cave on a mountain. And God told him to stand on that mountain. And I believe this morning, if you want to hear the whisper of God. We've got to first of all pay attention to the place where he's sending us. Be aware. Beware of the spectacular things in life. And listen for your assignment. The place. The Lord says, go out and stand on the mountain. In the presence of the Lord, for the Lord will pass by. So so God picked the place. Amen? And Mount Horeb uh is a place that oftentimes referred to as Mount Sinai. It was a place that certainly God was able to even meet Moses And there he was on the back side of the mountain watching his father-in-law sheep, and there was a bush that would not be consumed. Yo, really? I mean, if you walk someplace in the a bush never uh without using law, what's happening? And God spoke to him through The bush. That's right. Mount Mount Herab is where he went up to get the Ten Commandments and to bring them down. Here's what thus saith the Lord. Amen. And it says that he was there To have the presence of the Lord, to see it pass by. I just called to him, pass me now. Oh General Satan. Give my humble cry while all others thou art calling Do not pass me by. Where is your mouth her? The place where God has sent you in order to hear his voice. Can I just ask you that question today? Where is the place that God has sent you that you might in a real way hear what he is saying? To you. And not not everybody else. Yeah. But to you. Amen? Sometimes we show up at the wrong place. That's right. Bad aportment. This is the wrong voice. You're right. And receive the wrong message. But when God sends you to a place He does it for a purpose. So that you might be able to hear his voice. That's been my spirit all we got. Maybe as we're just talking about it, my God. You know, we've had decisions to make and and we don't know what to do. Maybe you do, but when I begin to think think about God, what would you have me to do? I want to get it clear. I'm getting excited about that. I want to make sure it wasn't just a bad dream. I want to make sure it wasn't I got off of a talk show, but I really want to hear your voice. Anybody there today? I'm not talking about should I take a right on wave. I'm talking about when you really need God to come and to instruct you in an important area and you'll just be transparent. I'm gonna retire one. day. Amen. But I don't want to drop a gun on God. I want to hear God. And I know you shall supply all of my needs and you can go. And many for you is not retired. Maybe for something else. Anybody else got a something else? A something else you thought you church is for me? A something else that you were struggling with? And you want clarity? From God. And it comes in a small steel voice. Here. Romans 10 17. So then faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. Okay, you got the place. But we gotta be careful That we don't get too caught up in the spectacular. Oh then. Dismiss that. And that's what the text says. There was a powerful wind. Oh that that must be God. It's a thunderstorm out there. God speaking. And then there was an earthquake. But God was not in the wind. Even though he controlled the wind, he was not in the earthquake, even though uh the earth is the war and the fullness thereof and those that dwell They're in. It wasn't the fire. Amen. Well, you know, they got something going on. Maybe it's the fire. Amen? Glory be to God. But it was A gentle voice. A still small voice. Have you ever heard it? You driving a law or you sitting over sudden? Wait a minute. I just got that not therefore yesterday, but I just I just heard something in my spirit that caused me to stop It was a whisper from God. Sometimes we got chaos, although we got. No. But when he slows it down, We are not to be impressed with what's happening around us. Amen? But always tune in to heaven's God was not in any of that, but he came in a small steel So I want you to just to pause your mind for a moment and try and tune in. So wait a minute, wait a minute. That came with a label, I missed it Had I taken the time to just stop and to be still and know that God is God, it's helping me. Just to listen. I like you, I got a radio with all kinds of channels. I can do, you know, this, that, this. But every now and then, shut it all down. Your favorite show is all shut it off. And just have a little talk with Jesus. And tell them all about your struggle, he'll hear your humble cry, he'll answer by and by. Don't get caught up in the what is the bright light. What everybody is looking at. Did you see that? No, I'm looking at the small thing and the small voice. And which he speaks. A whisperer. Has he ever done it for you? I mean, really? And you were so clear about that, you said Did somebody say something? He spoke through your spirit man and your spirit woman. strengthen myself, wh what if I listen to his voice on this? Yeah. And what if I take in time Oh, y'all y'all feel a bit I'll make some bad decisions and you have too, but think about it. If I take in time I can't correct it now, but by taking time to just hold on. Amen. One more day. Didn't have to make a decision today. It may take a week, but I want to really hear his voice. And then to listen for the assignment. Put yourself in the shoes of of Elijah. There he is. Big bad Elijah in a cave. Afraid. And God has said to him, I'm going to pass by. And when he heard the whisper, verse thirteen says, When Elijah heard it, he pulled the cloak over his face And went out and stood at the mouth of the case. Then the boy said to him, What are you doing? Here. What what huh? You told me to come here. So no, what are you doing here? But the clock It's the respect. That he begins to hide himself in the presence of God. And I think sometimes we've lost respect for God. Come on now. We become a little too loose. Amen. But God is in his holy temple, and all earth will keep style before him. He is in the presence of God, and God says, What are you doing here? Why are you going to church? Why are you in the Bible Academy? Why are you on the prayer line? What are you doing here? What why are you preaching to God? Why? I saw that question. I said about God. He was trying to prepare him for His assignment. Amen? And he's preparing us for our assignment that in the midst of our connecting with him in the whisper, look for something to do. Amen? I can hear my father right now. You're doing stuff around he said, son, you make it work for yourself. In other words, you doing stuff that can be done a lot easier. And sometimes as believers, we make work for ourselves. struggling and pulling her hair out and worrying when God said, I got this. Anyone know our trouble new Savior? And he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. John 6. 38, he says, I have come down from heaven to do not my will, but the will of him who sent me. Well, and he came to preach. And he came to teach, and he killed, and he died, but he rose again on the third day. Anybody excited about that today? I wonder what Ciro Yetse said. He's a writer of Spiritual books. He says, I cannot control the voice of God or how it comes. I can only control my ears My readiness to listen, and my quickness to respond. Can I say that again? I cannot control The voice of God. Or how that voice will come to me. I can only control my ears. My readiness to listen and my quickness to respond. I am by O Lord. I've heard thy voice. And it told thy love for me. And I long to rise in the arms of faith and be closer drawn to thee. Draw me nearer to that Precious bleeding sighs. And grandma would say, I've heard the voice of Jesus say, Come unto me and rest Lie down thy weary one, lie down, thy head upon my breath. I came to Jesus. Anybody come to Jesus? Just like I was. Weary, warm, a rasped, a filler, a And he has made you glad. Are you glad today? I'm so glad that he saved you. I'm so glad that he kept you. I'm so glad that he's dead. It'll change my attitude. All of a sudden, my way of thinking changes when I get a whistle. Yes, it will. My attitude. will change. How I learn and understand. Now that's smart. I'll roll a time or two later on, but thank God I know how to hear and to follow him and to hear his voice. And this whisper changes my altitude. Amen? How high can I go with it? If I want to go hiding in the Lord today and to be more for him and to remember the birth growing up in church. Psalm 121. I was saying didn't know what I was saying. I will lift up my eyes. Unto the hills. For which cometh my help, my health cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. Behold, he that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. He won't. The Lord is thy keeper. And the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. And the sun shall not smite thee by day. Nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee. From all evil. He shall preserve thy going out, going out, and thy coming in. From this time forward, even forevermore. I hear a whisper today, and I'm glad to say that. Wherever all means, forever, that means eternity. A whisper. A whisper on the being the statue all the same. You were looking for all of the great things, God damn you, to look and to listen for his. I come to the garden. While the dew is still on the roses. And the voice I hear. And I carry it none of us. And when you read his voice, you You know the difference. It's not somebody in your dream. It's God's behind you. And what he's saying to you is that you look what you're doing here. Hallelujah. I'm just a man. And I'm just trying to live right here. I'm doing here. I'm just I'm just praying to God for that's what I'm doing here. I'm trying to live a life that is pleasing to you is all in No! Yes, sir. The power of the above. That is the word of God today. I ain't got it. I ain't got it. I've been listening to the wrong people. Reading the wrong book. Taking the wrong class. Everybody tells me how to hear from God. I'm stuck on the earthquake. And the winds and the fire and his soul simple. Speaking to a friend of mine, his favorite line is, Reverend, I just got a fifth grade education. Now he has more than that. What he's saying is sometimes we overthink it. Amen? Let's bow today. Yes, sir. Heavenly Father, we thank you for using an Elijah as an example of how to recognize a whisper. Yes, dear. We thank you that you speak. We thank you that we are to obey. The word says obedience is better than sacrifice. Today help us to hear and then to obey your voice. Jesus. We ask it in your name. Father, even now there might be one in this place who may not hear the voice of the pastor, but in the midst of your word they And what they heard wasn't a whisper from you. We can't save anybody. We can't beat them into submission. We can't force them to come to church. We can't twist their arm and say you will be. Yes, Lord. There is one who's waiting. So I pray even now, whether in this place or whether online, that they may hear your voice. Yes, Lord. Whisper. Yes, Lord. Save them today. Pray in Jesus. Come on, give double praise today.