This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. So glad to have you today. And you may have thought that you lost an hour, or you didn't lose anything. Every day is a day of Thanksgiving And we thank God for the day. We're so glad you've taken time to join us here in Harvest Christian Ministries. And even now, let your family members and friends know that Harvest is on the air. Before we get started, let's have a word of prayer this morning. Heavenly Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And God, we thank you from the rising of the sun to the going down of the same. Thy name is worthy. As we come today, God, we just want to thank you for all of your many blessings. Want to thank you, God, for watching over us as we slept last night and as you got us up this morning. God, we thank you that things are as well as they are. But most of all, we thank you for your Son, Jesus Christ, who died for our sins. So even now, God, we ask for your forgiveness for those things that we've said or done this week that did not please you as we come to this moment, may we hear from you. Speak, Lord, thy servant heareth. I pray, dear God, for every home represented this morning, and for the home that represents the other home. that families might sense that you're with them always, even to the end of the earth. I ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. What a blessed day we can proclaim to the glory of God. Well, uh, this is no big anniversary, but it's been about a year since we started our online services and you've been with us uh since the very beginning and who would have known uh that we will be doing uh this way of ministry Well blessed be the God and we thank you for your support and your viewership and your being able to share over this medium for such a time as this. Persons may ask. What's next, Pastor? Always a great question about where we're going next. You've watched the news, you've seen what persons are doing in many other communities We're still not at that point yet. Amen? And when we get to that point, we're going to check in with you and see how comfortable you are with returning in person in some form or fashion. And let me just say this. I'm not giving you advice. You can get the shot. The pastor will recommend you get it. Well, Pastor, I don't know about that. See, it's not in the shot It's in the Savior. So, amen. So you can go get the shot. The same God who kept you before the shot We'll keep you after the shot, amen. Oh, that's a shot in the arm for Jesus. But we bless the Lord even now. Well I can tell you this much We are moving ahead with our Good Friday service. I'm not the long-term forecast guy, but we're looking to a drive-up service. We'll be letting you know you'll be getting it by way of our updates And we're just praying to God that as we move in this most holy season, that nothing will be missed. Amen? Nothing will be missed. That God is still the same yesterday, today, forevermore. Praise be to God. Let's start today with uh praise to him, getting our hearts prepared. Amen. The splendor of measures. All the earth is he rounds himself in high and your heart is rise to high and joy. How rain, how brain, it went on. It's the rage. And this again, beginning and begin, beginning and begin with God every more. All this weird with God, the wine and the land, the wine and the lamb, and we live in God. See the beam, how great is thy God, and watch me how great, how great is thy God. You're the name of the name, you really are deep. How great you are God How great you are great Amen. How great is our God. That's not up for debate. He is God all by himself. And we bless the Lord today as we get closer to the Word of God. I'm always excited about uh during the course of the week, uh you ask the Lord to give you a word and then to breathe on that word and he does what? He does just that. Always say the word starts with the pastor, starts with the preacher, and is it doing anything for you? And so as we come today, we just excited about the word of God and we'll come to it after another song from our choir. Me no one does love the Jesus. In his mercy and his grace in the nation pride and whether he'll be. Let us let me through and table. Trust me, serve me every day. Just one will. In glory, we will go library when we are getting together. We will stay and shall we Just interview every day, just one window in everyone. When the world we play when we all get together, what we are saying that we When we were we must be a shot. When we are together, when they are rejoicing everyone We will sing and shut the victory. Every high will be. Happy will be happy over there. We will swing and shall we will be happy over there. Amen, Amen. Bless the Lord Uh that's a destination for the believer is heaven. And I just say this, I thank God for in-person worship because here at the Toon House We have in-person worship. Amen? Even though we come to you by way of this medium, uh the church started in the home. So blessed be the God. Let's take a moment even now. Father, we come In the name of Jesus, and we are thankful for this opportunity just to share your word. God, we thank you that it remains a lamp and a light. I pray even now, God, as we declare your word, that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Oh, blessed be to God. There's a word from the Lord today It comes from the Gospel of John, the tenth chapter of John, verses 14 and 15, if you have your Bibles available. Amen. I know we're taking a logical people, but don't forget the old school Bible. Amen. The kind you can touch and feel. And there you'll read these words. Verse 14 says, I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep, and my sheep know me. Verse 15 says, just as the Father knows me, And I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, I am the Good Shepherd. I am the Good Shepherd. There's some estimates out there that some of the major Fortune 500 companies and those who are even smaller spend upwards of $87 billion a year. For what? For team building, for bringing together employees and having bonding activities with the goal being is to help them to collaborate more and to build relationships. That's a high price, but it's important to companies to have that kind of culture. But you know, Jesus Christ uh had been doing this for many years. He is the CEO. In fact, it was during his time here on earth that he recruited uh fishermen and tax collectors and thieves. and made up the team that would go and turn the world upside down. So he knows what it means to find people uh who may not have a skill set but to train them in the things of Jesus Christ. He is the CEO. In fact, there's a book by that very title. Laura Beth Jones put out a book called Jesus CEO. It's a quick read and what she comes away with is that Jesus makes people better versions of themselves. You may like the way you are now, but once you have a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, I guarantee you you will be better. Amen? Why? Because you are part of the Jesus team. So Jesus, I believe, desires to build and strengthen our relationship with Him as well as the lost and the found. So really we're doing a series, and if you want to follow, you can always go back over previous Sundays and know that we began this series talking about Jesus being the bread of life And how that uh he would fill us uh with nourishment from glory. Amen. And also how he is the light of the world, that you don't have to walk in darkness if you choose to follow Jesus Christ in a real way. And all last time we talked about Jesus being the door. Amen. Knock knock who's there. It is Jesus Christ who we know. In this tenth chapter, where most of the I and statements are coming from, preceding this text, Jesus talks to the community in a real way about the difference. in a shepherd and a hired hand. In other words, uh the shepherd cares for the sheep, will protect the sheep uh through any situation, a hard hand is just that. The hard hand does not own the sheep. And so uh at a moment's notice The higher hand takes off, leaves the sheep unprotected, but not this good shepherd, this good shepherd whom we call Jesus. I want to just say today the importance of having a personal relationship with him, the importance of a divine relationship and the importance of a sacrificial relationship Let's talk about personal relationship. Verse 14, he says, I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep. And my sheep know me. Jesus had a way to speak to the community. He had a way of seeing things around him. knowing he was in a community, uh that he would get the attention of sheep and shepherd and those who lived in that community, he would always use an example. I am the good shepherd. Now they could relate to that He has a way of doing that, not just back then, but in the here and now, Jesus takes things that are familiar to us and he uses them to make a point. Has there ever been a point in your life by using something that you just took for granted and said, listen, I want to show you more of me through this thing, uh this particular custom that you that you follow that becomes so important. It was Indian theologian D. T. Niles who tells a great story about uh walking along his community and seeing a shepherd there with his sheep. And as he walked further he began to uh have a question for the shepherd, young boy. He says, how many sheep do you have? And it was rather answer. He didn't have to count his fingers. There was no calculator. He says I can't count. And and of course he was puzzled by that and maybe tried to frame the question a different way. How many sheep do you have? But maybe you didn't hear me the first time. He says, I can't count But how do you know that if a sheep wanders off? How do you know if someone comes along and steals a sheep? He says, Well, I can't count them, but I know their names And the Lord Jesus Christ knows our name. He knows every hair of us on our head. Aren't you glad today that Jesus knows your name? Amen. He calls you redeemed. He calls you son and daughter. He calls you blessed. That becomes so important. We, I believe, are challenged today to build relationships with people. Now it does not mean you gotta be somebody's buddy. a best friend, but God allows you to encounter people in your daily walk. You may not know their names, but you can tell them about the name. The name of Jesus that made the difference in your life. So often we hide our testimony. So often we're afraid we're going to offend somebody. Yet there's so many offensive things on our phones and TVs and etcetera but we feel like I don't want to uh rub anybody the wrong way. They may call HR. Well the Holy Ghost will help you in a divine way. to be able to share the good news of Jesus Christ. Because see, you serve, I believe you would agree, a personal savior. Who has a personal relationship with you? And when it comes to sheep, Jesus gives the example. He gives a parable, which is a uh earthly story with heavenly meaning. Luke 15 and 4. He says, you know what? He says, think about this shepherd. He goes out, he loses one sheep, but he'll leave the 99 just to find the one. Those passages go on to say, and when he comes back, There's some excitement because he's on his shoulder, is the lost sheep. Souls ought to mean that much to you There ought to be a record that somewhere along the way, you're not keeping store, but have you ever told somebody about Jesus and about your personal relationship? Have you ever tried to lead them to Christ? Think about that today. We're dealing with a personal relationship, but also there's a divine relationship. Verse 15 says: just as the Father knows me And I know the Father. There Jesus is again breaking it down to the ump degree. He's talking about his relationship with his father. And that becomes so key. If you're a father with a son, you wouldn't know that. If you're a mother with a daughter, it's important to have these relationships that are key. And sometimes you gotta use the example. He says Listen, just like the Father knows me, and I know the Father, it becomes so important that I can identify with the Father I was thinking this week that we've become uh so uh digital these days that our phones, you could say to your phone, uh you know, tell me this, and that phone recognizes your voice. Isn't that scary? The phone also gets in your business because you're trying to type something, it's already giving you an ad because it knew it was you were talking about a product See that's scary. Also, you can unlock your phone by what? Your face. It sees your face and say, I know who you are. Now with the mask on, it will not be fooled. You gotta remove the mask of putting your code in it. You can even use your finger as a way. All I'm saying is when it comes to relationships, that we don't need a phone. Well, yes, we do, because there's a phone in our bosom as it relates to getting in touch with Jesus. Don't let technology get the lead, but you take time To have a little talk with Jesus and to tell him all about your struggles. Jesus was saying, here is an example of me knowing my father the same way I want to know you. Don't you know that That Jesus wants to know you. I may as well go old school. Y'all know I'm in the world, but not of the world. There was an old song back in the day. Some of you do what folk know about this I want to know your name. Oh, that was like a line used in a song. But don't you know that he wants to know your name? He wants to use you to the glory of God Yeah, that's on a 45. That's an old school record, amen. But I love keeping it real because I caught your attention with that. I don't want to have records anymore. But It becomes so important for us to look at the picture of Jesus and his father as an example of what a divine relationship looks like. In John 17, 21, as Jesus is heading toward Jerusalem, he takes time to pray to his Father. He says, you know what? It is that they might become just as you and I are, Lord. that they may also be in us. There again, he's pointing that as I pray this prayer, I desire for this divine relationship that they might be like us. That he uses that example, a divine relationship, a personal relationship. And a sacrificial relationship. The latter part of verse 15 says, and I lay down my life for the sheep. Shepherds would give their lives for the sheep. They're important. Yes, they were an investment, but you didn't come to that sheepfold without having to go past a shepherd. And a shepherd literally would lay down their lives for the sheep. And we are the sheep. Of his pastor. Amen. And he, by way of Jesus Christ, laid down his life for us. Isn't that amazing? It's amazing that he would do that in such a time as this and for people like us. Why We don't deserve it. And you know, I know that you may be a big baseball fan. If so, the time is getting near when uh baseball will start taking me out to the ball game. But I'm uh uh encouraged by uh pinch hitters. Uh these are people that the manager may put in at a crucial time and say, listen, I want to put you in the roster because you could hit And as a result, we want to win the victory. Jesus Christ can become our pinch hitter. Some of you may remember in the day before you had real bats and balls that you get to be two stripes. And somebody would say, listen, can I take your last? And they may get up and win the game. But Jesus is our pinch hitter. He stands in the gap for us. And he doesn't For love. That's all there is to it. And John 15, 13, 14 later talks about greater love has no one than this to lay down the life of one's friends. And then he says this, you are my friends if you do what I command. There's stipulations. But I want to let you know how much the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. In the Gospel of Mark, the story is shared by that particular writer of this picture of Jesus doing what he does best. He's out with the people. He's having a Bible study. And the word gets to him that Jesus, your mother, and your brothers are here to see you. And so he was interrupted. And the word has it that they thought he had Maybe lost it. You know, this not the Jesus we know, but he had said earlier, I'm about my father's business. And they send the message. Uh they are here and they want to see you, and he returns the message. Well Who is my mother? And who is my brother? Who is my sister? Except those who do the will of my father. That sounds like relationship. Amen. That we must ride on a personal relationship and a divine relationship. And a sacrificial relationship that becomes so important. Some time ago I bought this book and I think I just like the title. It's called Getting Ahead by Staying Behind. That this society tells us if you want to get ahead, you gotta cut people off, double across them, stab them in the back, lie on them, send out fake messages. Why? To get ahead But see, we as believers realize to get ahead, we've got to stay behind and allow the Lord Jesus Christ to lead us. Lead me, O Lord, lead me. Guide me alone the way. For if you lead me, I shall not stray. Lord! Let me walk each day with thee. Lead me, O Lord, lead me. Do you want to be led today by the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, here's what he'll do He'll lead you through adversity. Things are so bad, and you don't know where to turn. He'll lead you through adversity. He will also lead you through the challenges of life He's led you through this pandemic. You didn't know which way to go. He will lead you through fear. God has not given you the spirit of fear, but love, power, and a sound mind, he will lead you through pain. Not just physical pain, but maybe emotional pain, maybe spiritual pain. He will lead you through shame. Amen. Somebody scandalizing your name. Don't you know he will lead you All the way. Amen. But he will lead you to some things. He will lead you toward hope. Hope that only comes from Jesus Christ, our Savior. He will lead you to joy. The joy of the Lord is my strength. Weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. He's leading you to someplace. He's leading you to peace. He will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is staying on him. Lead me to someplace, God. He will lead you to a new beginning. Amen. If any person be in Christ, all things are passed away. Behold, all things are new. It's the benefit of having a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but I'm gonna follow the good shepherd. Not the okay shepherd, not the fake shepherd, not the lying shepherd, not the cheating shepherd, but I want to follow The good shepherd, the one who died for me. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Blessed be to God. Our choir is going to come, we'll come back and tell you more about this, Jesus Yes, we are. To the death of my world Complet. I usually my go to. Yes, you are one of my heart you can Right so Amen. Yes, Lord, yes, Lord. Before we get to the main news, let me tell you about the good news of Jesus Christ. And let me tell you who He is. He is the one who died for our sins. He's the one who sacrificed his life just for us. So I'll stop by this morning, wherever you may be, by way of broadcast TV, internet, uh, over audio Begin to ask yourself the question and be very honest with yourself. Say self, do I have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? If you can't answer that question in a way that you feel comfortable with, the Bible says, thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible said, Thou shalt be saved. I told a story many years ago of how I grew up in church and at an early age gave my life to Jesus, but I was so young I didn't really have a grasp of it. You ever been there? And over the summer as a teenager, I got a little part-time job. I didn't mind working. I worked in the fields, but I got a little part-time job working as a custodian helper And it was a lot of work. And the guy who was the main guy at that Voltec Center would not leave me alone. Are you saved? And I was dodging him, even though I worked for him. And that question kept burning, are you saved? And that's the question I asked you today. Have you been converted? It's a fair question. It's the right question. Let's bow today. Father God, we come in the name of Jesus. Help us to be able to answer the question that gives us eternal life That yes, I believe that God sent his only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. And I believe that Jesus rose with all power in his hand. I pray even now, God, we didn't come to force anybody, but to think, to think about it. Where are you today as it relates to your relationship? With Jesus Christ. Do it today. Now we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the check on some of our headlines with our reporter. It is our desire to keep you up to date on all of the harvest happenings. We'll be glad to keep you informed. Send your text or email to come the number twoharvest. org slash updates. We can't thank you enough for your financial support. support. If you would like to plant seeds online, contact us at comethenumber2harvest. org slash give online. With your financial support, Harvest is becoming a global ministry, reaching listeners and viewers. now in 40 states and 30 countries. To God be the glory. For prayer, reach us at contact at comthenumbertwoharvest. org. For WHM News from Studio C, I'm Tim Toon Jr. Now back to you. Thank you, sir. We bless God for those announcements. You can always find anything you need online. We talked about the Good Friday service. Be sure to stay awake on that. We're going to send you some information. Now we're going to wrap up our series on next week, the I Am series. And we'll talk more about that. I am the life and the resurrection and the life But before we do that, before we tell you about this, we want to just give you a going home song, a little song to go home with, and we'll come back with an official closeout. God bless you Amen. Always care. Keep him on your mind. Again, on next Sunday, we'll wrap up our series, which is I am what? I am the resurrection and the life. On next Sunday. We've enjoyed our time together. I pray that you're having a fantastic day. Tell somebody that the Lord Jesus Christ loves you. Pursuit your seed for the entire harvest team. Have a blessed day in the Lord.