Not in my bank account, not in my job, not in my best friend. Let me trust in the Lord. Yes, Lord. Mighty good God. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, he's worthy. Father, we come today and we thank you. The word says in everything give thanks. For this is the will of God. In Christ Jesus concerning you as we stand today, God, to proclaim your word, might we decrease? And might you increase. Encourage someone, save someone. Give them hope in this hour. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Somebody say amen today. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes. comes from the Gospel of Luke, the eighteenth chapter, verses eighteen through twenty-three. It reads A certain ruler asked him, good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life Why do you call me good? Jesus answered. No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. You shall not commit adultery You should not murder, you should not steal, you should not give false testimony. Honor your father and mother. All these I have kept since I was a boy, he said. When Jesus heard this, he said to him, You still like one thing Sell everything you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come follow me When he heard this, he became very sad because he was very wealthy. We'll have preached today from the Zamonic title The young and the restless. The young and the restless Do you ever feel that there's just something missing in your own personal life that's left you feeling dissatisfied or perhaps empty, discouraged. And all you can think about is I need to change. Change something, change someone, change my outlook And so you've tried a 30-day plan and it's day thirty-one and nothing has happened. You've read the book that says you can transform your life now And yet you find that you're in the same place you are stuck. At some point along your journey you realize that only God and God alone can fill that empty space. Can I press pause right there? Am I talking to anybody who knows that until you found the Lord, until he chose you, you would do that. But you didn't have the joy that you have now. You didn't have the peace that you have now. You didn't have the love that you have now because something was going on. You in effect were young And restless. Now let me say this. This is an age situation appropriate servant. So you can be young Middle age, senior, or seasoned, we are all in some way young and restless in our faith toward God. In our text today, we meet a young and restless ruler. He was rich, had lots of money, lots of possessions, had position, had authority, who knows, maybe he had the good looks as well. And there's nothing wrong with any of these, but none of them can truly satisfy the hunger that's taking place deep inside of all of us. It was St. Augustine who said, Thou hast made us for thyself, O Lord, and our heart is restless until we find rest in thee. The rich young ruler realized that money could not do it. It could not buy him happiness. Often tell my wife, she said, Look at that. Now they got it like that. My response has always been, Well are they happy? I mean it's possible to have it like that and be happy too. Don't say pastors say that you can't have it like that. If you got it like that and you got Jesus, that's alright. As long as you know who your source is As long as you acknowledge that all of your help cometh from the Lord. But what the rich young ruler needed most was eternal life. And so he comes to Jesus with his portfolio. He was tight. He had plenty of earthly possessions Had proclamations and plaques and trophies, and he wanted more, he was young and restless So in verse 1819, he gets to the point. He addresses Jesus as the good master. That may have been his first mistake. It seemed to have a ring to it. Maybe there was a bit of sarcasm. But he says, what do I have to do to obtain eternal life? And Jesus sets him straight. He already knows this man is young. He knows our situation. Before we come to him, we're never surprising Jesus with our request. He's never caught off guard. Like, oh, is that what you governed me for? He already knows. And so Jesus responds to a question with a question Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. As we unpack this text, We'll find out that the rich young ruler rejects an offer to follow Jesus because of his unbelief and his self-righteousness. And it's love for the world. Verse 20 says, you know the commandments. You should not commit adultery You should not murder, you should not steal, you should not give false testimony. Honor your father and mother The young ruler knew the commandments. He was already straight in regards to what it was he wanted to do. Amen. And so he knew the word, but knowing the word and living the word is different. Let me back that up for a minute. It's one thing to know the word. Another thing to live the word that sounds like our theme for the year. Huh? Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourself. You know the rest of it. Do what it said. Just do it. And that's what is taking place here. Are you a believer? Can I do the invitation now as opposed to later? The Bible said, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved Not how many commandments you know, not how many Bible cities you've attended. He says, For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. He was young and restless because He didn't really believe. And there's some folk who don't believe. They they they taught the good stuff. But they're faking it. Yeah, I received Christ at an early age and I had a church resume as long as you ever want to find But I still didn't have my heart in the right place. And so when folk would come to me and say, hey, I said, man, I I went to the Springfield Baptist Church, bro. I was in Sunday school, huh? My mother sung on the choir. I was in the Christmas play. All that They said, but are you saved? Man, I sold chicken dinners and washed cars on Saturday and man I I did all that. Yeah, but are you saved? Man, man, I I helped Miss Johnson the other day. Uh uh are you saying all the good things are done? But do you No Jesus. Amen. That was an unbelief, and that's why he was young and restless. But there was also some self-righteousness Very short, verse 21, he responds to Jesus, all these I've kept since I was a boy. In other words, I know that. Biblically speaking, self-righteousness is the idea that we can somehow generate within ourselves righteousness That be acceptable. In other words, we can make ourselves righteous because of things that we know. But it goes much deeper because Romans 3 and 10 says, there is none righteous No, not one. Now I know you all that, but but he proclaims that to the church at Rome. He thought he'd done everything by the book. Not realizing he was talking to the book. John 1 and 1 says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and the Word was with God. It sounded like the rich young ruler says, listen, I I I've been knowing this stuff since I was a boy. Don't that give me some points? Don't I get some reward points just for that? Don't I get a upper hand? I'm I'm already rich and I'm already young And I've already done what the book says, but somehow I'm feeling a little self-righteous, like God owes me something Or maybe you've never been there before. You've done a good deed and you want a pat on the back. Uh-huh. You think you've got some extra points in glory just because of that. He was a bit self-righteous. Had a little attitude, but we have all grown up in God and become restless. Psalm 3725 says, I've been young And now I am old, I've never seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. And before you get puffed up, Isaiah 64, 6 says, All our righteousness is as filthy rags. It's a wake-up call, and that's what made him restless. Being young, he couldn't change. Being restless will at least you. Have you ever been restless in who you are and restless in what you've done? And rest of who you tried to become, there was this sense of restlessness because there was self-righteousness. It's all about me, myself, and I. That's why he had issues. Self-righteous. Unbelief. And then here's the third one. There was a love of the world. Verse 22 says, when Jesus heard this, he said to him, You still like one thing. Sell everything you have and give it to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven. Then come, follow me. Put it on eBay. Sell it on Amazon. But get get get rid of it because that has become The thing that identifies you, he says, now if you want to follow me, you can't carry this with you. Here's some commandments. Things that you have to do. And they're stipulations that he gives us. He told them there was another stipulation to gain eternal life, sell everything. The market's already down, just sell it. But what has the Lord asked you to give up? Reverend, you finally got on my street because my money is funny. But what has he asked you to give up? Is it people? You ought not be hanging with places, you ought not be going things You ought not be dealing with Yeah, get rid of that first. And those things begin to become a part of who we are We can't detach from people. We can't detach from places. We can't detach from things, but those are the stipulations. He loved the world more than he loved the offer that came from Jesus. Now scholars said if he kept all the commandments, he would have known to do what? To love thy neighbor as thyself. Matthew six twenty-one for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. First John two fifteen. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Mark eight thirty-six. What does it profit a person? To gain the whole world and lose your soul, it's a fair question. You know, in between television reporting jobs, I used to sell insurance. Can you see me? Tim Tootin, the agent Trying to sell a policy. I got my state insurance license and I call up and people were confused Say, ain't you the guy that used to be on TV? When you started writing insurance, I had to eat, y'all. And I would go into a home and I would say to them, especially with the life policy, listen You want to make sure that if something were to happen to your loved one that there's a peace of mind I'm not doing advertisement for life insurance, but you ought to get some. And I'm saying you know you want them to be able to continue their lives. And uh once they pull the checkbook, I say, Oh, thank you, Lord. I just wrote a policy. But I knew more about an assurance policy than I did an insurance policy. Amen? An insurance policy gives you temporary relief. But the other assurance policy gives you life eternally. Amen. So can I say today that when you leave this place, you ought to become an assurance agent? Letting somebody know that the wages of sin is still death. An assurance agent, letting somebody know that God is able, letting someone know That weeping may endure for a night, that joy comes. You are an assurance agent. Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine. You can't be so into the world. Don't let your stocks and bonds and your 401k and your gold or your savior Satisfy you, we need a Savior. I love that song says in times like these. We need a Savior. In times like these, we need an anchor. Be sure, be very sure that your anchor holds and grips the solid rock. I'm glad you asked. This rock is Jesus. Yes, he's the one. He's the only one. You don't have to be restless. But you can rest assured that Jesus died Rest assured that Jesus rose. Rest assured that Jesus is coming back, just like he said he was. And so you will find a resting place in him. So therefore don't walk around all restless. Whether you feel young or not. Know that God is still on the throne And no, he will provide all of your needs. But you got to believe he is who he says. Who do men say that I am? The Christ, the Son of the Living God. Anybody know him today? I mean, do you show enough know Jesus? The one who died for you The one who saved your soul, and so I can rest in him because I believe him Because I'm thankful that he has made me righteous and I don't love the world like that. The Bible says, be in the world But not of the world. The young and the the restless. The the the middle aged and and the restless. The senior saint and the restless The season, say, and the rest is but I'm glad I can rest in him today. So whatever you claim to be, rest in Him that is the Word of God is the already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. The young and the restless. The the the young and the and the foolish the young and the misinformed the young and and the lost Today you can change that By giving your heart to Jesus Christ. Just surrender. Surrender. You can do it today. Ever Come on, say what is Astra and all. N'est-ce pas? I don't know the end of that story. It was just a parable. Earthly story with heavenly meaning. Maybe the young ruler went off and said, wait a minute. That makes sense. I'm gonna do what the master's asking me to do. And maybe he sold everything off And maybe he came back. So now I know. What is it that you have not let go in order to be assured that you will inherit eternal life? I'm not questioning your salvation. But what is it that's become between you and the Lord? What is it that's so important to you you can't let it go? That person has become so in they're like a little god to you, and they are blocking you from seeing Jesus. Isaiah says, In the year that King Gazia died, I saw the Lord. High and lifted up, his train filled the temple. What place have you been finding yourself? Physically, spiritually That has put you in bondage. Can I just minister for a minute? It's become such a bondage in your life that you say, no, I can't let this This place go I I I like being in this place, but it's not bringing you any joy. It's not bringing you any understanding and then there are the things Hebrew says, that thing that so easily besides. Oh, we all got a thing. It keeps showing up. That thing. Hey, hey, hey, hey. That keeps you from having a full relationship. That that thing that always meets you in a dog alley somewhere. That thing! Tell it to get thee behind me. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your word today. Letting us know That to follow you, there's some stuff we gotta put aside. Did I pray even now? There's one in this place that knows you not. I pray that you might touch that heart today They may come to you saying, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? Save someone today, God. That's only you can do And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Come on, bless his name today. Maybe you come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship and that was the case on last week. Wonderful couple Came in line and said we were at the join. Y'all come on. So they've come back today. Amen