Praise God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel as pinned by Matthew. Matthew, one of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark. Luke. And there in the sixth chapter, it reads, For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, Your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive you your sins. We're going to preach today from the Samonic title, The Freedom of Forgiveness. The Freedom of Forgiveness. The story is told about two brothers, Harry and James. And as boys do, they start rough housing, start picking on one another, and Harry took a stick and hit James. And they were lashing out at each other. We'll get you. And mama comes in and says, listen, I don't know what's going on, but let's do this. As you go to bed tonight, you don't know if you're going to be alive tomorrow or not. And so forgive each other. And they abide by mama's suggestion. But then James said, Mama, I'll do that. If the Lord let us see tomorrow, I'm gonna get him back. Sometimes we have some Harry in James in our makeup. How often have we held grudges against other people and chose not to forgive? It's going to be a rough ride today. I stopped by to declare that there is freedom in forgiveness. Forgiveness is to release. Forgiveness is to dismiss something. It is to hurl away. To some people, forgiveness may seem like weakness. Like you've let somebody win. Like they've gotten away with murder. See, yeah, you think you got away, but as long as I live, I'm gonna hold on to this thing, and I'm not forgiving. I don't care what anybody says. Forgiveness is not granted because a person deserves it, because no one deserves to be forgiven. Forgiveness is a deliberate act of love. A deliberate act of mercy And grace forgiveness is a decision not to hold something against another person despite what he or she has done to you. And that's where I want to drop my anchor this morning. Freedom of forgiveness. They're in the Gospel of Matthew in the sixth chapter. These are the writings which are called the Sermon on the Mount, the continuation of the Sermon on the Mount. If you've read that fifth chapter, you know Blessed be, blessed be, blessed be. But then it also comes down to a group of religious teachings. Ethical sayings that Jesus shares at that moment, that He is trying to share with them the proper way to live And Matthew 6 is also where we find what we call the Lord's Prayer. That's my go-to prayer, our Father, which art in heaven. And it ends with Amen in the King James Version. But it is after Amen, there is a footnote. There's a commentary. Jesus continues to speak beyond the prayer that you memorize. If you don't believe me, verse 14 and 15 are on it. Easy to miss. If you forgive other people when they sit against you, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But If you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins. Let's take some time to unpack these two passages from the perspective of the promise, the warning, and the choice. For if you forgive other people when they sin Your heavenly Father will forgive you. Sounds repetitious, but when you read the scripture and hear it over again, it starts to sink in. Jesus is making a promise to his disciples. That's all about that. I said, well, it wasn't a crowd. It was his followers who he was speaking to. Not sure if it was something that happened today that you need to forgive others of. Maybe it was last week, maybe it was ten years ago, but who I don't know who your who is. But we all got a who. When you see their face, you tighten up. When you hear their name, you said if I caught them at the right spot I'm talking about Christian folk. I didn't do it, but but you don't know what they did to my family. You don't know how I'm still hurting. You don't know what the situation was, and we don't know what it was the disciples had done or thought that would lead Jesus to say that It seems like it's out of the blue, but it's a part of the prayer. It's not spelled off. It is a two-pronged promise. If you do this, I'll do that. If you forgive I'll forgive. Is that fair enough? There's no way around it. And he always keeps his promise. He cannot lie. And when you think about it that way, verse 14 got you feeling good. Okay, all right. I'm with this. And and it's so important That it is spelled out in such a way that we know that we have to continue to ask God to help us to forgive someone else. Paul knew about this. Ephesians 4 32. He writes, Be kind and compassionate to one another. It is again forgiving each other. Just as Christ forgave you. Promise. You do this I'll do that. And when he gives us a promise, it is something that we can stand on. You may not see the results. I I forgave them, but I don't see no evidence. That they change. I see no evidence that they I I I'm trying, God, but I don't see anybody. It's not for you to see. Since when could you get into somebody's head? I know AI is big, you can't do all that. Artificial intelligence. But when I think about the promise that he gives us, it is something that we can grab a hold of. And it's the part of us as believers where we still struggle. The promise, but then there's a warning. Flashing red light. But if you do not forgive others their sins Your father will not forgive your wow. Let me check the 50 other translations of this. No? Same thing. Don't you see him moving his holy finger? No, no, no, no. The warning is if you don't forgive others of their sins and you know who they are and you know what the sins were and probably been in their shoes before Won't happen. I thought about that digging wall. I said let me let me see here now. Um scholars suggest that we're not talking about salvation. Once saved, always saved. So you don't lose your salvation. The Bible says that you're in his hands that the enemy can't snatch you out. But when you refuse to forgive, you are affecting your fellowship with God. There's a backup that every time you get before him, you can't say now Lord let me give you this. I'm gonna pray until the sun go down. But over here I ain't gonna do it. It is a warning. I don't know about you. I don't want my fellowship affected. I don't want the line to be blocked. I don't want anything to happen when I go before him in prayer. That thing will come up and that person will come up. Why? The Holy Spirit will bring it to your remembrance. Amen. You want to tell people, yeah, you know, I was thinking about it and the Lord touched my heart and I forgave him. That's on you. But if you have not, the warning is don't expect your sins to be forgiven. That means that there's something that's happening with your fellowship. I don't know where you are today. You know, don't you know all week I was like Is there? It bothered me for a minute, but I let it go. Can't think of anybody. I'm a nice person. I'm not mean-spirited. Yeah, somebody wronged me. And I'm thinking Is there someone? Maybe you come and say, Reverend, you want to talk to the wrong crowd. We've all forgiven folk. Maybe try that for a different congregation. But our relationship is strained when we refuse. To forgive. Stand flat footed, I ain't gonna do it. Think about the parable mentioned in Matthew 18 a little bit further about the unmerciful servant. And the king says, you know, you may kinda like your debt collector. You owe me? He said, I I don't have it. I'm you know, I'm pleading, please, please, please, can you put me He pleaded with the king. King said, all right. Let it go. And what does he do? He goes to somebody who owes him. So you rascal, you better pay me? Or I'm gonna wring your neck. I'm putting Tim Tootin in this text. And he said, I don't nope, I don't want to hear it. And came down so hard that when the word got back to the king, tell him to come here. Now I'm gonna lock you up. You see where I'm going with this? It is a parable, an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. Forgiveness, the warning, the promise, and the choice. Well, because we're all grown, we don't have to do it. But all there's freedom in making the right choice. If God made the choice to forgive you and I by way of Christ Jesus. I believe that begins with confession. 1 John 1 and 9 says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. There it is again. And cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Somebody you're struggling with today, that person may not even know. That you've not forgiven them and they don't care. They are living their life and you're the one struggling. You're the one lip tight. You're the one. I don't want to see them in the hallway. And they say, have a good weekend. If if if in the event of if on the assumption of if on the condition of if you do this Here's what I'll do, and it comes by way of prayer. Mark 11, 25 says, And when you stand in praying, if you hold anything against anyone, forgive them. So that your Father in heaven may forgive you your sins. The sermon is titled Freedom of Forgiveness. I follow up the quote in a book from Charles Stanley, the late Charles Stanley, one of my favorite authors. And he writes this. He says, it is liberating To forgive. Forgiveness is painful, liberating because we're free From the heavy load of guilt, freed from bitterness and anger that we've harbored inside. It's taking you to the hospital because you're all stressed out over this. It's painful because it's difficult to have our face ourselves. It's difficult to face God, to face others with our failures. And it says this. Sandy says it seems easier to blame others and go on defending our position of being right. Well, I know I'm right. I'm gonna defend it. Genesis fifty tells the story of Joseph. Says, Bruh, I have a dream that I had this coat that was made for me, and I saw you all bowing down to me. Okay, bruh. They got mad and they did what? They threw him in a pit, sold him into slavery. But God worked it out that they got hungry, had to meet brought in. Yeah. I'm not gonna hold it against you. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Acts 7, the first deacon, deacon Stephen, was being stolen. I ain't do nothing wrong, just try to be a good deacon. And even as he is looking up He's able to share these words. Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And then you know where I'm going. Jesus. Amen. Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do what what they yes they do. No, Father, forgive them. And if Jesus can do it Why can't we do it? Amen. He forgave the Roman soldiers who were throwing dice down by the cross. He forgave those two criminals on either side, say, you know, I I want to go where he's going. Uh he forgave the religious leaders who plotted against him. He forgave the crowd who said, Yeah, get him crucify him. And guess what? He forgave me. Do you know what forgiveness feels like? Have you embraced True forgiveness that if he can do it for me, what is my problem in doing it for others? He did it. In the board game of Monopoly, uh you get two hundred dollars. Every time you pass goes like, yeah, I got two hundred. And you pass around every time you go around You get two hundred. And every time you go around you get it, but then the time when you don't get it, is when you get the wrong card. Go to jail. And some of us today deserve to be in jail based on what we have done But blessed be the God today that He has sustained us. He's allowed us to pass go. We've held on to feelings for years and we have refused to forgive. He's still saying, Pass go Can I go to the highway this morning and let you know that God has given you an easy pass? Other folks were struggling, he allows you to go right on through. Remember the day when you thought you were somebody? No money, but you said, I got an easy pass. And the God that we serve today has given us an easy past. Even as we struggle with should I forgive, even as we struggle with I won't forgive, even as we struggle with I can't do it, that's not me, he says I'm still Giving you a pass. I don't know about you today, but I thank God for that, that even though you don't see, maybe you've not identified the person yet You say, well, when I get off the church, I'm gonna think about it. No, no. Well, even if you're still doing that, all I know is this. I thank God for the hymn that says, Pass me not. Oh gentle Savior, hear my um but cry while on others thou art calling, please don't pass me by. Savior, hear my humble cry. And that's it today. Is that whatever you're struggling with in that area? No, he's already given you a pass, but there's something that we gotta do Amen. Is that put it in your heart, in your mind today, that he can forgive me of all the stuff that nobody knows all the stuff I've done in secret all the stuff I've done on the table, all the stuff that's in my yearbook, all the stuff that's not online, all the stuff if he can do it for me, for my God I ought to be able to say, I forgive you, brother, and God will allow you to grow in your forgiveness. Oh, nobody's with me today. I'm talking about saying, Let me let me come clean with God That I am freer now because I devent that thing go? Don't you feel lighter today that you are tired of fighting If I ever see their car again, I might cross the lane, but God He sent Jesus to the cross. To die for our sins, there is freedom. In forgiveness. Don't you feel better? That you have allowed fellowship to continue The freedom of forgiveness. That's the word of God today. Already blessed. I thought about that thing all week. Search the scriptures, looked at the scholars Getting booked on tape and on Kindle. And it came back to this. If you cannot forgive other people who've sinned against you I ain't gonna do it. His word is true. Lord help us today in this area. You know what the struggle has been like, but we come today to release it, to let it go And to feel and receive the joy that comes from obedience today. Thank you, God. As we come today, perhaps there is one. Who has never given the life to you, and yet they're stuck knee-deep in unforgiveness. Bitter. Or there's something that you can do that the psychologist can't do. The therapist is not equipped to do this. But I pray in the name of Jesus, if there's one today that you might open their heart, allow them to receive forgiveness of their sins. Thus. accepting you as their personal savior. Do it today, God, for someone in this building, for someone over the internet. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. I've decided. I have decided. No more roadblocks. With all my hang ups I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to fall no turning back. No turning back. Though no one joined me, though no one joined, still I will follow. Though no one joined me, still I will follow Though no one joined me, still I will follow. No turning back. No turning tur. Even as you take your seats today, we're moving into our time of holy communion.