Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Good luck. Good luck. Um third. Oh Give to him the birth extent provide. It to him extra less Oh no, oh well. Oh it's me big. When you're bad control is holy dead, Give to him a ball excellent Come on, then die and diet. Now what my God and I don't And bring thy And I expect it. Thou art my God, and thy entory can with thy name. Thou art my God, and thy employee can break thy. Give to him the word exact revives Give to him. A more extra let's race. Amen. Praise the Lord today. How many have come to give him an excellent praise? Not just an okay praise, and not what I've got left in the tank from the week, but how many know he deserves all the praise, all the glory Amen. The Bible says to make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All ye lands, serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing, Know ye the Lord, He's God. It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his case with thanksgiving Into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? For the Lord is good. And his mercy endureth forever. We bless God. Let's bow for a word of prayer today. Father, we thank you. Every chance we get to proclaim the good news, every chance we get to let someone know that you are God. And so we come today, God, asking that you might empower us with your Holy Spirit today, and that we might decrease, and that you might increase And when it's all said and done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank God for you. Thank God for this opportunity to go live on the media. I look back, and somebody said, live from England. So you never know who's watching, and we're trying to reach souls for Jesus. In any way we can. I was like, all right, England, okay. Kenya, all right. East side, okay. West side. Some of y'all here in church, y'all say, Amen. On your phone, so we bless God today. We certainly come and we uh recognize uh the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. And we thank God for what he contributed uh to our society as a whole. And so we thank the Lord for that today. Uh there's a word from the Lord today, asked that you might uh Follow us by way of the text, Philippians 3, 13, 14. It reads, brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it But one thing I do forgetting what is behind and straining to what is ahead. I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, There's Always Room for Improvement. There's always room for improvement. Kinda sound like your teacher. Back in the day when you brought home an okay report card But before Mama could get it, at the bottom it said, Timothy is doing fine, but there's room for improvement. In the world of sports, uh, athletes, whether they are wearing a championship ring or whether they're wearing a gold medal around the neck, will tell you, they're always trying to get better. Always trying to improve who they are. Uh they're trying to cut their time by another minute. by another second, just to be able to stretch out. They know their strengths and their weaknesses. Maybe you played a rec league, you were on the soccer travel team. You know the importance of being competitive. But in athletics, you have to really try hard day in and day out. See, unbeknownst to the naked eye, what we see uh even during this football season, uh we don't See the hard work that goes into getting prepared for the big game. All we see is he should have made that touchdown. What's wrong with him? Not realizing what they go through. Amen. But they'll tell you there's always room for improvement. I can I can get better than who I am. And it's that way in life that as good as you think you are, as good as I think I am, there's some areas that I can get better in. Oh, I don't have a praying church this morning. Maybe y'all all got it together. But there's some rough edges in my own experience that I can do a little better. I can do uh harder things. I can push myself a little more that I might become who God wants me to become. And along the way, we all miss the mark. We all fall flat on our faces and have to get back up, dust ourselves off and try it again. Do you feel that way sometimes that you may be intentionally saying I'm not going to do my best, I'm going to give them 80%. Amen. But there's some things that Lord I didn't just give me the wisdom to move Beyond where I am. And so we look at this text today, and I really want to challenge you this morning to find room for improvement. And that happens by way of a personal trainer in the way of a personal Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And so this letter is written by the Apostle Paul. Paul is in prison in Rome, and he writes to the church at Philippi. Philippi is some six hours north of what we know now as Athens, Greece And Paul is in prison, and yet he's concerned about those on the outside. He's more concerned about them than they are him. And so he writes a letter to them, uh, trying to encourage them. But Paul knew how to blend in with society, for where he was, there was always something in regard to the Greek games. And so Paul maybe knew what it meant to run a hundred-yard dash, whether he ran it or not. Paul knew about the javelin The disc, whether you ever threw one, but it's something about getting the language of the day to meet the needs of who you're trying to reach. Does that make sense this morning? That while Paul was not an athlete, in fact, scholars say he was a little short fella, uh, you know, didn't have any skill set, but he knew enough about the surroundings to write them in the language of an athlete. And sometimes the person we need to reach, you need to have the language of their experience Maybe you grew up in the suburbs and never had any situation that you didn't know how to deal with, but once you cross the city line, you got to know how to carry yourself a certain kind of way. Amen. I recall moving from Florida to D. C. , just a country boy, and I was speaking to everybody, and they knew I was not from DC. So you're not from here, I said, do I sound the country? No, you speaking to everybody. It wasn't long before I adapted to the ways of Washington. Amen. And so Paul writes in that way. He lays some things out that can help them to make room for improvement. And the first is self-evaluation. Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. I I'm not there. I I need some evaluation. I'm missing the mark. And you would think, now, Paul, man, you are somebody. You are you're a teacher. You're a founder. How in the world can you say you you're not there yet? You know how some folks look religious And carry themselves if they know everything and only have a half a scripture under their belt. Well, he didn't just look the part. Paul said, I desire to be more for the Lord. Uh there are areas I can make improvement. Even on your job, you thought you ought to get a five and you got a two. Areas of improvement. Maybe none of y'all have a got a five. I don't think they give fives. But what that means is there's always something more you can do And so Paul forgot about his past failures. He put aside uh the things that he'd done well to say, listen, I need to work on me. Ah see nobody can point that out to you. How many folk know you gotta work on you? Yeah. That that you are a work in progress. And so to evaluate is to assess and to show you just where you are. I'll say it amen myself. I ask God every day, Lord, help me to get that straight. Is that your testimony? Don't leave me out by myself now. Don't get me out in deep water and leave me out here Is there anybody who feels like they're still striving and still evaluating and still trying to put it together? I'm not talking about a makeover. I'm talking about allowing him to make you over in such a way Are you up to a self-evaluation as the community of faith? We've got to take a hard look at ourselves and figure out what can we do better if we represent the Lord. As a community, me and you and Big Mama and Brah, what can we do as a community to do better? I mean as we'll put this in here, we're worried about the public the politics. What's gonna happen? No, as a community, just keep praying. As a community, keep on pressing toward the market and say, how can I become better in him? Like over in Romans 3 and 10, it says, as it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one. Lest you thought you were all of that. Nobody is righteous. The Bible says that our righteousness is as filthy rags. Ooh Yeah, that you think you were all that and you just a a filthy rag. Isn't that something? How the Lord works in us and through us, so we're being evaluated, and the best evaluation is a self-evaluation. Unless you're telling a story to yourself. Somebody else say it, you get upset. And you're feeling upset. But once you look inside of you and say, how can I do better? And who I am. But also there's must be a sense of self-awareness. I do not consider myself to have taken hold of it But the one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead. There's that athletic talk That I'm trying to get across the line to get my half a medal. He said you gotta be aware. Paul knew there was more to be done. That I can't keep living in the past I gotta keep pressing on. Well, last week they got me. No. You gotta move on from that. Amen. Sometimes we'll keep telling our same old story, broken record. Another somebody done somebody wrong. Oh, y'all have heard that wrong song, amen. But your song ought to be Lord, move me on and make me aware there's more I can do in me. Yeah, that's that's me in the mirror. I'm the man or the woman in the mirror saying, I'm aware that there's more to be done. Paul didn't put his head in the sand And pretend like he all had it together. But he was able to say, I've got shortcomings and I know what they are Maybe a top five list. Anybody got a list? I got one. You know, you need to quit procrastinating. I'm gonna give y'all a piece of my list But you got a list and you are aware that there's more you can do in the Lord. That's the challenge. It's not a resolution. It's about doing better. Deacon and I were chatting. I been easing back to the gym lately. God said, Hey man, what is your program for the year? What are your goals? I said to show up Yeah, if you if I just show up, I'm aware I need to show up. I mean I do a lot when I get there, but you can't sit around the gym and look. You gotta do something. Touch the weight, pretend you're doing something, amen But being able to do better and being aware of who you are. Well y'all like that. Let me tell another one So the guy said, Well Tutan, where have you been? I said, Where have you been? So what time you coming? I laugh at all, but you know, I'm aware. I've been missing in action, but to God be the glory. And there are some things that you have to assess in your own life and to be aware. As a community of faith, lay all the cards on the table. Don't pretend that you're not aware that there's some things in each of your lives, in my life, that can be improved upon. Amen? Because see, the Lord already knows. Psalm 139 and 2 says, Thou knowest my downsettings. And my uprisings and my thoughts from afar, he already knows. There's this sense of a self-evaluation and then a self-awareness, but there's also self-fulfillment. Verse number fourteen. I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward In Christ Jesus. That Paul said, looking, I'm trying to get to someplace. I'm not doing there's a point I want to get to. And because he knew the games, he knew that when you won, you got a crown Yeah. Some of y'all got those trophies at home from back in the day, about that big, but you got something for competing. And Paul says, I'm really not looking for a material crown. I'm looking for the crown that the Lord will give out on that day. Oh my God, won't that be something when you get to glory? And you say, wait a minute, Tudin, I think, wait a minute. And there are many different crowns you can get. That what uh you you come here and let me give you this this crown. But Paul says I'm running because there's a sense of self-fulfillment I'm doing this because I am ambitious. I'm doing this because I'm trying to be a better me, but there's a goal in mind. I'm not just serving to be serving, I'm serving because serving the Lord pays off after a while And so I praise God today that I'm being fulfilled every time I come to church. I'm fulfilled. Every time I can hear the songs of Zion. I'm fulfilled. Every time God blesses me, I'm fulfilled. Is there any self-fulfillment in you that will I feel all right about where I'm going? And where God is taking me. He was real clear about what he wanted. That I want to do that that pleases the Lord. That's it. I'm not just running for practice. No. I pray at the end of this journey that the Lord will say, Well done. Thy good and faithful servant, you've been faithful over a few things. Now come on up. I'll make you rule over many. Anyone feel self-fulfilled today Knowing that what I do for the Lord will count in the end. Oh, I'm glad about that today. That I'm not just running in place. I'm not in a treadmill mold, but I'm going somewhere, and the Lord is going with me Isn't that good news today? How many feel self-fulfilled? I start thinking about that feel thing and about how we are filled with the Holy Spirit. Ah, you can't run this race on your own field. But you need the Spirit of God to drive you along the way Paul wrote in the feasion, and be not drunk with wine We're in excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Anybody ever had the filling of the Holy Spirit? All you gotta do is just ask him, Lord, fill me. Here's my cup, Lord. Fill me up. And my God, something can happen if you but dare ask. Want to be fulfilled today? Ask God to send His Spirit. Ask God to stir up in you the Holy Spirit. On the day of Pentecost, they were there, and something happened. The Holy Spirit showed up. And he'll show up in your experience right now. Are y'all not asking for him? Amen. How many folk want the Holy Spirit to move in their life today? My God, I feel better already. Talking about the Spirit of God. So with all that I'm evaluating and assessing, I need to be filled with his spirit. My God, my God, can I can I testify this week I was invited to share at a MLK event, and they invited me as Tim Tutin. And I said, now y'all know uh something might happen. And so I was the little choir saying and talking about Jesus, and I I tried to be that down the middle, but I gave them a warning And so I was talking about the soul, and in that uh something happened. And the Holy Ghost came up in the hospital. And I began to give God some praise up, and I think you know what? Y'all better quit. And so whenever you go, you cannot compress. Or quench the Spirit of God. But allow the Spirit to have His way. Allow Him to give you joy. Allow Him to give you peace. You want to be self-fulfilled I did okay in Psych 101, but I remember this Maslow's hierarchy, Abraham Maslow. I gotta see in the course, but I remember that. At the top was this sense of self-actualization. Oh, I got some other folk that had that same course. Did you pass And what it talked about really was this sense of representing the growth of an individual toward fulfillment of the highest need. That sounds heavy and psychological. But when I talk about the highest need, I knew the highest need comes from He who provides all of my needs. Amen. I don't need mass though. I know the Messiah, and He's made a difference in my life. And so I need to be fulfilled. I need a self-improvement plan. And that's why I know it's all in the word. Everything you need is in the word My Bible tells me that God so loved the world that He sent His only begotten Son. My Bible tells me that He came and He healed and He preached. And my Bible tells me that what He was double-crossed. And my Bible tells me. That he was beaten, and my Bible tells me that he went to an old rugged cross, and my Bible tells me that he went to that cross, that he died, and my Bible tells me That he was put in a bar or two, and my Bible tells me on the third day, and my Bible tells me That he rolls with all power in it. And my Bible says he'll come back. Amen. And so I'm trying to make some room for improvement. Amen. I'm trying to press my way. Amen. I'm pressing on The upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. Yeah, I'm not just trying to press higher for him. Lord lift me up And let me stand and place my feet on higher ground. I'm trying to get to a higher place. Amen. Do you feel like you need some improvement? I do. Lord, work on me Lord help me. Lord, remind me of who you are. There's always Room for improvement. Yeah, I know you like you could do less of this and more of that. Thank you, Paul, for self-evaluation, self-awareness, and self Fulfillment. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. There's always room for improvement. Amen. It's because of his amazing grace. That makes such a difference. That outside of him, I could not make it. Outside of him, you could not make it. But that word came to me late yesterday. I was back and forth. What should I preach? What do the people need? I said, What do I need? I need to make some room for improvement. If you've come today, let's sing this old hymn of the church. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now I'm found. Was blind, but now I see. Aren't you glad you can see now the mess you used to be and who God is transforming you into? Improvement. We blessed all today. Let's just sing that first part together. Oh, hymn of the church. That's it. That's they already like me. Thank you, Lord. I was now blind Let's sing that first stanza again, Amazing Grace. Come on, sing it out today. That's it. Like me. I was lost, but now Let's bow over this place today. And if you are watching by we are face, but God we thank you. It is amazing that you would look upon your creation and then to reshape it. And to save us and to give us life eternal. We don't deserve it. But you did it. As we come today, God, it's our prayer that your grace, your unmerited favor, might continue to guide us. To become better than who we are. We can do better for the cause of Christ. If there's one today who has never experienced you, never said, I'm a sinner. And I need Jesus in my life. The Bible says that if you confess with your mouth, what will you say it? The Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart, that is who you are, that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says, thy shalt be Saved. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called speeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.