Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Oh, but we thank you. Father, we come today in this moment. We can't help but give you the glory. For the world it sounds like we're being Jesus freaks. So be it. Because you freed us from the penalty of sin. As we come today, God, may your word speak for itself. May we decrease. May you increase. We give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. I want to share today from the Gospel of Luke. Gospel simply means good news and Luke is the one who documents it. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flock at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people. Today, in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is the Messiah, the Lord. This will be a sign to you. You will find a babe wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. Want to preach today from the Samonic title, This Just In This just and we're living in an information age. In other words, we want information now, not later. We want the who and the what and the when and the where and the how Over TV, radio, newspaper, online, we are creatures of information. Now this didn't just start. I recall the days of having a paper route. Anybody ever had one of those? Oh yeah. I used to deliver the Swanny Democrat. You put 'em together and had bicycles that had the uh basket on the front. You wouldn't throw your paper, you'd take it to the people's houses And I had the pleasure of working for the Independent Post and for the Grit newspaper. Some of y'all gotta be my age or older to know about grit. But we look for information to guide our decisions. And while we say often is that you know there's too much bad news, I found people still want the news. Late breaking, live, how it comes. I find myself not just in the professional world Sharing news, but each week I come to you, I'm sharing good news. Seeing the goodness of the Lord operating in tough situations and all kinds of dilemmas, he is still the deliverer of good news. And I believe that there are some benefits to tuning in to heaven's channel. There's something to be gained from being attuned to what the Lord is saying to you. Ever been driving along and you felt the presence of God in your midst? You had a decision to make and While you were thinking on it, seemingly the news came to you either to let it go. Came to you to pursue. But there's that small still voice And I love to hear it because God is a God of wisdom who directs us in a certain direction. In our text today, there's a scene that plays out that's right out of the pages of breaking news. Luke writes about shepherds. Now keep in mind, shepherds are not high and mighty. Shepherds were considered, for the most part, as outcasts. Smelly. They lived in the field. And Luke writes to an audience that gets to see The word breaking news, this just then, coming to the least of them. And to have this news to come and to break into their experience, The Bible says it was nighttime. It was late, and all of a sudden the angels dawn the sky and light things up. Are you aware that in our own lives In our own dark circumstances, that God will send a light to guide your path. But maybe you've never been down. Maybe you've never been depressed, maybe you've never had problems. Only to have the light of the Lord to come at the right time. And to brighten your folk thought you were crazy. Why you were smiling in the midst of your circumstances. Why something had just come in from glory saying to you, it's gonna be alright. And keep in mind they were startled, they were terrified, because this was not supposed to happen. Let me just say this. Have some things happened in your life That you were told were not supposed to happen? I know I'm all off script because the Spirit is leading me off script. Ever had something happen in your life that you had no idea, but the Lord broke it. To your experience. He said, don't change life's channel. I've got something just for you. Angels appearing To shepherds, roughnecks, those who were the least of them, and he didn't give it to folk who thought they deserved it. Amen. Oh, God has given you something. Other folk didn't think you ought to have it. He shows up and shares the news with them. They were living in a circumstance. They were minding their sheep. And you know what I find is that what they needed And what they received, we can have today. Reassurance. Results. And to have a testimony that will reach beyond where we are. Reassurance, results, and to have that kind of reach. Verse 10 says, But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. Don't be scared. Are you telling me that we are in the desert and the light of the Lord shining, and you say, don't be afraid? A part of the mission for the angels was to remove the doubts and the fears of the shepherds. We all have moments that we're doubtful. We all have moments that we're fearful. Folk may not even know because we're so cool. But in the midnight hour we have situations that we're trying to sort out. But I'm glad that Isaiah says in Isaiah 41 and 10 Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God, I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee, yea, I will uphold thee with the righteousness of my right hand. Paul writes to Timothy, God has not given you the spirit of fear, but of love and power and a sound mind that they were afraid. Based on what was happening in their experience. They got reassurance that it's gonna be okay They got reassurance that there's no need to worry. And even though we hear that, many of us still fight and we still struggle with life's circumstances. Is there anybody in here that can admit that yes, I'm afraid? Admit that I I I don't know what to do? Admit that I've got a decision to make and yet I'm just not sure it's gonna turn out. Just like these shepherds were reassured The Lord comes to reassure us. That is to make sure again. I know I got about two classes in English I know re is a prefix. Amen? To do again. And maybe your faith has been waning, but now he says, I want to reassure you that I'm still the same. Yesterday, today, forevermore. I'm still the God of the universe. I'm still the God who will make situations work out on your behalf. I came across this uh from the illustration that says regarding salvation and assurance. Says there are three groups of people. Those who are secure but not sure. Those who are sure but not secure. And those who are secure and sure that no matter what happens, I know the Lord is on my side. No matter what the circumstances I face, I know He's with me always. These shepherds were reassured while afraid, knowing that the Lord is with you. Isn't that comforting today? Yeah. To know that no matter what you're facing, that he comes along and reminds you that I've got you? Yeah. Y'all not feeling me to be either you sleeping or or you uh you've been shopping too much. Ever had the Lord to come along and just to let you know to change that mindset? And say, wait, wait a minute. I mean, I don't know about you. Sometimes we're down on ourselves. But this sense of reassurance But then the results that come by way of this good news. I bring you good news that will cause great joy. And the message the angel was trying to drive home is that this good news is great news, and it's about the birth of Jesus Christ our Lord. Great means it's above normal. Great means it's beyond average. You might have a joy that might be at a level one How many folk got a level nine joy that you know that no matter what happens, y'all got joy unspeakable? He says, you know, I've got a message for you, and the result is great. Joy. Nehemiah 8 and 10 reminds us the joy of the Lord is our strength. You praising God and Your lights about to go off. You're giving God the praise, and the repo man is two blocks away. I'm just trying to go on somebody's street today. Amen. I know about the repo man. There are many nights I used to lay in bed. I would hear a truck and say, Lord, I hope it's not the repo man coming from my man. Why? I was laid Plus late. Maybe none of y'all ever been there, but thank God that I've got great joy now. Hallelujah. Bible says that weeping. May endure for a night. But there it again, joy comes in the morning. Hebrews 12 and 2. Looking under Jesus, the author and the finish of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him Endured the cross, despising the shame, and is sat down now at the right hand of the Father. Al Green says love and happiness. But you know I'm talking about the joy. That that means that when you got joy Uh is this all over you? You got joy. People think that you're not well. Are you okay? Why why are you smiling? I'm smiling because God has been good to me. I'm smiling because I've got Jesus joy operating in me, and the result of this good news is that you now have news that will bring joy to someone. Amen. There was a result. of this newscoming. And and I love how in the text that there's always a piece left off But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid, I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people. I said, man, look at that. A little piece. You never have a little piece of meat left on the bone? I said, now that's something right there. Then every single word that the angel spoke meant something. In other words, what these shepherds had and what they were going to receive, it was worth sharing with somebody else. This joy that I give you is worth sharing with someone. In other words, I just put you on a mission you need you knew not of. That is to share the good news of Jesus. What I give you has credibility. What I give you will uplift someone. What I give you will help to change a life situation. Why? Because the word of God has reached. You can go places that you can't go. You can go into situations that you can't solve. There's something about the joy of the Lord. He says, now your assignment is, because now I just gave you your news reporter's license, uh, you've got to go to a little town called Bethlehem. Oh y'all know the Christmas story. Yeah, and then when you get there, you're gonna find this babe wrapped in swollen clothes. And lying in a manger. That's what you're gonna find when you get there. But when you leave there, your life will not be the same. It's one thing to witness the joy of the Lord, another thing to spread the good news of Jesus. And so what they got had reached. Amen? Have you shouted joy with someone lately? Yeah. And then you knew they were sad, they tried to pretend they weren't sad. And you say, you know what? This joy is for all people. Whatever you're going through. The joy of the Lord will strengthen you. Whatever you are facing, there's something about this Jesus joy. The Bible says that as they went as they shared the story, that folk were amazed. And people are still amazed about us Yeah. So I know what you're going through and you still got joy. Yeah. I know what you facing and you still got joy. How do you get that kind of joy? It's the joy of the Lord. And wherever they would go, they would share that Joy with someone else. And then the Bible says they start praising God. Now you know I like that. They didn't just say, Well, you know, let's tell you about that. They start praising God. Wherever they would go, they begin to lift up. The name of Jesus. And I can't help it today. I just love the Lord and it's because he's heard my cry. I I can't help myself today. I love spreading joy, and that's that great joy that he gives us. Bible says this joy That I have. The world did not give it to me, and the world cannot take it away from me. Or you may talk about me as much as you please. You may scandalize my name. You may stay, but you can't have You may stick me up in the back alley, but you can't have my anybody want to protect their joy today? That you want the joy of the Lord operating in your life and no one can take it Cold Saints would say, give me that old time religion. Yeah, it's good enough for me. Just give give me some pop pop Religion. Give me some grandma huckabuck religion. Give me the kind of religion that makes me want to shout. And the kind of faith that makes me want to give God the praise. That this just then He's still the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. This justin, he's still healing. This justin, he is still Making a way out of nowhere. I just stopped by today as a witness to let you know that there's always Good news coming in. And every now and then you gotta stay on one channel. Don't keep changing between two opinions, but stay not on the network But stay on the Lord's network today. Why? He's always got good news for you. Bible says the Lord is my shepherd. Aren't you glad the Lord Is your shepherd today? Not the shepherds in the field, but the shepherds who will lead you near the still waters. The shepherd will be with you in the valley of indecision. The shepherd who will be there to guide you through life's trouble and times. I'm looking for that kind of shepherd. And that's why I can carry this good news. A shepherd who went to a cross. A shepherd who came down through 42 generations, and he did it just For me. Yeah. And just for you. That means now and then you ought to get a a news alert. Yeah. From glory. Just to remind you of what great things the Lord is doing. Every now and then we need a tap on the back, a reminder that He's still The same God. Thank you, shepherds, for being used of the Lord. The ones who would be the least to get the news that you can be reassured. When you're going through. And the result is that you'll have great joy. Joy that you can share with someone. Amen. As I close today, you may Have not got all your gifts yet. Nobody here. I I I dare you to wrap up A box of joy. Come on. I ain't got much the spell that gone off. But what I have Yes, right. Some joy. I know they may look a little funny. I don't have many resources. What I bring to you today is the joy of Jesus. I don't I don't I don't have uh many accounts today. I don't have a credit card. Well I do have it some encouragement. Well I do have it some hope and some peace. I'm dare you to take gift to someone today that you'll see at the most. You know what I got this gift I've been carrying around for years. What is it? It's the gift of joy. Spread the news today. That's the word of God. It's already blessed. Come on and stand today all over this place. You know the enemy is always trying to to steal our joy. And right in this preacher, but he's probably said, you know what? What you got to be happy about. He tries to rob you of your joy. But let me tell you, when you've got joy Great joy. You can make it. Any witnesses today to know that when I should have been crying. When I should have been losing it. Somehow joy came and reassured me today. Come just as you are. He's got joy for you today. He wants to bless you today. Just as you are. No need to dress up. I speak joy today. Into your experience. The everlasting I want to take just sixty seconds to tell you about Jesus, the one that Was sent just for us as a babe. But it went beyond that. He's our Savior. Redeemer. For the next thirty seconds, you ever had a a movie of sorts play out in your life? You say, you know, oh my God, I'm glad that was just a dream. Every situation happened that you realize, God, it could have been this away. But you allowed it to be this way. Come on, man. Jesus Christ makes the difference in your life. And I can say that. I say it every week. I need it every we week that had it not been for the Lord in my experience. I have no idea. It wouldn't be good. But now that I've got it. Now that he's discovered me, I've got hope. I've got joy. And today you may have come and you have never made a decision. To make Jesus Christ your Savior. And you talked about it and you can yeah you heard the people talking about it, but today your life can change by accepting Jesus. Christ as personal Savior. Anybody agree with that today? Has He done it for you? Well, your heads are bowed off. Children are coming. I come in the name of Jesus. The world offers no alternative. But Lord, I pray in the name of Jesus that your word might find root. In one heart today. Your word says, if I confess with my mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in my heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able shall be saved. Not protected, saved. I pray today if there's a soul in this place that they may receive the joy that comes from knowing Jesus Christ in the pardon of this. Do it today, God. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. cometoharvest. org That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting. or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.