Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. We come today thanking him for all of his goodness and his mercy. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come in the best way we know how. To stand before your people To share your word. May it reach someone today who may not know you. May it reach someone who just needs a word of encouragement. Father, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Praise the Lord. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from The book of Revelation. There in the seventh chapter, verses 13 through 17. Then one of the elders asked me These in white robes, who are they? And where did they come from? I answered, Sir, you know. And he said, These are they who have come out of the great tribulation. They've washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore, they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his friends. presence. Never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat them down Nor any scorching heat. For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. I want to talk today from the Samonic title, This Is Us. This is us in my limited study of psychology. I'm aware of Abraham Maslow. He's known for my Maslow's Howard But he says something. He believed that happy, healthy humans required a sense of belonging and a sense of acceptance. And Maslow suggests that without those things, we are prone to depression, prone to loneliness Prone to social anxiety. Truth be told, every one of us desires to be a part of something. Even if we can't lead it. You want to be a part of the club, part of the crew, part of the clique, a part of the community. But this what we do week by week is called fellowship. That if you don't see anybody all week, you can guarantee that when you come to church on Sunday, you'll find folk of like mind. And that's a blessing. You know, I love the song that says, When we all get to heaven. Now you know that's the the the purpose. You know that's the goal in this Christian walk. So what a day of rejoicing that will be. We all see Jesus will do what? Sing and shout the victory. In our text today, it is the Book of Revelation, the last of the sixty-six books in the Bible. The revelation of Jesus Christ was given to John by God to show his servants what must take place soon. You want to get some interesting reading? Read Revelation. You'll find some things that are familiar in that book. It is filled with mysteries It is filled most of all with things to come. John the apostle writes this book. John the brother of James the fisherman, one of the first recruits of Jesus Christ. Christ. He goes about sharing the good news of Jesus Christ. And and you know when you do that, uh things can happen. So they put him on an island. They kind of imprisoned him on the Isle of Patmos. He's there as a sense of punishment But while he's there, God gives him a vision. Some years ago I spoke with Miss Nelly B. Haynes, an elderly woman down in Lieboak, and I was doing a heavy seminary paper on dreams and visions. I said, Ms. Haynes Do you still believe that God speaks through dreams and visions? Why yes. That's good theology right there. That she understands As we do, that God has a way of speaking. So there is John, all by himself, and God speaks to him. And as we get to the text, he's already witnessed some things in the vision. He's already witnessed an untold number of people who are doing what? They are wearing white robes, holding up palm branches. And they're crying out to God, salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. When you think about all of those persons, uh include yourself and say, you know what? As a believer in Jesus Christ, this is us. You may have come in with a three-piece suit this morning. A lovely dress or pass suit, but but white robes that symbolize his purity Don't you know that God has a plan for you that this is not the end of the show? That when the credits roll there's so much or you don't think you believe that today And there's so much more to this life. Amen. And so when we talk about this is us, we'll talk about those in the white robes, their description, their deliverance, their destiny. Yes. And so the conversation is taking place between one of the elders who'd been praising around the throne and John And so the elder says to John, These in the white robes, who are they? And where did they come from? And John was a smart man. He said, you know, I don't know. Sir, you know. And then he begins to say, these are they who've come out of the great tribulation. They washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. It's a two-part question. Where did they come from? Yes. Who are they? These these folks in in the white robe. Who are the folks at at Harvest Christian? ministries. Can you can you give me a description of who they are? I could read you the list, I could tell you a thing or two about most of them, but but who are they? These are persons in the text who've come through great trials and tribulations. Is that on your street today? Have you been through a thing or two? That's caused you to say, Father, I stretched my hand to thee. No other help. I know. Maybe it was this week. And so he focuses on those who've been oppressed Those who've been downtrodden. And he talks about what they have been through. And there's so much more to come in this life. Yeah. The rapture. Second. There's so much more that's going to happen in this lifetime. And even Christ talks about this great tribulation in Matthew twenty 421, he says, For them there will be great tribulation, such as not been from the beginning of the world unto now. But the word says, these are those who've come out of You ever come out of some stuff? Out of debt. Out of a bad relationship? Out of a bad job. Out of and I could go on and on and on. They came out of that. He describes who they are. Amen. And when you think about who you are in Christ, the Bible says that we are more than conquerors. Through him that loved us. I want you to feel like you somebody today. Can I encourage you for a moment? This is us Just us, Bible believing, praying, fasting, uh, folk in Jesus. This is us that you may not even have a robe on, but thank God for Jesus. Who are you? No we're good about describing ourselves. Well I'm you know I can I go down home fellows uh float on that's an old song Y'all know I do a DJ every now and then And and the guy would give his sign in his name. Is it Larry? But but whatever that is, you ought to be able to describe who you are and what God has done for you. It is your testimony about what he and what you've been through, maybe I've been through, and what you've been through, I've been through. But what is the glue is that God has delivered us. It is us. This is us. But he talks about their deliverance. Verse 15. Therefore, they are before the throne of God. And serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. That by itself, you mean just be in his face something ought to happen amen being in the presence of Jehovah never again Not not maybe, but never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat them down, nor any scorching heat. This Is us. Same people, different camera angle, their deliverance. We see them before the throne of Christ Yeah. That ought to be our destination. I know I love singing, but one day it is my prayer, my belief, my understanding, my hope I will be where? Around the throne Amen. Around the throne among those who are just giving the Lord the praise all day long. They were delivered not just to go before the throne, but the Bible says to do something to serve him day in day And day out. How many folk know that serving the Lord will pay off after a while? Amen. I mean, just being your best you in Jesus, you were just a servant of the king. You'd be amazed to look at someone and say, Well they don't look like much, but they're serving God. They ain't got much, but they're serving God. No education, no big job, but they got Jesus, and I declare that's enough. He says in doing so, there again, he will shelter them with his presence. I know y'all like this. Never again Will they need a happy meal? Never again will they need a coupon. Why? They will never hunger. Never again will they need a bottle of water Never again with the knee some koolade. Amen. They will never talk. This is us wearing the white robe. Those who are in the presence of the master. The Bible says I will be with you always, even to the end of the earth. There's something about being delivered Being set free. Some things you used to like? You don't like them no more? So if you used to smoke, you don't smoke no more and places you ought to go, you've been delivered. Isn't it great when God has delivered you from something? Oh everybody has been delivered from something Amen. Every time you try to go back, it ain't the same no more. Ain't no good old days, deliverance. But then I like this part, their destiny Verse 17 says, For the lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd. He will lead them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. eyes. This talks about our eternal destiny. But note that he's mentioned as lamb and shepherd. John says in John 1:29, Behold, there is the Lamb of God. He said, I see him with my own eyes. He had knew about him, he had been a forerunner, but all of a sudden, there he is. He is the Lamb of God. And David writes in the 21st Psalm, the Lord is not not my shepherd, I shall not want. And to have that duel destiny that he is both lamb and he shepherd. Amen. In other words, he'll watch over you, he'll die for you, he'll lead you through any situation you're going through Amen. And look at this. Well leads you to springs of living water that you might what you might have your thirst fulfilled. And here's the part. He will wipe away every tear. There's some things in life that may have caused you to not just shed a tear. May have caused you the downright weak, but to thank God for Jesus that that when that day comes, this is us, that you'll wipe Away every tear. And the removal of tears symbolized that God's people will never experience death, mourning, or pain. You know, every now and then don't you get a glimpse of what heaven will be like? Yeah. Growing up in a small town I used to enjoy going to parades. I didn't play an instrument, still don't play one. But to go to the neighborhood parade And to hear the band come. All my kids were in band and those who were in marching band, I'd show up man, we'd be screaming, hey! They try to read the note and we sit in the street walking because they're in the band. Amen. They're marching in the band. When I went to college, I went on the campus of Florida AM University and I I witnessed something I'd never seen before This was no ordinary bait. Amen? They didn't just march, but they they marched. Called the marching one hundred. And and whenever they marched, there was a certain unison. It wasn't what they played, but it was how the drum made it. If I get a crab, y'all hold on to me now. And they went right back in such a way almost got one. Amen. And they would run back in such a way that there was excitement about their marching. Amen. And don't you know that when your feet hit Zion, it will be a marching moment? Amen? That you will see the one who died for you and you will know that you've got your marching shoes on. Amen. Oh, when the saints go marching in. Amen. Oh, I want to be in that. And I find myself today when the saints when us start marching in I know down here you may have a pain or two, but when you get to glory, all of a sudden you're on the front line marching for Jesus. Amen. That's what's so wonderful about this life of service. A story is told of a little girl sitting in a certain church. And at that church, right behind the pulpit, there was a Was a portrait of Jesus on the cross. And on this particular Sunday, the pastor was not there, but there was someone filling in. And this person was a little shorter than the pastor. And the girl watched, she listened to the sermon for a while as she leaned over to her mother. She said, You know what? Where's the man who keeps us from seeing Jesus? In other words, with this situation, I pray that whatever I do, I don't block your view of Jesus. Amen. That my living don't block your view. That what I say don't block your view. But somehow it might give you a clearer picture of Jesus. You know those songs, oh I want to see him. Anybody want to see Jesus one day and see him in all of his glory? To see him as the Alpha and the O Maker To see him as the beginning and the end, to see him as the first and the last, to see him as the light of the world, to see him as a battle axe in a time of battle, to see him as a doctor. In a sick room, to see him as a lawyer in a courtroom, to see him as one who will carry you through. Amen. And see, here's the bottom line: when you've done the best of your service Telling the world that the Savior is. Don't be dismayed if men don't believe you. He'll understand and say, Well done. Well done, thy great servant. That you've been faithful over a few things. Now come on, I'll make you ruler over many. I want to know if I got a witness or two to say, you know, Reverend, this is us. The ones who've come through hard times and pains. This is us. The ones who've taken some abuse The ones who've taken some hardships, this is us. Anybody know today who you are If anybody asks you who I am, tell them I'm a child of the king. This is us. Don't look like much But this is us. Sometimes down, but this is us. Anybody in the crowd today say this If soon and very soon we are going to see the king. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. This is us. Who who are those people at that movie theater? Come every week Who who are they and where are they from? This is us trying to walk the straight and the narrow. That is the word of God today. He's already blessed. Come on, stand today. You know, this is no accident. You are where you are today for a reason. Yes, what is happening in the heavenlies? He provides something for us That the world can't give us. World can't take it away. I declare, I'm glad to be in the number. What about you? Maybe you come today as I may administer a little bit of this song. Your gracinity Yeah giving this Because of you, my won't tell the story. I'd like to say to thank you, Lord. And praise you to your great standard. I'm living this moment living this morning And I want to thank you, Lord. To I and bring it to I praise you to Because the breathing the breathe is. Thank you to save me. Hallelujah. Thank you, Lord. A sinner by me Sing it, sing it. Tell the whale Tell the world salvation it free. There, there were time. Swing on the food with your ride. But you watch You are so for me for me and that's together. Yeah. You're winning. And I want to send you the whole I want to praise you to and praise you. Because the grief, the grief you went to mercy from me through. Maybe you come today. And you you want to be a part of the of the us crowd. Of the in crowd. You want to belong. Here's how you do it. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. Dead, yes, yes. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. So you can't wear the white robe if you don't know the right one. Come on now. And that one is Jesus who shed his blood for us. On that old rugged cross who died but rose again. That's the gospel truth that the world needs today. You had to say, Father, we come in the name of Jesus Thank you, Father. There might be one in this place who knows you not. Yes, Lord. I pray in the name of Jesus. That you might touch them and heal them and deliver them and save them in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.