Good day, my dear friend. Dr. Tim Tootin here, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County. Maryland. Want to welcome you to our worship experience. We meet here in Baltimore at 7660 Bel Air Road. Our service time is 845 I want you to join us now for a message that's already in progress. Praise God, how many folk are grateful today Oh that didn't sound too exciting. How many folk are just grateful that God woke you up this morning? Grateful that He started you on your way? Grateful that you're in your right mind. Grateful that you were inside when you heard the wind outside today. There's so many things to be grateful for. Let us bow today all over this place. Father, we do thank you. And we are grateful for everything that you've done in our lives. It is our prayer today that as we stand before your people with your word, that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Gospel of Mark. And gospel means good news. And don't we need some good news in this day and age? There in the 22nd verse, it says they came to Basadia, and some people brought a blind man and begged Jesus to touch him. He took the blind man by the hand and led him outside the village. And when he had spit on the man's eyes and put his hands on him, Jesus asked, Do you see anything? He looked up and said, I see people. They look like trees walking around. What's more Jesus put his hands on the man's eyes. Then his eyes were opened. His sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. Jesus sent him home saying, don't even go into the village. Want to preach under the larger theme of the miracles of Jesus. from the Semanic title that simply says the way I see it. The way I see it David Copperfield is ranked by Forbes magazine as someone who has commercially done very well as a musician. Not a musician, but a magician. Maybe he played some too. I don't know. He won 21 Emmy Awards for some of his programs. He's the kind of person who now you see it and now you don't. Folk leave his shows uh both dumbfounded, uh scratching their heads, wondering how did this happen? Not like your little tricks that you played in school. You knew somebody who thought they were a magician and they had some little simple tricks they thought they had Jesus oh I saw that I saw the card under your sleeve but Cockabill has done uh very well And, you know, the difference between magic and a miracle, there's a wide divide because Magic can be something that's really driven by human effort or even demonic effort, but a miracle is so different. Uh a miracle as I look at you, I'm really looking at a miracle. Uh the fact that you got up today I would suggest means that you are a miracle. Got up, nothing was hurting, but you're up. And you're in church and you press your way. A miracle is the supernatural act and power of God. One may not be able to explain it, only to say that God did it. Amen. How many folk know and have experienced miracles in your own life? Amen. I see a hand back there and one over here and two back there. Let me run it by again. How many of folks have said you know what? There's another hand right there. That this another a miracle. A miracle. God is still working miracles. You didn't get here by Abacadabah. You got here because God has made a way for you and I to be able to stand into fellowship one more time. You know, in my uh book, Leading by Example, a parental guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home, I made it a point to include a section about miracles I made note of the fact that there were those big miracles. If you've only attended one Sunday school class, you're familiar with how Jesus was out with the people. And they were hungry and they were tired. And the disciples said, well, y'all just need to go home. This is over. He had compassion on them and said, we need to feed the people. They're tired. And Jesus said, go out and find some food. They were like, I don't have anything. And they find this little boy. We had two fish and five barley loaves and Jesus break the bread and blessed it. And when he got done, folk had carry out Leftovers. Twelve baskets. And I really believe that. It's not some story that if it's in the Bible, I believe. Anybody like that today that if the Bible and the Word says it I believe it. I believe those big stuff. I believe Jonah. I believe the well got Jonah. I believe that. I believe that. And God is yet working miracles in our lives. Now, the Gospels say that Jesus performed some 40 miracles. But then if you look further in the Gospel of John, he says there were many other signs that are not recorded in this book In other words, the book couldn't hold all that he's done for you. Otherwise, you would say, hold on, let me put my notation in here, uh, because he did this for me Can I add my miracle to the list of what God has done for me and through me? People followed Jesus. Some of them hoping to see a sideshow. In the Gospel of Mark, by the time we find Jesus, he's showing up in a little fishing town called Basadia. As he gets there, the word has gone out that Jesus is coming to town. And what I noted is that people Brought to Jesus a blind man who was also a beggar. That's how he made his living, blind and begging But the fact that they brought him to Jesus says they were good friends. Aren't you glad to have some folk who don't mind looking out for your best interest The fact that they say, wait a minute, Jesus is in the area and we're going to take you to meet him. Why? We believe he can work a miracle in your life Hang out with folk who want to see you do good. Hang out with people who say, you know what? I I I I want to see you succeed. Hang out with folk who says you need to be an eagle, don't just be a chicken. Hallelujah Yeah. But that's so key, they brought him to Jesus. And Jesus began to minister to him. His disciples were hanging out. As I look at this text and begin to study it, you'll see that this is one of those miracles that was not like any other miracle Why? Because it seemingly took Jesus two times to heal this man, but there's more to the story. Scholars believe that he was really trying to help the disciples. That they were missing it. He said, Let me show you what I can do and how I can do this. But there is this moment Where Jesus is able to connect with someone who needs a miracle. Amen? And so the first thing he does by connecting with them, he makes sure that there's a change of scenery. He took the blind man by the hand and led him outside of the village And when he had spit on the man's eyes and put his hands on him, Jesus asked, Do you see anything? And what I got out of that is that sometimes the Lord has to move you from where you are to get your miracle. Maybe you've been in a familiar place too long. He may move you overseas, around the corner, down the block, by changing what you have been so familiar with. He changes your location. He changes the backdrop. Amen? And really in the spiritual, you may have missed your miracle because you have not been willing to move. Oh Lord, I don't know where I'm going with this thing, but it's feeling mighty good. Sometimes you've been too stubborn to move. And so Jesus says, Come on Let's get away from the crowd and let's go outside of the city limits. I got to do something. And even the method he uses may sound gross. He spit. That's what the Bible says. He spit and put the spit on the man's eyes. Holy salava. And he I told you, I believe everything the Bible says. And then there's healing in his spit and in his hands. I didn't make it up, it's right in the text. And lays hands on him And then ask him a question that he already knows the answer to. Isn't that amazing? He says, now, now, do you see anything Don't you like Jesus? Of course, you know whether I see or not Jesus. But he asked the question to us. What do you you see? I know I pulled you aside, but I want to know from you, what do you see at this moment? God is trying to show us all something. He raises a holy question. What's your take on it? I know you've been begging. What's your take on this? I know that you have been blind for a long time, but I want to know, based on where I have you now, what do you see? What's your perspective? Amen. And Jesus had this way about pulling folk aside. The Bible says, even in Mark 135, that he would get up early in the morning And go out and do what? Go out and begin to spend time alone with his father. There's nothing wrong with being alone. Amen. Anybody like quiet time I mean I don't mind the crowd, but every now and then I get lost. Have y'all seen him lately? You ever got lost in your man cave? Come on, brothers. Wife looking for you and you lost somewhere Ladies got lost in the store. I don't know where to hell. Amen. Well embalance this thing. But a change of scenery. But not just that. There's a change in condition. He looked up. That is the blind man. And said, I see people, they look like trees walking around. And once more, Jesus put his hands on the man's eyes, and his eyes were open. His sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly. But you know when you saw this, uh-huh. Now I thought Jesus could just heal him And that was your, dun, what's gonna happen now? That's the tension in the text. You mean he who heals It took him a second time to do this. He's always making a point. It was more for those watching than it was for the man who was being ill. All he knew was he went from being blind. To getting a little sight, to finally having his eyes open. Can you celebrate with that man today, knowing he had been blind, and all of a sudden He's on an excursion with Jesus, and he gets touched, and he sees again. Oh my God. And we're still trying to gain our sight I I know you see things physically, but as you grow in the Lord, you are still seeing people as trees. Or as something else. But thank God for Jesus and He's constantly working with us to adjust our eyesight so we might see the things of God. You remember when you first started on this journey, you couldn't see nothing. Oh I don't see anything. But once you went around the corner a couple times and God began to show you some things in life, you see better now Oh they call it wisdom, but you have a better perspective now. Your condition has changed. He he sees everything clearly. And Jesus is always calling us to our eye appointment. He's always calling us to say, how's that? Don't you love when you go to the optimalist list? He's like, is that better? Yeah. Some of y'all who wear glasses. Is that better? Yeah, that's a cave. And they set you up. Is that better? And you're trying to make sure you try to I I think that's a D. And so he's always calling us and he's always adjusting our lenses so that we might see him in a real way. Amen. Oh, I'm glad about that today. That my condition is changing because I have encountered Jesus. And this is how I see it. Change of scenery. Change of condition, but finally a change of course. Verse 26 says, Jesus sent him home. No wouldn't you think he he would want well now Jesus I'm you don't know what you just did. I need to I need to go back in the village. You know let him know. I was blind and begging, but look at I mean look at me now. No no no. Go home Home is where the heart is. It may not be the physical home, but go to a new place. Get on a new course today. I'm transforming you by my spirit. Amen? And then he said, don't even love the text. Go back in that village. Why? The village folk won't understand you. The village folk might talk about you. The village folk are doubt your healing. The village folk are get jealous The village folk will have an issue with all we knew you in. The village folk may not like what you're doing. But he says don't go back to the village. I know it takes a village to rape a child. But thank God when you with Jesus, you don't need a village. You have everything you have. You've got victory. You've got hope You've got joy? He just changed your course. I don't care what Siri told you to do. I don't care what Waze told you to do. He said Go this way. Don't go that the that that that way. And some of us go call no names have bumped the system. I have, yeah, I know it may seem right, but I got to go back to the village The village reminds me of the good old days. The village reminds me of what I used to. No, no, no, no. Don't go. Go home My my mind how many folks want to just go home today? It's about getting the instructions from Jesus himself. Yeah, he he takes time to help this man, and this is how he sees it A very simple, profound biblical narrative that helps us in the here and now to see better. Amen. I'm glad today I've got twenty twenty vision. According to these. Now you don't look like trees, y'all still look good. But but there came a time in life when Before I got these, that he changed my better put these back on. My spiritual vision that I might see things more clearly. Things that used to upset me, I see more clearly. Focal on my last nerve, I see more clearly. My vision is 2020. Anybody got 2020 today? My God, I don't need Context. I don't need progressive. All I need is a touch from the messenger. My God. I feel my help coming right now. And that's it. Is that he will change how you view life. Enough of that woe is me. Enough of oh I don't oh you better know. Just look at what he's done. Look at the blessings That been bestowed upon you. Look at how he allowed you to come to church today. Look at how he allowed you to put on some clothes and get a little piece of food in the cupboard. Look how he gave you roof Over your look how he does it. He is doing it. And it ain't just that. Not just 2020, but I've become color bride. Amen. I'm color mind because what I see is Jesus on that cross. And the color that keeps coming up It ran. Why? He shed his blood just for me. And all of a sudden now, what I used to see one way, I see it Through the blood of Jesus Christ. How many folks are seeing red today? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. I see red. It was the blood. That brought me over. It was the blood that gave me of my sins. I have 2020 blood, colorblind, and I got peripheral. Vision. Stuff I didn't used to see. I used to have to always turn around. I just Now because why? I got goodness. And mercy. Following me all the days of my life. I got prevent with you over. This is how I see it. I see him now saying I've got your back. Satan get thee behind me. Forgetting those things which are behind and pressing forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark. For the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. John Newton was a clergyman and former Slave shipmaster. His job was to carry the slaves across. Maybe he had good intention, but one day something happened. God changed his vision. And one day Newton sat down and began to write the words to a familiar hymn. Amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me. Can I get a Newton's hymn? Save the wretch. Like me. Save a wretch like me. Can I get two amen? Save a wretch like me. Uh-huh. was lost. But now I'm found. Every time I tried to get away, he found me Every time I tried to duck and dive and shuck and jive, he found it. Every time I tried to be church boy on Sunday And somebody else on Monday, he found me. Has he found you today? Has he found you out today? Was blind But now I see. And then this, through many dangers, toils, and stairs, I have already come. Just grace has brought me safe this far, and grace will lead me on. My God, I can see better now. Amen. How is your vision? How do you see yourself standing before the master? How do you see what is your perspective today in Lord? My God, He's constantly adjusting how We see him. I I used to see him kind of this way. But when I started to follow him I see him this way. Every time I do his will, I I see a new Perspective because daily he's touching me. Daily he's changing my visions. This is just the way I see it. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. You are a miracle. Every time you look in the mirror. I'm a miracle. You hadn't heard my testimony. I'm a miracle. Had it not been for the Lord on my side, I would have been taken over and run over. And stepped on, but thank God I have a better view of who he is. Amen. Come on, give God the praise today. Oh yes. He's a mighty, mighty God. He's calling each of us today. To come to him. I uh I know I know you you got busy but come to me Give give me a minute. No, no. Come to me. Let me fix my wife, but no Come now. One day he called your name. He's still calling. Let's say it together. Come to G. Come to G. I'm not gonna delay it. One day, may have been your mother, father, grandmother. Back in the day they they wouldn't ask you if you want to come. They grab that arm Pitch that ear. So you go join the church. And you have no faith. Now we gotta go through a whole dissertation. Well, you know, no Let them know it worked for me that God brought me through, even though grandma forced me on that motor's bench. It made me a better mate. As you bow your head today. The nudge you'll feel won't be grandma. It will be the Holy Ghost saying, Now you know. You know you need to go ahead and give your life to me. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I pray today. That you might touch that person who has never said, Lord Jesus, I want to be saved. Who's never said, I'm a sinner. God, today, touch as only you can. It made the difference in the life of the blind man. It can also make the difference in our life today. I pray even now, God, that you might Have them to follow your word, confess with their mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in the heart that God has raised them from the dead. The Bible says, Thy shalt be saved. Touch today we pray in Jesus' name. If you're here today and you Open your mouth to him. He's able to save you right now. Is there a witness today? Is there a witness today But he'll save you. Amen. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. Maybe somebody brought you. The doors are always open at Harvest Christian Metal Space. A non-traditional church with traditional values. Grandma ain't got the pull you can walk if you want to walk. Or you can come join us every Sunday. You can come on after church. How do you want to do it? It's non-traditional. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Yes indeed. He's a great God. Come on, keep on praising him today. Yes indeed. You won't You won't see your vision any other way now, except the way that God has made it. We're so glad you could join us today. I pray you were blessed by today's message. Message. Wanted to tell you about a few other things that will bless you as well. You can get a copy of my brand new book just out entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to teaching and modeling Christian faith at home, you can get it by going to our church website at www. com. The number two harvest. org and look for leading by example. Okay, I pray you have a great day today, and let someone know that Jesus loves you. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord.