Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. It's a word of truth that would nobody else want to. Encourage you. Encourage yourself. That's what David said. I'm going to take a minute to let myself know it's going to be alright. Tell yourself I can make it Tell yourself, God is on my side. Let's bow today for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. For the gift and the ministry of encouragement. We're encouraged by your word today. That it helps us, guides us along our journey As we stand today before your people with your word, it is our prayer, dear God, that we might decrease and that you might increase. Encourage a soul. Save a soul. Let someone know that there's hope in you. And when we're done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. Amen. Oh, bless the Lord. We've had a good time already. Amen. If you you packed up now, I would think that you've had an encounter with the Lord to this point. But we're glad that He gives us His holy word to empower us along our journey. Amen. There's a word from the Lord that comes from 1 Peter 4 through 10 actually. Verse 7 says, the end of all things is near. Therefore be alert and of sober mind so that you may pray. Above all, love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Verse 9. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Verse 10 says, each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms. I want to preach today as we continue along this journey, follow me, from the Samonic title, Time Sensitive Living. Time-sensitive living. We've heard the Oakley Shea, there are only so many hours in a day. I want to add to that. There are only so many minutes and only so many seconds. The author says 168 hours per week. If you do the math, that's 10,080 minutes, 604,800 seconds. So you may have put in 40 hours of work and a little sleep. If you get eight, I don't. But there's so much time that's left. If you don't mind me getting in your business, are you living a life of time sensitive awareness. And when something is time-sensitive, that means that it has a very short shelf life. It means it's changing as time passes. If there's someone who knows about time, it is the author of the book that's being shared today in the person of Peter. Peter spent the better part of his time really fishing. He loved to fish. Any fisherman in the house today, hey may I see one or two? I know where to go now if I want to get me a piece of fish. But they will spend time of planning to go out and I hear it's very therapeutic. I have limited experience as it relates to fishing, but Peter spent a lot of time And then Jesus walks by the Sea of Galilee and says to him, follow me. And the Lord will call you from doing some things that you're doing to follow him. Aren't you glad he stopped by your experience and said to you, I'm calling you to follow me? Why? Because time is of the essence. Can I get a new business again? We do what we want to do with our time. Why? It's our time. And I never mess with people about how they're spending their time But to know that there are so many hours in a day and that if you give God quality time, he will reward you, won't he do it? Amen. I got two claps on that. If you give God quality time, not leftover time. That's why I get up early in the morning, because A I'm country. B I can meet the Lord early in the morning. I would not do well at night. I'd be saying our father, I would be stuck there for the evening. Peter knows what it means to be a steward over time. And to be a steward is to be a manager That God has given him an assignment as he has with us. You are a steward over your time. It's up to you to use your time wisely and to be time-sensitive. I'm glad today that the Lord gives us opportunity. Always say when folks say you're too busy. Uh uh you got too much you got going on I'd rather have much going on than to have nothing going on. Amen? How many folk get bored easily? You know, you need a project. You need an assignment. I can guarantee you that time invested studying the Word of God and praying and encouraging people will give you a great payoff. Amen. So if Peter writes to a church that's undergoing persecution. He's writing them at a tough place in life to encourage them in the Lord. And just because you're going through does not mean that you can't hear a word that will encourage you along your journey. Am I making sense this morning? I'm talking about time-sensitive living. Being aware that every breath you take is a blessing Being aware that every time God allows you to say good morning, that's why I'll tell folk good morning to you, even if they don't say anything back. It's a good morning. Why? He woke me up this morning and started me on my way That's the good news we find as this apostle writes. He spends quality time with the Lord. So this morning I want to look at a couple of areas I think that's going to bless us. As it relates to being ready every day. Why? Time is winding up. Being responsive as we use our times and our gifts. And being responsible. Amen? So if we look at this first piece as we look at the scripture, look at the text, clock's still running in there. Look at that. You got so much time. Be ready. So Peter writes to the church. He says, the end of all things is near. Therefore, be alert and of sober mind so that you may pray. They're writing at a time because see the early states really believed, and we should too, that the Lord is soon to return. And they would say, get in the hurry. The men say, get in the hurry, because we don't know when our last day is. And so it's so important. They looked at the Lord go back and say, you know what? I believe he's coming back. Like he said he would. Jesus promised that he would return. We just don't know when. Like some years ago, I laughed at it when some of these folk thought they knew the world was coming to an end and they made money He told people, make sure your pets are going to be okay. And folk were buying the services to have their pets protected. I don't know what God they were believing in. But when God gets ready, he'll send Jesus back to claim his own. And so we got to be in such a hurry, knowing that we have time sensitivity as it relates to the work of the Lord. So he's saying to them, Listen, time is drawing near. You can't waste time. Jesus is coming back. As a result of that, what should we be doing? Should we be chilling? And let me just say this. Many of us, some of us, one or two of us, have said, you know what? I got some time I'm young. I hadn't lived life yet. I can mess up four or five times. Uh I wouldn't I wouldn't bet on that. We don't know how much time we have left. And so we live every day to the fullest. And Peter is saying to the church as it relates to being time-sensitive, be alert Breaking news. Be aware and be of a sober mind. Some of y'all know about sobriety In the world, if you've ever been intoxicated, then you know what it means. Amen, church. Amen. To be sober-minded. That is to have your mind focused clearly on the things of God. You know what? So much junk can come into our minds. It don't take much Stuff will enter your mind. You tell it, get out of here. I know your Holy Ghost feels sanctified, filled with the Holy Ghost, but ugly stuff will come into your mind. Can I get a witness? And you must tell it, get thee behind me. I'm not going there and I'm not going to do what? Entertain it. He says, be ready and be of a sober mind. But look at this. So that you may pray. Well that's so simple but so powerful. If your mind is not clear, trying to pray can become difficult. Why? Because you're spending more time thinking about your problem and your situation and somebody else's problem and their situation and somebody else's business and this situation. But you say, Lord, I need to have an avenue where I can pray. I gotta be ready. My mind's got to be sharp. Amen? And that's the word he gives the church. Be ready at all times. We never know when the Lord is coming back. And so use your time wisely. Be time sensitive. Amen. You ever know what people that just watch? They like to watch the clock? Maybe that's you, huh? And you try to say, let's go. Every minute counts. Every minute counts. And that's important. When it comes to the work of the Lord, we shouldn't be so just, you know, okay, whatever, I'll get around to it. No. Make the impression. Do that thing you were going to do that you thought you didn't have time to do. Take the time to call somebody. Take the time to encourage somebody in the Lord. He's saying be ready because why Things are near. And there's another passage that I found that really helps with that. Matthew 26, 41. Jesus tells his disciples, he said, you know what? You all need to watch And pray so that you would not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Am I making sense today? You gotta be ready and have your mind ready. Why? Because God has a work for each of us to do. And it's so important to be ready every day. Be on your best every day. Be gay. This is not practice. This is game stuff. Many years ago when I was a half athlete. Uh, you know, the man called your name Tutin. You gotta be ready. You can't like not have a mouthpiece and your helmets are somewhere on the bench or you're not ready. Your shoes untied You gotta be ready to go in the game. And in the game and the ministry of life, be ready. But not just that. Being responsive. He said in verse 8, above all, love each other deeply. Because love covers a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Listen to this. Above all, love each other. Well Reverend, that's simple. I can do that. No, I'm not talking about like them. Beloved. And that's what our faith is driven by is loving each other. Well, I didn't get an Amen on that. This is the whole deal is that above all that you do, love each other deeply. Why? It's a time-sensitive issue Make sure you love each other. He said, why? Because love covers a multitude of sin. Love makes things right. Love can heal relationships. Love can get your attitude right. Love can give you a better outlook on life if you decide I'm gonna love somebody. Let me do this for you because you all a little stiff on me. Turn to somebody near you and say, I love you. Amen. And you smile too. Praise Jesus. That's what it's all about. And he says, you gotta be responsive, and being responsive is to love each other. That's what it's all about as it relates to the body of Christ. Now y'all know I'm an old DJ. Dion Warwick used to kick it. But the love, what the world needs now is love, sweet love. Don't don't hit it, Melania. No not for everyone. You know what I mean? But we need love. And so y'all thought of some of y'all other songs didn't you know I'm not I'm talking about Dion song. Amen. Google it, you'll find out But this sense of loving each other and doing it deeply because of what it means and why Christ preached it and why he demonstrated it. And then verse 9 says, offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Uh-oh. We don't grumble. I remember the day and so do you. Or you've heard the stories when people were hospitable. That when somebody can say, you know what, mama say can she borrow a cup of sugar? And you give them a cup of sugar. Uh mama said can we uh borrow two eggs? I guess y'all not from the country. Heard those stories before? Amen. But let somebody come to your door now saying, Can I borrow two eggs? Man, you'll call 911. Have you lost your mind? Two eggs. But people, I woke some of y'all up. Praise Jesus. Some of y'all was starting to faint on a brother today. Amen. But having hospitality. Being kind to one another. You know, I think about what the brothers did. They visited down at the shelter, serving. Going to the prison, serving, letting someone know they can make it. It's time sensitive. Take time to love each other and to be responsive and don't do it. If you got a fuss doing it, don't do it. If someone ever gave you something they were fussing the whole time, I ain't gonna give it to you. Just keep your money then. You gotta beat me up in the process. I don't want it. Because you're giving it grudgingly, but do it without grumbling. Fussing. Other stuff. Just be responsive. That's good news. There's another text I came across that was a blessing. 1 Peter 3 5 3 15 says, when you come across people, but in your heart, revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared wherever you go to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give a reason for your hope. Why are you so happy? Nothing to be happy about. I don't know why you're smiling. I'm smiling because God has been good to me. I know you laying me out, but I'm gonna love you in the name of Jesus. Why? It says I'm gonna love you deeply And so we are called to be responsive to people that we come across. Let's face it, that's the Christian life. You signed up for it? Get rid of your attitude. Love on folk. You'll be surprised when you start loving on people, how they'll start coming, they'll stop crowning when you love on them. You ever love anything about say good to see you today? In the name of Jesus. That's so important. Being responsive, being ready, but finally, being responsible. Amen Now verse 10 says, each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various Forms. Now you all who've been doing your lessons, uh-huh. That's the other part of that chapter two isn't it. Right? Come on, chapter two, right? Yeah, that's okay. It talked about time and talked about uh am I going somewhere? About this is for the class now, and for the gifts That when you accept Christ as your personal savior, you get at least one spiritual gift I can't do anything. Yes, you can. I don't know. I'm sad. Yes, you can. God gives each of us a gift. Amen. A spiritual gift. There's something that you can do that can help someone else. Now you all know by now what one of my gifts are. It's encouragement. Amen. And so that song was a blessing to me. I love to encourage. At home, On the job, at the bus stop, on the elevator. But whatever gift the Lord has given you, and if you're saved, you have at least one. Use it. Don't let it lie dormant. Time is winding up. You need to be able to use your gift to the glory of God. Amen. Whatever gift you have received, that means you got one, but to serve others. Not to say, I got a gift, and not the glory in the gift, not to brag about the gift, not to put it on the shelf, but to use it to the glory of God. Use your gift. Let me ask you, how many folk know what your spiritual gift is? Amen. Praise God. I can help you with that, with the survey coming soon that will help you to say, what is it that is my spiritual gift I appreciate your honesty. And so that way you say, wait a minute. Oh I've been doing that. I've been walking in that. It's not your talent, it's your gift A talent may come or go. You may sing today and not sing tomorrow. You may be the man on the field and not be the man on the field. Or the woman on the field, whatever that might be. But when you got a spiritual gift, it's driven by the Spirit of God. You don't get to turn it on when you want to or off. It's just your gift. And Peter says use it to serve others. Use it to do good. Use it to be able to help someone along the journey as a faithful steward, as a faithful manager of God's grace in various forms. That helps me today. That I've got to be responsible for what you've given me, God, and not to say I don't want to do it today. I got a gift of help, but I don't feel like it. I got a gift of administration, but a gift of singing, but I don't feel like it. I don't want to. Man, you can help somebody. Some of y'all can say it the other day. If I call you to the mic and you use your real gift, we uh oh let me stop. We have our mask while you amen and there's a ministry of helps I see it every Sunday morning. We get there early. Brothers are here and they have the gift of helps. What can I do? I got this. You go for it. I'm good to go. That's the blessing. Jesus addressed this whole sense of knowing as he helps his disciples. He says, you know what, there's so much to do, and we have so much of a responsibility No, there'll be opposition. The thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. But I come that you might have life and have it more abundantly. That I got your back. But as you go out and do the work for me, knowing that time is of the essence, I'll cover you. How many of y'all watch some of those old Westerns? And when they would say, Okay, I'm going in, you got me? And man, they would just go and shoot. And know that as you go out and do the work of the Lord, he's got your back Enemy may try and discourage you, but God has given you something to do, a gift, and you can do it well. The song I heard on the radio, it's kind of a hipper song, says, that gift looks good on you. You ever heard that song before? Oh word, you you you look like you've got something going on. That gift looks good. Look at you. The gift you have looks good on you. Now use it to the glory of God. Why? Time is winding up. You know, I'm up in my mind today as a proclaimer, as a pastor, that I'm gonna keep working. You know, the timing lined up. I know I'm on the clock. Working until my day is done. I'm going to care until my day is done. I'm going to teach until my day is done. I'm going to love until my day is done. I'm gonna serve until my day is done. Why? Because God has given me the moment and I'll go back and get one. Amen. I say, you know what? You should go back on aisle number 12. Excuse me Where's the catch up? Well I don't need a catch-up, but somebody may have looked down and I'll go back and try and get one, right? I get in trouble for not coming home on time, but I'll take time to work the whole story. Whatever your gift is, use it to the glory of God. I like what Charles Wesley said, one of the great uh hymn writers of our time wrote almost 9,000 hymns for the church. He says, A charge to keep I have, a God to glorify. Who gave his son my soul to save and fit it for the sky? To serve this present age, my calling to fulfill. Or made all my power engage to do my master's will. He was dedicated. And you know what? There was another charge. Jesus made a charge. I'm going to the cross. Because I've given my word. I'm going to die. I've given my word. I'm going to rise on the third day morning. I've given my word. He keeps his word. Can you keep your word today knowing that you're on the clock? Amen? I'm excited about that That right now I'm going to say, oh, what time is it? I got more work to do for the Lord. It doesn't end here. It begins here. You are now empowered to say, Lord, I gotta find my gift, but I gotta be ready I gotta be responsive. I've got to be responsible for what you've given me. It's a great way of knowing that you've been chosen by the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen? Come on, give me a smile at the end. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. I pray you are being helped in the Lord today. Come on, stand all over this place today. Time, sensitive, living. Uh oh. A minute just passed. What have you done? Oh. A whole week has gone by. What can you show for it? Oh, a whole quarter, a whole year, and you've used all that time for what? To do your thing. Be useful, Lord, today, amen. The invitation is always there to come to Jesus. Why? Time is running short. Don't put it off. I'll catch you 168 hours later. No, today is the day. I stopped by the day To offer Christ to you. If you've never confessed Christ as your personal Savior, never said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, today you can be saved. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. And kept. The question on the table today, are you saved? Let's thaw today. Ask yourself the question based on what you know about eternal life and ask the question, am I saved? If I If my time ran out, if my hourglass emptied, would I find myself in heaven with the Lord Jesus Christ? If you can't answer that question, today you can give your life to Jesus right now by praying This type of prayer, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I believe that God sent you As a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. I believe that you died on an old rugged cross. You were buried in a borrowed tomb, but you rose on the third day morning with all power in your hand. I believe that. And the Bible says, you get that in you. Believe it. Heart, mind, soul, thou shalt be saved. That's the prescription. That's the formula If you desire to be saved. And that's my time for that. I pray that finds you well today. If you've come to the and you desire to be a part of this church or be a part of this fellowship, the doors are always open Harvest Christian ministry. You can walk for the Lord today. You can run for the Lord today. However the Lord leads you, you can come to be a part of this work. Amen. Is there one today? Is there one today? Just now Well praise God. We got to go. Time running out in there. Yes, indeed. I I I I think y'all get in a hurry. Remember? I got the church over. Yes, let's go. I got work to do Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. cometoharvest. org. That's come the number to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed