Truly grateful. You my my Hallelujah. You know, that's what we want. We want the spirit. of the Lord to be in the house. And we bless the Lord today. I don't know about you, but I just desire His spirit. I want to be where the Lord is. Amen. Amen. Well, certainly there's a word from the Lord today. Even before we do that, let's bow for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this assignment. That is to stand behind a desk and to declare what thus saith the Lord. I pray the now that I might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage and empower another and when the time is done we'll give your name all of the praise and all of the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So good to see you in person. You look mighty good too. Amen. Just mention that uh even one of our uh sisters from the prayer line who I've never met. I heard her voice in the prayer line and uh she's Sister Beverly that puts you on blessing But she loves the Lord and has been with us. And I always wonder, I want to meet her one day. There in the Gospel of Matthew, we know that Matthew is one of the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. And there in the fourth chapter of Matthew We'll be doing verses 1 through 4. You found it, say amen. You can see better now. We got light. Amen. But you thought it just say amen or the Bible says there in the Gospel of Matthew in the fourth chapter, beginning at verse number one Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. After fasting 40 days and 40 nights, he was hungry. The tempter came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell the stones to become bread. Jesus answered, It is written, man should not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, To Do Without, Part One. To Do Without Part One. To do without is not to have something that we're convinced that we cannot live without. basics, food, water, but it may be something extravagant, something that you really want to have, something that you really desire, but you can really do without it. Our culture has conditioned us that we must have everything that our hearts desire. That you just gotta have it. It's on sale. You worked hard this week. Get it. Whether you need it or not, we have been conditioned in that way. I won't step on anybody's toes unless I step on my own. But when we think about what we desire sometimes it's power, it's wealth, it's intellect, things that we want to claim as our own, but I can hear the parents of old, and you don't have to look so far back, who would tell you that we did without So that you might have more. I think sometimes the children of the day have not heard that. We have built them up that they need everything and they really don't. Our parents and foreparents lived through those depression days. I recall my parents saying for Christmas they got an orange and a peppermint stick. I'm thinking, was that it? No G. I. Joe? Nothing of that sort. They were telling you that they ate beans and cornbread and fat backs And they did the best that they could, but they did without in order that the next generation might do better. There was no such thing as a living wage and no such thing as having a car to put gas in. Times were tough, but they made it on little to nothing Can I add this morning, aren't you glad that they had Jesus? And really that was enough. That you didn't get any inheritance No CDs or bonds. God has allowed you to get something to hold on to, and that you pass on is that you know the Lord will make a way somehow Amen. That may sound old fogy to you. Yeah, I know the Lord's gonna make a way, but how many folk know that God has brought you through Seeing and unseen dangers. Didn't have a dime in your pocket, but you had some peace. You didn't have all the things of the world, but you have joy unspeakable. Philippians 4 19 lets us know that My God shall supply all of your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus Need is something that requires fulfillment. We need food, water to survive, and there's some simple pleasures, but can we do without them for the greater Spiritual good. I want to spend the next few Sundays driving uh this particular thing during the Lentin season talking about fasting. What is it? And what are the benefits of fasting? And is it an absolute requirement of the Christian faith? And from our passages this morning, we stop in on Jesus. I really want to have you to have that mindset. I want you to put on your sandals. And get on the dusty roads of Palestine. And let's travel with Jesus right there at ringside during his public ministry. At the time of the text, he has just been baptized by John in the Jordan River, about to start his ministry. And we know that it is not long after He gets out of the water that there's a voice that comes from heaven. This is my beloved son, whom I am well pleased. I often say that to Timothy Jr. when he makes an accomplishment, no, I'm not God, and he's not Jesus. But I say to him, this is my beloved son, and whom I am well Please. Jesus was led into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil And know this, the devil will tempt all of us. He might have tempted you on the way to church this morning. The devil is the tempter, amen. And if Jesus was tempted, why do we think that we are going to be exempt? That rascal, that's what he specializes in. It's to get you and I off track. Make us say a non-Sunday school word. Make us do things that we know does not please the Lord. Let me verify that I cannot cuss. Amen. I tried to curse. Back in the day I could never put the words together. Thank be to God. Jesus was aware, I believe, this morning that God had a plan for him. And that the devil had a plot. But that scripture passages became his best defense. And so we think about the plan. Then Jesus was led By the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Amen. Led by the Spirit. Directed by the Spirit, guided by the Spirit, into the desert. God Spirit won't lead you any place that He can't keep you. You're not the victim this morning. Amen? The devil is like a roaring lion seeing who he might devour, but greater is he that is within me than he that is within the world. The the devil had a plan, but God has a plan for each of us. Amen. And we've all had some willfulness moments. Some down moments, some challenging moments in our life experience, but remember that you're not the only one. Amen? Paul writes to the church at Corinth. 1 Corinthians 1013, there's no temptation that is common to man. But what? You're not the only one to be tempted, but God gives you an escape. He gives you an eye and exit sign that there's a way to get out before you go too far. Amen? Yeah, the enemy might tempt you, but you have an exit way to lead that particular situation. And know that when you are tempted, he does provide that way out. As part of God's plan, our text says that for the next 40 days He goes into a fast. A fast is when you do without something, food or other worldly pleasures You know what it is that occupies most of your time. You know what it is that you can't wait to do? Amen? Something that you cherish and hold fast to You say, Reverend, I ain't got no problem with fool. I can turn my plate down in a heartbeat. But what about the other thing that is holding you hostage? Amen? The other thing that tells you you've got to have it Amen. Switch that television off for a moment. Switch off that ad. They know exactly what you want. These telephones now will let you know if you talk about I need a new chair Your whole feed will be about chairs. These phones are the noisiest things I know, but they know what you need and what you want and what you desire. It is not by accident. Those things which control our mind, our bodies, our spirit. Fasting is not force. But fasting is God initiated. I may as well drop it in now. In the next week or two, we're inviting you for a corporate fast here at the Harvest Church. We'll explain more about what that partial fast will look like, but an opportunity for you, if you so choose to partake. and turning down your plate, turning down some things in your life. Fasting is not a way to get God to do what we want Him to do. That's not the that's it. Fasting changes us, not God. It says after the fast, Jesus was hungry. But the devil did not quit. Hungry, he knew that Jesus had been out in the wilderness for 40 days, and the devil knows that you've had a rough way to go. The devil knows that you desire to live a life that is pleasing to God. The devil knows that during the linting season, he said, I'm gonna make this thing happen. Don't you know the devil is busy? That's what he does well. But knowing that Jesus was hungry, the devil goes into his bag of tricks. A plan, but also a plot. The tempter in verse 3 says, came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. A plot. He he knew who Jesus was and is. The devil is always scheming. Amen? If you were the Son of God, he knew very well who he was. It was a setup. He knew what Jesus was about to do. He knew what was ahead. He knew what was to come all in that moment. Amen? The devil thought that because Jesus had broken his fast, that he was now vulnerable. That he would just bow down, and what did he do? He tempted him during the fast and tempted him even afterwards. And the devil knows that there are moments that you and I will be weak. But know that when you come down from your high moments, just stay prayed up. When you come down from those moments of just feeling good in the Lord, let me just stop there for a second. You ever have a moment when you just feel good in the Lord? I mean folks think you're crazy, you're driving down the road and you bopping because you say, Lord, thank you. Amen. It's not because of what I have, but because of what you have done. In those moments you just feel the Spirit of God. You're having a great day. And guess what? The enemy is still busy, but blessed be the God that he already has given you the inside it is a plot. If you are the son of God. He already knew if you are a member of that church on Fifth Avenue, if you sing in the choir, if you are a leader, then you ought to be able to just say, Listen, I can turn this bread in the stone. That folk ever set you up. I say, I know you a church person. Yeah, I know you go to church and they want to put you on a pedestal. Sometimes it's a scheme as they try to go for your weakness. Amen. Praise God. We got to stay filled up. in the spirit. I know the economy have folks saying, well I gotta fill my tank up. Uh and one I'm gonna save one penny. But I'm gonna fill it up. I said to a co-worker this week, he said, Well you know, people are driving great distances to get gas. I said, you don't remember 1976. I said, I do Didn't have a car, but it was a lion. But don't you know that God will supply all of your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus? In that moment, we need the Spirit of God to fill us. Reminded that our bodies is what the temple of the Holy Spirit. The enemy may have a plot And don't be afraid and don't back away from saying, I'm going to take time to put some things away so that I might receive for what God has for me. I wouldn't dare pull your list up or you pull up mine. But there are things that we can do as Christ did to become more in touch with the Savior. Remember some years ago, the class of my former church, and we uh worked on a situation where we did a fast. Let me tell you right now, once you commit to a fast Whatever that period of time is, I see some of y'all nodding your head, man. It is like something opening up in your spirit. You're able to hear the Lord better You're able to discern better. Why? Because you put down something that you thought you had to have, but that you found you could do without. There was a plan. There was a plot from the enemy. But there was also the need for a passage. There in the fourth verse of Matthew 4. Jesus answered, that is, to the devil. It is written Man shall not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. Still with me today? Amen. I'm so good to see y'all. Let me see. Are y'all still here? Or am I talking to the camera? Amen. Blessed be the good. When I say passage, I mean a scripture passage from the Bible. That will give you guidance and strength during your time of temptation, in your time of doing without. Jesus responds To this question. Jesus responds to the enemy. Jesus has an answer. He goes to the passages. He says, Listen. Deuteronomy 8 and 3, now Jesus didn't say that, but he quotes an older text. It relates to the people in the wilderness. And it is shared by Moses that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. You can't tell the enemy, you better leave me alone. You must come back with the Word of God. And maybe you've got one scripture. Jesus wept. Maybe you've got something. Greater is he that's within me than he that's within the world. Maybe you've got one scripture Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Maybe you've got one scripture. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Maybe you've got one scripture, and when the enemy gets on your track, say, wait a minute, let me pull out what I know will work. Amen. Not a sick shooter, but I'm gonna pull out the word of God, and the word of God will make a difference. God responds to His word. Jesus used other passages. Let me back up for a second. Do you have that one verse that you keep? That you memorize. That one that you have that when you're down, you pull it out. When you're struggling, you pull it out When you attempted, you put it up. Amen. What is that scripture for you? Psalm 100, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord. Maybe you have found that one. Passage that you need that when trouble comes, I'll pull it out. That when situations and circumstances come in my life, I can pull out that scripture. Jesus did just that in dealing with the devil. He kept on tempting him. Never let up. Jesus said, It's written, do not put the Lord your God to the test. Jesus kept quoting scripture. Verse 10: It is written, Worship the Lord your God. and serve him only. Now the devil got out there for a while, but it says for a season, because what? He backed off for the time being. Like Psalm 119-105, thy word is a lamp unto my feet, a light unto my path. The word of God will guide you as you make a commitment to do without something. Amen. Amen. Tell I I need you, Lord. And let him know I need you every hour. Amen. Temptations lose their power when thou art now. Amen. Has he ever come by and been with you during your time of challenge? Has the Lord ever been with you through seen and unseen dangers? I know he will be with you. And the Christians of old took time to put their plates down to fast For they were about to make important decisions. Maybe you got a decision you gotta make. Not just for Monday, but maybe today. Maybe you ought to pause for a second. Take time to connect with the Lord. Take time to put something away in order that you and I might hear clearly the voice of God. I told you before that it's been said that the that the devil is all about hurry. He wants you to be in a rush and to get it done. But take time today to fast and pray. Moses fasted when he received the Ten Commandments. Daniel pleaded in prayer. Nehemiah fasted and prayed for four months for the people of Israel. David prayed and fasted over his sick child weeping. Esther urged Mordecai and the Jews to fast as she planned to appear before her husband the king. Next week we'll talk more about it, but right now, make a commitment that I found one thing that I'm going to give up. And don't worry about anybody monitoring you and don't worry about folks saying, well, how did it go? It's not anybody's business. It's between you and the Lord. Amen. So next time we'll talk about what does Jesus say about fasting. Don't you know today I'm just so glad that he gives me an opportunity to come into his presence? I'm so glad today he allows me to say, listen, you can do this Amen. It's one of the spiritual disciplines that might help to build us up. Can I tell you you'll be different? Can I tell you some of you already have put fasting in your life and you have seen the difference? Not the one the doctor orders before you have the test the next day. I'm talking about a real spiritual fast. The one that when you're in your right mind And the Lord comes along and gives you power to make it. Amen. How many folk know that God is a God of power? And that God is a God of love. And that God is a God of joy. And He will give you everything. That you need. Just put it on your agenda to do without something. To do without in order to hear From the Lord. Part two on next week. That is the word of God. It is already blessed. Amen. Blessed be the God today. No, I found in these times of of growing in the Lord. You can always learn. Always grow. Fasting is one of those particular disciplines you don't hear a lot about these days. There were folk who fasted on your behalf. Lord, my son is out there. I'm just going to turn my plate down for the day so that you might give me clarity. Mentioned so many times my first job at the radio station, I thought I was somebody. A little small station only reached about a handful of people If you went past a certain limit, they'd be static. That's before XM. You crossed the line, you lost the station. And what the enemy has done is he's given us so much static. You're trying to hear, but but there's interference coming in. He could you're trying to make a decision, but all you hear is static. When you're not commit to to do without something, We're committing to open up our spiritual ears and to hear what thus saith the Lord. And you'll be so excited because you say, oh, God, thank you, that the whole time I'd been missing that because there'd been interference. Today, I encourage you To take that step. But taking that step meaning knowing it is whom you will listen to. Otherwise, you get the wrong station. But you won't have a station. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you. Every time we engage in your word, we learn. And we're challenged to not only be hearers of the word, but to be doers. As we come today, God, I pray that this word has found soil. That someone's heart has been touched today, that someone has said, listen, I am prepared to make this arrangement with the Lord. Maybe you've come today and you've never given your heart to Jesus Christ. That's the first step. The Bible says that if that show Confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible self that said, Be saved. So we come today, Lord Asking even now that you might clear us up. Clear us out. There's someone even listening over this media that has not made a commitment to you, I pray in the name of Jesus that by your power you might change their lives. We ask it even now in Jesus' name. Come just as you are. You can come today as the Spirit calls. Come just as you are just as you are. Come and see. Come and see. Come receive. Come receive. Oh yes, the sweet with the Lord. For today. The living water and living. Make a commitment today to come Hear the spirit call. Come to comment Come with me. Even as you remain standing, just want to let you know that on Next Sunday, we'll pick up another passage in the Gospel of Matthew and talk about what Jesus says about fasting. Also, we're getting close to the month of April and we are planning our Good Friday service. Right here the seven last words, and you'll be hearing more about that preacher. Last year we were on the parking lot. Thank be the God We got a house now we can come to. Amen. So just stay tuned in that regard. I want to just thank you for Your love for the ministry and for your giving. Everything you see that's happening in the church is because of your giving. Many of you have given over and above your tithe and offering. The building fund has been a blessing. We thank the Lord that there are many things that we want to do and that we're prayerful about. I think this is part of a day that has not passed that I've not been over here. Good friend of mine, Bishop Art Robinson and I, we kid a lot. Where you at, man? I'm at the office. He said, Oh, you go to see your girlfriend again, huh? He goes to the office. Thank God for my wife as always. Amen. Man finds his wife, he finds it a good thing. She was over here painting last night. I'm out in the weeds, but that's all about cause we love the church and love God's people. No brownie points. We do what we do because we thank the Lord for you. 16 years of being together as family. Amen. Bless God. So the day will come and we'll do a festival uh ribbon cutting we just go have church until then. Amen. So many persons are going through uh some of y'all stopped me on the way in about prayer and let you know that we're we're certainly being prayerful for you and your family. And for those that you may know that God is a God who brings us through