They're in the Gospel of Matthew sixth chapter sixteen through eighteen, it reads, When you fast. Do not look somber as the hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show others their fasting. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. Verse 17 says, but when you fast Put oil on your head and wash your face so that it will not be obvious to others that you're fasting. But only to your father who is unseen and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. I want to preach today. From the Slavonic title, To Do Without Part 2. To Do Without Part Two. Our focus today continues to be on fasting. In scripture, a fast typically includes giving up food and drink, and both are important to us. But beyond food and drink, And we're modern folk. Now perhaps you can give up something like social media. Something like television, something like sports, or perhaps video games and even people those things and people that may distract us in our walk with the Lord. But the goal for all of us should be to do without something in order to pursue someone who is greater. Is that a good trade-off today that I can do without this so that I might be drawn closer to the Lord. I love that Him. I am thine, O Lord. I heard thy voice and it told thy love to me. But it goes like draw me nearer. Nearer precious Lord to thy bleeding side. How many folks just want to be nearer and closer to the Lord Jesus Christ? If you recap from last week, we were able in the fourth chapter of Matthew to come upon Jesus as he began his public ministry. And as he begins that ministry, he is led into the wilderness by the Spirit of God. And he was tempted there for forty days and for forty nights he fasted. And afterwards The Bible says he was hungry. Amen. And the devil being the devil knows that when you're hungry, he said, now if you really are. Who you say you are. If you really are the Son of God trying to play mind games, he still does that even today. Why don't you turn these stones into bread? Yeah, just go ahead and show us what you're working with. Amen? And of course, Jesus comes back with Scripture. Amen. Man should not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Don't try to argue with people. You know, just say, listen here Let me just drop Jesus' wealth on you. That's one scripture that you ought to learn. You don't know but one. But if you begin to use the word of God, the enemy will move out of your way. So we go from Chapter 4 to Chapter 6. And Jesus again is shining the spotlight on fasting, which he does not command his disciples to do, but it is expected. It is accepted and it allows us, I believe, to become connected. When you fast Don't look all twisted faced. Don't disfigure yourself to show others that you're fasting. Hey, did you hear? I'm on a fast today. You're announcing the folk. Hello over here. But but win means that at some point, at some time, you're going to do something. Jesus says not if you fast He says, when you fast. Amen. When, when. When. So it's not debatable, but something ought to happen on the inside. You know, we're the kind of people you're not going to tell us what to do. Not gonna force us into anything we don't want to do. But my God, when you fast, he gave them a quick lesson on the when and the what not of fasting Here's what you ought not to do when you fast. You ought not to draw attention to yourself. I mean you you famous. Everybody knows you on social media. You got thousands of followers But it really is not about you and I. This walk is not about you and I. Amen. It's about letting our light so shine before men and women that they may see our good works, the one or two of them, and glorify our Father in heaven. Folk are watching you and I And we're not trying to pretend to be Christians, but folk are walking us. The old mothers would say I'd rather see a sermon than to hear one. See me on Monday and see what kind of person you get as opposed to the Sunday you don't draw attention to yourself. Don't be a showboat. Amen. Well, y'all know what a showboat is. We've all been one. I was a class clown back in the day. That launched my broadcasting career, Mr. Talker. But don't be about bragging that lick it I am going to fast. Don't don't look sad. Don't Don't look and it says really that they were, I mean they had ashes up, I mean they looked the worst they could look to say I'm trying to fast He says, don't do like the hypocrites. They're somber and they want you to see on their face What they are doing. But fasting and the takeaway is it was expected. But not only that, it was accepted But there yet when you fast, in verse 17, put oil on your head and wash your face, so that it will not be obvious, will not be obvious, will not be obvious to others that you're fasting. But only to your father who is unseen and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. Jesus is saying there is a right way to fast. Amen. There's a right way. Put oil on your face. Start smelling good. Look like you a child of the king. Amen. And that it will not become obvious to others that you're fasting. And apparently putting oil on one's face in that day uh was a normal act of uh body caring, grooming in ancient times, and some of y'all not still use baby oil and Got your own fragrance you use. Oh yes, you do. Amen. I remember it was just Vaseline. That was about it. Oh Lord. Vaseline for your hair For your hands, for your leg, and now we get all kind of fancy names. Amen. With fancy prices But just letting you know that there's a right way to do it, not to draw attention to yourself. Isn't that right in life? And we don't want to have to necessarily toot the horn, so to speak. But fasting was accepted and of the norm in that day and still is. Nations would call for a fast Leaders were called for fast in moments of crisis. Think about what's happening uh not just in Ukraine but around the world. There's a need to turn down to do without some things so that we might be able to get a real focus on what is happening around us. A co-worker of mine asked me, have you preached on Ukraine? I say, no, I haven't. I've been praying. I'm preaching about God because God is in control. He neither sleeps nor slumpers. He is not silent he's not uh sleep at the wheel he knows exactly what's going on and we just trust God today. I said first of all you gotta know some history. I was nobody's history bug You can't preach on something unless you got some background on the culture. Praise be the God. I don't want to say too much because they may block you out on the internet See the wrong stuff, they'll mute you, but amen. You can't mute Jesus. Amen. Blessed be the God. But it was extracted. In that time. And it's important to know that it is okay to fast that it's accepted. It's expected. But I believe it also keeps us connected. But only to your father. It would not be obvious to others, but only to your father who is unseen, and your father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. God sees what's done in secret. Amen? Mother used to always say God is my secret judge. Amen. That is nobody's business but me and God's And he will reward you. We don't fast for a reward or some kind of a prize, uh, some coupon, amen. But we fast because of what it does. It draws us To the Savior. Amen. If you've ever fasted before and took time to put aside those things that you can't do without, you'll be amazed as to how your life will open up how you'll be fired on all syllabilness to the glory of God. Amen. It's about being connected. John 15 and 5, and Jesus tells the disciples, I am divine. You are the branches. If you remain in me, and I in you, you will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. I'm glad to be connected today to the Lord. Amen. To be able to have a direct line. Song says Jesus is on the main line. Tell them what you want. If you need more power, tell them what you want. If you need more joy, tell them what you want If you need more love, don't be all shy. He's right there. Amen. Just call him up and tell him what you. . I'm getting excited just from how that I got a connection today, even the connection with glory, where I can say, Lord, you know what I need. And I don't mind saying that I'm connected to He who rewards you That main line extends from the earth to glory. Where Jesus is sitting at the right hand of the Father. William Arthur Ward, an American author and teacher and pastor pin some very powerful words as it relates to fasting, to doing without Ward suggests that we ought to fast from judging others and feast on the Christ dwelling in us. Fast from apparent darkness and feast on the reality of light. A fast from thoughts of illness and feast on the healing power of God. Fast from words that pollute and feast on words that purify Fast from anger and feast on patience. Fast from pessimism and feast on optimism. Fast from complaining. and feast on appreciation. Fast from hostility and feast on non-resistance. Fast from bitterness and feast on forgiveness. Fast from self-concern and feast Feast on compassion for others. Yes, sir. Fast from personal anxiety. And feast on eternal truth. Fast from discouragement. and feast on hope. Are you still with me? Fast from thoughts that weaken us and feast on the promises that inspire. Fast from idle gossip and feast on purposeful silence. Fast from problems that overwhelm and feast on prayers that I'm about to get hungry up in here. Amen. Guide me, O thy great Jehovah. Pilgrim in this barren land. I am weak, but thou art mighty Do what? Hold me with thy power friends. Bread of heaven. Bread of heaven. Feed me till I want no more. As I grow in the Lord, I'm praying that God gives me an appetite To learn his word. An appetite to live his word. An appetite to share his word. His word tells me that Jesus came. And that Jesus died, but that Jesus rose. On the Thursday morning with all power in his hands. He is the Savior of the world. He is the only one who can change the hearts of men. So every now and then, do without some stuff. But whatever you do, don't give rid of your praise. The Bible says that everything has graph praise be the Lord. To begin some stuff, but make sure you've got a hallelujah in your back. You can take some stuff, but make sure you get a faith in Jesus every now and then on your teacher's journey. You can get rid of some stuff, but make sure you don't do without the Spirit, the spirit of God. Amen. I'm glad today that I served a listen to you. He's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. That's some stuff I've been carrying around. Just do without it. Can you just fire? Can you get rid of it? You know, every now and then me and Tim Jr. go to the landfill. And once you check in, this is the Misty. You in the right county. Now you've got some wood products. Go over there. You've got some trash go over there. You've got some chemicals go over there. And there's some stuff that we can do without. I dang you to go to the landfill. the glory and let some stuff go and allow the Lord to dwell within you. I'm so glad today that as I speak, there's some stuff I kick you to the earth. There's some stuff I mock you without. I must tell Jesus all about my fellows. He's the one who will guide me till the day is done. There's no friend like the lowly Jesus. Go ahead to do that with owl do without some things You don't need That is the world up there. Um We go everywhere else for advice. What do you think I should get rid of? Ask Jesus. I was thinking about getting rid of no no no. Ask the Lord what is it that I need to discard? Need to kick to the curb. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. Thanking you for the example. Thank you Jesus said, now when you fast. Don't be a show-off. Don't draw attention to yourself. But just shh. Do it in secret. Yes. And I'll reward you. Father, I pray in the name of Jesus that there's one today who knows not the Savior. That you might have them to shake off the world, the old man, the old woman, and to put on the new man. And the new woman, the Bible said that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Touch that soul today, God. Yes, Lord. Touch that heart today. Touch each of us. Already there are things that we can determine we ought to get rid of. Things that we can do with our in our Christian world. Save someone today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.