Now speak, Lord, that your word might go forth and not return void. In Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God. There's a word this morning from the gospel. It's penned by John, the 8th chapter. And of course, gospel simply means good news. And don't we need some of that? John 8, 31 And thirty two. You found it say Amen. Amen It reads as follows. To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, If you hold on to my teaching. You are really my disciples. Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. We want to preach this morning from the Sharmonic title To Tell the Truth. To tell the truth back in the Early 1950s, Bob Stewart, an American uh game show producer, came up with a real hit. A program called To Tell the Truth. It's been revised and it's on now. But it is a show that allows a panel of celebrities To judge whether strangers are lying or telling the truth. You know, in in real life it may be hard to discern if someone And it was a long time before I said lying in public. Uh that was almost like a curse word. You had to say you tell them a story. Amen. Is that the truth? You about to get a whooping for straight line. But now that we all grown We we know people who've lied. In fact, we have all lied. That's why the Bible says in Romans three twenty-three that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God, there is none righteous, no not one. Now studies have shown that there are at least seven reasons why people lie. To preserve their self-image, to protect a relationship or someone else's feelings to protect someone else, to impress people, uh, to boost your reputation, to get instant gratification. In fact, the R and B group, The Undisputed Truth, just happened to come on the radio this week. I do listen to Amazing Grace and I do listen to other groups but I'm all these guys. Amen. And I said now isn't that something that they would come on saying Uh in the words smiling faces sometimes they don't tell the truth. And Proverbs six and nineteen it says the six oh y'all got your dancing shoes on. Uh the six things that the Lord hates, one of them is lying. My parents told me and maybe yours as well about the danger of lying. And they said if you lie Your cheat. Your cheat, your steal. It was all connected. I believe that our new life in Christ ought to be one that is rooted In the truth. John 14, 6, Jesus says, I am the way, I am the truth and the life. No one cometh to the Father except by me. In this eighth chapter, we take a chance to pull up a chair and spend time with Jesus in a Bible study setting. People are showing up. In that group are religious scholars. In that group of Pharisees, these are mostly middle-class businessmen who had all the ins and outs. They knew the law like no one else, but they were also hypocritical. They were also in modern terms haters. They were always following Jesus, trying to catch him in something, because they could not handle the truth. Amen? They had a problem with Jesus making such claims as I am the light of the world. They were bothered by the fact that he says That the Son of God, I am the Son of God. You remember when he said to his disciples, when you've seen the Father, you've seen me. Sorry, our glasses are not working. And so He is the embodiment And our encounter with the truth should lead us to a few things. It will lead us to become true disciples. And to experience true delight and to experience true deliverance. Verse 31 says, To the Jews who had believed, Jesus said, If you hold to my teaching You are really my disciples. Click off your lenses. Disciples are not the guys in the old garb that you see and all the pictures in your mind. No, you are a disciple. A disciple is a follower of someone, a disciple who is a follower of Jesus Christ, is one who is committed to living by way of the word. A Christian disciple is a person who follows Jesus. Some years ago, and I guess the term Don't drink the Kool-Aid came from this. You all remember uh you know, Jim Jones. And uh God forbid people are so into their leaders they'll do crazy stuff. And Paul says an example, you follow me as I follow Christ. If I stop following Christ, you say detour. Amen? I'm just talking about me. Praise be to God. And so this sense of truth, uh, disciples are those who are committed to telling the truth Jesus made it plain to those who accepted his word, those who believed his word. Those who say, I kind of got this. Those who said, okay, no more convinced than me, have y'all just had enough of Jesus to get you going? So I don't know at all, Reverend, I I've got a half a verse in me and I know the Lord's prayer and uh you you can work with that. Amen. Take some truth and use it and share it. But what does it mean to hold on to? His teachings. It it means going beyond just coming to church. So good to see you. It goes beyond just Bible study. It goes beyond Many things hearing the word, but you remember James 122? Do not merely listen to the word And so deceive yourselves, but do what it says. Amen. True disciples hold on to the truth. The Word of God. Tony Evans a well rounded and renowned Pastor with Baltimore Roots said, he said, the devil is allergic to the word. It causes him to break out And so when you are in a situation, uh just speak the word of God. Amen. In a bind Speak the truth. Folk lying on you, speak the truth. And when you know the truth, it is but the word of God. Amen? True disciples. But then you learn to experience some true delight. Verse 32 says, then you will know the truth. There's nothing greater than knowing some things. Remember that little course you passed? You thought you were somebody? Got your degree? You knew something across the stage, yes. You got a little course, you pass a little seminar. It's good to know something, amen. But In life, it's good to know the truth of the word. Amen. And when you delight in something, that means you take pleasure in it When you delight in something, it means that you enjoy it. When you delight in something, that means it gives you satisfaction. So delight ought to cause you to smile. Some of y'all still look so serious in there. Yeah, y'all should delight in the Lord. Psalm thirty-seven and four says, Delight thyself Also in the Lord, and he shall give you the desires of your heart. Sometimes we do it backwards. He still gives me the desires of my heart. After you delight in him. And take the whole passage into context. Amen? We could easily cherry-pick something. The Lord said, you take one step, I'll take two. I don't remember seeing that in the Bible. What chapter is that? Amen. But we can delight in the Word of God, delight in the truth of God, and know that as a result of your delighting, someone will see your light. That's right. Let your light shine before men and the women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. I may as well tell it. Okay, I was at a ball game on the other night. The home team was killing. And Without getting into trouble. I can be passed at a ball game. I say goals! But there was an atmosphere of language. An atmosphere of Buzz Light. Oh y'all woke you up there, the atmosphere of some other things. And so there was an atmosphere of language. Not that I don't know what cussing is, but it's cussing. I said, no, they take they got their ticket too. And in the midst of what I heard I heard the name Jesus. I jumped up on road 19 and said, hey! I said, now you talking myself. I said, I know that name. And we were able to engage. In a conversation drop the card so you know. But when you go to different places, always be who you are and allow the spirit of God To wor as much as I want to say something in the third inning. In the fifth. I couldn't. Lord it was around by the seventh innings. Hallelujah. Well I heard the name of Jesus and I begin to delight in that. So truth brings us True delight. On our way to becoming true disciples, but finally we will experience true deliverance. Now, the Samadic pretty much hit that thing on the head. Amen? Then you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. Truth has a function and purpose. I was gonna preach something else. So the preachers always say that I had something else, the Lord changed my mind. No, he did. And it happened right in the workplace. I said, oh God, I gotta preach about truth. You know, you'll know the truth. And so I just changed up. But truth has a function and a purpose. Deliverance. And being delivered is being delivered or rescued from bondage or danger. That's what happens when you encounter the truth. The truth will do something. Don't just say I got the truth, but the truth will do something in our lives. It will set us free. I didn't know I was in bundle, it's gonna set you free. Amen? Praise be to God. And that's what Jesus wanted those believers to understand, those who were there with him. He wanted them to know that by being my disciples, here are the benefits That the truth that you've heard and embodied will set you free. Psalm 34, 17, it says the righteous crowd And the Lord hears them. He delivers them from all of their troubles. Has he delivered you today? Amen. Talk to Jesus, pride the sick You had a five-point plan and you tried to shake it, but when you began to deal with the Lord, he delivered you To move on. Amen? Blessed be the God. John 8 36 said, So if the Son sets you free You'll be free indeed. Not a five-step program, but if the sun sets you free, I'm free. Are you free today? Praise the Lord. I'm free. No longer bound. No more chained. Me, my soul is resting, and it's just a blessing. Hallelujah! I'm free. I can only speak for myself, and because the truth has set me free I can tell the truth, tell a dying world that the wages of sin is still death. As the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus Our Lord. I can tell the truth that he says to the utmost. I can tell the truth that when your mother and your father forsake you, then the Lord Will take you up. Tell the truth, he will never leave you nor forsake you. Amen. Tell the truth that goodness and mercy shall follow you All the days of your don't you like the twins? Wherever you go you're under surveillance, but they're following you everywhere. The woman at the well in John four twenty-four says God is a spirit. And those who worship him as Jesus shared with her, he says, You must do it with spirit and in truth. I'm just a a country preacher with southern roots and a willing heart. And something happens when you begin To study the word all week. Amen? And it's called celebration that once you have prepared the meal for other folks, then you sit down to eat. And so when I come to the end of my messages, I'm just trying to eat. Amen. Blessed be the God today. And so I said I wouldn't go tell nobody. But I just couldn't keep it 'cause look, can I celebrate today? I want to celebrate the goodness of the Lord. I said I wouldn't go. Same this song, but I just couldn't keep it to myself, Mr. McMahon. I said I was gonna shout for joy, but I just couldn't keep it to my Say you've been that when you had to tell us, I said I wouldn't go shout for joy, but then something done a hold of me and I began to shout. So can I just celebrate right now? I want to celebrate that he got me up this morning. I want to celebrate that he saved my call. I want to celebrate that he continues to lead me and to guide me. Do I look happy? I want to celebrate that he's been loved to me. I want to celebrate that He's guiding me along my day. I want to celebrate the hope to continue to walk over me. And so I'm going to tell you the truth. And the truth is that he went to it all from the cross. That's the God having truth. And he was pierced inside. In a bowl or two. But can I tell you that? Something happened. Oh, you know the story. On the Thursday, morning, he got up with all power. And so the fellow wanna know what you do with me. I'm trying to Tell the truth. Anybody want to tell the truth today? Let someone know that he will keep you in perfect peace. If your mind is stayed on him. Let someone know that table body. Do your legs. Use my prayer. Let somebody know that I've come a mighty long way. That I'm facing today. I'm not who I'm. I used to be. But thank God you can use me to tell the truth. Sometimes you can Live a lie. After a while you just keep believing good life. The devil is the father of lies. But Jesus saves. That is the word of God today. It's already done. The truth. Come on, stand today.