I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, Podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you to strengthen your faith and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress Amen. It's your time. God is good, he's worthy to be praised. Sometimes our time frame is not his. Saints of old would say he may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. Anybody ever experienced that You wanted God to come on your timetable. Couldn't wait, but when He showed up, it was the right season, it was the right time. Even as we come today, let's bow. All over this place before the Lord today. Let's pray unto him Heavenly Father, once again we come before you, asking that you might clear our minds, strengthen our heart as we declare the good news of Jesus Christ. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. That person who does not have a relationship with you. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We come before you today. So good to see you and thankful to God that you made it here safely. Can't take anything for granted, can you? I know you're the best driver, but the fact that you got here safely, we give God the praise. I want to share scripture with you today from 1 John 89. If we can claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. Verse nine, if we confess our sins, the Bible says he's faithful and just And will forgive our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. I want to share over the next few weeks from the Semmonic title, True Confessions. Amen. As it relates to this particular topic, we'll talk about the importance of taking ownership of our sins. And to trust the offer that God gives us by forgiving us for those sins. And know that anytime you're prepared to confess your sin, it is a timely option. The story is told about four preachers who got together and they said, you know, every Sunday we listen to people's problems and their needs and their confessions, and maybe we ought to come clean. Maybe we ought to confess. Confession is what? Good for the soul. And so they thought about it for a while and Uh the first one said, well, you know, my my advice is that I love to go to movies when I'm not at church. That's really my thing. Another guy said, well, every now and then I'll sneak off and smoke me a cigar That's that's my that's what I do. The third preacher said I love to play cards. Now I don't see anything wrong with most of those cigars maybe a little stretch, but I love movies and I play a cards when I get a chance to, but the fourth person did not want to say. They kept pushing him. What what is it, man? What is it that's in your life that you want to share and confess? And they kept pushing him. He said, well, my problem is I love to gossip. And I can't wait to get out of here. When it comes to our sin, I took a chance on that. I'm not the joke man, so I'm glad y'all got that. I kinda added a little spice to it. But sin is when we break God's law when we decide to do something our own way. And confession is not so much saying, oh, I'm sorry, and I won't do it again, but it really is feeling sad by what we have done. All of us have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We can confess that. And that's what's so key is that it does not matter in your life how long you have been saved and what you put out. In terms of a front, we all have things that will trip us up and cause us to sin. And really, when we confess our sins, it's really agreeing with God. Getting on God's side and saying, God, you're right. I know this is wrong. And on the spot, I'm going to ask you to forgive me. Paul talks about there in the book of Romans that shall we continue in sin that grace may abound. In other words, do we just sin knowing that, okay, if I do it, he'll forgive me. God is long-suffering, but we can't play that kind of game. We have to confess our sins to Him Even though he knows what we have done, it's always great to confess on the spot. In our text today, it is John who writes to the church. It's a personal letter. And he really puts himself out there. He says, you know what? He says, I walk with Jesus. I've been in the inner circle, but now here's an older John. And he's bringing up this issue about the need to confess. Even as I started this sermon, I'm sure you thought of something in your own mind. I did. Is there anything on your radar right now that you feel like you can confess unto the Lord? You may not do it publicly. Let's take about a 30 second. And think about that particular thing that you can confess unto him. I don't need to know what it is. It's between you and the Lord. But we all have things in our lives that will cause us to sin. Can I get amen? Praise God. I was wondering for a second. Am I out there all alone? I don't care who you are, sin will come your way. The devil will paint it in such a way that it looks good to you. Now some of you are a little too young to remember Flip Wilson. He said, some of y'all can Google it. He said, the devil made me do it. That was always his his line. But you know what? The devil didn't make us do some stuff. We did it because we wanted to do it. And we seemingly got a worldly and fleshly pleasure out of it But we need to think about the importance of confessing. And so he really begins to talk about this particular topic. And first of all, the importance of taking ownership. If we confess our sins, I've got mine, and you've got yours. They've got your name on them, my name or all mine. But to say, oh, I didn't mean to, or to say, well, it wasn't quite a sin. It was kind of sorta. You know, we rate stuff, don't we? We'll say, you know, I didn't I thought it, but I didn't do it. Or I did it and I didn't really mean it Or we'd even give a disclaimer, like, you know what? Now Lord forgive me, and then we do something. And we've got to take ownership of our own sin. The sin belongs to us. And so as it relates to our confessing it, once you see what is on the landscape of your life Take responsibility. Don't blame the other person and say, you know what, if they hadn't called me. If if they hadn't text me, if they had had that sale, if there wasn't a rebate on that oh help me Jesus But there are things that will draw us, deceit and lust, and things that will pull us out of our comfort zone, and yet we can blame nobody but ourselves. How would a person want to take ownership and say, you know what? I know my sin. In fact, the Bible talks about that sin that so easily besets us. And that's why we've got to run our race with patience looking under Jesus, the author, and the finisher of our faith. There's something that can get you. I know you big and bad. You got it together. My God, you got seven crosses around your neck. But there's something that will Come your way that will cause you to sin. There's a bumper sticker that says Christians aren't perfect They're just forgiven. And I want you to think of that sin, identify it, and say, I'm going to confess it in the name of Jesus. That's what's so important in this Christian walk. As we think about persons who follow Jesus and as we think about the Linton season, Uh you didn't just come and say, Lord, I'll be with you, but they had to, he said, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That if you're going to hang out with me, you got to go in and come clean with some stuff and lay it out on the table So take ownership of your sins. So whenever you are challenged, whenever you are tempted, say, I know what it is. I know how it's gotten me in the past, but now I'm armed and dangerous, and I can take out that sin. Just a look, just a thought. And the enemy is subtle. Won't he try to come at you a certain way? He knows what you like and how you like it and he knows that you will go ahead and just start and he'll finish it, but take ownership. But not just that. We must also trust the offer. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us of our sins Now, I can trust the offer because he makes that offer that if you admit, if you come clean about your sin Whatever that sin is, that I'm in a position because I am faithful, because I am God, because I can't lie Because I'll keep my word. Because I'll take you out of it. That if you come clean, and as I offer this to you, I am faithful. First of all, look at me. I'm faithful and I am just, and I have the power to forgive you of that sin. Isn't that good news today? And what's remarkable about this is that when we sin, we really get out of fellowship with God. Give me a paint for you. It's like going around the beltway and getting off on sin exit one You know it's an exit, you get off on that exit, and you're out of fellowship with God. And then you can get back on through confession on the main road again. But we see it coming. We know the exit. We get to a place in life where we break the fellowship with the Lord Jesus Christ. That does not affect Your relationship, so you can be saved and still sin. Make this plain In other words, I've given my life to Jesus Christ. I'm saved, blood washed, filled with the Holy Ghost, hallelujah, Jesus, and I can break the fellowship. And he desires for us to do what? To come back into fellowship. He desires for us to get back on. If you go on the wrong exit, do you just fail on the bad road? You try to make your best and say, Lord, I have sinned against you, and I want to come back and get on the right track because of that. And see what happens is our sin would try to hold us hostage. You know your sin. The Lord know you sin. And the devil will tell you, oh, he ain't gonna forgive you of that. I thought you were a good church going person. And there you are, you have sinned, but he will forgive you. Sometimes we can't forgive ourselves. Amen. Sometimes we are so hard on ourselves. Yeah, you blew it. Yes, I messed up. Yes, I fell short, but don't stay there. There's an offer on the table that he'll do what? He'll forgive you. For your sins. And so you don't have to remain out of fellowship with him. You can get back into fellowship to a point that where now my life is at a point that even as I am praying You know, the enemy will attack you in your prayer. Won't he do it? You praying in the craziest thought of comfortable in the name of Jesus, and you rebuke that right there. Take the offer. He'll do it. Micah 7 and 19 talks about how he'll trample on our sin. And then throw it out into the ocean where it will never rise again. Aren't you glad about that? Well, I might keep bringing it up. Yeah, I remember when you did, uh I've done told the Lord. And because I've told him about it, I'm forgiven, and don't worry about it, because the world will keep saying you and other believers, they'll keep saying, I remember you when Well, of course you do. But I go back home, you remember me when I had an afro, didn't you? Yeah, you remember that too. You remember many things about me from that day, but I am a new creature in Christ All things have passed away. Behold, all things become new. Do you feel new today? Don't let your sin handcuff you and lock you up and hold you hostage, but take the offer that he will con Forgive you of your sins. Amen. How many want to take ownership? It's mine. I know it's mine. And then now there's the offer. I'll take it. Sign me up I want to get back into fellowship. I've sinned against thee. That's so important. But lastly, you should also know there's a timely option. Forgive you of your sins and cleanse us or purify us from all unrighteousness. When you purify something, you're making it clean. Getting rid of the contaminants. Getting away those things that will cause it to be affected. We use hand sanitizer. We really believe that thing over there. You do that, that's really going to take care of your germs. No, we believe that we don't use soap and water. Give me a sanitizer. And that's the great business. Man, if I thought about that, uh, you know, just but What he promises is that now, even in this place, he can purify you from all filthiness and unrighteousness now. Person tell me, well, you know what? When I go to church on Sunday, I'm gonna ask for forgiveness. God bless you. I can't wait that long. That on the spot In the name of Jesus, forgive me for what I have done. It is available to you right now. That very sin that you've identified Uh since this sermon started, you can take it to the Lord, and because of the shed blood of Jesus Christ, that blood covers a multitude of sins. And see, the enemy don't want you to know that You feeling bad because you you can confess it. You can say, Lord, forgive me right now in this place. It's timely. Amen. Praise the Lord. Right now. Well look at King David. He was one who sinned, took advantage of another man's wife. Bathsheba. And then put her husband Uriah on the front line of the war. And then pretended he hadn't done anything wrong. But then Nathan came by. The prophet said, You know what? There was this man had these weak sheep and he began to he took all things, oh man, that's horrible. Said, man, you are that man. But David goes on and writes in Psalm 51, he says, You know what, cleanse me, O Lord. He spent some time getting there, but he asked the Lord to purify him, and that's what we have to do. That yes, I've sinned against it. There was a real hurt there in his heart. And we've got to come clean and say, well, I'll do it next week I'll do it when I pray about it. No, you ought to right now in the name of Jesus, if you've sinned against someone else, especially, to ask for their forgiveness and pray that the Lord might restore you in fellowship Amen. So it is now we can do it. I think so often the world paints us, well, you can get around to it, but I want to just I can't say it enough That right where you are in this place right now, the Lord can forgive you of your sin, that that you've done, and all have sinned. Do you believe he can do that today? And that's what faith is the believing that it can happen right now. And see, even now. See, well, you know, I mean maybe there might be a one or two scene. But I I hadn't found a sin yet. I'm I'm still you talking, but I I don't really I haven't found one yet. You know, I I'm still I think I'm perfect. I think I got this together, but I dare you to think about it. That you are a sinner saved by grace. And so am I. And the Bible says, if my people, which are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, I'll forgive their sin, I will heal their land. Won't He do it today? I want you to have a true confession between you and the Lord. I didn't say put it on the gossip line or text it or Facebook it or Instagram it. No, you take it to where it's going to really matter Focus say like on they'll say oh yeah I like that that was good but you've not confessed it you've told social media about it But you've not told the Lord of Lords about it. You've not told the King of Kings about it. You've not confessed it if you confess your sins He's faithful and just to forgive you and do what? And cleanse you from all unrighteousness. That's what Calvary was all about. That's why he went to the cross to shed his blood So they might cover our sins. And knowing that ought to make you excited. Knowing that, that I can go to Him whatever I have fallen short and he will forgive me. But again, back to Romans. Don't play games. You say, Well, I know he's a gracious God. He uh he'll forgive me after I do this. Talks about chastening That he'll give you a real Holy Ghost beating. If you purposely said, you know what? One more time, I'm just going. Go there again. It's one more time. I I you know I'm not you know I'm not as bad as the other person. I'm You know, I'm not a bad person, but I sin, but my sin is not as bad as that brothers are not as bad as that let me testify show enough now. Um y'all were in the world And you consumed things. And because you consumed, you thought you were better than the person who did other hard stuff. And you said, well you know what? You know, I might get my six pack, I'm just maybe able to testify to the young people, but I'm not doing the other stuff. And you can't categorize sin and say, you know what, I, you know, I've done that and I've done this, but it's all sin And we've got a confessment unto the Lord today so that we might be cleansed and might be made new and might get back into fellowship. And that's what Calvary is all about. Must Jesus bear the cross alone? And all the world go free? No, there's a cross for everyone, and there's a cross for me. The consecrated cross out there to death shall set us free. And then go home. My crown to wear, for there's a crown for me. I'm excited that there's an avenue for me. To say, Lord, I am sorry, and I want to get it right. That gets me excited to know that you know what? I will fall short, but thank you that I have the blood. Thank you to have a true confession. I can confess it right now in the name of Jesus. Again, bow your head. And search your heart and bring to mind that faith That action that I'm not hurting anybody, that it's not that bad But it hurts the heart of God. Whenever we sin, we fall out of fellowship He loves us, but he hates the sin. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. Pray for your people. That there might be a true confession. We might turn in a new direction In life. Cleanse us today. Purify us today from that sin. In Jesus' name. Amen. That is the word of God today that's already blessed. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Let's stand all over this place today. I feel better. Do you feel better today? Knowing that there's an avenue for you in which you can confess your sins unto Him. That's something the world can't do. That's something that Wall Street can't do. You have to know that it is only by the Lord Jesus Christ. That's why the word says, if you confess your sins, he's what? Faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Are you satisfied out of the town this past weekend? Left the hotel and no longer I got back home I got an email above a survey. Was everything all right? Getting up towels. Was the room clean? Tomorrow I'll get something from the Remacar Company. How was the car? Was it okay? And normally I don't even open those things up. Okay. But for the car one, I'm gonna open it up. I wasn't satisfied. But when it comes to what God has offered us by way of Christ, are you satisfied? The survey wants to know, are you satisfied? As I come before you today, I want to appeal to you. For that person who has never confessed under Christ. Bible talks about confessing with your mouth. The Lord Jesus, and believing in your heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Yes. You know, with all the new stuff out there, new trends, there's nobody like Christ. He's not old-fashioned. He never gets old, never runs out. But keep him at the center of your life. Bible says this morning. I'm real serious about this because I think that souls are so important. Yes, yes. And it's so important to give your life to Jesus Christ. And he'll save your soul, that is, your inner being, that part of you. That even when the body is done and you leave this world, the soul makes it away to glory. I want you to take inventory from the youngest to the oldest It's the most serious part of the worship experience. As you bow those hands today, ask yourself the question Do I have a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? And then answer yourself: yes or no. If the answer is no, I stop by to tell you about Jesus. If you just say to him, I want to be saved. He'll come into your life. That's every person. Every person. Every person. He'll make your life new. He'll give you hope. He'll give you joy. He's like no one else. And today, you can become a part of that family. While those hand remain bow. You pray this prayer to yourself, but more so to him. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I believe that God you sent your son, Jesus Christ, to die for me. I believe he died, but then he rose again. Yes. With all power in his hands. This may seem elementary and like, okay, is it just that? It's when you confess. It is my desire for you to be saved today. From those hands remain bowed. If you want to become saved, accept Christ, the personal Savior, I don't want to make a spectacle out of you. But I can pretty much see every face in here. You raise your hand, I'll pray for you right where you are today. I'll walk with you. I'll encourage you to make the best decision of your life. I made a great decision 30 years ago when I married my lovely wife. Yeah. But a greater one is when I gave my life to Jesus. Yeah, thank you, Lord. Take a minute. This it's this is this is the best time here. Think about it today. If you want to be saved, you can be saved today. Raise that hand if I want to pray where you are today. Raise that hand. Raise that hand, I want to pray with you today. If you know that you're not saved, don't lie to yourself. If you know that you've never given your life to Jesus. Praise God. That tells me everybody in the house is saved. Amen. If Jesus came back right now, it'd be an empty building. Yes. I'm not going to play games with you. But be sure. And very sure. Amen. Give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. I pray you were helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToharvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website. And all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord. And you just