I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, Podcast, or our website I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Yeah, my soul says yes. Come on, give God a praise today. There's only one answer. Not maybe so, not God. I'll get back with you Not can you text me? But God wants a yes. So we come today to celebrate the goodness of the Lord. We thank God for the sharing from this choir. Let's bow all over this place today. Heavenly Father, we come and we're grateful that you've given us another opportunity to say yes. We come before your people with your word. It is our prayer today that we might decrease and that you might increase. By your power, save a soul today, encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll be so grateful to give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. We thank God today just for another opportunity to Come to church. That's the one place you can go ahead and get it out. Nobody will look at you funny at church. You can say, Lord, I'm here. I've got a praise I want to share today. There's a word before us today that comes from the Gospel of Matthew. 10th chapter, verses 32 and 33. Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. I want to continue today by talking about true confessions, part two. During our last time together, we talked about the need to confess, and that if we confess and come clean with our sins, Sin being that which is wrong, that which breaks the law of God, is that He's faithful to forgive us of our sins. My God, you ought to get excited just about that He will forgive us of our sins and then cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Everything in us we ask the Lord To cleanse us, he has the ability to just clean the slate. And the world doesn't understand that. Because they know us And we didn't get away with anything, but he just cleaned the slave. We talked last time about the importance of taking ownership of your own sin. They belong to you. And to trust the offer that the Lord makes for you, and that is that He will do what? He will cleanse them and wash them. And then the option is He'll do it right now. Aren't you glad you said a right now, God? You know, folks say to me often they say, you know what, Reverend or Tim or whoever, can you pray for me, sir, on Sunday? I say, you think I'm gonna remember to pray for you on Sunday? Why don't we do it right now? In the express line. Let's do it right now at Starbucks. Let's do it right now wherever we are because that way we can agree with God together in that place and for that particular moment I'm not one who begins to investigate people's lives and say, well, what is it you've done wrong? I say you won't you won't pray? Well let's pray. That God you know, but I don't know, but I don't need to know. Some time ago I mentioned that I picked up a book. Called The Power of a Praying. It may have been husband, it may have been many of those books. And I read the first page And it said something that allowed me to put the book away. It said, when you pray for someone, intercede for them, we have a tendency to check back in with God. God, did you do it? And once you pray, the prayers that that person might hear the voice of God. Isn't that a great prayer that I'm not praying To check in to give an update from God on whether or not Junior did it right and whether or not Susie got her life together. I'm just praying, believing that they will hear your voice So there we continue with True Confessions Part 2. And we're talking mainly about seeing confession with a different set of lenses. And that is to see confessing as professing, and that is to share my faith with someone. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ And so what we're talking about in this text is Jesus meeting with his disciples, the twelve of them, he's called them together, and he's about to send them out to do the work of ministry. He lets them know it'll be rough out there. Everyone won't believe your message. There'll be some challenges. There'll be some ups and some downs There'll be many twists and turns, but I want you to go and let them know that I am the Lord God. And each day we get up, we are really on assignment to tell someone about Jesus. To confess. Here's what I used to be, and here's what God has done for me. Now you say, Reverend, my approach is not like yours. You know, I'm a go-attack kind of guy. I'll just get you in the lobby on the elevator Wherever you I'll try it. I'll sneak sneak in at the cleaners. Doesn't matter. But maybe yours is a bit different. But maybe through your smile you let someone know that the Lord God is good And sharing with them what he's done for me. And what he's done for me, maybe he didn't do for you, but I love crossing generations. I love to be with the young folk. I shared the last time that I'm I'm a tweeter now. I do one tweet a day. One scripture, one post. But that way we're trying to reach someone with the good news of Jesus Christ by confessing that I know who I belong to I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. Does that make you excited? That you know whose side you're on. You're on the winning side. That you're not going to lose. Amen? That becomes so important. So today we're going to begin to unpack this particular passage or two by sharing first of all the need to make Christ visible. So others can see him. To make Christ vital, that he becomes that important, and to make note of his value. Amen. He's not a great God. I just keep saying that because I can't help myself, because I'm so glad that He saved me, and I'm so glad that He's keeping me. I'm so glad that He's brought me from a mighty long way, and so I can't help but to get excited. Amen. How many are just excited about Jesus? Amen. I'm just I'm just saying that, well, does that make you a Jesus freak? I guess so. Is it all you know? No, I know other stuff. You gotta be in the world, but not of the world. Amen. You gotta be able to roll with everybody, but know how to break out Jesus when the time comes I don't want you to be square, but there's some way to get the Lord through and by making him visible, that's so important, says whosoever therefore shall confess me. Even though he's sharing with his disciples, and they've been with him, he's saying, This is for you all too. Whosoever Therefore, shall confess me to make me visible, make me known in the larger community. The Bible says Let your light so shine before men that they may do what? See your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. You can't just walk around and say I'm gonna keep Christ undercover. I'm not gonna let anybody see him. I'm not gonna display it. Well don't you know that after a while folk will know that you're a little strange? The Bible says we're strange folk, us Christian folk. We're chosen generation. We're peculiar. And so when we go about, find a way to make Christ plain for others. Never assume that folk know you know the Ten Commandments or that they know John three sixteen. They may not know that. Shared some time ago I was counseling a couple and I was sitting with them It's been last year and I said, well, you know, over in the book of John, they say John who? And they didn't know who John was. I said, well, John Let me break it down for you. And so take time to do whatever necessary to make Christ visible to the larger generation. Folk may pretend to know. They don't want you to beat them down, but they say, Can you tell me more about this Jesus that gets you excited? Make him visible, make him so that he can be seen in the greater community. I don't mind confessing him. There was a day when I did try to hide it. I didn't want folk to know I was a church boy. You know, I I didn't want folk to know that I went to church on Sunday. That was not cool, man. I didn't want to carry my Bible. It didn't look right. It didn't have a cross anywhere near me when I was in college. Amen. Got a college cloud that they might as well go ahead and go back in the day. You know, that was not my testimony. You wouldn't have found me in a gospel choir. Oh no, they had one, but I don't think I was in it. Praise God But what God does is he puts this burning and desire in your heart that you are not ashamed of him and you don't mind sharing him. Amen. Sometimes we give the impression that we've always been on the Lord's side. Always had it together. No, we didn't. And so it's our job then as we confess Christ is to make him so folk can see it. Is that all right? I want you to be able to at least see him in me. Is there anything in me that you know uh uh I'm not perfect, but I hope you can see Christ in me. But not just being visible, making him also vital. Confess me before men. This does not mean necessarily men only. But humankind, that it becomes so important that we don't mind saying, you know what, I don't care where I am, I'll confess Christ. Doesn't matter what I'm doing, I'll confess Christ. And to let folk know that if Christ is important to me, folks will follow your Jesus. If you say, well, hey, I You know, I'm Christian, but I, you know, it's it's okay. But if you come and say, you know what, I'm glad I'm on the Lord's side. I'm glad I'm saved. Folker said, wait a minute, and he must be important to you. And folks will follow that because they realize that you think it's a big deal. Isn't that great? Word says we ought to go ye therefore and to teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the earth. That we are chosen generation. Man, we we're some how many folks you know you're somebody? I'm somebody. Because of who I serve Talks often about people we might know and who we've met and whose autograph we've gotten, but there's none like him And if the world see your true confession and hear your confession about you believe that God is important, you believe that he sent his son, you believe that you're saved, then they'll kind of catch it They may not do it when they're around you. I kind of caught that, but I, you know, okay. But it's what we place our hope in, what we place Our prayers then is that this same Jesus, he says to these guys, as you're going out, I want you to share everything about me But then this the challenge is, but make sure that you're not ashamed to confess me. Now here's the situation. Now we can do that in this country with no problem. I doubt you'll get arrested by saying praise God. I doubt you'll get arrested for putting a palm branch in your car. I doubt they'll pull you over with the Bible on your dashboard. But during this time, to say that you knew Jesus couldn't mean they live your life. Persecution would come. You believe you falling who? That radical? And they would take you off. So with them it was really a challenge to be able to share Christ in that environment and say I'm a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm saying yes. I'm following him. You can lose your life But we have the kind of freedom that there's nothing holding us back from letting folk know about Jesus. Reverend what if they don't want to hear I didn't say beat them down. A smile will go a long ways. You'll be amazed and what you're smiling about. You know, I've used this whole I'm tired of Mother Nature. I'm tired of the soul to be a witnessing tool. I said, yeah, I'm glad it got me up this morning. You know, you're right the weather's changing, but I'm so glad that I can see it and feel it. I know Mother Nature. I think I know God. Amen. God who made the heavens and the earth And so every opportunity you get, you can let someone know that Christ is important to me. Visible, vital, and then also make sure you know that there's value. He says, if you do it, he'll confess before my Father which is in heaven. So in other words, if you utter my name and confess if you follow me, guess what? There's some value in this Because when I get to heaven, I'm going to talk about you. I'm going to drop your name with my father. Isn't that something we love to drop names? Love the network. He says, now I Will confess you before he who is my father. The Bible says that our names are written in the Lamb books of life. And don't you know he'll know your name when you get to heaven? You want to fumble through and say, what's your name again? My God, you'll be able to find it. And if I'm hesitant To make a true confession about him, to think that he was saying I don't know I don't know. I know him. Because everyone who says Lord, Lord, may not enter into the kingdom of heaven. And so I'm glad that he sits at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. He speaks on my behalf. We get agents nowadays. My agent talk to my agent. Talk to my my publisher. I don't have anything to say. Don't you know that God will represent you? Amen. You don't need anybody else to say, wait a minute now, because man might fail, but to know and to think in your mind's eye that he says, if you do this now, when I get before my father And your name come up? You mean you mean Tilton? From Domin Ball? Yeah. I think I remember him. Because he's been faithful. And most of all, I've given my life to Jesus Christ. I'm obligated to confess it. What about you today? Do you see the value in confessing him? The value in knowing that there's a place called heaven? Amen. A place where he sits, a place where the saints of God even now are saying holy unto the Lamb. That's exciting. Amen. Because I know that soon and very soon, one day I'll see the King. And to know I can be in His presence and know that I say, Well, I wasn't ashamed. There was a day, but I wasn't ashamed to share with someone You know that's my passion, doctor. I guess you know that by now. My passion is to let somebody know about Jesus. And the fact of the matter is, sometimes they're waiting So your tag says bless him, but you ain't said nothing. I saw your Bible, so you leaving church quickly. You almost ran over me and this is their words. And so folk are looking for you church folk, you saved folk, to say something. To utter something, to confess him, to make a true confession. And my confession is I'm glad he accepted me. I'm glad he believed in me. I'm glad he's kept me through seen and unseen things. I'm glad that he saved me. I'm glad that he called me. I'm glad and I realize there's value in just seeing it. That I will confess my faith unto you to let you know that there is value in serving God. Anybody want to confess today and say, excuse me, can I just drop a little something on you? Can I just text, he's good? Amen. Can I just put it on Instagram? I'm talking that c you know culture stuff now because I don't have an account yet, but I can talk stuff as as if I have one. But whatever it takes to reach another generation, do it Let them know. And that's our charge today is that yes, I've confessed my sins, but I also confess and profess that I'm with him. I'm one of his children. Does that get you excited? The fact that you will own up that he's your Lord and your Savior. That's why I trust him. Song says, Tiss, so sweet to trust in Jesus. just to take him at his word. You know I'm because I can only see so far. I'm like you, the flesh and man. I don't see a way. But when you begin to trust God He makes a way out of no way and you can't see the end, but how many folk know he'll make a way for you? My God, he's done it before You spoken his name in tough situations. You spoke on his name between a rock and a hard place. And what happened? He came through. And that gives you uh he did it then Why can't he do it again? And that's why I don't mind saying I love the Lord. He heard my cry. I don't mind making a true confession. Will you do it today? As you leave this place, an opportunity will knock on your door. Somebody come by your dorm room. I know you're at church, but I need a minute. I'm glad you stopped by. Let me just tell you a thing or two. Somebody in your home will say to you, how was church? And normally you say, uh, okay. Today say, oh, I'm glad you asked. Let me tell you about the message and what Jesus said. And what we are called to do, and let me confess unto you that I love him because he first loved me. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, give God a praise today. As you stand all over this place today It's amazing what God can do. It's because of his amazing grace. He's great and he's worthy. As you come today, think about the goodness of Jesus. And now you become the quietest person on the job. Not saying anything today. Take a moment and say, you know what? I'm gonna own up. And let folk know where I stand. Hymn of the church, amazing grace. Amen. Twas grace that taught I want to just take a moment today, guy. Sometimes I feel like a country lawyer making my case in closing arguments. And you're the jury. I'm so glad today that the Lord saved me and made me whole. To think that the old Tim would still exist and that I could have gone just the other way. And so could you. But the fact that God has kept us on his divine care, it's amazing. That we didn't fall off the edge. And if we did, he pulled us up. As you bow your heads today I want to tell you about an old old story about a Savior who came from glory. God had looked down and saw the condition of humanity. And the prophets and the prophetess shared, but the people didn't want to hear it. It was a back and forth. I'll do right, I'll do wrong. And God kept calling his people unto repentance. And then he said, you know what? I'm gonna send some of me. No need to sacrifice an animal, but I'm sending my only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. So He comes to a place called Nazareth, sends the Gabriel, the angel there, and says, tell Mary that she will bear the Christ child. Man, that's so far for stuff. He did what? In Nazareth when? And she was single and young? But that's what God does. He does the amazing. She brings forth a newborn already named Jesus. He grows. Like any other boy in Nazareth. But there's something peculiar about him. He's holy man, but he's holy God. At 12, a middle schooler. He's in Jerusalem debating with doctors and lawyers. He begins his ministry at about 30 years old and tells the world, sends out followers at 33. He's brought to court on trumped up charges, beaten, dies of criminal death. But He does not say that. He dies, but he gets up again with all power in his hands. And the Bible says, if I believe that God sent Jesus, And that he died, and that he rose again, thou shalt be saved. If I can confess with my mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in my heart He promises while those heads above today. Maybe you've never asked him to save you today. What better time to say, Lord Jesus, save my soul? I can't say it for you. You have to say it to him on your own accord. If you confess right now, he can save your soul. If you believe that today and those heads are still bowed, and you've not given your life to Jesus on the spot As you confess it, he'll give you life eternally. Take 30 seconds and do a house cleaning of your own heart. And check every room and say, am I saved? Have I ever confessed my sins unto him? Do I believe he died and rose again? And as you settle that issue, today you can walk out of here with a new beginning and a new life. Take those 30 seconds today and think about it And think about it. And think about it. I pray your decision was yes, Lord Open your eyes today. If you know you're saved, get God a praise today. Amen. Yes, Lord Completely, yes, my soul. My soul says yes Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Come on, set today. Yes, Lord. From the bottom. From the bottom of mine to the death. Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. Completely Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest The doors are always open. I used to wonder that church. Who have the doors? That means we're always open for fellowship to invite you in. If God is knocking on the door of your heart and say, you know what? This is my place. You can walk for the Lord today. Or option two. Act of service, meet with our deacons, or say Reverend, I didn't want to do it there, but I'm on board. Or keep coming and we'll just claim you. Is that alright? So if you're here today and you use that's your desire, you can do that. Amen? Z one today. Amen. Yes, Lord. I know our time is it's done, but I sense today that there's some folk who need some extra prayer today. I want to open the altar. It's not a very big altar, but my God, we'll make room. I want to pray with you and encourage you in some place in life that you're facing, say, you know what, I just need a little extra boost to know somebody is praying for me and with me And that's what the altar does. It doesn't pick into your business. It says, you know what? I need some more on this journey. Make your way this way. We'll make sure you can fit And we'll pray together. Amen. Praise God. Thanks for God are coming today. Praise God. We need Him every hour. We'll make it happen. We'll do a couple rows. Praise God. Isn't God good? Isn't God worthy? We come because we have hope. We come because we know God can do it. We know God is faithful. Amen. Make your way right on down. Praise God. Come right on down. Praise the Lord. We'll make it happen. We'll fit you in. We'll get you on the corner. Because prayer is so important. So can you say people need the Lord for us? Is that possible? We need him at every step of our journey. Praise God, we'll make way Sonia to come through. We'll make this a time of purpose, a time for us to feel the presence of God in our hearts today. So important that we're able to share this good news. There was a time I didn't think I needed it. I thought Tim had it together. I said I got this. So that didn't happen. You ever done that before and thought you really had it together? Yeah. You didn't need anybody. We need him in a special way. Table. People need hold had the broken dreams He's the open door. People need the law. People need laws when we alive That we must give our lives for peace Amen. Father, as we come today We're your people who are called by your name. I come in the name of Jesus. Praying for every person who walked down to this altar. You know exactly what they're going through. What they're facing. It's never a surprise to you we come to you in prayer. You never scratch your head because you already know. And what we're so grateful for is that you desire to fellowship and to stop with us. The fellowship is bigger than I request. I pray in the name of Jesus in the life of every person who stood today. God give them hope. Let them know Not to give up. Let them know that you will answer prayer God, for those whose hearts are heavy, I pray in the name of Jesus that you might lift their burden and give them a clearer perspective that we know that all things work together for good. To them who love God, them who are the called according to his purpose. Even when we don't understand. Even now, God, give them new hope today. Let them know that, you know, I'm not quitting. I'm not made to quit. Because he didn't quit on that cross. And so, God, today, in the life of every person, in every situation, God, we claim victory in the name of Jesus. It's not just me praying the prayer on their behalf. But God they believe it and that's what faith is all about. The substance of things hoped for, evidence of things not seen, by faith the others obtain the good report. God we believe you today for new things. And for victory. We claim it in the name of Jesus. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. My God, come on. Walk what you've got the blessing already. You know what I got this. Come on, walk in it. As you go back to your seats, just walk in the blessing. I've got it. I got it. I believe he's done it. Amen. My God, if you go back to your seats, you can just walk. Come on, come on, walk. Walk to you. I got this. He's already doing it. He's already working it out on my behalf. How many believe that today? My God, that's what faith is all about. It's believing that God can do it. Amen I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come to harvest. org. That's come to harvest, C O M E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Doctor Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord. And that's the project if you don't have to be