Well we're preparing for our word, but before we do that, we're going to have another selection by the choir. Hallelujah. How many agree there's something? About the name of Jesus. There's a word from the Lord today we want to share with you that comes from the Gospel of Mark, the ninth chapter, verses 23 and 24 If you have your Bibles available or your tablets, I allow you to cheat a little bit because I've put them on the screen real big so you can see them, but it's the Gospel of Mark Always share that gospel means good news. The ninth chapter, verses 23 and 24. Let's start with 23. It says If you can, said Jesus, everything is possible for one who believes Verse 24. Immediately the father, boy's father exclaimed, I do believe Help me overcome my unbelief. I want to preach today from the Samadic title, Trust Me, Part 1. Trust Me Part One. You could say that these are famous last words spoken by a person or a group of people, and they are there to assure us that, trust me, I've got you. But there's a flip side to to trust me. There's the joy and there's the peace of trusting someone And there's also the disappointment and the doubt that comes along with putting your all-in-all into a person. It's not easy to to trust someone, really. I used to tell my uh children, don't trust anybody. That was just a saying, but you got to be real careful about who you associate with from time to time. But sometimes we can't even trust ourselves. We look in the mirror and we have our own personal trust issues. Amen. Well, there is one person, and you've already got the answer, you a student, that you can really trust. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is someone you can put your trust in. In our text today, I want you to use your mind's eye and strap on your boots and uh grab your binoculars and let's head to a high place to the mountaintop where we find Jesus and his inner circle Peter John and James And there they are at the top of the mountain. And this is a a great moment because during that time they see something that's not been seen before. They see Jesus literally in a different light. There he is in all of his glory And there he is, clothing white, and there he is having a conversation with some of the prophets of old, Elijah and Moses. And Peter sold this and said, you know what? This feels mighty nice. Why don't we just set up camp right here? And let's stay on the mountaintop. Let's never come down. But God speaks from heaven by way of a spiritual loudspeaker. He says to them, listen to my son. Sometimes we're busy gazing at the moment that we miss the message. And the message is listen to my son Well, even though there is this great moment on the top of the mountain, down the mountain, and you can come on down with us, there is a dilemma with the disciples You see, Jesus had given them the power to heal, but at this moment they were having a power failure. There was a lot of arguments going on. It was loud until Jesus walks in and changes the whole scene. And this father has has some issues. He has a son who is demon-possessed, deaf and dumb since he was born. And when Jesus shows up in your situation, the atmosphere changed. Amen. Call everybody, but when you call on the name of Jesus, things will change. And the text seems to imply that Jesus was a bit uh upset A bit concerned about what was not taking place, what does he do? He meets with the Father. He asks him a number of questions. How long has your son been in this way? He says, since he was born Amen. And as he begins to talk with him, there comes an issue of can you heal my son. He was he was very very kind. He says, I just want to know whether or not you can do anything Can you have pity on us? Can you help us? And then the scene changes. Don't don't go to commercial yet The scene changes, and Jesus says to this father, if you can, as if to say, are you kidding me? If you can, do you not realize who I am? I'm not one of the disciples. I'm the Lord all by myself. And it is at that moment that the Father Says very honestly, I do believe, help me overcome my unbelief I I want to trust you. But there's a part of me that that's struggling. You ever been there? Know what that feels like? And in those few words, the father I think displays honesty and humility and he witnesses a healing right before his own eyes. Honesty. I do believe. He says that to Jesus, but help me to overcome my unbelief. He is honest about his faith. He's come clean with the master. He puts it all on the table and says, you know, I do believe, but there's a part of me that struggles. And perhaps he he grew up in church, and perhaps he went to Bible study, and perhaps he was someone who had some faith experience, but at that moment Because all that he had seen with the Son and having the disciples not able to heal him, that to talk with Jesus was a major moment He was honest. Isn't it something about being honest with the Lord? There was no shame in his game. He was not embarrassed or ashamed to say, listen I've got faith limits. Yeah, I got faith, but in this situation, I want to be able to trust you, but I'm not there yet Our prayer ought to be, Lord, increase our faith. Help us to trust you more. And so often we look at the the outward ability. You know, we we see the big cross of someone, we see uh you know that they know a lot of scripture, and we just assume, as people assume about us, that man, you've got a strong faith. But can you be honest today with the microscope from heaven to say there's some parts of my walk and my experience, if I am honest, I have failed to trust the Lord to bring me through to bring me through a situation that I cannot control. He was honest. I love that about this father. He said, yeah, yeah, I I believe. I got something under my belt, but I am struggling Matthew 17, 20, where Jesus says to those who are following, that if you would have the faith that is the size of a grain of a mustard seed You can speak to the mountain and says, be ye moved. In other words, it don't take a lot of faith. But what faith you have, if you exercise that faith If you believe that God anything is possible, and that is the case of this father, being in this dilemma and saying, can I be honest with you? Jesus, can we really talk? Can I come out and say that I need some help in my faith? The Father displays honesty, but he also displays humility. He says, help me overcome my unbelief. And he's speaking to the right person And no one else can do that for you, that while I'm in a place where I'm not quite certain that you can do it, Lord, can you help me Can you help my unbelief? He was humble. He was not arrogant. He needed a miracle, and that part of him believed that the Lord could do it. See, sometimes we think that we can handle the small stuff. Can I just talk about myself? I got this. But the big things that we perceive in life, we can't handle But don't you know that you serve a God who's able to do all things but fail? And I love what this father he says, you know what? If anybody can do it, I know you can. Can you be my tutor? Can you help me out? Can you come alongside and help me to increase my faith? And that's what takes place. Help my unbelief. There's a part of me that I struggle with. That thing came to me this week as I was taking my morning walk. And uh there's some guys I see around the path. And I saw a fellow preacher friend of mine. I said, What's going on, man? I said, uh, what you preaching, Sunday? Yeah, we do that. Pastors do that And then we start talking about the pandemic. And I say, yeah, are you back in yet? No, I'm not back in yet, doc. But I'm gonna trust him. And man, that thing stuck with me. By the time we made the next lap He said, you know, like that father who said, and so therefore a sermon was born, but it ministered to me because I find myself at that place as that father He was humble. 1 Peter 5 and 6 says, humble yourself therefore under the mighty hand of God, and in due time he will exalt you if you but humble. Just be humble. Amen. Just bow down before the Lord. On his way to trusting the Lord There was humility and there was honesty, and then this father is able to see something that's Awesome. There is a miracle taking place. Now verse 27, though further in says, but Jesus, meaning the Son, took him by the hand and lifted him to his feet. And he stood up. That Jesus was at work. He was able to talk those demons down and and they were able to get out because the Bible says, at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ. is Lord in that moment. This allowed him to propel his faith. You see, seeing is believing When God has done something in your life and you can witness it with your own eyes, say, you know what, that was God who did that. And I know it was Him. And so therefore, to be able to see A healing taking place. And you know, there's no more mention of this father. No more mention of the son. Perhaps they went back home. And they told the neighbors and they told folk, I trust him now. That when I first left here with my son, y'all remember, I'm back now, and my trust is there. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all of your heart, and lean not to your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he'll do what? He will direct your path. Trust is evident. Jesus seemed to be saying, You can trust me that I'll be beaten, I'll be falsely accused And I'll be thrown there in the midst of those who are evil, and I will go to an old rugged cross. Trust me, trust me, trust me. I'll go to the cross. Trust me But you know, they'll they'll still pierce me in the side, but but trust me. Uh-huh. They'll put a crown of thorn on my head and and and trust me There'll be gambling on the side taking lots. But trust me that I'm going to the cross, but I I won't stay there. I'll be buried In a borrowed tomb, trust me, trust me, trust me, but on the third day morning I will get up with all power in my hand. Didn't he do it? Didn't he get up? Amen. Paul says if he had not gotten up, whatever we're preaching is in vain. So we got to trust him today that he will do exactly what he said he would do even in the midst of our faith, even in the struggle of help my unbelief. Amen. That is good news today. I will trust in the Lord until I die. I I will stay on the battlefield until I die. I will treat everybody right Until I die, but I'm not dead yet. I'm still alive. Which means I've got a reason to give God some praise. Oh boy. God, I'm excited about that that I can give him praise because of what he has done in my life. Give him praise because he's increased my faith. And that's what praise comes out of. When you've seen what great thing God has done, even in your TV screen, praise Him Even there looking at your computer, give him praise. Psalm 150 says that everything that has breath, praise ye the Lord. You've made heaven's praise team, my God, that they're in glory even now. Praises are going up. Hallelujah to the one who reigns. that God reigns supreme even now in our situation. He reigns over COVID-19. He reigns over racism. He reigns over the things in our life. But I just want to trust him. With all that I have in me, I want to trust him. With everything that's going on, I want to trust him. I want to stand on the promises of God our King. Trust me. I got this. Trust me. I'll make a way out of no way. Trust me, I'll put food on the table. Trust me, I'll put clothes on your back. Trust me, I'll give you shelter in the time of storm. I'm just going to trust him more Trust me, meaning the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the word of God that is already blessed today. Amen. At this point, I want to have the choir to invite you by way of this song. Amen. The booting Come to Command, come with me, coming. Take a moment even now if you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ and the pardon of your sins. You can come just as you are, being honest with the Lord, that I do not know you. Being humble, but don't you know we can work a miracle in your life today. Let's bow. Father God, we come in the name of Jesus. And we can say even now that we do believe. We are believers, but help our unbelief in the things that we see. We trust you today. God, if there's one under the sound of my voice who has never given their life to you The Bible says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead The Bible said, Thou shalt be saved. So today you can whisper that prayer and invite him in, and he will increase your faith in Jesus' name. Amen. To God be the glory. Always we want to thank you for uh moving forward as it relates to joining us uh by way of uh rejoice musical food network. I am so thankful for my good friend Mike Chandler uh operates an awesome network uh called Rejoice Musical Soul for you can find the link on our page. I'm talking about gospel all day long, 24-7, middle of the night a good friend of mine. We have known each other for more than 40 years. You can also catch seeds of encouragement there as well. So I want to know that we can update you if you are not receiving updates by way of text or email We want to be able to stay in touch with you. Some of you all I may not know, but I want to know you. The Harvest Church loves you and want to have you be a part of who we are. You can go in text. And we thank you as always for giving online To God be the glory. You can do that right now. You can say, I'm going to cut you off, Pastor. I'm going to give online. To God be the glory. And we thank you for all that you're doing. And we know that this is a good place to plant seeds. And of course, our prayer requests. We want to know what it is that you would have us to pray for you about. So many of us that need prayer in so many areas of our life And we want to partner with you in prayer. Amen? To God be the glory. Well, I want to thank, of course, as always, the greatest production team. uh anywhere this out of Zion. Uh thank them for putting this broadcast together and uh let you know that next week Look at that. That's right. They they got the flaws. Next week we're doing part two. The trust me. Part number two. I feel like there was there was much more that we could talk about on this particular subject, and we're going there. On behalf of the team, on behalf of the Lord Jesus Christ and Harvest From Studio C, have a blessed day in the Lord.