Hello, my dear friends. Glad you could join us today, Dr. Tim Tootin, the founder and pastor of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. But today We're on location in Carmel, Indiana, just outside of Indianapolis, and what a beautiful park. This place is known for its parks. Well, we are so glad you could join us. And even now, just let your friends know that Harvest is on, the broadcast is available. We appreciate you and pray that your week has been blessed to the glory of God. Well, let's get started by a song from our praise team to get us into the mood and the spirit of worship. Let me hear the worship. We're all of my praises. I want everybody all over the world to put your hands together because all the Praises belong to God. Here we go. Every praise is the right. Every word of worship. The Quran. Sing Hallelujah, sing the God, all the Hallelujah, Hallelujah. Is new our God every race everywhere is new our God Don't know how we do it, take it up a nice every place, and Every grave, every grave, is new our God, hallelujah. Hallelujah, you are God, glory, hallelujah, you are God, every way, every way, pray. Our God Every day to our God Every word of worship was one of the Lord Every day Every praise is the Word God over the world. Sing hallelujah! Hallelujah, glory, hallelujah! Every way to I got him Everywhere. Everyone I worship with one Every day every day is you are God. Hallelujah, you are God, glory, hallelujah, is you are God, the every way, the every way, it's you are God Jesus Ring Now do And we pray because you are God and we will pray. Every way, through every way, every brain, every way, every brain, every way, every Everyway, every way, every way, every way, every rain, every way, every way. What a word. Every praise unto our God Praise and glory and honor. Coming to you from Carmel, Indiana, just outside of Indianapolis, on location for today's Word. Well On last time, during our last week message, it was called Trust Me Part 1. We met a father in Mark 9, 23, 24, who encountered Jesus, his son, was in need of a healing. And he says to Jesus, if you can, have pity on us. What a question to put to Jesus. As a result, Jesus said, if you can And as a result of that, this father says, I believe, but help my unbelief. He was honest. There was a sense of humility, and we find ourselves also in that very same position. Just trust me. 1 Kings 17, 10 through 17, it reads So he went to Zarephath. When he came to the town gate, a widow was there gathering sticks. He called to her and asked, Would you bring me a little water in a jar so that I may have a drink As she was going to get it, he called, and please bring me a piece of bread. As surely as the Lord your God lives, she replied I don't have any bread, only a handful of flour and a jar, and a little olive oil in a jug. I'm gathering a few sticks, she says, to take home and make a meal for myself and my son that we may eat it and die. Elijah said to her, Don't be afraid. Go home and do as you have said. But first Make me a small loaf of bread for me, from what you have, and bring it to me, and make something for yourself and your son And verse 14 says, For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says. The jar of flour will not be used up. And the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord sends rain on the land. That's 1 Kings uh 17th chapter beginning at verse number 10. When we come back we'll start our message on trust me part two but first a song from our choir Falling in love with Jesus. Falling in love with Jesus falling in love with Jesus was the best thing I ever. Ever, ever die, everybody sleep only. I feel protected in his eyes, never did to make it. In his arms I'd be protected. There's no place I'd rather be Hola Calling in love with Jolly in love with Jesus. Who is calling who is All in the world which need the office with the best thing I never It is going to be a little bit more. We don't know how it's winning the way. And you When I Hello, it's time for the word. Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland, but today I'm in Carmel, Indiana. just outside of Indianapolis. We shared the word a moment ago from 1 King. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come today and we thank you for this day that you've made It is our prayer today, God, that you might allow your word to come to fruition, that those who listen might be blessed in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, praise God. The message today, trust me, part two. You know, the story is told of a young boy who is on the rooftop. there of his home, a fire breaks out, and it's nighttime. His father is below and his father keeps saying to him, Jump and I will catch you. Keep in mind this was a life and death situation as the father below said, Jump, I will catch you. The son had to look through the flames and the darkness and the smoke. He says, But Dad, I can't see you. And the father replied, In faith I can see you. Isn't that amazing that when we can't see things happening in our life, that God is right there for us In our text today, it really is faith in action. We meet the prophet Elijah. He is one called by God to bring a word of encouragement and deliverance and a word of judgment. So he goes and he tells the leaders of the country, there's going to be a drought in the land. And so what's going to happen is it's not going to rain for a couple of years. And what he does, God provides for him. And even though there's going to be a drought, and it may be a drought in your life, God always provides. He sends Elijah to a place And thereabout the brook he'll find water. And he'll find food. The Bible says the ravens bought him daily meals. You know, we're in a society now You get on the phone and you're apples. Somebody bring you a meal. Well, this was already happening back in the days of Elijah, even then At that time, God sends him to another location. He gave him the hookup. He had a place to go. He sends him and says, I'm sending you to Zarephath. And there you're going to find a widow woman who will provide for your needs. She's going to give you everything you need in regard to food and water. So the Bible tells a story, faith in action, he goes to Zarephath. When he gets to the town gate, he sees a woman, she's gathering sticks. He says to her, will you please get me a jar of water? And as she is starting to leave, he says, but wait a minute. Can you also bake me a piece of bread? Now he had the audacity, first of all, to ask for water, but don't you think you're pushing it, Elijah? When you know that God is a God of faith, and the Bible says in Hebrews that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, by faith the elders obtain a good report She goes and she says to him in her going that I'm getting the last of these sticks so I can make a bread. I have just a little bit of flour left a little bit of oil in my jug, and I'm gonna go home and make a cake for me and my son, and we're going to die. We're gonna starve to death Elijah says, you know what, if you are obedient in this regard, if your faith is tested, you will find that every time you go to the barrel you will find flour. Every time you go to that jar, you will find oil. And so this is a walk of faith. Look at Elijah. It says he trusted God to go from location to location to location and to be obedient to God. Let's talk about this widow woman. All we know is that she's a single mother of a son. They're in dire situations There's a drought in the land, and yet she has enough faith to trust the God in Elijah to put faith in the action. That's what happens. Faith without works is dead, says the book of James. She goes and she gets the sticks and she makes that cake And she breaks off a peace for the man of God. And he is filled. That's God's word coming to fruition. That sometimes you may not understand what God is doing. He may send someone your way. And it's the faith in God through someone else that makes a huge difference And she doesn't. Can you see her there making that cake and saying, well, listen, this is my last, but I'm believing God. I'm going to trust God in this situation. And what about her son? What would he think about a stranger coming along and asking my mama to make the last of what she has? It is all about faith in God. We got to put our faith into action It's been said that talk is cheap. And I got to do what? I got to trust God in every situation. This widow woman gave us a great example of what it means to trust God. We've all had situations in life where we kind of trusted God, but not fully. But here is someone whose circumstances are dire. lost her husband, trying to raise a boy all by herself, and God sends a messenger by, a prophet, with a great word. And then here's how this concludes: that it's not going to be any rain for another two and a half or three years. And she's obedient to the word of God. And guess what? That every time she went back. to get that flour, there was always a supply. Every time she got the oil, it was always there. The Bible says that what that my God shall supply all of your need according to his riches and glory. By Christ Jesus. You know, in the society we live in, to hear a story like this, we're saying, now, how is that possible? It is all by way of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. She had faith that God would come to. Now for you, it may not be a barrel of flour. It may not be oil, but you may have a need, and God is saying to you, trust me. He was so specific about that. Can you imagine that every time she must have got excited about cooking meals I'm fixing the cake. In fact, I got some extra. Why? Because God has supplied everything that I've asked him. And what we see there really is a word of trust. Trust and obey. It's the only way is to know that I can trust God in every situation As we go through life, we're now in a pandemic. We know that we see the lines of people who are getting food, and we see people who are out of work, unemployed. But I know there are two or three witnesses that can say, you know what, God has continued to keep food on the table. God has continued to keep clothing on my back. Why? because I trust him with all my heart and soul. Thank you, Elijah, for stopping by, being a man of faith, and just take an ordinary widow with the son to say I'm gonna trust the God in you. Who are you trusting today? Is your hope in the Lord Jesus Christ? Let's have a word of prayer Father, we thank you for the example that we find in the text of a mature faith, one that over time is developed and they can trust you. We thank you even now, God. Even now increase our faith in such a way. And as we are here, God, we even ask now that there's one who has lost faith One who has not trusted you in faith in Jesus Christ, I pray in the name of Jesus you may touch their heart today. Let them know that the Bible says, you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says Thy shalt be saved in Jesus' name. Well, what a word today. We're coming to you from Carmel, Indiana, just outside of Indianapolis, and we're excited. Now we want to give you a song to kind of close you off. We'll come back with some announcements afterwards. But we have required from Royola University of Maryland, a chosen generation. They're going to give us a little bit of a song to increase our faith today. Let's check them out. I work here, don't worry, you don't work better Better, you wanna get better Better You work I do praise within the heart. Holy God, don't ever depart. Take it all in the night. But you'll be alright to worship. And go with my God. You'll supply no money and you're working up for my God. Things will get better if you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, I'm so glad you could join us today on location from Carmel, Indiana uh just outside of Indianapolis and we're just so glad to be in one of the public parks here as we give God the glory. Well as always we're so glad that you've joined us. If you want to be updated on anything that we're doing within the Harvest Christian Ministries family. All you have to do is go to our site and you will find directions on how you can get updates. I want to stay in contact with Reverend. I want to know what Harvest is doing. And that's great. Also want to thank each of you from week to week, all during the pandemic and before given online, so that this is good ground that you're planning in good ground, we thank God for the increase. And for those of you who feel like you know what, I'm gonna go over through the mail That's fine too. But listen, we also want to know what you're going through. And so we uh take prayer request uh on this site and with this ministry We'll let you know about that as well. Well, coming to you on location from Carmel, Indiana, just outside of Indianapolis I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries, bidding you a great day in the Lord.