I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. We give God the praise. As we bow today, Heavenly Father, we come and we ask that you might touch our hearts and give us a word for your people. Pray even now that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today Touch a heart today. Touch a mind today with your word. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise. and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Want to share this morning from the Gospel of John, chapter 16. Verse number 33. It reads, I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In this world, you will have trouble, but take heart, I have overcome the world. Want to preach today from the Samonic title Trying to Make Sense of a Senseless Act Trying to make sense of a sinless act. This just in the church of Jesus Christ is under attack. Information that came our way this week caused each of us to pause and to pray. The church, a place that we come to connect, to share our hurts and our pains, a church that we consider to be common ground. Thank God for the church. But we know that the church is not a building. The church is a body of believers. And we come because we gain strength and we increase our faith at the same time. Going to God for advice and for comfort and for direction and for understanding But what happened this week caused us to think if someone would walk in a church and commit a crime that evil is present. It calls us to stop. It calls us to lift our eyes to the hills from which cometh our help. Sexless means that what took place had no real reason, meaningless, no purpose, no benefit. And so we pray for those today whose lives were taken, but their families, and it calls us to think about our own places of worship. We come here week after week. We believe this to be a safe place, and it is because God is with us. But we know that it's not the first time this has taken place, but God has a word for us today. And no matter what you have in terms of a degree, a master's or doctorate. We pause to ask the question and to grapple with what word is there today for the people of God? What is it that can be said today on something that is on everybody's mind? What I do know is this, and what I believe is that God is not asleep. The Bible says he neither sleeps nor he slumbers. And we raise the question, God, why? Why would this take place? Can ask that question, God, why so much pain and evil in our world? Jesus meets with his disciples. And he shared with them many things because he knows what it means to be under attack. He shared with them about things that were to come. He talked with them about security issues that because you follow me and because you carry my name, just that alone makes you public enemy number one. Don't you know the fact that you are a Christian, that not everybody likes that? Not everybody supports that. But stand today strong and wave the banner of faith. Jesus tells these disciples that the time will come that I will leave and you'll all be scattered and just the fact that you follow me, you will become a target. John, the youngest disciple, writes what he's able to see and to take away and to share with the people. That as you go on this journey, know that there will be those who will persecute you and those who will call you everything but a child of God. That's really old school. Uh call you out of your name and say things to you and do things to you in the banner, in the purview of evil. And so today I just really want to unpack this one verse to give us hope today that as we pray for the families, as we pray for what's to come in the days ahead, everybody's got an opinion this week. Everybody has analyzed this. Everybody has given their view. But what is the view from the Bible? What is the Lord helping us to get through? And I think first of all we have to remember that God, through Christ, makes a promise to us. I've told you these things. That means that I've made you aware that in me you may have peace. Peace that's offered, peace that's promised, that no matter what is happening around you, he says to his disciples, Don't ever forget the things I told you, that me and me only will you find peace. Now I don't know about you, but if you try to find peace other places, found peace in people and places or things, but he says, it's only in me that you will find peace Only in me that you'll be able to keep from losing your mind. Only in me that you'll be able to go through the troubles of life and to know that God, no matter what's happened, you have given me peace. I want you to feel peace this morning. I want you to paint on the canvas of your own mind and heart. What does peace look like to you? Does it mean a good night's sleep? Does it mean not worrying about the troubles of this world? What is peace? He says, I'm giving you my peace. It's not like any other peace, but my peace will keep you when you're at your wit's end. My peace will keep you when you're at a place in life where you don't know what to do and your life is in turmoil. I will give you peace. Aren't you glad about that today? How many folk desire to have peace today? The kind of peace that passeth all understanding. Ever found yourself in a situation when you shouldn't have been going crazy? And you weren't. You should have been afraid, but you were not. And that's what peace that Christ gives. It's not momentary, but it's always there. And so we pray for peace. Bible says praying for the peace of Jerusalem, those who are prosper who love thee. We're praying for the peace of Baltimore. and praying for the peace of Charleston and praying for the peace of that next neighborhood. God, we desire your peace. And the fact that you said you would give it to me, I'm lining up to get mine. How many folk have come for their peace today? That I don't know what to do, but what I can stand on is that you will not lie If you said you give me your peace, I'm going to stand on it. If you provide it, I'll receive it. And that's what he gives us, not just in this text, but also in the here and now. Now you need to take a little peace breath and a peace break to say, wait a minute. I mean pull together those things that are troubling me and Lord, I need your peace. There in the book of Isaiah, the prophet talks about that thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusts in thee. That when your mind gets out of whack, say Lord, I need to keep my mind on you. But you don't know what I'm facing. No, no, Lord, I need to have my mind. Solid right there on you. And so when we find ourselves trying to unpack life's tragedies, know this that God promised us peace Out of tragedy, peace. Out of hate, peace. Out of things that will allow us to say, God, what is there to do? And we look at everything that's conventional, and there's no real answer It all comes back to what he says to those very followers, I promise you peace. But not just peace. He makes a prediction. He says, in this world you will have trouble. You know, I mean, let's be honest. Lord, is there another way around this? Uh can can we not have to go through anything in life? But we know life is not like that. That in this world, the world system, the way it's done, the world hates us. The world operates on a different mindset, and he tells, he said, I'm not gonna keep it from you. I'm not gonna sugarcoat it. He says, No, in this world you have some tribulation. You'll have some situations in life that will seemingly pull you down, but know that you will have trouble. But I don't want trouble. But you're gonna have it. But I want everything to be easy street. It won't be that way. But you don't understand. I would love to have a life that is trouble-free. A life that is one that nothing ever happens in my neighborhood, on my block, in my home, in my life. My God, you'll witness today that trouble has come your way. And you love the Lord. Tribulation has come by your home and you pray. And you read your Bible and you give God the praise, but he says it's a prediction. That I can see ahead of you because you are my child. I'm being honest with you, trouble will come. Oh song, I'm so glad that trouble don't last always. That trouble won't just hold you down. My God, you get up off the mat of life and say, you know what? I can make it. You ever been in trouble before? Ever had trouble come to you? Ever caused any trouble? The world is a place that goes by its own standard. Anything goes in the world. It operates on the dark side. How many folks have been in the world? I have. Amen. I I I knew a passage or two, but I was in the world. And the old saying said, once you're in the world, the devil ain't gonna bother you. He got you But once you come on the Lord's side and declare that I will stand for the Lord, don't you know he'll get busy? But greater is he that is within me than he that's within the world. He said, fellas I gotta tell you, I'm making a bold prediction that in this world trouble will come. In in this world you'll have the Charleston shootings. In this world you'll have situations that happen that we see every night on the news. And people look to us and say, You Christians, what what's going on? Why? God is yet in control. As we try to make sense out of senseless acts, as we try to look and say what comes out of this, and to hear loved ones say, even though you committed the crime, that I forgive you. That's powerful. It happened some years ago in the Amish country when you had the lives taken of those young people. And the family starts to minister to those whose families have taken their children's life. Powerful, and you may say, I'm not there, I can't do it. You don't know what you'll do in the midst of trouble But God will provide you everything that you need to get through. Trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble. Prediction. Over in John 17, 15, and Christ is praying later on. He says, You know what? My prayer, Father. It's not that you take them out of the world. No, no. But that you protect them from the evil one. I'm not going to set you aside and say nothing's going to happen to you, but I pray that you keep them, but keep them from the evil. Evil is always showing up. But evil is already defeated because I tell you God is faithful and he's just and he will keep let me just say this. We've all been through something. All faced some trouble. Has God brought you out? Has he made a way in your life? Did you look up and say, God, I thank you for what you brought me through? The old things say either we're in the storm Coming out of the storm or about to go into a storm, but nevertheless, aren't you storm-proof? My gods, you are because God is with you always, even to the end of the earth He he makes a prediction. That yeah I got peace, but know that in this world where you are now there'll be trouble. But I'm with you. And then here is the preview. We're in a theater. That means that if you come here or any other theater that the movie don't come on right away They give you a preview. Sometimes too many. When is the movie coming on And what a preview does, it tells you what's going to happen. The movie is already completed, and they're trying to sell it. They're trying to convince you that you gotta come back and watch this. Real soon. They're in the same verse. He says, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Still to come. It may not look like it now, but I have already defeated the devil. I've already defeated evil Here's the preview. Even though you're talking to me now, I've told you before that I'll be betrayed. I'll be taken into a kangaroo court. I'll be falsely accused. I'll be beaten. I'll be hung on an old rugged cross. I'll be pierced in the sides. Thrown to crown will go on my brow. I'll be bleeding. I'll be in pain. But I will overcome. Still to come, I will get up from the grave on the third day with all power in my hand. And that's what we can count on that no matter what is happening, now he says, because I've overcome, you can overcome. Because I've got the wind, you can get the win. Because I've taken the pain, I've died for you, that's the preview And then they couldn't see that. I don't see what you're talking about, how you overcome the world. I'm gonna defeat the world. Stay tuned. And when the enemy comes, you're saying, look out, look out, look out, stay tuned God's got a blessing for me in the midst of what I'm facing. There's a preview. It's still to come in your life. We look at the situation in South Carolina. And wonder how can we get past it? I declare that it does not make sense. But what makes sense is that God is real. What makes sense is he will keep you. There was a time in my own life when having the Bible and I I got my brand new Bible, the Billy Graham Bible, I got it free Uh before it was real big and I had my Bible. But I didn't understand it. It looked good. It was great on the coffee table. It didn't make sense. I may have read it, but it still didn't I was like some folks, I don't understand the does and the thus, but my God if you keep reading it. It'll make sense. If you keep living it, it'll make sense. If you keep following the word of God, it will make sense in your life Everything that God wants us to know, He's put in the Bible. In the Word. The Word says in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God. Amen. Thy word shall I hide in my heart that I will not sin against you. Thy word is the light into my path. Thy word is thy truth. And you know the truth, it will do what? It will set you free. No, no, I don't understand life's tragedies No, no, I don't quite get why I formed my own opinion on what may have taken place and what Facebook said and what phony websites said, but what I do know is that God is real. He's real in my soul. Is he real to you today and because I serve a real God, I've got hope that when things are out of whack When tragedies happen, I can't explain them, but I know what? He's made a promise. I will give you peace. He's made a prediction, it'll get crazy, but know that in the end I will take care of you. Won't he do it today? Won't He seek you? Won't He guide you? Won't He protect you? Won't He lead you into righteousness even when life does not make sense? God makes sense. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Let's give God a praise today. Trying To make sense out of a senseless act, God helps us. Stand to be all over this place as we seek him. As we trust them. He's the God who is with us, takes care of us. Gives us new hope. I'm glad about that today. Gives me joy to know I serve that kind of God. I trust in God. Wherever I may be upon the land or on the rolling sea For comfort may from day to day My heavenly father watches over me. I trust in God. How many trust him today? I know me and for me. My family father wanted He makes the road an object of his king He got the e go through the path to And surely remember me My heavenly father watch it over me. I trust him. I'm gonna trust him today. I know we can't do it. Yes, he does. On mountain me on the story Lady I I am no one birthday. How many trust him today? Come on, trust the Lord today. I must be God. How do they know he'll take care of you? He will watch over you. In fact, right now we're under surveillance. You ever gone someplace and You saw the camera watching you, and you tried to figure out now there in every elevator, there in every hallway, our Heavenly Father watches over us no matter what comes our way. As we bow today, Father, we thank you that even when situations in life are hard to figure out Or we can't connect the dots, or when the polo does not fit, we trust in you that you'll bring us through, that you'll guide us through our pain and our hurt. Tragedy is happening everywhere. Calvary was a tragedy because they executed you, even though you did nothing wrong. But we won in the end. And we continue to have the victory now. I pray in the name of Jesus that you might not just cover this house of prayer But houses of prayer all over the world. Where folk are gathering to lift up your name. We know that you're with us. We know that you will guide us. We know that you're God all by yourself. And now come today, God. There may be one in this place that may not know you And what you have shared may not make sense to them. And so we come today to say, Lord Jesus, open that heart today. Lord Jesus, allow them to see your mighty hand moving. I pray for salvation. I pray for a changed life. I pray that the blood of Jesus Christ might wash their souls. And so right now, be so vulnerable as to open your heart And allow him to come in. I've never assumed that you know Jesus. And so I present him to you as the one who was slain But the one who rose again. And the Bible says if you believe that God sent his only begotten Son, if you believe that He died on that cross. If you believe that he was buried in a moral tomb, if you believe that he got up from that grave with all power in his hands, the Bible says by faith If you believe that, thou shalt be saved. God saved someone today. In this house, you have the power to do it. God, I pray that you might change that heart and change that mind today. There's no secret what you can do. We have no power to do it. God, I thank you right now that if there's one here that knows it not, save them today. That's our prayer. Do it we pray in Jesus' name. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's ComeToharvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.