Welcome, as we welcome to the platform, Dr. Tim Tutin. Come on, let's give it up. Come on, let's give it up. Praise the Lord. Awesome. I I'm I'm a little nervous I'm a little nervous because not as nervous as I am. I never get interviewed. Because right. That's how I I me too. I mean I'm on the other side of this thing now. Um I'm interviewing um someone And it's not just patting you on the back. It's so true how consistent your life has has really been. And I just appreciate that, and our community appreciates that. Um it is my pleasure being the broadcaster, I I take the jump. It's it's great to be here and you should know that I've known uh this family. For a long time. Uh Pastor Larry and I were having church. Neither one of us were licensed to preach. Yeah. We preached around the pitch press. We preached around uh the weight room and I just have a great love for you and for this this family here Central. We baptize over here, you know on Saturdays. Yeah he uses like church. He He uh founded a church here locally and and he brings his people over to baptize here. So we just there's a relationship here. Thanks for having trust. Yeah, absolutely. Um Obviously I there's doesn't need to be said what's been taking place in our in our communities and and um around this great country of ours, but You said something to me the other day about awareness. Awareness. Maybe give me a little bit, give them a little bit of your story. where you came from and kind of what brought you to that awareness that you you shared with me the other day. Well growing up in in Florida, and I say Florida because it's a huge city But in North Florida, growing up in a community uh that was segregated, uh growing up in a segregated high school, uh elementary school, and I do remember the times when I could not understand why On the east side, we had to walk past what we call the white pool. Because we couldn't go to that pool. Or what it meant having to go across the tracks to the theater. Because it was the black entrance. So there was always an awareness, but in my home it was more about you make sure you represent the Tutans. But it When you call me this week, I I've been having a walking conversation. Anybody ever do that? You're walking, you're kind of talking to yourself. And because of my position in journalism, I can't I have to make sure that I measure my words. I can have an opinion at home, but I can't go in the air with it. And thank God. But when you called it was answered prayer because when it comes to racism, you're always aware. I share with you that here in in White Marsh, I've been profiled uh three or four times. Uh or more. Not mad about it, but aware. I tell my son, if you ever pulled over, uh, because you're an African-American male, make sure that you do things by the book. aware. And racism feels like you've ever been slung by a bee or a wasp? You know what that feels like? Yeah. It it's past this, but but you feel it. Yeah. And so I always say you've got to be aware of what's happening around you. It's great to see the community at large coming together, but it's a real issue. And I knew we could have that conversation because what I said to you You're my friend. Yeah. This church is my friend. You're not my white friend. You're my friend. Yeah. And and that makes a difference. Uh we're all guilty of saying, you know, we have Great black friends or great white friends. You you're all just a friend. Yeah, yeah. I think here here's the thing. I'll never know what that's like. I'll never know the the f the feeling of that I know I know m m I married into uh a Hispanic family and our our first w lot of years ago now, over thirty years, Pearl and I've been married, but um over thirty years ago and I remember the the family photo and what that looked like. I looked like this missionary right in the middle of my family and yes hey that's kinda obvious right there, yeah. Um and but but the But the beauty of that was they embraced me, they they loved on me, I loved on them, it's an amazing family. Um but I didn't know like Pearl shared something with me one time. I I just I'm so shocked about it because again I I don't experience that. She shared with me um uh how a uh a client of hers, um she's a stylist, how a client of hers had had had said to her Um, what nationality, you know, what background are you from? What well I'm Hispanic, I'm a Mexican American, and and like, oh wow, you're s you're so beautiful. I've I've never I never I never knew a Mexican could be that pretty, that beautiful. And and I know that sounds crazy that someone would actually say that, but but those things are real and those things can happen. Like you can see my boys, you met my boys to see the thank God they saw that broadcaster too, man. Um it looks like sometimes it looks like I adopted them, but they're my family, they're my kids. And and uh but but it's but the beauty of of it all is that we just need to continue to love one another, but here's the thing for me. I want to carry some of that. Yeah. Because the scripture tells me in in Galatians 6. 2 to carry one another's burdens so that we can fulfill what? The law of Christ. What's his law? It's love. It's to love your neighbor as yourself. And I was saying to you this week, uh, because we had to conversate you like, man, I feel I was like, I don't want you to feel bad, you know, because I realize that you you care. And the fact that you cared and you called gave me an opportunity uh to speak. And here's something else that I often tell people, I say, um, we talked about awareness, you know, I'm I'm a public figure, so to speak. Yeah. So I'm I'm an okay African American because I work in a high profile job and a lot of people know Tim too. But there are times when you're not the temptude and you're you're still the African American male. And so that that awareness piece is always key because you know I don't want to feel like I can't feel the pain of people. It's just that I have a position that where folk know me we're laughing with with Pastor about even when you're in the mask. If you talk and say whether that voice sounds familiar. Yeah. But not everybody has that opportunity And when I talk to young people, I say if I took off this Channel 11 jacket and got in a certain kind of vehicle. I think that day was a rental. It was it was you know I was styling. And it was like, hey Tim, we pulled you over and nothing against the police department, but I looked and fit a certain profile. But awareness is important and to know that you care as a man of God. And that that's what's important. So I I was excited when you called him, oh Lord, let's Larry. We call him back. Because it's so important to have this conversation. Yeah, I I just, you know, as much as I was an answer to prayer, I didn't look at it that way. You you were an answer to to my prayer because I wanted to address it and sometimes and and here's the thing, I I'm I'm just gonna be frank and honest. Um from a white male perspective, sometimes I I'm a little fearful that I say the wrong thing, and because there's going to be people right now in this conversation You didn't say enough. Right. You said too much. You know, all all of those things are uh will run through people's minds, those who are watching online and even in here that wouldn't they Black enough. Well whatever that means. And and and ha how does he know, how does Larry know that, you know, what what we're going through or whatever. But and but but I wanted to I wanted to just be able to be just have this open and honest conversation that in this moment, um, even though I don't understand that and I never will understand that I can empathize with it because I want to carry some of that with you. So let me ask this question. What um What can we do better? And when I say we, the church, I'm talking about the church, I'm talking about us collectively. What can we do better? So that we can minister to the obvious pain and hurt in our communities. And when you when you say we, we we're talking about even as as a pastor myself And that's to love unconditional. Yeah. And and I think that when we talk about love, it's easy to say, always if somebody tells me, you know I love you. I said, well I hope you do. If you gotta tell me you love me, uh then I I begin to wonder. But I I think about it's it's what's not always said. I think we say sometimes that we if we if we say something But the word says be doers of the word and not hearers only. Yeah So it's it's really what what we do. Yeah. And and and in doing so, you don't really have to label it. Yeah. You don't have to say, you know, I feel bad, man. You know, I feel bad. But I think that when it comes to Um, you know, it's an old saying, and I your your father knows because he's he's old school, that it's I'd rather see a sermon uh than to hear one. That as we walk in the spirit, we won't fulfill the lusts of the flesh. And it's just doing. Yeah. You know, just do as the spirit leads. Do and that and that works both ways. You know, in terms of how a community is supposed to respond. Yeah, no, that's good. That's good. Um, you know, because as a church, I really in my heart want to be proactive in in making the world a better place. And uh I know for me, my responsibility is to pastor and and and oversee the spiritual climate of Central, you know, in this. And uh And what what I wanna do is open up conversation, more conversation, because I think conversation, this is just the beginning. This isn't the Uh pastor Pastor Tim and I are not saying, oh, this is the end all be all, this is where it gets healed. You know, no, no, no, no, no. So I'll put you all next month. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We we need to continue the conversation around the table. And and not and here's the here's the beautiful part what how I feel, at least, Pastor Tim, you can you might be able to share a little bit about this too, but For me for me it's we don't always have to do like there's there's parts of probably our theology That's different. But at the end of the day, it's all about Jesus and the cross. It's the cross. That's where That's where we do agree. And that's at the end of the day, that's all this other things are up for discussion, but the cross is not in what Jesus did for us. No, you say conversations and that and that that's so key because I know as as a pastor It's about the consistency. That what, you know, there's a there's not two Larry's and there's not two Times That the Holy Ghost can break out at home or in church. And I think that if you're consistent that we've got to have the conversation with the families. I mean, I've seen much stuff online over the last couple of days, but you've got to say in your house Here's the way we stand. And my dad, the late Jim Tootin's at Hoss, I'm the boss. I pay the cost to be the boss. And I think that we have to lead by example. that it's it's no surprise that persons would say to me, you know, you've done a great job. Are you? You've done a great job with your children. Because they know when they get home There's a certain atmosphere. Yeah. And we've got to create that atmosphere with our children and with this generation. And we're seeing a lot of this generation on the streets. Yeah. Now. Yeah. I mean There there are protests and marches everywhere. A little different. But I think there are conversations happening at home that you can be real frank about what stands in this house. When you leave this house, who you represent? That that that has not changed down to the years. Yeah. You know, when we give our life to Christ, we we've been justified, but we're not perfect. Absolutely. Right? And there's that sanctification process in our life that hopefully, hopefully, um I'm I love greater today than I did ten years ago. Absolutely. I pray that God is still continuing to work in my life. And and and when you look at history and when you look at the church itself We're not where we want to be, but thank God we're not where we used to be. Amen. You know, we can look at our lives that way, right? You can look at 30 years ago. Wow, you know Pastor Tim has come a long way. When I first started out in broadcasting. You know, I was blessed with uh, but I was a southern guy. And I remember consultants saying, you've got to have a Midwestern sound. to you. You can't you know, you can't really sound black is what I heard. But this whole sense of being able to adapt to what people may or may not think about you. And and I'm just going to throw this in it because it's always a conversation is always one of those things that concerns me. And I Is when personals talk about the flag. See on the flag, that can cause a lot of controversy in the pledge. I have to let people know that that my father, James Newton, His brother, Charles Dutton, served in World War II in a segregated army. Came back from the war, 1945. And my brother told me the other day, he said, you know, you you do know that when they got back to Carolina that when they went to stop to eat that the black soldiers had to stay on the bus. Wow. And the white soldiers could go in to eat And you came back from defending the flag and you could be lynched. That's that's real. So when persons get offended by You don't love the flag. I'm saying, wait a minute, let me call up Jim and Charles because they served. And but it's about justice for all. Yeah. That's that's what's important. Yeah. I kinda went off there but the flag thing sometimes kind of get me is that a lot of people served and came back to a lot of things that did not You know, the di the denounced wealth. Right, right. Absolutely. And it's just uh it's astounding to me that um that we can't just um have conversations like this. Now I I know this that um you can't legislate love. No It here's here's how I feel about it. Regardless who's in the White House. Yeah The Bible says it starts in God's house first. Absolutely. It starts here. And if we can't If we can't love the way God has called us to love, it doesn't matter who you vote in, vote out. You can't legislate it. You can't legislate love in people's hearts. We have to do better. Pastor, we've got to do better at this. Um I could hear my my grandmother, uh the late Ollie Graham, who was uh a pastor in the fifties. I mean she'd get her own thing, but she died at 101. But her thing was to your point, if you can do better, do better better. And you're right, we have to do better. Yeah. On both sides. uh do better as a community, as a nation. Uh just make it your that's your mantra. I'm gonna do better. But I got to love better. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I gotta love better. So good. That's so powerful. Um I called you here because I wanted to one everybody loves Tim Tutin's voice. They would. I mean that's just, you know. Um But as an elder statesman, as someone that our community looks up to and You just made me old, Larry. I I know. An elder statesman. You have a decade on me. I mean I think that I just want to honor you in that Yeah, Larry do. I mean we we we we were deep for a moment away We cut up like this. We're cut up. I'm an elder statesman. I think we cut up a lot. Yeah, please the Lord. Um but but but being an elder statesman and and someone that um our community really respects and will respond to I just want to thank you for taking your time because he's on vacation. I don't know if anybody knew that, but he's on vacation. Man, my honeydew list was so long this week. That was called a state case. Because as I said at the once that you've you have a voice, but you cannot because you're in media we get banged up a lot. Yeah You know, you can't go on social media, which you shouldn't do. You can't just share your what do you think? I I think nothing. Whatever I think is in my house. Right. And so to have an opportunity to come to sit with a great man of God and just to be honest and French, uh I feel freedom in this man Good morning, good morning, good morning. I appreciate that. You know how much that that means to me as a person. Um and uh Man, I just I feel the presence of God. I just go ahead and we should have been there now if you want to. You go ahead and start it off. We can go ahead and have a little church. Well you know that that that's the beauty and and the joy And I I think one of my good friends is connected to the Zol uh VR. Yeah he he's the one connector. Yeah, I I messaged with him and the judges call him Bishop loud in the gym. People turn around and say, Bishop! Uh but it's that kind of love. And that's what's so important is that we gotta love together. We gotta laugh together. We gotta enjoy each other. And that's what's that's what's so key. Yeah, that's so good. So I'm gonna ask you to do something. I'm gonna ask you to close us out in prayer tonight. um and whatever the Lord just puts on your heart for for us as a church um to just pray over us and I I have open hands to receive whatever God puts on your heart to pray. So open to receive that. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we first and foremost acknowledge who you are. You are God who sits on the throne. And we thank you for sending your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, for us. Why? Because we we needed it We all have fallen short and all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. The Bible says there's none righteous, no not one. And as we come today, you are not a God who's asleep at the wheel. You're not a God who is away from the throne, but God, you're watching. And you're calling on your people to do better, to unite in the spirit. And I pray in the name of Jesus, dear God, for uh this church and this mad servant. Courageous enough to say, can we just talk? Talk about issues that are not backroom online issues, but issues we can talk about face to face. That's what a real man and woman of God are. So I pray even now, God, that you might cleanse us. Yes, Lord. That we might, not just for a season, but for now, for today, begin to worship. You in spirit and in truth. The Bible says, for you seek such. So I pray even now, God, that you might allow this word of encouragement and message to seep into the hearts of your people. The enemy would want to be waiting outside to see where the seed fell. Want to try to pick it up, but God, I thank you. Yes. We know this is good ground. Yes, thank you, Lord. And we know that it will sink in. Father, we thank you. We thank you for what you're doing in the midst of this pandemic. And we thank you, dear God, that you made us all in your image. Yes. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Thank you so much. Come on, let's give it a. Thank you, Doctor. Appreciate you. Appreciate you so much. So much. God bless you guys. I love you. Have a great rest of the weekend.