Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Thank God for the gift of encouragement. It goes a long way when you encourage people to let them know That you've been blessed. Whether it's a song or a word. Let's encourage our youth and young adult this morning. Come on, encourage them in the Lord today. What we need is more encouragement. Let's bow before the Lord today. Father, we thank you. Thank you for how you have guided us and led us in this season. Even as we stand today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Look at the word today from 1 Corinthians. Went too far. There we go. Jumped ahead of it. me. First Corinthians twelve, four through six. First Corinthians twelfth chapter verses four, five, and six. There are different kinds of gifts. But the same Spirit distributes them. There are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. There are different kinds of working, but in all of them, and And in everyone, it is the same God at work. I want to preach from the Samonic title Understanding Spiritual Gifts Part 2. Understanding Spiritual Gifts Part 2. Some years ago, two men graduated from the Chicago Kent College of Law. They'd become great friends. The highest ranking student in the class wanted to make it known how much he appreciated his friend. He was a blind man named Overton. And when he received his honor he insisted that his friend Kaspadak gets part of the credit. They had met one another early in their law career when the armless Mr. Kaspadak had guided the blind, Mr. Oberton, down a flight of stairs. They needed each other. The blind man carried the books, which the armless man Read aloud in their time of common study. Each man's physical strengths complemented the deficiencies of the other. After graduation, they practiced. Law together. There are some Obertons and some Kazpazaks sitting in church this morning or over the internet. I want to suggest This morning, that no matter what spiritual gift God has given you, it is not for you. It's for the person whom God will send your way. Let's have a working definition of spiritual gifts. A spiritual gift is any ability that is empowered by the Holy Spirit. And used in any ministry in the church. But keep in mind this: the gifts are given, they're not You don't get to earn a gift because you've been a goody to shoe. You don't earn a gift because you come to church. You don't earn a gift because you're a nice person in your community. The gift Is given from God by way of the Holy Spirit. But why do I need a spiritual gift? I'm fine the way I am. Why change me? Why uh why push me on the end? you well spiritual gifts are to convince unbelievers and to spir Spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. This week I was at an event that was certainly one that was tragic. It was the vigil for a young girl who was struck by a vehicle. And in the midst of that crowd, a woman came up to me and said, I want to thank you. I said, For what? She said, Well some years ago, you came by the cable company. I was having a bad day. I was about to throw the towel in and you said you hold on. Don't you do anything? God's got something for you. She said, a couple days later, I got a new job. Things worked out. Now granted I don't remember. I've been to the cable company a handful of times, but my point is you oftentimes will not remember when you use your Spiritual gift because you're not trying to get reward points. You're just operating out of your gift. Amen. And I was blessed. I said, Well, praise God. If it worked To God give the glory. Give me a hug. And so we never know when our gift will intersect with someone's life. You'll hear me say that over and over again because it is true. In the text today. is the apostle Paul who writes to the church at Corinth. A church he started during one of his missionary journeys. Paul was an amazing man. He went some places that uh folk who would not go. Why? He was speaking the Christ. I remember going to Corinth some years ago and going to uh other parts of the country and saying now Paul was a bad somebody. He continued to preach Christ. Christ, even though his life depended on He was not just preacher Paul or Pastor Paul, he was also a tent maker. Other words, Paul held down a job. But he continued to share with the people. And so when Paul writes a letter, typically he's responding to something that's come to him. So somebody that wrote Paul I want you to know what's going on. Paul, have you heard? Paul, here's what I'm hearing. And so Paul takes time, oftentimes from a prison cell, to respond to them. To respond. Right back, and the issue and the hot topic was spiritual gifts. And scholars say this is what was taking place in Corinth. They say that some people had taken their gift and began to use it as some symbol of spiritual power. They were competing one with another. My gift's better than your gift. You know, I got that. I can do this. So if we're not careful, the flesh Will lead us in that direction that yes, God has gifted you, but again, it's been given to you. You didn't earn it, amen. And so this was going on. Folk were misusing Their spiritual gifts. They were abusing their spiritual gifts. They were manipulating others and promoting themselves. My God, folk had the big head, even back then. And we have to be humble. The Bible says to do what? To humble yourself, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. And in due time. He will what exalt you. Oh, can I just say that for a second? If you just remain humble, I didn't say weak. Remain humble and see if God won't exalt you to a new place. Somebody right now. Frustrated because you thought you ought to be moving up by now. The man is messing over you. But just continue to be humble and see if God won't work it out For your good. Anybody believe that today? Remaining humble. That's what Paul tries to clip some confusion. They were having problems with the facts. They were losing their focus. And they were in search of true faith. Problems with the facts. He said, now listen, they're there. Different kinds of gifts, but the same spirit hands them out. The same Spirit, the Spirit of God issues the gift. He begins in chapter twelve, this chapter, first verse. He says I don't want you to be uninformed. I don't want you to get it twisted. He says, I want to talk to you about gifts and try to settle some of the debate that's going on. They were trying To use the gifts, they could not fully appreciate the gift or understand the gift, but aren't you glad that you are a gifted person? How many folk are glad that God has given them a gift? Praise God. And we've all been guilty at times when the flesh shows up of acting on false information, acting on secondhand information. The flesh is dangerous. What is the flesh, Reverend? The flesh is when it's me, myself, and I. The flesh That's when it's it's all about me. Now nobody in here, but we have to make sure that when people compliment us And when people say, Oh God, you did the Jew say, Well, thank you. Pray praise God. Yeah, I I know I got it like that. Mirror, mirror on the wall. No, we have to be humble. And there it is again. That they were competing and they didn't realize that there were learning tools. There's the word of God. That's how you become from being uninformed to informed. You can't just find out by osmosis. That's why Bible study is is good. Can I give a two-second commercial? That's why the Bible Academy is important. Why? Because as you're dialoguing with others, you learn. Amen. A prayer line is good. Uh doing it by yourself is good. Good, but you want to continue to feed the Spirit Man and Spirit Woman. Amen Feed yourself. It might be a tape on the way to work. It might be a song you hear, but continue to feed yourself with the word of God. 2 Timothy 2. 15 says, Well, study To show yourself approved. Unto God, a workman that needeth not be ashamed, rightly divining the word of truth. Problem with facts. They just couldn't get it right But they were losing their focus. And Paul said, now these are different kinds of service, but the same Lord. They were confused. They were giving glory to other gods in some cases, and they were slipping back based on what they had learned. In that second verse, he says something to the effect of you were like pagans before. That is, you were doing your own thing and my own theology. And here's what I believe. I believe what is in the Word of God. Amen. And not my opinion, it's all about the gifts. They were losing focus. Great. You're gifted. That's awesome. But don't let your gift drive you into thinking it's all about you. Amen? Be clear. There's no other God like our God. Song said earlier, how great is our God. I ain't say my God. Our God. Can you celebrate the God that you serve today? That He is high, He's mighty, He's lifted up, and He loves us so much that He chooses To use us. Paul talks in other places about how God used the foolishness of preaching to confound the wise. He don't need attempt to nor any other preacher on Sunday morning. He uses any of us to do this. work but you don't need us the word would get out without us but how many folk are glad that he just wanted to use you amen Let you come in the game. Coach, can I get in? I'm glad today. Oh, some of y'all were not second stringers. I was glad I stood by the coach. You heard my story? In case he looked for somebody, I was almost bumping into him. Can I go in? And when it comes to our gift, well if you're saying, I'm ready, I'm warming up, I'm ready to go, pick me. I'll run in. I would just take one plane in, hit a guy and come back out. They put a little dirt on my jersey. Praise God. They had lost focus. Paul wanted to let them know. Even in Philippians 3:13-14, brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. But this I too, forgetting those things which are behind, and pressing forward to those things which are before, I press toward Caught the mark for the prize of the heart calling in Christ Jesus. The facts. were off. The focus was diminishing. But they had to continue to rely on their faith. Verse 6 He's saying it again. I mean, was Paul being repetitious? He said, I'm I'm trying to tell you five different ways how to get this. I don't know about you. I need some I need it five times sometime to really get it. Amen. He says there are different kinds of working of those gifts. But in all of them and in everyone is the same God at work. Nothing has changed. We may have changed, but God has not changed The same yesterday, today, forevermore, and they were believing their own press. Yes. You're still saying, and it's really biblical, that your gift will make room for you. So what's that mean? That means that you keep on pressing your way, and God has gifted you. He will allow you to use that gift. Proverbs 18:6. A gift opens the way and ushers the giver into the presence of the great. In other words, you keep being you in the Lord. And God will open up a door that no person can shut. You ain't got to force your way in. You ain't got to manipulate. You ain't got to be, you know, the person who's hanging around the crowd. But how many folk know that God will promote you anyhow? Amen? You're not qualified, but God, we have faith in this kind of God who makes it happen. Who makes it possible in our lives? Well, I think it's important to not just have a gift But to exercise your gift. I'm laughing because I see a couple of gym buddies in here. They may see me leaving, but you know, you gotta exercise. Amen. I may not look like it. But I do get to the gym about three days a week. Amen. But we gotta exercise our bodily organs. Why not exercise? Oh some of y'all are gonna get membership next week. Amen. Ain't nothing wrong with that. Do something. Show up. Walk or something. I mean, you know something. Well, same thing with the gift. I had this gift for many years. God gave it to me, but I ain't using it. I'm not exercising my gift Getting no reps in. Amen. I'm doing no sex. I'm just sitting on my sanctified self and not doing anything, but exercise your gift. It's beneficial. You'll be healthier. You'll be happier. You'll shed some sin. Hebrews says Setting aside those sins that so easily beset us. You'll increase your energy because you'll be full of the Holy Ghost. Praise the Lord. Why? Exercising your gift. You'll remember more things. You'll relax. You'll sleep better. When you exercise your spiritual gift. Well, if you need a personal trainer, I know somebody who knows somebody. Okay? And it's free. Won't cost anything, but but but no Somebody who knows somebody who will help you to exercise your gift. Do you want to know? Inquiring minds want to know. Isaiah talks about it. Amen. He says he giveth power to the faith. And to them who have no might, he increases strength. Even the youth. shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait upon the Lord shall do what? They shall renew their strength, they shall melt up with wings of eagles, they shall run and not be weary. They shall walk And not faith. God gave his best gift. Amen. And not just on the 25th, as the calendar so says, but he gave His best when he gave us Jesus Christ. That's the best gift you could ever get. Would you agree? It's when you've got the gift of Jesus Christ, the one who loves us. Now now you can re-gift that. Amen. Oh, some of y'all have done the re-gift. You didn't really like it, so you kind of said, praise God. Well, you can re-gift this. You can re-gift. Goodness. You can regift mercy. You can regift joy. You can get peace. It is a gift that was given to you. And he sent his gift to die on an old rugged cross so that we might have life eternal. I love it. I thank God today that He sent the gift. I didn't deserve it, but He sent it. Thank God that gift came. It was not appreciated. He died And he rose again. That is the crux of our faith. Reverend Sunday, you say he died and rose again. That showed him. You know why? Because that's it. That's the meat of our faith is not just believing that God exists, but believing that God sent His only son who died for us and the gift got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. And the gift is at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. Thank God for the gift. Thank you, Paul, for putting it out there. Thank you, Paul, for letting us know. It's not all about us. Thank you, Paul, for reminding us that there's no difference. It's all the same spirit and the same working. And the same God, there's no new model, there's no new thing, and that's what the world does, but thank God for Jesus. Anybody glad today that he's given you the gift? My God, I want to use it. I want to use the gift of encouragement. I want to encourage everybody, wherever I go and tell them, you know what? I serve a risen Savior. And he's in the world today. And guess what? His name is Jesus. My can I encourage you today in the the Lord to say whatever gift he's given you, I dare you to use it. I dare you to use it to let somebody know that all things are possible. I dare you to lose it to say, you know what? Goodness and mercy shall follow me All the I just got excited because what? That's my gift. My gift is to encourage you. You won't be down for long. You about to get up and move to where God has. Can I encourage you again? God is gonna do it. Well I tried to exercise. That was my workout for the day. And that is the word of God. It's already come on, Still, already blessed today. Use that gift to the glory of God. These folk were debating who had the best gift. And thought it was all because of them. Wrong. It's the gift that God gives us. You ought to be excited to the fact that you've got a gift. My God, you ought to say, oh God, oh, I got one. And then even more excited to use it to bless someone else. Not when you get ready, but as the Spirit of God leads you. Come on to Jesus. Understanding. Come Jesus. Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Yeah, yeah. Just Come to Jesus. Come to Jesus. Here's what he'll do. He will save you. He will save you. Yes, he will. He will save you. He will save you just now. He will say you will say you. As I come today, I want to just remind you of who you are. You're somebody. It does not yet appear what you shall be. But let me tell you, once you recognize your gift. and start using it. I think we'll have to tap you on the shoulder and push you. You want to use it today? You'd be like, wait a minute. What can I use this gift? You already drawn, ready to go. That you might bless someone else. Let's bow to the Father. We thank you for clearing up the confusion that man has made. God, I thank you for your Holy Spirit, the giver of gifts. And as we recognize what that gift is or gifts are, help us to use them that others might be blessed. And some of this we won't know till we get the glory. We see folks say, oh, you stopped me that day, remember? You won't remember Why? You were doing it in the spirit. If there's somebody today, God, who's coming to this place, and they never confess you as their Savior. In other words, they know about you, but they don't know. you. Today they can get to know you. How does that work? They gotta ask. Heavenly Father, I believe you sent your son Jesus Christ. Why? I believe in Christmas. I believe he came and that he died and rose again, I believe in Easter. God make it so plain that they can get it. Put it in a milk form that they might be able to digest it. Save someone today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. I want to thank you for tuning in to our broadcast We will harvest Christian ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To find out more about our ministry, simply go to our website. It is www. com, the number two harvest Again, that's www. comthenumber two harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a blessed day in the Lord.