Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. If you really love him today, express it. Let's bow before the Lord today. Father, we thank you. And we love you because you first loved us. Unconditional love. As we come today, it is our prayer that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. You may take your seats. Yeah, you don't know. Folk think they know, but they don't know. Hey Lord. Won't he give you the victory? Won't he do it? Yeah, Everybody may not know. But my God, he'll bring you through seen and unseen dangers. It's my honor to stand before you today to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. And we've been covering these passages over the last month or so. It comes from 1 Corinthians and 12th chapter, verses 8 through 10. We'll focus mainly on the 10th verse today. It says to one, there's given the Spirit Through the Spirit a message of wisdom. To another, a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit. To another by the same Spirit to another gifts of healing by that one spirit, to another miraculous powers, to another prophecy to another distinguishing between the spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues, and still to another the interpretation of tongues. I want to kind of conclude this. uh series of preaching points, but not stop encouraging you to learn your spiritual gift. You will be amazed what God has in store for you if you're able to know what it is. Now that you're good at it. But what it is that the Spirit of God has called you to do in this season. So we preach from the Samonic title Understanding Spiritual Gifts, part number four. It's hard to believe, but a month from now, many of us will sit around our Christmas trees and begin to unwraps. A month, 30 days from today, I'll be able to spot my gift a mile away. He'll be the one with the crooked tape. And the scattered and torn paper. I don't rap well. And so I know my gift when I see it. But we're always excited about what's in the gift, what is contained in the box. And I love to put small items in big boxes You ever do that? I love the fool people. They say, oh my, I got the biggest box. It could be the smallest gift, but it's the most important gift to them. And you know what Look at this, I'm convinced that the same holds true when it comes to our spiritual gifts. That God is constantly trying to unwrap In us, those gifts that He's given us as believers in Jesus Christ. And I'm so passionate about that because once you discover your gift And then begin to operate in that gift, you will feel joy and peace and excitement. So I'm convinced that this is an important topic So what we're going to do today is really kind of pick up there in verse number 10. As Paul writes to the church at Corinth, he is writing them to discuss a topic that is spoken often about. And so the gifts we're going to take up today and try to unpack for you are the gifts of prophecy. distinguishing between spirits, speaking in different kinds of tongues, and the interpretation of tongues. Shed some light on each of these. The gift of prophecy And the Greek prophecy is to speak forth. It is to interpret the purposes of God. To make known the truth of God as we try and influence people. There are persons now who call themselves prophets. I don't dispute what they call themselves. We know that God certainly sent prophets to carry his word and to warn his people. But some people see the gift of prophecy as their own ability to predict the future. Kind of a mother rose palm reading. Can I put it there for a minute? When it's in your own power, it's just that it's not prophecy, it's guessing. But can God give someone a message to give you? Yes, he can. You'd be amazed as to who God can use to bring a word to you. The person that you dismiss as being crazy. They don't have it all. That very person, if you listen, can share with you a truth based on the word of God. And that's what I want to emphasize. Whenever a person says that they've got a gift of prophecy, it is their claim to be speaking for God. I want to speak a word of prophecy over you warning. Bible check them. Yeah, compare notes based on what the Bible says and not what they are saying. In other words, they'll say Doc I see great things for you, and they can go on for hours. But where does it connect with the Word of God? How does that prophecy Intersect with what God says. Now, if God were to speak through a person today, it would be in agreement if it comes from the Bible. That's why I want to say that if somebody says they have the gift of prophecy And they can't give you a scripture. Can't give you a verse or chapter. Beware. Amen? And basically they got a new message just for you that God told them to stop you at the coffee shop and give you this powerful word. And there's no scripture nowhere in that proclamation, no mention of God, no mention of Christ. Beware. It may just be a dream that they've had. But there's a gift based on the word. What about distinguishing between spirits? Here's a disclaimer. Distinguishing between spirits is not your gut feeling. Ever have a gut feeling? Whatever that is? My gut told me. You've got your intuition. That's fine, but there again, where is that base on scripture? How are you able to tell the difference between good and evil? There has to be discernment. And this does not involve some mystical extra biblical revelation or some voice. Rather, you have to discern what people are saying to you, or you're able to discern what you hear Ever heard foolishness under the guise of the word? So we have to lift it up and say, okay, well praise God. Now what did that mean? And so that's why it's so important that we have to be rooted in the Word of God, otherwise we'll fall for anything. We'll be slapping five on something that's not in the Word of God. And so that's why as believers, we gotta stay sharp. Read the word, study the word, live the word so that we know if someone is sharing, we can discern it as being a fake. Or discerned as being, oh you're on something. So first John four one, two, and three a great word, and I'll just read the whole uh uh passage. Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. Not from Buddy or Susie, but are their spirits from God? Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Folk who will mix up a little this, a little that, and serve it up to you, and you'd be saying, yes, that's that's alright, if it's not alright And so God will give you a spirit to discern what does not sound right to you. We do that in the natural don't then Come on parents. Kid talking to you, you like, mm-hmm. They give you all the whole story about how they had to go and then and then they ran out of gas and then they went and they got gas and then you like, uh-huh. Have you ever told one of those stories? When you got in trouble? Or y'all holy people. You done made one up, but then I also then the man that stopped me with no the other man and then when I got back in the car, well you know, be careful and test the spirits And this is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. If somebody's talking to you and they're trying to discern and they mention nothing, it sounds redundant. They mention nothing about Christ or nothing about the word. Beware. Great wisdom, but where is it coming from? Praise God. And verse number three, this is 1 John 4, 1, 2, and 3. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus. is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you've heard is coming, even now is already in the world. So those two kind of tie it together, prophecy, distinguished spirits, but then let's talk about speaking in different kinds of tongues First time we come across this really in the biblical writ is in the book of Acts. Acts 2. On the day of Pentecost. It's a great festival. Everybody's coming from so many places. And what happens? that we hear the gift of tongues being manifested there at that festival. Acts 2 and 4. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit. Key, key, key, underline, highlight. Filled with the Holy Spirit. It began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them to do so. And no indication they had any foreign language courses. I I went around every foreign language course that I could have taken. I just didn't want to take it. And what did I do? I moved to DC out of college and couldn't speak a lick of Spanish He came back to get me. But this was not some horse. This was the Holy Spirit at work. Amen. They shared the gospel of Jesus Christ under the influence of the Holy Spirit. And this the people responded because they heard their own language. And so when they were speaking in tongues, those who were there could hear it and say, You talking on my street. You're talking my language. Amen. Ever asked somebody to come to you and they speak in your language? Amen. In this case, because they were endued by the Holy Spirit, they were speaking in tongues And sharing. And those on the outside thought it was a farce. They thought the brothers had been drinking They say, Oh, they must be drunk. Amen. Folk may say that about you. But Paul addresses this issue. Keep in mind, Paul is a servant of Jesus Christ. Paul wrote the better part of the New Testament. But Paul is not Jesus. Amen? So what we have before us is what Paul has said about this gift. He wanted to make sure that in sharing the gift of tongues, that it was valuable to those sharing it. That there was a message, in this case the church. How does it help with any of our gifts? How does it help somebody? How does it build up the body of Christ? Whatever that gift is Now, just because you don't understand the gift of tongues does not mean that it's not existing or that it's ineffective. Or that people are not being blessed. Keep in mind, God gives the gifts and we don't. Amen? So that's what we have to focus on is that whatever gift God has given you, that because it belongs to Him, He He gives it out, it can bless people. Amen. Okay. Prophecy, distinction of gifts, tongues, and then the interpretation of tongues. I've never witnessed in my time in church someone who was able to interpret the actual tongues being spoken at that moment. Paul recommends that. There's a consensus that there is a gift of interpretation. That there's someone who in the house knows what is being said. And Paul's main concern was how can it bless? The church as a whole. Amen. And so persons who have this gift can understand what tongues are being spoken And they can be able to share it. They can be able to communicate what that message is. I love what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 14, 13. He says, for this reason. The one who speaks in a tongue should pray that they may interpret what they say. That whatever gift you have Pray that God will use it to bless someone else. Any gift that God has given you, pray that it might operate according to instruction. Operate according to the manual, which is the word of God. So there you have it. These are the four gifts that are mentioned there in the 10th verse and that's great and even as you find your gift and discover your gift uh always make sure you don't get hung up on the gift Right? Don't don't get hung up on the gift, but the giver. Amen? The giver has given us Hope and healing. The Giver has given us a hallelujah. The giver has given us patience and power and peace. The giver has given us life and life more abundantly The giver has given us Jesus Christ. Is that not the greatest gift we could ever ask for? Is the gift of Jesus Christ that if I can't figure out And to 2020, what my gift is. I'm so glad that God sent Jesus Christ and that became the ultimate gift. Give me that gift. That's the gift I want, is I want the gift of having Jesus in my life. Jesus who died, who rose, and who redeemed us from the penalty of sin. It was at the cross. At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light. And the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith I received my sight and now I'm happy all the day. I couldn't help but look at this other verse. Was it for crimes that I have done? That he hung upon the tree. The amazing pity, grace unknown, and love beyond degree at the cross, at the cross, that gifts, where I first saw the light. And the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was thereby faith I received my sight. And now, are any happy people in the house today? And now I'm happy all the day. Why? I've got the gift. And so why should I feel discouraged and why should the shadows come and why shouldn't my heart be lonely and long for heaven and home when Jesus Is my portion. My constant friend is he. His eye is on the sparrow. I know he watches me. I think Because I'm happy. There it is again. I sing because I am free. For his eye is on the sparrow. There's that gift again. And I'm so glad that he watches me I I sing, but every now and then I shout. I sing but I shout when I think about the goodness of Jesus. I sing but I shout when I think where he's brought me from. I seen but I shock when I think how he's put food on my table. I seen but I shock when I think about how he's brought me through seen and unseen dangers. I sing, but I shout when I think about the goodness of the Lord In the land of the living, that makes me want to shout. Amen. That's the excitement of the spirit that when you know you've got the gift of Jesus Christ, you would just throw your hand there and wave them like you just don't care. Amen. And so I can feel the gift operating right now. Spiritual gifts. But don't get so caught up into it's mine, it's mine, it's mine, it's mine, and you miss the real gift. And that's the gift of Jesus Christ our Lord. That'll get you excited today. Do you have the gift? Has it arrived yet? Have you received it? Are you using it? That gift is Christ. It's for today. What would happen? Imagine what our society would be like if persons discovered their gifts. And then begin to use them. I wonder what would the church be like if people understood their gifts? And then operated in the gift. I can only imagine how your community would be served and your family and your workplace if you received the gift and you operated in the gift. In the gift. Ask him what is my gift? And see if he won't reveal it to you. That is the word of God today's already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. The gift The the greatest gift ever given. I'll never return it. It comes guaranteed. It's a lifetime guaranteed. I've got Jesus. And that's enough for me. What about you? Do you need more than that? Thank you. Nothing on the tree, it's okay. I got Jesus. Come as you are. The Spirit of God comes as you are. Come and see, come receiv. Come just as you are. Let him do the work for you. There's a joy in just knowing. Come to that you are coming, come with me. Forever. Life everlasting. Everlasting. Living water and never As you contemplate the day Find a way to learn your gift. I'm amazed that The new movement of ancestry. Where am I from? I'm gonna send off and find out how much of what I have in me. I got a kid at the house. I haven't done it yet. But we'll look at that and say, I want to know what's my origin. Can I share with you today? And when you open your heart to Jesus Christ, you become a son and daughter of the King. What a great lineage. Don't need no saliva test, no blood test. The blood has already been shared. And once you are his From the moment you accept him as your personal Savior, the Bible says the Spirit of God gives gifts severally. So you might discover that you've got several gifts as you bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We want to take a blood test. We want to know what is it that you've called us to do in this season that you've given us. In this time that you've called us, it is our prayer today, God, that we might start on first base. And that is knowing you. In the pardon of our sins. Can't get the home plate without going to first base. And first base is opening your heart and saying, Lord Jesus, I'm a center. I desire to be saved. The Bible says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised Him from the dead, you shall be saved. You'll become a part of that divine family today. I don't want anybody not to be in the family. We all can folk in him if we accept him. Father, for that one person they do it, we pray. There's no power in the preacher, but it's something that we have to do in a personal way. I pray even now. That you might bless that person who knows you not. And may they come running saying, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be saved? And we'll be so glad and honored to give you the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's cumthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com. That's sermonaudio. com All you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.