Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries all over this place as we come on the Lord's Day. I contend every Today is his day. Father, as we come today, we stand in your power and in your spirit. And in your need. We thank you for the written word. Breathe on by your spirit that we might be the better. As we come today is our prayer that we might decrease. Oh, help us to decrease. And that you might increase. And when it's all said and done, that a soul might be saved, that another might be lifted and encouraged. But most of all that you might be Get the glory. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Praise God. Don't we serve a wonderful God? Don't make me push you now. Don't We serve a wonderful God. Don't we serve a God who cares about you? A God who will come and see about you? A God who will be there in your midnight hour? A God who will be there in your In your early morning, a God who will be there in your grief and your struggle, and yet they're in your joy. That's the kind of God that we serve today. And so I just want to say, Lord, thank you. And I give you praise. And I give you glory. Do I have two witnesses today who's not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Anybody who said, you know what, I just came to get my praise on the day. Anybody came to praise the Lord today? Why he's worthy to be praised. Open them I don't want to just shift in the gear Now and then you want to just allow the Lord to be the Lord. Amen. Let's look now to our word for the day. It comes from 1 Peter. The fourth chapter, verses 10 and 11. And it reads, Each of you should use whatever gift you have received. To serve others as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks They should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves They should do so with the strength that God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever Amen. I want to preach from a pretty standard title, Understanding Spiritual Gifts. understanding spiritual gifts. If you're sitting here this morning, or if you're watching my way of Facebook, there's one thing I am certain of And that is that you have a talent. That means that there's something that you can do and do well. It is something that you're fairly good at. It is something that you enjoy. Now I'm not being biased, I don't think, but I thought of LeBron James. He's talented. He's one of the many ball players in basketball talented. Rudy Gay talented. Right. Amen. May as well keep it down home. And there's so many others in so many areas of life who are talented. Now, maybe your talent is not polished enough to make it on America's Got Talent. But don't don't stop. You know that show that I catch up the corner of my eye in my house, and I usually wait to the end to see who won. And it seems to go on forever. But the judges will listen to those who sing, uh those who have the talent of comedy, those who can dance. and about anything else, and they become America's choice as one who have talent. But this morning I'm going to talk about not talents, but rather gifts. And here's the difference. A talent is a natural aptitude or skill, but a spiritual gift is an ability given by the Holy Spirit. It is to be used within the context of the church, the body of believers. So there again, someone can be very talented, but do they have a spiritual gift? And sometimes the two may look alike, but being talented only You're not as effective if you have a spiritual gift. Why? It is spiritual. Not to dismiss your talent. You are charming somebody. You do what you do well. But when you have been Given the spiritual gift, you're able to affect the greater good. So in the coming weeks, by way of your personal study in your book, And by way of your small groups, we are going to grow and learn together as we find out about our spiritual gifts. In our text today, it is Peter who writes a letter to a church under persecution. This was not unusual because to say that you follow Jesus Christ. in this time meant that you could lose your life. We have a great freedom now. We can say praise the Lord on the elevator and dare anybody to say anything about it. But in some countries, in some cultures, that would not be accepted. He writes to the churches under persecution in what is now Western Turkey. Some years ago, I got a chance to visit that region and was so uh moved by some of the small areas. uh little huts almost in the sand that people would go and hide just to have church. You would see the markings of how they would write on the wall. It was really modern for me that you had to hide out. in order to praise God. But think of the freedom that God has given us. And so as I look at what he did, he really wanted to encourage them. In this letter. Encourage them to stand firm. And many of you they say, Reverend, I feel at times I'm under persecution. I feel like folk are picking on me, talking behind my back, calling me names, sending me nasty grams. And you see that as persecution. But this church really were hanging on to dear life in order to stand for Jesus Christ. But some of them were not aware of their gifts. Others had the gifts and thought that they owned them. They thought that they had it all together. But what Peter wanted to encourage was to take time to use your spiritual privileges and to use your gift. For the whole body. In other words, there's something that God has given you that can help someone else. That there's something that God has poured into you and and you may think it's a talent, but because it is fueled by the Holy Spirit, you do it naturally. You can't help yourself. You just say, you know what, that's just who I am. But what you are doing is you're realizing that you have a spiritual gift. And so I think that the gifts ought to be recognized, verbalized, and centralized. Verse 10 says, each of you. Should use whatever gift you have received to serve others. The gift comes from God by way of the Holy Spirit. And it is given to you By the Spirit. So it didn't come by way of UPS, didn't come by way of FedEx, wasn't the postal service, but when you opened your heart It said, I give my heart to Jesus. At that time, you're filled with the Holy Spirit, and you get at least one gift. Let me say it again. If you are saved, if you say yes, I am a Christian, what's your gift? Huh? You have at least one. And it's all about understanding and using those gifts. And there's no other way to get the spiritual gift except by the gift giver. I don't know about you. I I like to open gifts. Even if I know what it is. Even if I take it a time or two. I don't know anybody who don't like gifts. So I say to you today, recognize that God has given you a special gift It's not anonymous. There's no secret. And it's not something that is a talent. Now, other part of that passage says as faithful stewards of God's grace. So now there's responsibility that comes with the gift. Amen? You can't use it when you want to use it and how you want to use it, but it says use it to serve others as Faithful stewards. What that means is the gift really does not belong to you. You are using the gift to the glory of God. Ever knew someone who had uh talent, gifts, and they got the big head as a result? Oh y'all know somebody like that. They thought that they were all that And two bags of chips. Because they were gifted. They could sing, they could play, they could do, you name it. And they have to realize that it does not Belong to you. It is unloan to you. It's being leased to you to do what? To help to build up the body of Christ. To manage wisely and to use obediently. You got to check in with the Holy Spirit to see if you can use it. But my God, when you use it Others are blessed. Over the weekend, I was honored by an organization Uh for education, I didn't quite know much about it, but if anybody go on to you, you ought to show up and get the plaque. Nice plaque. And the woman who introduced me says, I want to tell you about uh this brother say many years ago We were there in Annapolis and me and my team of attorneys were going back and forth, frustrated, and we keep passing him, and he stopped and said, can we pray? He stopped us and prayed with us. Now, I don't remember that. But what if she tell a story? But that was my gift, that is to encourage someone else. So while I did not remember it, and while you may not remember it, other folk will say to you You blessed me, you're saying when, where, and how, why? You were operating in your spiritual gift. You were a faithful steward over that which the Lord had given you. 1 Corinthians 12 and 11, all of these work of one and the same spirit, and he distributes them severally. That said, you may have more than one gift. You may have gifts severally, you may have two or three gifts. But no matter what you have, use them to the glory of God. Recognizing that I have a gift. And that ought to free you up right there. Praise God. I think I have one, or you got one. But then it must be verbalized. Verse 11. If anyone speaks They should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. And to verbalize something is to do what? To express it. It's to speak it out loud. And the speaking gift may include, I've mentioned evangelism, teaching, exhorting. Giving a word of wisdom, giving a word of knowledge, but verbally to speak, you're not God, but ass. Ah, I like that. Ask one who speaks the very words of God. Amen? In other words, there's an approved script. You can't just say anything that the Lord told me to tell you. Does it come from the script? Every now and then we'll go off script. And put out two cents in and lead somebody down the wrong way. Ask the Holy Spirit to, if I'm sharing, give me the words to say So that don't say something that will lead someone down the wrong path. Has it been God approved? In my industry, uh I may go on TV, but my script has to be approved. Yeah, but you've been there 30 years, Tim. I know. But somebody got to say, wait a minute. Now what did you mean when you said that? Oh, okay. I I got it now. And so when you share and you verbalize your gift, make sure that what you say and use is from God. Not your opinion. Oh Lord help us. Not your editorial. Not when I was that age. Not when I no, but just let them know, child, the Lord will make a way. Let them know that you know when I was down, the Lord lifted me and I keep giving God the glory. Make sure you verbalize that which speaks to their very soul. A word that you might share in your home. A word that you might share on the job. A word that you might share in your community. Why? It's your gift. A gift to speak. Ephesians four twenty-nine says, do not let any unwholesome talk Come out of your mouth. But only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it might benefit those who listen. That's a good passage. In other words, check your conversation. Check your word and make sure that it is verbalized using the word of God. Does that make sense this morning? Now you know, I I mean we we love to talk, but what but as James Brown said, my there's my DJ moment, talking loud and saying nothing. And so we gotta be real careful that what we use as our gift will help to build up others. Verbalized. Recognize and then centralize. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength that God provides. Now, not everybody likes to serve. We love being served. Where's my water? That's the wrong item on the menu. I'm not giving you a tip today. It means really to wait tables. It means to serve others, and you may not be gifted in that way if it's all about you. Oh Lord, trying to help everybody today. But don't you wonder how sometimes people are coming to serve you? And we are called to serve others. Not looking for a pet on the back, not looking to get my name mentioned, just the fact that I served as a gift of helps. I think we got the best deacons ministry, Dr. Vaughan would say, anywhere. These brothers have the gift of helps. The gift of serving. Not just what you see on Sunday morning, but always I could call or text the deacon, and guess what? They're all about serving. And that's all I know about that, but they still serve in the communities, in their homes. And so it's so important to know that when you have The ministry and the gift of serving is picking up a gum wrapper. It's getting a pasta, a little water. It could be a variety of things, and all you're doing, I'm just going to watch the door for you. I'm just going to encourage you. That's a ministry of serving. Amen. And so that may be your gift. Reverend, don't call on me to talk, but I'll serve. I don't need to read anything, but mind God, I'll help you. In the country, they say, I will hope you. Praise God. Many years ago, I was out in the tobacco field of Florida, hot, hundred degree weather. I was the last man in the field. You don't want to be the last man to feel. Everybody got a role. And I was trying to bring my role up. I know I was getting $15 when it was said and done, but it was hot. And the brother said to me, Jordan, can I can I hope you? Huh? Can I hope you? I want to correct him. You want to help me? Fine. I won't help you then. Brother left me out there. And so you're trying to hold someone. Amen. Matthew 23, 11 and 12 says, the greatest among you. You will be their servant. For those who exalt themselves will be humble, and those who humble themselves will be exalted. Charles Wesley, who's credited with being the leader of the Methodist movement, wrote some 6,000 hymns during his lifetime. And one of them I love the words to says a charge to keep I have, a God to glorify. A never dying soul to save and fit it for the sky. To serve this present age, my calling to fulfill Or may all my power engage to do my master's will. And here's the good news. It ends up by saying in that part of the 11th verse, so Speak, serve, so that in all things God may be praised Through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever. Amen. It really is all about giving God the praise through your gifts. Letting folk know that I'm serving and I'm speaking and I'm doing what I'm doing within my gift set, it's because God might get the praise Anybody know that's all about him getting the praise? All about him getting the glory? That's why we serve, that's why we share, and that's what the gift is all about It is to build up the body of Jesus Christ. And what's amazing about this, never forget it is a spiritual gift. That means it's a gift that has power. And there's a Greek word for that. Dunamis. The root word of the English word dynamite, uh oh dynamo or dynamic In other words, when you activate the spiritual gift, it is being powered by the Spirit of God. The same Spirit that raised Jesus Christ from the dead. And the question is, can you handle the power? Can you handle your gift being fired up? When you walk out of here and say someone, praise the Lord. Or someone said, Let me help you out with that. Whatever your gift might be, know that it is powered by the Holy Spirit Let me just recommend that you be careful how you use that powerful gift. Use it with caution. Amen? Because somebody might be blessed. Use the gift with caution because somebody might be encouraged. Use the gift with caution because somebody might be healed Use the gift of caution because somebody might be Holy Ghost filled. Use this gift with caution because somebody might be saved. And it might even be somebody that you know. Or songs that every time I feel the Spirit moving in my heart, I pray What happens to you every time you feel the spirit? Every time I feel the spirit, I sense my legs start to move a little bit Every time I feel the Spirit of God, it becomes a time of celebration. Thanking God for what He's done. Every time I feel the Spirit, I just want to shout for joy. Every time I feel the Spirit, I just can't help myself. I want to just give God all the praise and the glory Am I by myself this morning? What happens to you when you feel the Spirit of God moving on you What happens in your life when you know that it's a gift that God has given you? Something ought to happen. You can't walk around giftless, but thank God for the power. Associated with the gift. The gift giver who sent his son. As a gift, wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. He gave that same gift to die on the cross for us. So that we might have life eternal. Understanding spiritual gifts. Not talents, but gifts. Let's enjoy the journey. That's the word of God today. It's already blessed. Come on, stand today. And give God the praise. What is my gift? Let me check in with the Holy Spirit. Not my hobby. Not what I enjoy. But what has God given me that has the greatest impact? That's when you know that you're operating in your spiritual gift. There'll be fruit from it. You won't even realize it. You just do it you with your gift. How many are glad they have a gift today? Just come as you are today. The gift giver is waiting. Come just as you are. Just the way you are. There's the Spirit again. Come to God. Use us today, God. Come and be a good day. Come with me, come and come just as you are. He desires to use you today. And that's why he's gifted you. Life everlasting. Living water. The Lord desires to use you today. As we come today, I don't want to put you on a guilt trip. I want you to think about what is it that God has called me to do? What is my true gift? And am I using it? To edify the Lord Jesus Christ. Come. Let me encourage you today. I want to thank you for tuning in to our broadcast. We'll harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To find out more about our ministry, simply go to our website. It is www. com, the number two harvest. Again, that's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a blessed day in the Lord.