Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Praise God. This is the day the Lord has made. And we rejoice. And we're glad in the day. Even as we come today, we want to just bow for a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for the blessing of this day. We thank you that you made it possible for us to get up this morning and to start the day. God, we thank you for being so kind to us, for being so merciful to us. We don't deserve it. But over and over again you keep showing yourself faithful. So if we come today, God, to handle your word, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today, encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. So good to see each of you. And during the course of the coming weeks, we've been sharing by way of scriptures dealing with spiritual gifts. And so if you're here or you're watching by way of Facebook, go to our website. Maybe I have to do it right now, but it's comthenumbervest. org. Comthenumbertwoharvest. org. You'll find uh previous sermons. on spiritual gifts and you'll also find a spiritual gift survey. I want to encourage each of you to fill those surveys out. It will help you to understand and learn more about your gift. Thank you for last week for putting in the drop box uh what you believe your gift is and I want to let you know that Some of them seem to be on point, some of them are not on point. So uh keep trying for it's all said and done. We're gonna know. I think you already know, amen. We thank God for you even now. There's a word uh from the Lord today that comes from 1 Corinthians 12th chapter verses 8 through 10. And it reads to 1 There is given through the Spirit a message of wisdom to another a message of knowledge by means of the same Spirit to another faith. By the same spirit, to another gifts of healing by that one spirit, to another miraculous powers. to another prophecy, to another distinguishing between spirits, to another speaking in different kinds of tongues. and to still another the interpretation of tongues. So I'm going to continue by preaching from the Samonic title. Understanding Spiritual Gifts Part number three. Understanding Spiritual Gifts Part three The gift that keeps on giving. The gift that keeps on giving is a slogan That's been around since the 1920s, if not earlier. It's a snappy line that basically lets you, the consumer, know that when you buy a gift If you just give me a bouquet of roses, that's great. But it won't keep giving. The roses will die. And so when those who use this as a commercial pitch They were saying a gift that keeps on giving, like a new car, or a gift that keeps on giving. It could be you know diamonds radio camera etc but every time you see that gift you remind yourself It is a gift that continues to make me feel good. Amen. As you prepare to even give gifts in the coming months, think about it that way. A gift that keeps on giving. You know, I believe this morning that we as believers of Jesus Christ have gifts. We have spiritual gifts, at least one, and if we put it to use, it will become a gift. That will keep on giving. People will continue to be blessed by what God has put in you and what you're able to share. And that's the whole reason that God gives us these spiritual gifts, not talents, that we might be a blessing to someone else. Can I do another poll? How many persons know that they have a spiritual gift? Amen. How many are still searching? That's alright. That's good. So today we're going to unwrap some of these gifts. We can't do them all today, but we're going to unwrap some of the gifts. And they're the ones that Paul writes about to the church at Korah in a letter. And they are the gifts of wisdom, knowledge, faith Healing and miraculous power. So let's unpack them one by one. The gift of wisdom In short, spiritual wisdom is that what God gives us to apply the principles of the Word of God in one's life In other words, wisdom, and I often kid about this, uh just because your hair is gray does not make you wise necessarily But you looked apart. And when you got a great goatee, it gives you more wisdom looking. But it really is you're not talking about me, are you? What it really is, it is taking that which God has given you. and applying it and recommending the best course of action. And you learn wisdom by a way of living. I'm glad to hook up with people who have passed along in my own life things that have made sense Your parents are wise people. Why they they've lived through some things in life, they've made some mistakes, they've blown it a time of three, and now they can say here is what works best for me, but it's based on not some deep, you know, uh mystical thing, but it's based on the Word of God. That that wisdom comes from ingesting the Bible in how Helps to discern in your life what you are going through. A word of wisdom. That God may have called you to be the one who raises their hands or the one who listens and says, Can I just say One word uh in that deep type voice. Or can I add one thing? That may be your gift is to come in the midst of confusion and be that calm, discerning. voice in your family even. Proverbs 2 and 6. For the Lord gives wisdom From his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. Feeling wise yet? And then there is knowledge. To another, the methods of knowledge. And the gift of wisdom and knowledge are similar. They both relate to a special understanding and a revelation by way of God. But with knowledge you're discovering, you're digging, you're analyzing, you're student, basically, is that you're still learning With or without a degree, you can gain knowledge. There's so many ways to learn and you can take knowledge and apply it and it becomes wisdom. Amen? It means to investigate. And you know, we may have degrees, and that means you know how to study. Amen? You may be pursuing a degree. You've got to get the knowledge that is needed for the test. Now nobody here studied just to pass the test. You studied because you wanted to keep that and if I pulled out the the site, you know, one-on-one or you was all got that, you remember. Uh won't you? Am I setting you up? I'm trying to set you up. And you're not falling for it. Amen. But but knowledge can come many ways. And I often tell my wife, she says, Well you went to college. I said college don't make you smart. Amen? Now they used to call them an educated fool, but that's okay. Get some college. Because what you will learn is college, knowledge, wisdom altogether can help you. And the Bible says in Proverbs 27 The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But listen to this: fools despise wisdom and instruction. So God may have given you that special spiritual. Spiritual gift of knowledge. You are a learner. You are constantly looking for information. You're constantly providing information. And that might be your gift. Amen? But you'll honor old self. But you'll sum the culate self. Amen? In the spirit. And then comes faith. Faith is what? And the evidence of things not seen. That's what faith is, that faith is something that maybe you've not seen, but God may have given you The gift of faith. You're just one of those people that don't take much to convince that I believe God can do anything. I've seen Him do anything. You're the person in the crowd who says, Why can't this be done? Amen. Any doubters in the house? Well, let me check it out. Oh, I believe it. And you need to be around people who have faith. Not just faith in you, but faith in God. That even though they They can't see it. They just believe that God will make a way out of no way. Amen? And over time your faith will increase by way of circumstances It takes faith to believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God. It takes faith to believe that He died. It takes faith to believe that He rose again. And you know what? God is still increasing and building up my faith. I could talk a faith game, but what happens when the rubber hits the road? and you're between a rock and a hard place, do you cry? You're afraid? Or do you say, God, I'm just gonna believe you why you've been faithful before. Anybody serve a faithful God today? A God who will bring you out? A God who will bring you through is always because of your faith. You may have little faith. He says if the size Of a must see, I can work with whatever level of faith you have. Amen. He'll work with your faith. And once you see him work, your faith will increase. You may have the spiritual gift of faith. Now it'll be somebody in your crowd, I don't know, it might be your running buddies, but keep a faithful person in your group who just believes that anything could happen. Amen? And then Romans 10. 17 says, so then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. It don't just show up that you gain faith, you get this gift based on what you are able to glean from the Bible. All comes back. They are spiritual gifts. Gift of faith, knowledge, wisdom, and there is a spiritual gift of healing To another, faith by the same spirit, to another, gifts of healing by that one spirit. Now, a good number of biblical scholars Tend to agree that the gift of healing is given not to the person healed necessarily, but for the person who does the healing. Now now I know you've seen uh and you may have made fun of uh some TV programs on late at night and you wonder Yeah, they really healing people. Amen. We've seen some of the investigations where there's an earpiece in the pastor's ear And they've already investigated Sister Jane, and you already know she had a bad back. I may as well just go ahead and say that. And so that may be a, you know, that may not be true, but there is a gift of healing. That that that in this place there's someone in this building today who has been healed And it's come by way of someone with the gift of healing laying hands on you. Now that I I do believe that. I believe the Bible, that there are persons who may not advertise it. They may not go around slapping you, but they have the gift of healing. It's a spiritual gift. And there's been evidence of this. It is not just the physical, but healing emotionally. Amen. Amen. You may look perfectly fine, but on the inside there is chaos. Why? You are in need of a healing, and God will send somebody by who will speak a word of healing over your life. Now are you still with me? And do you believe that today? And if you possess that gift, there's no convincing you. But others, it may not be your gift, but it does exist. Yeah. It does exist. Acts five and fifteen. The Bible says people brought the sick into the streets And laid them on the beds and the mats, so that at least Peter's shadow might hold on some of them as he passed by. That that if you believe the Bible, you believe the record, that Peter was so closely aligned with God He was so closely aligned with ministry that he allowed God to work through him that you would walk by his shadow. And get healed. I always I could stop right there, but but I want you to get this into your system that these are spiritual gifts. And they're real and they work. And you've got one that you're possessing even here today. Healing Faith, wisdom, knowledge, and miraculous power. Now don't go in the phone booth And change up into your cape. Don't go and be a character and say, dun dun. But there are miracle powers, miraculous that God Gives to some of us as a gift. Amen. Miracles can happen supernaturally. Amen. I believe in Miracles. How many in this place today can honestly say that they have seen a miracle happen? Amen. I'm just taking a poll. How many persons have seen God? Work a miracle in your life. Amen. And God may abuse someone To use that gift in your life and see you never know. Let me just say this as a disclaimer. You can't look at somebody and say, oh, he ain't no evil She don't let you got any faith at all. It's not how you look, it's what happens on the inside. And when the Spirit of God activates that gift, God can do great and mild. I'll be feeling your gift right now. He can do great and mild. Marvelous things by way of your spiritual gift. I'll just say it again. One of my gifts is encouragement. I will encourage you until the sun go down. I'll let you know that you can make it. I'll stop you at the coffee shop. I love to encourage And God has given me the gift of encouragement. And I'm doing it right now. As you come today, I'm trying to encourage you. To find your gift, trying to encourage you, to learn your gift, trying to encourage you to use. the gift that God has given you. Luke 91 says, when Jesus had called the 12 together He gave them power and authority to drive out all demons and to cure diseases. That he still gives. That kind of spirit. Let me just ask you as I move on. How many of y'all had a grandmother Mother somebody said, Oh, when you got around them, you felt something a little different because they would speak stuff on you. And you was all hot, you know that. I told you about my my aunt, Pete Stilly. Man, she would see you and she would start shaking. What's wrong, you know? And I always tell you he she prophesied and looked him Oh somebody about to have a boy, oh they us. So I can see him. He's just moving. I was like, oh, God bless you, like I said. You got the wrong family. She's right. And the brother told me the same thing with him. Your wife can't have no more children. Uh-oh. She's all moving. So be aware. As you use your own gifts and as those around you, who use them. And I'll just say this. John 14 and 12. Verily and verily I tell you, whoever believes in me will do the works that I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I'm going to the Father. Jesus is saying, listen I've empowered you to do great things. I've put within you this spiritual chip that you can do great and miraculous things. Great knowledge and wisdom and faith and healing, and we have not grasped that in our finite mind. That we can do great things through God, if we but believe. Well the story is told of a man who was a master builder and painter. He would design houses. And he would build them and he would paint them. He was known as a great painter. So much so he didn't need a cloth at the bottom, you know, when you mess up the floor He would he was that good. And he would ridiculously go through and paint houses All by himself. But but one day at his own house he had this great idea He'd given so much to other people that kids were coming through from elementary school. They were going home from school and say, hey, come over here. They're like, okay, uh, I want you all to paint my house. They were like, really? He pulls out. uh paint brushes he pulls out the paint and he says to them go for it and the kids just start doing like kids they just start painting all over the place. And when other kids came by, they joined the group and also picked up a bucket and a brush and began to paint. And he got the joy of seeing them do something He got to see them do what he had been gifted to do, and that is to paint and to share. And his neighbor said, man, it looks like you've been at an explosion in a paint store. They were curious, but what blessed him was allowing these children to just go back and forth. They painted the sidewalk, they painted each other. It was just a mess. But he got a real joy out of that. You know. I believe that God has given us a paintbrush. A brush in which to Use it on the canvas of life. God has given you a brush To paint joy in the lives of others. He's giving you a brush that you might paint peace. You might paint faith Paint wisdom, paint knowledge, paint healing. Why is all that he might get the glory God gave us his best gift. When he gave us Jesus Christ. That was the best gift we could ever receive. It brought joy to him. To give us this gift. And we must use it most of all to paint love. One to another. Oh how I love Jesus Oh, how I love Jesus because he first loved me. And that love causes me to want to investigate it, causes me to want to use the gift that he has given me. I'll close today with a story I heard told thirdhand By Miles Munro. It was duplicated by Les Brown. He tells the story, I'll shared it before in this building, about the man who had lived his life seemingly well. And he gets to a place where he's about to cross over. God is about to call him home. And Munro paints the picture. There is this man breathing his last breath or two, and in his mind's eye, he sees all of his gifts showing up. All of his tell us saying it's not fair that we've got to die with you. That you never developed me, that you never used me, that you never activated me, and so therefore, that gift of Healing has to die with you. And that gift of faith has to go with you. And that gift of knowledge has to go with you. And that gift of wisdom has to go with you. It's not fair That you did not use us. Let that not be our story. That we said on our gifts. That we've been so selfish. Oh, it's all about me. Somebody is waiting. God has placed somebody in your Community that needs to know that you've got the gift that will help them. There's so many great movie scripts in the graveyard. So many books and ideas and businesses all in the graveyard. Understand your gift and use it. That is the word of God today. It's already this. Come on, stand today, all over this place. God Has given you. Can't say that enough. He's given you so much. Man is up to you to to use it, to discover it. I want to know what what's my gift. Once I know it, I can work in it. I don't want to be. Like that man saying, Shame. We gotta die with you. Gotta go with you. can come just as you are. He'll use you and develop you. He's calling right now. Come just as you are. Let him develop you today. Come receive. Come receive. That's what God is saying to you. Let me use you to my glory. Everybody's got at least one that's embedded inside of you. Life everlasting. Oh, yeah. And just right. You know, Paul wrote that letter to the church because they've been disputing about who had a gift, who didn't have one, my gift's better than yours. I can use it like I want to. He cleared the confusion of it. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. One gift, same spirit. But understand it and use it today. Let me say this. Once you find out what that is. You say, oh. That's it. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you are a giver. You loved us so much. that you gave us Jesus. He came as a babe, wrapped in swapping clothes and lying in a manger. He didn't stay there. He was the 12-year-old scholar. At 33 he preached and taught and even predicted his own death. He also predicted that he would not lie in the grave long, but that he might get up and all power in his hands. And your word says, if we believe that you sent Jesus, if we believe that he died, if we but believe that he rose again, the Bible says we shall be saved. And what is that? Saved from damnation, saved from the penalty of sin. Today, if there's one in this house that knows not you, may they confess you today. Preachers don't have the power to save anybody. Only you can. And at the moment you save them and they accept you, they'll realize that I've got a gift to be used. Save someone today, God, and encourage another. But most of all, get the glory out of their lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. As we go a step further, you may come today, you may have come and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. The doors are always open. But as you leave today, stop by the resource table and know. Be little pieces of paper. And put down what you think your gift is. Don't put your name on it. I read them so okay, all right, okay, okay, all right. And I'm praying for the hands that touched the paper that wrote the gift. And be sure to go online today on our site, download that survey, and print it, and write it out. You say, Hey, I knew it, I thought so. Your soul, and you'll know your gift. It'll bring a smile to your face. Amen. Come on, give God the praise today. I want to thank you for tuning into our broadcast We will harvest Christian ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To find out more about our ministry, simply go to our website. It is www. com, the number two harvest. Again, that's www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a blessed day in the Lord.