I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen, whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Father, we thank you. There's some so-called friends. We have some fake friends and some wannabe friends. But we thank you that there's no friend like you. As we come today, God, to declare your word, your truth, we thank you for your Holy Spirit. It is our prayer today that you might have your way in this place That we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage and empower another And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may take your seats today all over this place. You and this persons are coming in. We serve a great God. He's a great friend. The Bible says he's a friend to the friendless. So glad to be before you today. How many know God is good? And that he's worthy to be praised. There's a word in the Gospel of John, and again, gospel just means good news. John is just a writer. But there in the 25th verse of John 14, he says, All this I have spoken while still with you. But the counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I have said to you. Verse 27 says, peace I leave with you. My peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid. Amen? This morning I wanted to actually conclude our series. on under the influence. We started out a few Sundays ago talking about the power of the Holy Spirit and getting more familiar with the Holy Spirit and we know that the Holy Spirit is a person, not an yet. He has emotions. He is one who leads and guides. He's one who empowers our life And it's great to know that in this vessel, this body, the Holy Spirit would choose to hang out. And so we talk about the early church and how they on that day of Pentecost received the Holy Spirit. As a result, they did something. They went out and taught the word. They went out and they healed. They went out and connected. Let me just ask you a question. Do you have the Holy Spirit today residing in your heart? That's a yes answer, I hope. Amen. Do you ever sense his moving in your life? You ever sense he leading you and empowering you and convicting you? That's the Holy Spirit. He does all of that You never have the sense of being pulled up and you say, well, I don't feel right. Well that's the Holy Spirit convicting you. But we got to walk really and to learn more about uh the power of the Holy Spirit and you receive the Holy Spirit of God. Once you accept Christ as your personal Savior. Once you confess He's Lord, the Bible says, at that time you're filled with the Holy Spirit. I want to just try to paint this for you. Isn't it amazing to think that you're just a body? but that the power of God dwells in you. So if you thought you were a weakling or you didn't think you were anybody, I want to let you know that you are power field And the Spirit of God lives in you. That was an exciting moment right there. You ought to say, thank you, Lord. Amen. You don't seem too glad about that. Let me just back that up. Let me back it up for a minute Do you know that because you've accepted Christ that the power of God resides in you? That if I give an x-ray for you right now, I see something moving, it's the power of the Holy Ghost? Or are you still not excited yet? Let me let me let me I'm saying that as you walk around, as you live and breathe and have your being, that living in you is the Holy Spirit. The power of God resides in you. Talk about how the Holy Spirit is a part of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son. God the Holy Spirit. And today we conclude these series of messages by going a bit further in the Gospel of John, the 14th chapter, and it's in that 14th chapter that we talk about Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. It's a farewell message So Jesus is preparing to leave. He knows what's ahead. He knows he'll be betrayed He knows he'll be falsely accused. He knows that he'll be beaten. He knows he'll be stripped. He knows there'll be a crown of thorns on his head. He knows he will be pierced in the side He knows he'll be put in the borrowed tomb. He knows that on the third day morning he will rise again. But there are those who are with him who are not really feeling that, even though they've heard the message It's not the kind of farewell speech they want to hear. You ever given a farewell speech before? That you have to leave and go say, I'm so glad, I'm glad uh that I'm moving, but I'm gonna miss you all. Uh you know, uh it's my retirement party or it's my uh new job or my new position or I'm going to college. And you gave a little farewell speech And somebody might have cried, somebody might have clapped. Well, Jesus was saying, it's it. I'm making transition. And so don't be troubled. Trust in me. That no matter what you're going through and what's ahead for you, I want you to trust me. Now you can't trust everybody, right? Oh, I know some folk you can't trust. And there were days that you were not very trustworthy, but he's saying, believe me, I know it's hard for you, but I'm making transition. I've got to go. And then he goes a little bit further and says, but listen, that's not just it. I will ask the father, my daddy And he will give you another counselor to be with you forever That's a tall order, isn't it? Even though I'm leaving, as a part of my farewell speech, I won't leave you comfortless, but I'm gonna ask my daddy And he's going to make sure that he gives you another counselor, and counselor in the Greek is the word paraclete, another advocate, another person to come alongside you and to help you out. Everybody said to you, I got a roll, but I'm gonna make sure everything's in place. As I'm leaving, that everything you need, uh you just there's a certain code you got to know, but you'll get it all And he's saying to them, even though I'm making transition, you won't be by yourself. You ever been lonely before? It was like you didn't have a friend in the world and didn't feel like anybody was on your side Think about for three years all they knew was hanging out with Jesus. Three years, they were watching him do miracles. For three years Uh they watched him do all of this and then they get the word that you know I told you but I'm really leaving Maybe I've had nobody to leave and make transitions. So I gotta go. It's time to pack up. I need to leave. But you won't be by yourself because the Holy Spirit will be with you. I want you to get excited about that. Y'all got a serious look this morning, man. I tell you what, I I that's why I'm pacing. The house is all serious today. Everybody got the Y'all looking like come on with it, Reverend. I'm saying unless you give me a smile, I'm gonna stay on point one. I'm not going anywhere. If you don't give me an amen or like uh-huh or not or something, I'm I'm gonna stay, I figure they don't have it. They didn't understand what I'm saying, and so therefore I'll just back up. Can I go forward? Amen. Praise the Lord. And so What happens is he makes transition. He says, I've got to go, but you won't be by yourself. Isn't it great to have a counselor? Somewhere you can go to and say, I don't know what quite what I'm doing, but because you're the counselor, I know you'll give me good advice. Amen. How many folks remember the old guidance counselor at school Oh yeah. What do you want to be in the group? I don't know a football player. All kind of crazy stuff. But now counseling is important because students come to school with so many issues And the council is trained to do what? To help and to assist. Amen. In light of that In view of that, what is it that the Holy Spirit, what does he represent? He represents a teacher. Any educators in the house this morning? Raised, oh, we got a house full of teachers, educators, assistants. And you know what it means To assist young people. So really what it comes down to is that the first point is that the Holy Spirit is a reliable resource. Amen. The Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, like I just told you in verse 16, will teach you all things. Isn't that great? I see Miss Francis S. Green, my first grade teacher, teaching me some very basic things as I started school. It was to prepare me for second grade, because there was Mr. Eppie Elliott, and she didn't play. It's great to have A resource, someone who can help you and to guide you along life's journey. Now, maybe you know it all. I don't. And because of that, I'm glad that the Holy Spirit comes up and shows up as a personal tutor. I need some extra assistance in my life. I need to be able to understand what I'm going through. I need to be able to make sense of this. And therefore, I've got just not any resource but a reliable resource in the person of the Holy Spirit and one who will teach me Everything that I need to know because what happened is they had been with Christ for so long, they heard, they'd seen him with, but he knew that It was time for a test that everything I have shared with you, it will be taught to you. It'll come back to your remembrance You ever forgotten anything, ever taken a test, and you got to the test and you realize, oh God, I studied, but I'm having a blank moment and I'm not quite sure what it is. In life, sometimes you'll get those moments But this resource, I want you to see the Holy Spirit as a teacher this morning, as one who will help you to interpret life and the Word of God. The Bible, you say I don't understand this. Holy Spirit, you might teach it. Help me to understand what John 3:16 really means for God So loved the world that he sent his only begotten. Now help me to understand the Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. I don't understand that. He said, I'll teach you on what this all means And as you open your Bible and say that's a difficult passage, he will do what? He'll be a resource just for you. Has he been that for you in your own life? You've looked everywhere. And for everyone to break something down for you and all the time the resource you needed is already inside of you I want a college student. Holl out, shout out for that. You ever sat down and tell you, you know what? I don't know if I got this. But I'm asking the Holy Spirit to bring back to my remembrance my late-night study Anybody in school, let me y'all y'all still looking serious. Let me hear this. Anybody in school taking a class? Raise your hand. You take a class, amen. Hallelujah. And you ever get sometimes you kind of bring it back If you put it in, the Holy Ghost will do what? He'll bring it back. And when you begin to take in his word and passages of scripture, he will bring it back to your remembrance. He is a reliable resource just for you. Isn't that good news today? Amen. Praise the Lord. Let me just make sure it's good news. If it's good news, give God a praise My God, I'm I'm still scouting y'all out. You ain't got to shout, but man, you are a serious bunch today in the name of Jesus. I've never seen you so serious I'm wondering, is it getting over or are you just deep today? Okay, you just okay, you deep today. He'll be a reliable resource and also a respected reference. Amen. Will teach you all things and will remind you of everything I've said to you. In your senior moment, there were no recorders back then, they couldn't put it and write it down per se, but somebody was documenting, and that's what John did. John said, I'm writing this down And a reference means I can go to a credible source. When I did my doctorate, it had to be a mount of references, a bibliography. That's that big word. I had about sixty-one of those. And it wasn't just anybody, but what does someone say about the subject that's true or that's credible? In this case, the Holy Spirit is so respected that he'll remind you of everything I've said to you. Jesus was that confident. That you might have a moment where you'll forget, but the Holy Spirit have you ever done it for you? I mean drops yourself. He said, Oh man, I sounded pretty smart He just dropped some stuff on you, you were what somebody was going through, can you pray for me? Oh man, thank you, Lord. And you gave them a word of encouragement at that moment, and you like, wow, that was all right. But it wasn't really you, it was the Holy Spirit. Uh pulling back out of you that Sunday school lesson, what you had in you, and said, Here we go. It's not mine, but man, this might help you out. Amen He is a reference that is respected. I'm glad about that today that to have not just uh here's what somebody thought they said and and I heard a picture say a long time ago and I heard no The documentation is in the word. And when you read your Bible, you realize that one passage will lead you to another passage. And then it's okay to go to the concordance in the back of the Bible. I'm going through fear. Let me go back and see what it says about fear. Fear thou not, for I'm with thee. Be not dismayed by my God, okay. God's not giving me the spirit of fear, but love, power, and sound mind. You know, okay. And you begin to say there's a reference here I can go and find it. I can tell you where it is. But you know what? The Holy Spirit is a reference that you need. How many folk want the reference there? How many folks say, you know what? I got someplace I can go And I can get the truth. Everybody who is sharing may sometimes twist a little bit. I always try to make sure what I give you is not just the word of Tim, but the word of the Lord. And so when you go to him and say, I need some help explaining life, He's a reference. Everything that I've said. I'll remind you why? Because you'll forget. Ever wrote something down on the back of an envelope? I'm just testifying. And say, okay, here my five things to do. And then I lose the envelope. And I'm thinking, what exit was that? And see we cheat now, we got the phone. Siri, tell me where to go now. And so we don't use a map, but to know that he'll remind you of everything you've taken in. We live in a busy world. We're in the generation now that you are the texting generation And so you your attention span is about five seconds. So let me get my five seconds there. Praise the Lord. Amen. Hallelujah. Thank you, Jesus. And so that's what He does. Respect the reference, but final A There is a reason to relax. How can I relax when you're leaving? How can I get through? How can I make it in light of my circumstance? He says in verse 27, peace I leave with you. My peace I give you. Uh-huh. I do not give you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and don't be afraid. That keeps coming up. He must have sensed that the heart was troubled. He has sensed when you were troubled. And so John keeps saying it over again. I'm going to say it in the 16th, but I'm going to say it again. Let not your heart be troubled. I'm sending the counselor, and as a result, in the midst of what you're going through, you will find peace. Not as the world did. The world say, I got you. Take two and call me in the morning. I got this, just go online and You got it, but no, the peace that God gives is a unique kind of peace. Amen. He will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is stayed on Him. And in the midst of their troubled minds, in the midst of what they were going through, say, you know what? I'm telling you that the counselor is coming, but you'll also sense my peace You shouldn't be pulling your hair out. You shouldn't be going crazy. You shouldn't be, I can't make it, but there's something about his peace His peace comes through like a river. Amen. Have you ever experienced his peace? I mean, right now. You say, you know what? I got something on my mind for Monday. That I gotta deal with. Let me just breathe right now and say, Don't you know he's got some peace for you? Have you asked him for his peace in the midst? There's a reason to just say, you know what? I can't change it. I'm afraid about it. I'm going to relax in this. And the Holy Spirit has me. Amen. What good does staying up all night long do you really No good at all. He is the one who takes care and gives you a reason to relax because of his peace. I love that hymn. When peace like a river attendeth my way, when sorrows like sea billows roll, whatever my lot, whatever my challenge Whatever my issue, thou hast taught me to say, it's well with my soul. Can you say that today it is well with my soul? It is. It it's so well. I'm gonna make it I'm gonna be alright with my soul. And that gives me a reason to celebrate because I know it's well And the Spirit is with me. I can celebrate my new attitude in Him and my daily blessings he gives me and my hope for my tomorrow. His joy that keeps me jumping. You see me jumping? I got his joy. His love, which is unconditional. His mercy I don't deserve. And my knowing that he'll never leave me. And never forsake me. And I keep pressing toward that path he's lit out for me. I'm pressing on. The upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day. Still praying as our own. Go. Lord, plant my feet on solid ground. Don't you want them to plant your feet at the place that no matter what you're facing, I know you've got me You've sent me a reliable resource. You've sent me someone who will take care of me. And that path leads to Calvary because Calvary is where it all took place. That's when you went and you died just for me on that cross and you rose again on the third day morning. That gives me some peace. I don't know about you, but I can live and I can face my tomorrow because I know he's with me always. Is he with you today? Do you sense that you know what It's not just something to talk about, but I feel his spirit today. I'm guided by his spirit. His spirit keeps me, and it teaches me all that I need to know I feel the spirit of God in this place right now. And you know what? And your spirit connect with my spirit, something will happen in the name of Jesus. I'm not hopeless. I've got my hope in Christ Jesus. I'm thankful to have the Spirit of God. You see, when I get the Spirit of God, I'm not quiet. I just get excited. I'm excited. Why? Because I know I'm filled with His Spirit. What about you today? Do you sense his spirit is keeping you and teaching you and holding you and loving you and guiding you and letting you know that no matter what you're going through, I'm with you always And do you embrace that today? I mean really, can we just really talk? Life is tough and hills are hard to climb and You say, I don't know, I'll just go to church just because of the thing to do. Don't you know in the midnight hour, he'll drop something on you and say, you know what? You can beat this. And you can make this. And you can be determined today in him. It's all because I'm under. The influence of the Holy Spirit and the power of God. I feel that thing today that you know what? It's his spirit That keeps me. I'm not that smart, but the Spirit brings back to my remembrance all those things I need to make it A long life's journey. It can be a little rough, but you know what? I dare you to activate that spirit. I dare you to switch over the Holy Spirit. You know what? You got me. No matter what I'm facing, his spirit is. With me and in me. It's like close. I don't want you to leave out and say, you know what, that was a Okay, Siries, but you know, part four was the day, but no, I want you to stand the day. All over this place. And I want you to say, you know what? I feel and I invite the Spirit of God to come into my life. That if I put you on the MRI, they would say, oh, back that up. There's something unusual about this patient. I set the Holy Spirit moving in their life. If you'll get anything from this series of sermons, I want to remind you the Spirit of God lives in you. In such a powerful way that you've been granted such a powerful presence by way of the Spirit. I said earlier everybody don't get excited like me with the spirit. You know what, Reverend, you jump. I just chill. Or I may shed a tear. But today, I want you to ask the Lord for a filling of his Holy Spirit today. Not because I've said so, but today even now I say Lord, fill me with your spirit, with your Holy Spirit I need a feeling today, God. With all that I'm going through, I need for you to top me off. Feel me. Fill me with your spirit. Thank you, Lord, for these times of sharing. Thank you that we're more sensitive now to who's living inside of us and who we are being influenced by. May we carry that spirit with us everywhere we go. In the classroom, in the boardroom, on the bus Wherever we go, that we might know that we're never alone, that your presence is there. Father, I come even now in the name of Jesus. If there's one today Who knows you not? If they don't know you as their personal savior, the spirit does not dwell. In them. That sounds controversial, Reverend. The Bible says, at the point of your receiving Him, then you are still with the Spirit. As you open your hearts today Maybe you've never asked the Lord to come in and to be your Savior. But the Bible promises that at that moment that you confess And you confess, and you believe, that you'll be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. That teacher, that advocate, that counselor, that helper, thank you, Lord. If that person is here today, fill them with your spirit. I thank you. While those heads remain bowed if you're here today, if you know that you've never given your life to Jesus, you Live a life, but it's not a spirit-filled life. Why? Because you don't know the Savior. Today, fill them, Lord. That person who might be here. While those heads are bowed today, raise your hand if you're not sure if the Spirit of God lives in you. Today he can live in your life today. You can have that power, that reliable resource, that respected reference. I can't do it for you. But you can accept him right now into your life. Nothing to be ashamed about. The shame is leave here like you know what? I don't want it now. I'll get it later. Today is the day of salvation. You can receive him today into your heart. I'm so serious about this that I want you to get it Forget nothing else. That I can have the power of God in me. Yes, you can. If you're not sure today, while those heads above, I want to pray with you right where you are today. If you're not sure, if you're not sure, if you're not sure, if you're not sure. If you're not sure, no doubt. No doubt today. Invitation's been given. I trust you've received it into your heart today. My assignment is complete. Lord, I told them about it. I tried to present it The best of my ability. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Thank you. Amen. Amen. We have one who come today. I pray you were helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come toharvest. org. That's Come To Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.