Look, it is to observe. Amen. And then when you say me, uh you bring the attention to yourself. Watch me. You're inviting people to to check you out. You're inviting folk to say, hey, over here But I believe that a life that is committed to God is a life that is worth watching. You know, in the very first book of Daniel, we see unfolding what I think is almost modern type headlines. that there in Jerusalem, King Nebuchadnezzar from Babylon goes in and takes over the place. It it's breaking news, it's headline news, and he goes and he against their will take the people captive. They were mind their own business. And somebody who's stronger comes in and pretty much moved them out of their surroundings. That's something our modern minds can't relate to that you are comfortable where you are. But to think that someone will force you out of your house. Force you from your land. The people experienced this. And there was a plan by the way of King Nebuchadnezzar He wanted to go after the young folk. He looked at those who were honorable students. He looked for the gifted and talented students. He was all about getting those who were smart and who had potential. And today there's still a King Nebuchadnezzar, even now, who is yet Doing the very same thing. The name might be different, but there is an attempt to rob us of our young people. Can I get an amen up and give? Again. It's not King Nebuchadnezzar, but it's that kind of spirit. Don't want folks who will not do anything. Don't want those who are just barely making it. He was looking for the cream of the cross. He wanted the best that could be offered. And so during that time there's this seventeen-year-old boy named Daniel. Daniel and his three friends. of those who catch the eye of King Nebuchadnezzar. He really liked them. He knew they were smart young men. And so he makes a proposition by way of his aid and say, I want to make sure that these For eat from the king's table. I want them to get not just a number one, but give them the fine food and give them the wine from my table. But then Daniel had the audacity to say, wait a minute, why don't we try this? Why don't we eat our food? We don't want a number four. I'm not gonna call no company. I'm not trying to get sued. We don't want the combo. But we're looking to eat vegetables and to eat Those grains that come along with it and give us water. And I guarantee you, after ten days, after a week and something, Watch us. After we have gone through our own plan, watch us. Amen. How many folk will be willing to say, follow me around for 10 days And watch me. Oh my God, someone said, don't follow me one day. No what you might catch. You might catch the Sunday meeting. Or the Friday or the Friday the Friday night meeting. I don't know why I have a witness. Don't got too serious in here. But ten days. And so he makes the challenge as they have been taken captive into Babylon. There's some things that we must commit to do before we are so bold to say, watch me. First thing we've got to do is to change our diet. Change our diets. Some people say, well yes, right. Eat right. I'd rather not call the diet. The first call says, please test your service for ten days. Give us nothing but vegetables to eat and water to drink. Now vegetable again includes grains. And this was very much a Jewish meal plan. Water. Some scholars believe that can you believe they offered 70 mil wine? Say we don't want that, just give us water. Water will purify us. And so they were willing to make that proposition to allow us to change Our diet. I'm going to suggest that this goes beyond just the physical. When I said diet was old, I was on one. But I'm still working on it. They give a name to them and I'm I'm going to start next week. I'm going to start Mondays. But it's not just what we eat in the physical, but it's what we take in to our bodies What we are taking into our our minds. Amen. We've got to feed our spirit with the word of God. Garbage in, garbage out. Amen? And so the thing that you take in. The thing that you feast on uh will at some point become you. Does that make sense in the moment? That you may not be on vegetables in water, but for what are you taking in all the TV? I know I'm going down that road. I'm not trying to be oriented now. You may watch your programming But what do you take in to the extent that it becomes a part of who you are? What do you listen to? That becomes a part of who you are, a revolutionary thinker. Amen. I may miss James Brown. Or maybe it's another group. But what do you take in and how do you process what comes into you? What is your doubt? What do you feed on when times get rough? What do you feed on when the hills are hard to climb? What do you turn to? It the social media uh folk are like you just because they like you. That'll make you feel good. Well what do you take in? And so Daniel uh has said that this whole sense of changing our diet will make a difference. Yeah, yeah. Ever tried something too much and before you knew it you were speaking the language of the world? I'm trying to leave this point, but let's keep messing with me, someone mess with you. There's some things in your own life right now that you didn't do much of. Amen. I don't know you ain't nobody, but there's there's some things you've taken in that you've been so being too much of it and it's changing who you are. You used to be a good boy But now you were changing. You were the model young lady in the community, but based on what you're eating, you were the parent that led, but all of a sudden your diet has changed. How many of them change their diet today? You got you got too much food stuff. I said I said, Yeah, I I can do without bread. Don't put no cake in front of me. I'm not just y'all got so cool. Uh but this is baby, I need to bang off. Don't buy a whole dozen of donuts Yes, one or two. But anyway, Romans 12 and 2 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, and you might present your body. As a living sacrifice holy unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not in the form of this world. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. They were determined to change their diet and to stick with what they do. Amen? But not just changing your diet, you also have to curb our appetite. Verse 13 says, then compare our appearance, Daniel was talking, with that of the young man who eat the royal food. The number five. And see your service this way, and so you'll see a difference. So he agreed and tested them for ten days. Long time ago. Ten days to do right. Ten days to live holy. Ten days not to lay nobody out. Ten days to come and do the best you can where you are. Ten days Ten ten days ten days, ten I've been a long time, but they challenge them, but to curve is an old Term that means a device to control the unruly horse. That they'll get that horse right. We've got to curb our appetite. Those things that we desire, those things that get our attention, that you gotta change what you long for. I'm telling you some deep areas. It's not dead food. But curry beyond time. Yeah, yeah. And and I'm gonna imagine that over this time that somebody probably said to them, hey Why don't y'all go ahead and just try this man? You ain't gotta go ten days. You know, y'all will do all of it. But the enemy will do that. He will try to get you to thought the plan of God and to try Something different, he will tip you. Yes. The very time he decides I'm gonna be right. Because I love the result of what I'm gonna look like, but there's always somebody or something getting in your way, trying to discourage you and and say, Oh, you don't have to do all that and you know, the uh you know, you do it better than what you were doing and The devil made you do it and you know you don't have to worry about what they say, but you have to put it in your own mind that I won't curb my appetite that somehow I gotta put that. What what's that thing in your life that you're just getting too much of? I don't want to pray a church today. There's a thing that you're getting too much of. You've got to curb it. And I love the discipline of a 17-year-old. Name Daniel. Comparance. I challenge you. Me and my guys got it. I was kind of bold with them. And I was saying try five. You know, he said, good things. And I guarantee you, we will look so much better. You may have the worst because they know there's a difference in their life. That's right. Since Jesus comes in, our lives are changed. Psalm 34 and 8 says, oh taste and see that the Lord is good. Amen? Yeah, the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusted. You know, on yesterday me and the wife were at a grocery store and you know you go to these stores and have a little stuff like a sample. Somehow I got a whole meal out of that day. Well, she was sampling the bread So I get these like solstices where she was like, Oh well you think A and B I don't know I'll I'll look for the yogurt section. And my favorite yoga was that so I know it's my favorite. I know it's gonna be me. So I taste my yoga. So it's got it But the eight, cut a new yoke, a stone. Didn't taste bad. But I live out of there buying no your. But the world will give you a taste test. Come on, just try a little bit of this. It won't hurt you. You'll be better. Some of y'all know what a change test is. Try to do that. And so the world is always trying to get you to change your taste buds to where you'll become connected to the world, it will change who you are. But finally. We have to consider the results. At the end of ten days, they look healthier, Daniel, in his voice. And they were better nourished than any of the young men who ate the royal food. Once mate? I told you so. We look healthier We got more uh better loop on us than the guys that we're eating and the person we're eating from the world. We look a bit different. Don't you know the world will change your countenance? Yes. You look different meaning good or or do I look bad? And they'll say, you know, you look so bad. What you been doing? Do it so much better? The glasses? You change your hat? No. I believe the word. And once you start to consume the word of God and start living it out for you, say, you know, your shoulder's good. What you do? Nothing except feast on the word of God. And so much so that when they came before uh the attendant, he couldn't believe it. That's right. And then they came before the king, he was like, wow You know, as a result of what I'm seeing, uh I'm gonna make sure that we give you the best of learning. And by way of what God had planned for them, there was more knowledge. And more understanding. And more literature. And more learning. And more A B courses. Come on, now you're going to say amen. Some of y'all didn't have it back then. But he said, because of what I think God has something in store for you when you take in the right thing and say, watch me. You invite the book and say, watch me. And book and tell also when you're not doing too well. That's right. But your mama would just look at you and tell where you've been and what you've been doing and what you've been watching. And once we get more season, we'll see the same thing. And our friends, your accountability part, said bruh What is it? Oh, not much sleep, but encourage them in the Lord to get more into the world. Amen. The Bible says in John fourteen and two, that God promised that in my father's house there are many mansions. We're not so I'm not told you I'm going to bring a place for you where I am. But God has great things in store for us. We're just obedient to him. So the world now is watching you. You invited them to say, check me out. With me. Name they. They still not know exactly what it is. But people May not believe it, but Jesus has transformed your life. Amen. Folk who may not come to church will see something in you. Folk who may not have a Bible will see something about you that would encourage them, they'll be watching you. Why? Because you carry the Bible. They'll watch you because You're always talking about Jesus. They'll want you because you've got that tall branch around you. They'll want you because you're character. Praise the Lord. They'll want you because you're always giving God the praise. But what are they watching? What you will they get for that day? You want them to see the love of Jesus Christ in you. You want them to see the joy That's unspeakable in you. They should see the kindness that comes from the belief. What's me? Can you see a kind person? They'll see your faithfulness. They'll see your gentleness. They'll see your self-control, they'll see in you the fruits of the Spirit. Why are folks looking at me like that? Because they see something you while you gave me the eye. Because you're living right. While they staring me down, as I've been spending time with Jesus. That's why I'm always a bit mad at you. There's just something in you. Allow the Spirit of God to work in you. But this person about self-control is kind of tough when you look at praise the Lord. Amen. But when it comes to Jesus, I tend to lose Control. I still think about how he got me up this morning. Watch me. I've got thinking about how he started me on my way, just watch me. I think about how he's laid away out of nowhere. Watch me. I think about how he's done it in my family room. And watch me. I think about what he's done in my life. Anybody know that God is watching you? How many folks don't be bite and must say, you know what? I'm not always gonna flip these watch me. I may stumble every now and then watch this, because I'm trying to live right. Blessed assurance Jesus says, thy law, one of foretastes of Lord and I. And of salvation, purchase of God. Born of experience It's my story. Praising my Savior all the day long. And that's what this means say. You walk me long enough, I might stop giving happiness. You walk me alone enough, I might give God some praise. You walk me alone enough, I might praise. I might take my leg for Jesus. You watch me low enough, I might say, Lord, I'm trying to press off. What? Me. What you've been eating lately. What you've been getting covered up is both lately. What is it you just got to have? In the midnight hour. Maybe ice cream. Maybe not. Curb your appetite. Ah. And then see. The results. Look at me, I'm not feeling bad, but it's for God In me. Isn't that good news today? Come on, fellows today. Lord, I want you to put me on the right track. Young people. Y'all look good. Some of us are going to a high school reunion and call them no names, it might be me. Man, you look you look good. But when folk get away and say, you know what? They they kind of age. And we own you. But if you keep Christ in your life, it's not just the physical. They'll see the The love of Christ is shining in your life. How many today are willing to say watch this? He's waiting and he's watching for that lost soul to step out of the crowd. So you know what? I got a bad meal plan. Some of y'all in college with those meal plans? All of them pay it for and they didn't give you much anything to eat. Meal plan. What are you taking in today? All to Jesus. Sra Now all to the unto Just one person he will save you in the He will stay. Any witness of the day? As he saved your soul, will stay. He will stay just for the three seconds. Daniel helped us. And it was an accident Somebody has been putting that stuff in there. Daniel, mind the crowd you hang with. Daniel, respect your elders. Daniel, we're going to Sunday school. Come on. Daniel? Come on to church. Daniel. Turn that left off. Daniel? Clean your room. Daniel? And so when Daniel came forward. He seems to things. And you got a Daniel in your house. And a Daniel. And maybe you're the Daniel. But God's calling all of us to make the right choice. He never can never may be gone, but his spirit is still here. That that rascal, that invading. Take him captive. Come on, who rascal is still alive today. Like a glory alive? Single we love to bow. Let's bow today over this place. Father, we thank you for the example in the word. Group of teenage boys. It is buddies. Who did the right thing I pray today, God, that we'll do the right thing for those of us who've never accepted you as our personal Savior, Jesus the Christ. I pray for now that we want to make the right choice. We don't need ten days to decide to give you our hearts. We can do it right now. Touch my heart today, God. May your peace come in. May they open their mouths to you and confess that I'm a sinner. And I need Jesus Christ in my life. And you'll come in and suffer them. Make that light new we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen? Come on, give God a praise to them. Make you something fellowship. I'm not gonna do altar, but I I want to pray for the young folk right where they are. In fact Some of them objects. Trying to get them on Facebook, but some of them didn't get me back to the outside of the food. But they can't today. I think that's something to be Thank you for the God for you. Even right now. If you just raise your hand to say I want I want to connect