Good day, my dear friend. This is Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. And I want to welcome you to our broadcast We pray that you'll be blessed by the word today. Let's join the service already in progress. Father, we do come Your word says you're light of the world. Let your light so shine before Men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven. As we come today, God, we decrease and you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll be so careful to give your name all the praise. In all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. How many folks are glad today to have the light? We can know he who is the light. There's a word from the Lord today from the Gospel of Matthew. The first chapter may read slightly different, but means the same thing. There in the 18th verse it says, this is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, came about. His mother, Mary, was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son. And you ought to give him the name Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son and gave him the name Jesus. for Jesus part two waiting for Jesus part two let's go back down to Nazareth That's the scene of the miracle. That's the scene of much confusion. That's the scene of all the shock. Gabriel shows up, confronts Mary, a young, poor girl, and says to her, guess what? You've been chosen to bear the Christ child. Uh that's some pretty heavy news. It shook her world. It changed our world. I believe just what the Bible says. Mary received this word from God, even though she did it and waited in fear. The Bible says she was afraid. Couldn't you imagine getting that type of news? Let alone an angel bringing it to you, but she had to deal with that news. And so she waited, afraid and fearful. She waited in faith because she believed the message came from God. And so she had to believe, God, if you said it, I've got to go with it. How many of us are willing to do that? So often we want to hold on, don't we? Even though God has said one thing, we stay on what we know, on what's worked over the years. what your intuition told you, but Mary said, I'll do what you've asked me to do She waited knowing that there would be a future, that something beyond Nazareth would happen, that miracles would continue to take place. But let's go back down to Nazareth again, because by now, uh, guess what? The word has gotten around, and her fiance, Joseph, has gotten win of the news. Drama. I'm talking to the guys a little bit today and including the women. and those who are here. But let's just bring it in modern times. He got the rain They got the venue, they got the pasta, they got everything. Got the tucks, and he gets word, maybe from her, that I'm expecting. I I I could see the brothers already. I I saw one brother deal like this. And My daddy is the Holy Spirit. Say what? Joseph received that word, but he was confused. Joseph was pretty sure that there was no other man. He was pretty sure that was His lady and yet news will come your way. Joseph Maybe comes up with a plan B. Kind of kind of what should I what should I do? And that's real. By now the word has already gotten out. It's on the gossip line in Nazareth. Uh Nazareth Network News just broke in. To give details. It's the headlines in the Nazareth Post that Mary is pregnant and Joseph is not the daddy. Well y'all watch enough TV, y'all. You you that that that that's the part that's like in your soaps. And you start calling names like, uh uh talking back to the TV. Well well I mean today Amen. So so let let's go down to Nazareth and let's check in with Brother Joseph. Inquiring minds want to know how is Joseph going to respond to this news? How will you respond to news that blows your mind? And so he shows us. How to wait, and he helps us today. Amen. First of all, he waits as a righteous man. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her To public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce to divorce her. Divorce her. No, it didn't come out right, did it? Divorce her quietly. In other words, uh to cut it off. But he was a a righteous man An unrighteous man would have said, now, uh, don't get the camera. I'm going on with this. But but a righteous person is someone who respects God is someone who follows God. Righteousness is something that we get by way of our relationship with God. And so because he's who he is, he goes a different route. Instead of putting it out, instead of putting Mary on blast, he has in his mind that let's just do this quietly. I I I don't want the harm to come to you. By law, if it found out that there was somebody else, you could be stoned publicly. But but I'm a righteous guy I want to do what's right. How many folks are just glad that there's still righteousness in the land? Amen. I mean with all that's going on that that God still holds each of us to a certain standard. There are just some things that are just not acceptable if you are really, and I'm really Children of the king. Men, we should desire to be like a Joseph. Yeah, I'm talking kind of to the men. The brothers. Don't y'all look at them like that. We we have a Joseph spirit. That we want to do what's right as God has led us. Amen? The Bible says, blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, and that you have to have a certain standard. Amen. I mean that that's some good brothers left in the Lord. Amen. Amen. There's some good brothers who out there who really uh have a fear of God and who want to serve God. in the right way. So in this case, Joseph can wait as someone who is righteous. He was concerned about her character. He was concerned about how it would look. Are people like that anymore? That I really care about you enough to where I could just kind of keep this under wraps. No, not much anymore, but thank God for the example of Joseph. Righteous. But also he was receptive. But after he had considered this, that is to just do this On the down low, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, uh son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived is from the Holy Spirit. Same message that that that Mary got. She will give birth to a son and you ought to give him the name Jesus because he will save the people from their sin. It's a consistent message. That the message that the angel gave Mary came from God, and the message that the angel gave Joseph came from God. And let me just say something. That's a sense about having a consistency in the message. Amen? That God calls us to be the priest of the home. And my God, you ought to hear the message. And as you consult with your can I do a marriage seminar too? With your wife or back, you ought to be able to sit down. Let's hear what we've heard the same thing. Amen. And so they were getting the same message, and this took place to fulfill what the prophets had already said. The virgin will conceive, give birth to a son, call his name Emmanuel, which means God is with us. He received that. He was receptive. And let's be honest. That once the brother got the news. He had to take a nap. I mean, you know, some stuff you gotta just sleep on. It says the angel came to him in a dream You don't get a dream unless you sleep. And so you know some stuff is so traumatic. Some stuff is so deep. You gotta just lay down. Anybody ever done that? You don't word yourself down and say, you know what? Uh, I'm gonna take a nap. And God still speaks through dreams and visions, even today. Can I get an amen? He is still speaking to his people. And so he hears God speaks. He knows that because it's from God, it is the truth. Brothers, can can we handle the truth? I mean can we handle the word coming from God in that way? And I hope I don't mess this up because I don't watch much TV, but I did see this movie, Kenneth. Thank God for YouTube. But it was a movie, I know the actors, Jack Nicholson and Tom Cruise called a few good men. And and they he's on the witness stand and Jack said, Can you handle the truth? He gave him the whole thing and the word today is can you handle the truth? This word was coming right from God, and it was the truth of God, but the word can you handle it? How many folk can handle what God has said to you about you? Let me back it up for a second. How many folk can hear the word that God has said to you about you that you didn't even like? But it was true. Amen? That's what the Holy Spirit will do. He'll tell you the truth. And so He says to him by way of the angel: what is going to happen? This sense of all the details. He's waiting as someone who deals with the truth. The Bible says, and you shall know the truth. And the truth shall set you free. Sometimes we'll just believe a lie just because. When you know it's not true, but it sounded good. Amen? And you will tell a lie when you know it's not the truth But he receives it. Righteous man receives it, and then he's also responsive. And look at this. It was all dream. But when he woke up He didn't fuss. He didn't say, I'm going to see Mother Rose to interpret this thing. No. He did what the angel of the Lord commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. Didn't didn't double step, didn't you know, he just did it And he did not consummate the marriage, and the screen may say something different. Y'all know what it means. Until she gave birth to a son and gave him the name Jesus. In other words, he was willing to wait on the Lord. Can I just go there? To wait physically and spiritually Amen. Amen. That could be another course. Why it's important to wait. Revel is too late. I know it's kind of x-rated. But nevertheless, he did what the angel had told him to do And we know there were other children besides Jesus. But can you imagine just hearing it and then doing it? Hearing it and going through. Hearing it and not saying, well, I'm not sure if this is from God. And you gotta be real sure. It may take a day or two. It may take a week or two for you to say, let me let me just wrap my mind and my spirit around this because God has given you some heavy stuff. You ever got some heavy stuff that you just couldn't? Are you sure you talking to me? Are you sure this is true? How can I vet this? No. He was responsible. Just take on. And he did it. But you know I I I I wondered. So think about Joseph. Joseph was the kind of person who didn't get much biblical press And in fact, I'm not sure there's anywhere where Joseph says anything. Joseph. A man of action. Not many words, but action Not one place did he say, yeah, I got this. Mary says, I'm I'm available, Lord. Joseph didn't say a word. Not sure he said anything in Bethlehem. Not sure he said anything when he came back and then began to raise Jesus. Nothing. Not sure he said anything when they went to Jerusalem and realized, Mary says, have you seen Jesus? I think we've lost him. The text didn't say he said, well, I don't said nothing. He went back and they found Jesus, a 12-year-old. But Joseph Takes on the role as his earthly father. Joseph, I I wonder if he said anything to him in the copy shop. Like, son, you gotta do it this way, but he says nothing. And it is amazing how we can hear God but not say anything but to listen. I I look at Joseph and said he is somebody who responds if not verbally But I got a sneaky suspicion that that somewhere along the way that that he had to have a little talk with Jesus. I don't see how it's possible to raise holiness How it's possible to raise a king? How it's possible to raise the Savior of the world and not ask him one question. I for the heart he didn't say Kid I I I know you my boy but you're also my Savior And yet, can I ask you a question? I would imagine that he had a little talk with Jesus. You know what? We need that today. Have a little talk with Jesus and tell him all about our struggles. There's no indication that he was even at the cross. Scholars believe that he had already passed by then, but what a model to have a Joseph spirit. That's the kind of spirit that we need today. Righteous, one who is responsive, one who is receptive. Don't look now, but the Lord is yet speaking to you and speaking to me. And how will you handle the news? Are you willing to wait for Jesus? Or have you already gone ahead of him and said, you know what? You can catch up, but I'm already going to where I want to go. Take time today and honor the Savior. The one who died and the one who rose again. Are you willing to wait today? Are there any Joseph in the house today? Come on, let me see your hand, Joseph. I I I know what they call you, but oh there's some men of integrity in the house. You know what you would have done, but think about that Joseph spirit. And women, maybe it's Josephine. But have that kind of spirit today They're gonna listen to what God has said. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Part three. Oh next Sunday. Come on, stand today. Let's give God the praise Waiting for Jesus. Thank you, Joseph. Man, you under pressure. A lot of pressure. Folk were watching you. Let's see how how Joe held this thing. Yeah, let's see. If it was me, I would he just did what a righteous man would do. He did the right thing. And we need that today in our society. Oh yes, we do. To be able to have a standard. God is calling us for that. Just as you are Empty We come receive, come and live for like a blessing. So I think straight for today today on the Just as you are That's the way he wants you. Don't need to fix up. Just come in that way. Come to that you are come and speak, come receive, come and live. Let me just say this to you today. There's something you're waiting on. This week you lost your patience. Say, no, I I'm tired of waiting. I just want to find biblical characters to help us to see why it's so important just to To give it time. I'm not sure where you are today. This hits everybody. We're all waiting on something. Can I tell you I'm one of these prime members with Amazon? And so I want to know, can I track it? I want to know when it's coming. I want to know that it's out for delivery. I want to hear the man ring my doorbell about the time. My computer says, arrive. But life don't work like that. You got the other way? On the Lord. And to be of good courage. And think about it today. Take that one thing that you have been waiting on and for, and take another look at it. Examine it in light of scripture. And just see Does this line up with God? I know what I want to do, but does it line up with the word? Does it line up with this example? Let's bow our heads today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for taking. This old old story of just Mary and Joseph and their drama and their dilemma, and to get out of that the importance of waiting. For the one that they would raise. They were raising a champion. They were raising the Redeemer, but at any point along the way, had they not waited. Things will have been different. We thank you. As we come today, God, touch that heart and that mind of that person. Who is yet waiting on you? Lord, if there's one today who knows you're not You've been waiting on them to give their heart to you. You've been waiting. The word says your long suffering Not willing that any should perish, but all might come to a saving knowledge. Save that soul today. Thank God you waited on me. Thank you, Father. Thank you. You wouldn't let me be consumed. You waited Until I got all that stuff out of me. You waited until I found you. You waited until I got it together. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord. The word says if you believe that God sent Jesus to die and that he rose again, get that in two. Your mind and your heart. The Bible says, believe that, and you'll be saved. Today save someone, Lord. As only you can. Save someone today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Give God a praise today. I pray you were blessed by the Word of God today. Be sure to pass the word that we're harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland For more information about our ministry, go to our website. It is www. comthenumber 2harvest. org. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin in Baltimore County, Maryland. Have a great day in the Lord.