Moment even now to prepare our hearts for the word of God. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we will give your name all the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. If you have your Bibles available, turn with me in the book of Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah, the 40th chapter, and verse number 31. Today I'll be preaching from the King James Version. I find from time to time uh versions may fit uh the way of the preach man. And in this particular case, while we normally use NIV, we're using the King James version, that's the old school version. Amen. Many of the passages I've memorized are in the tongue of the King James Version. Amen. But what we do know is that the word is still the word. Isaiah 40, 31 it says, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. And they shall walk and not faint. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, Wait. Is something that we all have to do. Wait is something we all have to do. Questions. They may sound familiar. Have you ever said, what is this meeting over? Uh when will this class end? And when will the waiter bring out food? And when will I get a job? And when will I get married? And when will I have a child? When was the last time you started the sentence with that thought? When? Last month, last week, this morning. You know, when is the cousin, I believe, to wait? I think there can. Amen? When we think about this word wait. It is modern, but we're not wired to wait. No, we're not. We're some impatient people. We don't like to stand down. We don't like to hold up. We don't like to buy time. We don't like to cool our heels. We don't like to linger or pause very long. And so many of us have become accustomed to what? Accustomed to now and not later. Amen. We have just gotten in that mold and mindset because what if we can click on our phones and get whatever we want, so to speak And we can uh hit our computers and and ask for something and it shows up. I recall being in college uh back in the 70s and Professor Forster. There at Florida State was talking to us about in the days to come you can be able to order from home. We thought something was wrong with him. What do you mean? But he knew something. Remember the days when you went to the uh uh airport with a cash in your hand? Oh some of y'all too young for that. And just paved right at the counter, parked out front and kept on rolling. Well, you can't do that now. Amen. That is a different day. But God does not operate that way He does not operate on our frenzy. He's not a next day God. He's not an express God. Think about it in the book of Genesis. God took seven days uh to create the heavens and the earth. Oh yes he did. Now he could have done it in one day. I like what Peter says in 2 Peter 2 and 8. He says that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years. And in short, he reminds us that God works on God's timetable. I know we don't want to hear that, don't want to accept it. We're already two steps ahead, but that's the way God works. Time is not an issue with God And of course, Isaiah reminds the people throughout the text. He reminds them of what? Something that is going on. He reminds them that waiting is something that they have to do. And what's interesting about this text He writes to them at a time when they're about to go into captivity. In other words, this is a warning of sorts that even though you don't see where you're going because of your rebellion and disobedient people of Israel. But let me go ahead now and encourage you. Let me give you the long-range forecast that you're going to be at a place because of where you are now and because of what you're doing now, what this will come And you will need to hear the words. The pandemic is nothing that surprised God. He already knew. In fact, he was preparing us for this kind of disaster. What do you mean, Reverend? Where's your proof? Are you conspiracy theorists? No. The word of God is always true. He wants to let them know that you're going to be in captivity for 70 years But you have to do what? You have to be in a mode and a place to know that God is with you. No matter what you're going through, know that He's always with you. Amen And this word is a preview word. It's left to people scratching their heads. Amen? But they that wait upon the Lord. Can I just be kind of basic here? This word they is all over the text. They that wait They shall mount, they shall run, they shall walk, and so they, uh think, mm it refers to us. It's not just the people of Israel. It is someone that we have become familiar with ourselves that we are those people. Amen. This is us. We're in a place and God is trying to take us someplace, but he's reminding us that along the way The flight might be a little bumpy, huh? When you fly and they tell you it's going to be a bumpy flight, you get all nervous and it's smooth Or they tell you it's going to be a smooth flight, and guess what happens? It's a bumpy flight. Thank you, God. But we are not waiting on just someone. We're waiting on the Lord. Those who wait upon the Lord, not those who wait on your best partner, not those who wait on your ride and die, not those who uh wait on your homeboy, your homegirl, because they may not be able to help y'all But there are benefits and guarantees to waiting on the Lord. And the text says that it renews our strength. That means that we're in a weak place. That means that life has drained us. Anybody there right now that you've been through so much? and the hills have been hard to climb and the roads have been rough, but you can have your strength renewed when you wait on the Lord beat down, worn out, but step up to God's renewing station. He will renew your strength. I'm always amazed on my morning walk, uh there are a couple of these stations they have you can plug your car in. I'm thinking, well, that's pretty neat. I mean you don't need high test. You don't need regular high octane. But if you have one of those cars, and maybe you do, I don't know if you folks got them You drive up and say, excuse me, let me just plug in for power. Isn't that amazing? Well, life is like that. That when you are waiting on the Lord and you need him to come in your situation, you can plug into the power of God. I don't want to leave that uncontested. Amen? That you can depend on God to give you power at a time when you feel weak and down and frustrated and dumbfounded that God is there for you to give you power. And then Isaiah gives this image. The Bible is full of pictures. He says, what? That you shall mama with wings as. Eagles. Amen? Eagles represent God handiworking. They symbolize power. He chose the bird, this powerful uh bird. They consider this to be an unstoppable beast. It demonstrates God's control over everything. He says we ought to be like an eagle who mounts up and run and not be weary. Reverend, what are you talking about? You say I had to wait, but in your waiting, you can run in your spirit. Amen. Even though you may be waiting, you may say, well, I'm just thinking about just, you know, doing nothing. No, no, no, no. When you're waiting, you're preparing for what God is going to do And I tell you, so often the last mile and the last yard are the toughest. If you remember running the distance. Once you get to the last mile or two, uh uh, you know, when you're driving, you're like, oh God, uh this sign playing tricks on me. I'm hypnotized. They say 20 miles That's the longest 20 miles you ever driven, because it seems like you're not there yet. When you're in track and field and there's only a yard or two to go And you are stretching, looking for a second wind. Why? You're running, trying to get to a place in your weary situation. Amen? It's grueling. I stopped by to encourage you to run. There's a scene in the Forrest Gump movie To where uh he's being bullied by these guys. He and he's running saying, run forest, run, and forest is running, and leg braces come off, and he's just running And he continues to run and then uh he keeps run for us and then a reporter comes back and says, Listen, I'm I'm trying to find out from you uh why are you running He says what? I'm running just because I felt like running. And sometimes you got to run this race when you feel like running. Amen? Sometimes you got to just run anyhow. Do you feel like running? In your running and waiting, don't be Weary. The white of Hubert, that's my uh grandpuppy there, Willow. She got excited for Jesus. Amen. Run and don't be weary Hebrew says run this race with patience looking under Jesus Christ the author and the finisher of our faith And we'll also walk and not faint. Amen. There's a fainting face that we all go through. That life is bearing down upon us, that life is a struggle for us, and all we can do is just wait on the Lord. David, the great psalmist, says that, a I had fainted, had I not believed to see the goodness of the Lord In the land of the living. Wait on the Lord and be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. He goes on to say in Psalm 41-3, I waited patiently for the Lord. This thing waiting is not for the faint of heart. It's something we all have to do. Right now you're waiting on something. Jeremiah writes in Lamentations 3, 25 and 26, the Lord is good to those who wait for him, the soul who seeks him, it is good that one shall wait quietly for the Lord and for the salvation of the Lord. Paul Talks about waiting. Philippians 4, 6, and 7. Be what? Anxious for nothing but by way of prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, makes your request known unto God. And the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Esther, the Queen. had to wait for deliverance. Hannah had to wait and pray for her son. And God answered, Anna, the prophetess, was waiting. She knew that God had told her that she would see the Messiah, that she would see the Christ child. I'm glad today that she did not wait in vain. Amen. Simeon also, he said, God told me I was going to see him. And God is showing you some stuff already. Amen. That you just wait on the Lord and be of good courage. That's the good news to them because Jesus did come. Oh yes, he did. The folk were waiting to see the Messiah. He came and he was He began to heal and to teach and to be an example to a dying world. Amen? Because the kingdom of God was at hand And yet they were haters. Amen. Yes, they were. In the Lord Jesus Christ. He died on the old rugged cross. Yes, he did. I believe that today. Amen. And they put him in a borrowed tomb, but on the third day morning, he got up with all power in his hand. Amen. And guess what? We're waiting. Does he coming back again? Oh yes he is. Folks, I don't know. I think this no, you don't know what it means. When he shows up, he's gonna crack the sky. But you gotta wait Amen. You gotta wait on the Lord. You gotta wait for Him to come and to deliver you. Amen. Wait, it's something we all have to do. I know you somebody, but you gotta wait I I I know that you live on Nob Hill, but you got to wait. I know your name is known around, but you gotta wait. I don't care who you are Private plane, you gotta wait. Amen. The controller says, I know you might be somebody important, but I can't let you land right now. We have to wait on the Lord But what do you do while you're waiting? Oh my God, you ought to just pray while you're waiting. And I think you ought to just praise. While you wait, praise has a way of expressing what's in your heart. Amen. Ever been driving along in your car? And just start praising the Lord. Amen. Some of the saints got together yesterday at the harvest house and we made a song up. Amen. And once we start going, we begin to add verses to the song. Yeah, Ms. Jackie, we did that. Added verses. We start singing a song that had not been written yet You gotta write your own praise song that gets you through your waiting. And your song may not be my song, but my God, sing your song unto the Lord Praise him, Jesus, blessed Savior. He's worthy to be praised. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the have you got your song together yet? My God, sing your song as you wait Don't you know grandma sat on the porch and they just run back and forth and they moan because they said when you moan the devil don't know what you're saying. My God, waiting is all we have to do. We all gotta wait. So just wait Be still and know that I am God. Wait on the Lord. But you don't know my situation if I don't get it done by m Monday, yeah, yeah, no, but you you don't know yet he knows all things. And the old song says you can't hurry God You just have to wait. You gotta trust him and give him time. He's a God you just can't hurry. He'll be there. Don't you worry. He he may not come when you want him, but he's right on time. My God, that is the word of God today. It's already blessed. Let's take a moment even now, just to digest some of this word. Father, we come in the name of Jesus and we thank you for these sacred passages. That seem to meet our place of struggle. And that's what the Word of God does. There's something in the Word for every situation. Yeah, I'm tired of waiting. Don't throw in the towel. Why? Because the word of God says that he has been waiting. He's long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, that all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. If you're not saved today, know that the Lord is waiting on you. If you've not made a commitment to Christ through all that you've been through and seen, he's waiting. Can't you see the Lord just saying? I'm waiting because I don't want any to perish. He's waiting today on you to make a confession. I don't want to make it simple, but it's profound. The Bible says if you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. What does that look like? That look at you going around the corner and saying, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner in need of a savior. I'm asking you even now To come into my heart. I believe that God sent you. I believe in Christmas. I believe that you died and you rose again. I believe in Easter. I believe you are the risen Savior. Come into my heart today and to save me. Somebody at this moment may say, wait a minute, the light just went off. Become a part of the family of God today. Salvation is free. Oh my God. Save someone today. Thank you for this medium because through The lines. The Holy Spirit can work. Through a device, he can come in and change your heart. Through the satellite, do it today, God, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Blessed be the God today. I'm still excited about Jesus. Reverend, what do you know by that?