It's time now for the broadcast ministry of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland, where I serve as chief servant, pastor, and founder And now today's message in the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. Amen. How many folk are glad for one more chance? How many folk are glad for one more chance? more chance. Yeah, the fact of the matter is, I blew the last one and the one before that one. And the one before that one. Anybody ever blew the chance that God has given you? But the great news is, is that you're able To go and confess unto him. And the Bible says, if you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and then cleanse you from all unrighteousness. We serve that kind of God. Let's bow today all over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, we are grateful. That you've allowed us to stand here today in your presence, knowing what you know about us. I pray even now that as we stand that we might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today in the Gospel of Luke, first chapter, verses 29 through 33 It reads, Mary was greatly troubled at his words, and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call him Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. He will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never end. Amen. I want to preach today from the Samonic title and over the next few weeks. Waiting for Jesus. Waiting for Jesus. About a week ago I walked into a local eating establishment uh to get a carry-out dinner. Sometimes us husbands, we'd make that run. Amen. I walked in the place As I waited, the woman behind the counter uh said, Sir, you realize you could have used uh an app What do you mean? She said, well, you could have got an app and uh wouldn't have had to wait. I said, well that's that's all right. I don't I don't mind waiting Uh, you know, I I but I I know what a app is. She thought I wasn't cool and didn't and d and didn't have kids uh who tell me about the app. I've heard that before. And so we had a little conversation. I paid my bill, I walked out. kind of chuckling, but the coffee shop that I stop in almost every day, uh, I see the millennials and and beyond using that app. And so they'll walk in and just pick up their drink and the sandwich and keep on rolling. And one day I'm gonna try the app, but I like to have a conversation. How you doing today? You know, an app can't do that Yeah. Uh yeah. How how how's your day going? And uh and so I now don't get frustrated, don't get me wrong. I I wanna tell a story in here There are times I wish I had that. But most of the time I enjoy just the conversation with persons. Uh but an app allows you to order ahead because people don't like to wait. Do we? Uh not waiting in the line for grocery, not waiting in the line uh at the bank uh we we just don't like to wait. Is that am I by myself today or uh uh or all y'all uh express line people or do you like to get in line? But nevertheless When it comes to the things of Christ, uh, he is worth waiting for. Amen. That while you might uh seem frustrated at times It's great to know that you can wait on him and you can depend on him. I could stop right there. Anybody ever had to wait on the Lord uh to come through in your situation? In fact, some of you You may be waiting right now, you're waiting for a blessing, you're waiting for a breakthrough, you're waiting for a healing, you're waiting for something to take place. And so in our text today, we really go to a little small town uh in Galilee, uh Nazareth. It is a place that we find in the text a young girl, a young poor girl. in a part of town that's not that popular. Nazareth. Not really a popular place, except that we know that Christ grew up there. And can you imagine she's minding her own business? She is preparing for a wedding. And out of nowhere, an angel shows up. Now, I want you to imagine that in your own mind's eye. You know, we we like to get a text. Uh you can messenger me, but an angel Shows up. Gabriel shows up on the scene, uh, and that's how God Spoke to his people. God forbid an angel shows up and we'll and we're looking for wings flapping. That's not always the case. The Bible says that some there might be angels among you. God might send somebody your way. You want to lay them out, but they may be sent. From God to bless you. That was not even in the manuscript. But but there are times. Never treat people in the wrong way. The fellow on the corner With our work for food might be a messenger. Amen. So Mary is there, the angel shows up, and begin to give her a message. And you know she's afraid. I certainly would be, you know, up close and personal. I'm here with a message from God. Isn't that something that that that's what he used to go to a specific place Maybe to come to your house, uh to come to your predicament and say, I've got uh hot off the press, breaking news, this is from God Other folk are well meaning, they'll say, Reverend that God told me to tell you. And I'm I'm trying to vet that stuff. You know, I think I told you some time ago I met a brother in a bookstore. He says, Doc, God told me you get in the jet. I was like, really? I said, well praise God. I don't really want it yet. I saw that same brother I saw him again. He understand it was consistent. Doc you get in the jet. I was like, Doc I'm on Southwest. I don't need a jet. But but you know, persons that come uh you know with the message, but make sure you you vet it and that it is from God. Mary is there And what takes place really theologically is the enunciation. That is to bring news. It refers to the announcement that God sent Gabriel to announce To Mary, what was going to happen? He said to her, I have a message from he who has sent me. He says, You know, you are highly favored. That you're really somebody. You may not feel like it. Your conditions may not show it. Uh you're in a small town, you're poor. Yep You're favored. And when God says it, I believe it. That if I'm told that I'm highly favored, which I think I am, do you? I receive that in the name of Jesus. And folks say favor is not favor. I'm saying, don't you know that God has favored you Anybody feel favored today? That God selected you to do what you're doing to his glory? Amen? And also he said, the Lord is with you. And that means something. That I'm not alone, that he's with me, and how many folk need him to be with you To walk with you and to talk with you and to encourage you when nobody else is around The Holy Spirit will speak to you, allow you to have the kind of joy that allows you to shout when folks think you ought to be sad. He says, You're highly favored, and the Lord is with you And Mary is greatly troubled. Wouldn't you be that to have that happen? She was confused. She was disturbed. But she was willing to accept what it was that the angel had said to her. And so we talk about kind of how she waited for Jesus, knowing that she would be the one to birth Jesus, but she waited In fear. Angel said to her, Do not be afraid. You have found favor with God, and you have been picked and she's still afraid. He said a second time, you know, you've you've been favored. That of all the women who wanted to be the ones to birth the Messiah God chose her. Ever been picked over someone and they thought that they should have been the one? Yeah. And you were the one? Because God favored you over someone else? And so It comes to that. She was afraid of what was going to happen. Afraid of what would be next. That nine months to come that she would bear a Christ, Jesus Christ, and she was afraid And you know, and sometimes we wait in fear. Waiting for something to come and we know it's gonna be good because God said so. But you still shake it. Yeah. Knowing that what would be happening would bless humanity. But she was still fearful. The Bible says that God has not given you the spirit of fear, but of love, power, and a sound mind. But How many folk are just stirred? Amen. That that when you start dealing with things of God, uh there there are times when you don't understand what's taking place. You don't understand because you don't have any control over it, and you wait. In fear. There she was, all by herself. Nobody will probably believe this story. Some folks still don't believe it. But an angel comes to me. And give me some heavy stuff, and I gotta receive it. That's right. Waiting in fear. That even though we know there's an end to what God has planned for you I'm still scared? I don't mind saying that. I don't mind giving that testimony that I I just I just don't know. I have faith But I don't know what the next step is going to be do you know? I don't. But I'm glad he gave me today. I don't know what tomorrow holds, but I wait Said Lord if you will, I will go. Yes. Isaiah talks about that in the 40th chapter. He says, but they that wait upon the Lord. Yes, they do what They shall renew their strength. They shall mother with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faith. I'm scared, but I'm waiting on what God has for me. I don't know anybody afraid. Y'all some brave folk. You don't get a little checky sometimes? About Lord, I I know you say it. Mary was like that. But she said, I'm waiting to go for one I'm gonna bring forth. Wait a minute I'm waiting on he who has been conceived in me. But I'm waiting. But not just waiting in fear. But waiting in faith. You will conceive and give birth to a son and You have to call his name Jesus. I love the story. This is the real story. I believe the story. He will be great. And will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And so there were details. There were things that helped to build her faith If it wasn't the right stuff, it just said, well, you know, you're gonna I think gonna bear a child and we don't have his name yet uh kind of solid. No, no, it was direct. Is that it's gonna be a boy. Okay, that's something to stand on. That's building my faith up specifically. And his name shall be called Jesus. Those are details that can help us in our own home. That God will give you just enough to build your faith in the midst of your fear. She got some information that helped her. Okay, now I don't care what people are saying, I know it's a boy Some folks try to say I know what you care no you don't. I don't care what the son of Graham no no no I know it's a boy and I know What his name will be. Thank God for Jesus. Amen. Can I just say thank God for Jesus right now? Hallelujah. I'm glad that I know Jesus and I know him for myself. She was waiting. And that thing that was in her Jesus is a promise that's being developed. And don't you know that you are pregnant with a promise? That is something that God has put in you something that's been conceived, a dream, or maybe something you've been praying about. But there's something in you there you are, you expecting. Amen. And in faith, I know God is going to work it out. But She is the one. It's gonna come through her. Amen. Bible says to wait On the Lord, and not grumble, but be of what good courage, and he will strengthen thine heart. Way I say on The Lord, he's not here yet. I'm about to go to my plan B because I know he kept coming, but I yeah some of y'all been there. Yeah, praise the Lord, but uh it's been too long. Check hadn't come yet. Mr. Wright hadn't showed Mrs. Wright. And so I'm gonna take it in my own hands. But uh am I helping somebody today? Waiting in faith, knowing that God is gonna do it and the change will come through me. Yeah, yeah. Waiting for Jesus. Waiting in Fear. Waiting in faith, waiting for the future. More details. Yeah, they just You can only have so much, Mary. Let me give you a little bit here. Here's some more. He will reign over Jacob's descendants forever. His kingdom will never End. What you are carrying, the person you're carrying, will be forever. Amen. That means the future is in good hands. No matter what you see on the news God's got this. No matter how the world turns, be assured that God is yet in control. Anybody believe that today? Amen. Don't pull your hair out. You know, don't don't lose it. Don't go to the bridge. God got this. And I'm assure that every time I think about it, it's not a cop out. It's just saying that God's got this. That my future is in his hands. Well he's already done it for 59 years already. Why why not give him? rain. Amen. Hadn't he done right by you? Even when you tried to mess it up? He's done. He knows your future. He knows your tomorrow. He knows your next week. He knows your next month. He knows your next year. I don't do resolutions. I just don't. What am I going to do next year? Do it this year. And you still got time. Amen. And know that he holds The future. He rules the world. That gives me comfort. To know that God has everything Under control. Lamentation 3. 25 says, the Lord is good unto them that wait for him and the soul that seeketh him. You ready for a future change? God is already working it out. The word says who he has begun a good work in you will do what? Perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Came across this poem written by Cynthia Watt, and it reads, Waiting on the Lord Is a hard thing to do. Just look to the Lord and wait for his cue We get in such a hurry and just want to go. When God says in his word, just be still. And no. He has the power. We need to travel down life's road. Just tell him all of your problems. And he will carry the load. Aren't you glad he carries your load today? God said help by way of Mary Jesus Christ, our Savior and our Redeemer. As I arose this morning, it's my routine to get up early and go get a cup of coffee, even though I came late the night before. No line problems. There's nobody in there that time of morning. And it's great. And I went to a different store this morning after I got my coffee. And uh it was at a a very popular store that stays open all night. I can't call names. And I had something I had to buy, and there was a line I said, are you kidding me? They got one one register open. I said, uh oh Uh oh you're gonna preach on that's oh Lord I said to me what to go and somebody was going through the stuff and uh God was in front of me and I was I ain't saying I was just gonna He turned around and say I'm gonna say I got one he said come on He was in like a one of them electric that he backed up. And I guess it man, I will thank you. What's your name? Bobby? Bobby stuck her hand. I said, Bobby, I'm going to preach on that today, and I'm going to tell the people that Bobby let me cut line. And don't you know sometimes in life that when you are tired of waiting, God would allow you to. Allow you to cut down and put you up to the front. Anybody feel vindicated today that even though I'm waiting, even though I'm waiting in fear and in faith and for the future Every now and then he'll send a Bobby who will back up his scooter and let you I left out of there only Bobby God bless you I'm gonna tell the people about Bobby Bobby let me in line And God has tripped you a body. His name is Jesus. My God, Jesus, who was born in a manger. Not in swallowing clothes. Bobby. But he's such a Jesus, one who will go to an all-rugged cross and to die for you. Amen. And he will get up on the third day morning with all power in his hands. And guess what? And now we're waiting. For his return. Oh yes, he's coming back. Like he said he would. No man knows the day nor the hour, but keep on waiting But in your waiting, live right. In your waiting, walk right. In your waiting, walk right. Even while I'm waiting on he who's on the way, I want to do the best I can. Amen? I feel like going No! The trials come, oh every hand. I still don't feel like going. Anybody feel like going on today? Anybody saying I don't mind, waiting for the Lord, and being of good cheer? Wait. For Jesus. I might leave you. I've been in this lane too long. If you don't come out I'm gonna circle five times and we lose patience. But he's so patient with us. Waiting for Jesus. That's the word of God today. It's already a blessed. Come on. Give out some praise as you stand all over this place today. It's hard to do But we gotta have patience. And don't you know you're gonna be challenged today when you leave out of here? The raven stands gonna be blocking the lines up. And you're gonna say, well, praise the Lord. Amen. There's a biblical principle and waiting on him. Amen? Come on, give God the praise today. Amen. Thank him and rejoice in him. Amen. We offer Christ to you. Oh my brother and my sister. I ain't got much. I got Jesus though. I can tell you about him. He's the one who will come. see about you and make your wait not be as long. You know like another line of m up how many folks fight for the lions? Two levels? Man, you gone. Amen. Well guess what? Heaven is open right now. Let's take a little bit of this today. Come on, Seggy with us. Today. We all for Christ, oh my god. We all for Christ. Oh my sister You're giving one life life abundantly Oh come now let's say one more time when you think about what's on the table. The offer. We offer Christ. Oh my brother. We are for Christ. Oh my sister What do you do? Oh God. I want to just take a minute. Say I come today as an ambassador of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Representative. What to let you know first of all that he loves you. Knowing what he knows about all of us, he loves us. And that's why he went to the cross. To die. For us, and I want to just put it out there. Maybe you don't know Jesus Christ, maybe you've never experienced him in your life. Nick, maybe you've never confessed your sins unto him. You can do it right now. There's no line. You can get right up and say, Lord, I'm a sinner. But I believe that God sent you. I believe that he died and that he rose again. The Bible says if you believe that. In your heart. Get it through who you are that you'll be saved. And today you can be saved. Right in this place. Have I told you? I don't know whether you're saved or not. Well, some folk I know, many folk I know, but there might be one. And I realize that I can't save you. I don't have the power to save you, and no preacher does. All we do is put it out there. You've got to do it. Let's bow for 30 seconds. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. If there's a soul today that knows you not, I pray in the name of Jesus. That you might put them at The front of the line and save their souls. Do it today, God, as they confess unto you, and heaven will rejoice. We ask it all now in the name of Jesus. Amen. Give God the praise today. Amen. Amen. On next Sunday, we'll do Waiting for Jesus, part two. I pray you were blessed by today's word to find out more about our ministry Go to our website. It is www. comthenumbervest. org. Also check out our brand new book. We're excited about it. It's entitled Leading by Example, a Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. Get details on our website I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries, wishing you a great day.