Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. There's a word from the Lord today, from the Gospel of John, the 9th chapter, verses 1 through 7. It reads, as he went along, he saw a man blind from birth. His disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Neither this man nor his parents sinned, said Jesus, but this happened so that the works of God might be displayed in him. As long as it is day, we must do the works of him who sent me. Night is coming when no one can work. After saying this, he spit on the ground, made some mud with the salava, and put it on the man's eyes Go, he told him, wash in the pool of Siloam. So the man went and washed and came home sea. I want to preach today from the Semonic title. Watch me. Watch me. Some years ago I discovered something that really excited me. I realized that I am a visual learner. That means that I take in information by way of images. And this particular learning style, for you educators, know it is one in which we see things that we're expected to know. People with uh this particular style of learning may not be the greatest listener. Can I confess today? But you showed me a photograph and I might remember it. I believe that Some things are caught rather than taught. Here's what I mean. If you were starting to drive a car, I could give you the instructions, but until you got behind the wheel, uh it's a different ballgame. If you wanted to swim, I could give you all the lessons and give you a manual, but only until you jumped in the water did you realize, oh, I got this. I've got this image of what it means to swim Jesus was that kind of person that persons believed that he did not teach a class on Apostles 101. But they followed him and whatever he did they learned from watching Jesus. They learned how to give. They learned how to serve. They learned how to pray by watching. And I like how Jesus does that. He takes different stories and he tells them parables and paints the story. But basically He's saying, watch me. Amen. And so in this ninth chapter of the book of John, we find Jesus, his disciples, they're on the way, and they notice a blind man. Man blind from birth. And Jesus says to his disciples in response to the question, Jesus was this man uh sinned or was it his parents? They they saw him and their question was they must have done something wrong There was a belief in that time that if something happened to you, it must have been something you did bad. Look at that. Oh, it all just happened to be happening. Oh, they must have done something. But the bigger word would tell us that it happened so that the word might be manifest, that God might do a great work in your life. Does that make sense this morning Some things may happen in the course of this week that God gets the glory from. And it's not because you've done anything wrong or bad. I do believe that there can be generational curses that we have to break to the glory of God. We feed the blood over those things that will keep us down. But Jesus would go about Seeing those he wanted to call. He watched Peter and Andrew. They were doing something. They were casting their nets into the sea He saw John and James on their father's boat. They were mending their nets. He saw Matthew at a tax collector's booth. So he's always watching us as we watch him, but aren't you glad that the Lord will watch you and I pray I'm doing something that's worthy of his watching me? Oh y'all don't believe in the old this thing about I see the Lord the Lord's healing me I mean he's looking at me I mean I was uh more uh I gave rubbish to Santa Claus But the thing that God who sits high is watching me and seeing if he can use me for a service. Well you don't feel the eyes of God, oh you're y'all y'all some cool folk Just knowing that God is watching me and wants to use me in my current condition blows my mind. Amen. I can hide from you, you can hide from me. But God says, not only do I want you to watch me, but I'm watching you. Amen? So he says, he didn't stand, nor his parents. And from this answer question session, he goes a bit further And the first thing I see that he does within the framework of this text is he makes adjustments. He says, as long as it is day, we must do the work of him who sent us. I contend the disciples are more concerned about the man and his being blind and whose sin. He says, uh, don't don't get it twisted. Don't get so caught up into that that you miss the longer part. We got work to do. And so we've got to make some adjustments in our vision as a society of people. We got work to do We look around what's happening in our communities all across this world. We got work to do. And we got to do it while it's day While there's opportunity, it may not be a march, it may not be a prayer vigil, but my God, from glory, we've got work to do as believers And they were more concerned about, oh no, I want to check theology that, you know what, as long as this day As long as we have the time, let's do something. Amen. Aren't you glad that God will adjust our vision that it's not really about you and sometimes we can all become a little selfish? But the person next to you and the person in your community and the person on your job, we got work to do Put your overalls on and pull on your bro game boots and and roll your sleeve up. Uh this Christian work is work I can say praise the Lord and but but when we leave out of here there's a work for us to do and Jesus is saying I'm not just saying you have to do it but watch me Watch me, watch me, watch me. He said, we have work to do. Amen. And he's making the adjustment based on what he sees. He sees a lot going on in that day and time, and we see things happening in our own society that need to be addressed. Love what John 45 said. One of my favorite passages says, Don't you have a saying that it's still four months until harvest? I tell you, open your eyes. And look at the fields. They're all right for harvest. I didn't see anything. Open your eyes. I don't see anyone in need. Open your eyes I don't see somebody who's broken heart, open your eyes. We have work to do, and Jesus takes the lead. That's then watch me. He said, I'm doing something, but I need you to watch me. I know there's a song called Watch Me, Watch Me. I know y'all kind of thought that didn't you? Yeah, is it Nay Nay? I don't know what that song is, but you thought about it, so I may as well bring it on out But I want you to, he said, watch me, watch me. Ah, that would book somebody up. Not watch the dance, but watch me. And we'll always have our eyes on him. Well, I slipped that in because you always starting to fade on me. Amen. But he's always trying to get us to see that there's always work to do. That's what ministry is. It's work. It never has been described as an easy faith Yeah, let me slap five and go home. Can I just say this? It's already in my spirit. The other faith systems that are on the street. You may not like their handout or their theology, but they're out there. Amen? And so we must Work the work while it is day. Make adjustments. Turn your TV off for a moment. Make adjustments. Take a moment to say, I'm gonna let someone know about the goodness of the Lord. I feel passionate about this, about the work to do. Not just making adjustments, but he also makes some arrangements. He says, no one? He says, night is coming. And at that point, no one can work. Punch the timesheet in. There's nothing else left to do. And theologians believe that what it was really saying that in the here and now, as Savior and Lord My time is short. I've got a mission to complete. I'll be beaten. I'll be double-crossed. I'll be taken to a kangaroo coat. I will be the person that will be beaten and crucified and put on that cross. But while I'm here I'm trying to make some arrangements so the work of God goes forward. Amen. In fact, your children ought to see you and say, you know what? They're workers. Your family ought to see you in that light. There's something peculiar about you. We are peculiar people, is that we're trying to get it all done. Because none of us know when our last moment will be. And so every chance you get to share with someone your faith and the why it's almost night. Remember growing up that when the sun went down we played football on the sand lock and tried to get one more play in. Couldn't see a thing. But we knew the sun was going down. Amen. And Jesus is saying, in the work that I'm doing, time is running out And as believers, our time is running out. And so we gotta watch him to see what he's doing and what he's saying in the here and now. Amen. Does that make sense? He says, because I tell you why. He says, in case you didn't know it. While I'm in the world, I'm the light of the world. Amen? What kind of a bold segment? I guess you didn't know. I am the light Of the world. He's put his light in us. The Bible says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works. And what? Glorify your Father in heaven. My God, you got some light in you Might be a 50 watt, might be a 60, might be an LCD, but whatever your light is, allow your light to shine so others might see as they want you They'll watch again. Amen. Do you feel that thing today? Is that I'm just saying that I'm gonna pull my sleeves up because there's work to do in the kingdom of God Reverend, I'm not like you. I'm not going to talk to ten people at the store. I'm not like you. I'm not going to evangelize. I'm just going to do my thing. I'm not a big talker. Oh, you can let your light shine You're not as shy as you put on to be. Amen. That gets you in the right setting. You're not a wallflower at all. Hello But he's saying make the arrangement, look for opportunity to share the good news of Jesus Over the gospel of Matthew 26, 41, he says, watch and pray. I know you're praying, but you gotta watch too, so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. I tried to get up earlier but I couldn't. But my favorite show is on, I caught that. You know I can't stay up late. You know, I got to be on the man's job tomorrow. But take a moment to give God the prayer. Make an arrangement with him that you might be able to share the good news of Jesus. Amen Oh, I feel this thing today in my spirit. Not only making the adjustment, he says his time is running out. Time is drawing nigh and not only making the arrangement in such a way that night is coming, that we won't always have the opportunity to share with someone the news of Jesus. But I want to say to you, when you leave this place today, I believe that God will give you an opportunity to let someone know about the love of Christ. Can I just give you a little hint? Some of y'all football fans. Your baseball fans. Man, you can start a conversation with anybody with that. And in the conversation, I beg you to ease in the goodness of the Lord. Say, yeah, I just want to say that was a nice home run. Praise the Lord. Amen. Many ran that bowl to the glory of God. Find a way to ease in the love. Oh, I got y'all smiling now. S and D. I don't know anything about sports. I know somebody did something, but I know the Lord can make everything right in our spirits. But finally. He makes good on his promise that while he's spoken with them and well love this text Now I was sharing with my my good friend Tom Tassima. We'll in-between break talk about the law. I said, Tom, I said I was reading that text and it talked about the blind man, and then in the middle of that, he said, I've got work to do But then he comes right back and say, okay, now I'll deal with the blind man. That that it's not that I didn't know that he was blind, but in the middle of me talking about the blind man and work, I have to put that in there for you to get it now. I'll go on back after he said this. Don't you love the word of God? He spent on the ground. That sounds gross, don't it? Oh no. He spit and made some mud pies. Right there. Isn't that visual? Don't want no part of that. But Jesus is using this as an example With salava. And he put it on the man's eyes. Took mud. I want you to picture this. Took some mud but spit in it. And took it and made some mud pies and then began to put it. See, we said, oh no, don't do that, Lord. No, but he may do unconventional things just to bless you You've been saying no no no no no no no put some murder on my eyes help me to see the things you would have me to see he's saying I'm gonna make good on my promise I didn't forget about the man. I just want you to watch me as it relates to the work of the ministry. And he says, go wash in the pool of saloon. The man went You see him going? He goes to the pool, he washes, he comes back, and he goes home seeing. That's all right, isn't it? Isn't God good? And God will make good on his promise to you. And he had said this before over in the book of Isaiah. He said it earlier. Isaiah 42, 7. I've come to open the eyes that are blind. He makes good on something he's done in that life. And God has promised you some things. If you just keep on watching him and watching his moves and watching his ways, there's some things He will do in your life, he's already promised to do. And how many believe that God will do them? Amen. I believe it today. And that's what faith is, is not being able to see it, but to see him who makes all things possible. This the same Jesus who says, now I'm going to the cross, watch me. I'll be beaten. Watch me. I'll be pierced in the side, watch me. I'll be put in a borrowed tomb, watch me. I'll be buried in that tomb, watch me. I'll get up on the third day morning, watch me. I'll got up with all power man, watch me. I'll come back, watch me I'm gonna save your soul. Watch me. And he satisfied through all that I've been through, don't take your eyes off me But make sure you get in a hurry. Those things that you know get in a hurry. There's work to be done for the kingdom. And I end with this illustration from sports. I know y'all love sports. Is that when you're playing the game of football, the clock is always running. And and you're watching the clock. Because if you're not careful you'll lose a down and be penalized, but you're watching the clock the whole time. Why? Because when it runs out, the game is over. On yesterday I saw a Hail Mary. Y'all know what that is. You just said I'm not Catholic, Reverend. You know what a Hail Mary is, though. In football, it's when the clock has out And they go back and say, you know what? Here's my last shot. Throws one long, everybody jump up, have marry, and grab the ball. It happened yesterday, amen. And that team won the game. And my God, don't you know that time is still available for you? That the clock has not run out on your ministry? The clock has not run out on what God has for you. Keep watching what the Lord will do in your life. Look on me. That is what I believe can happen today in the life of the believer. Don't be distracted. Watch me Don't be downtrodden, watch me. Don't be heavy laden, watch me. Don't cry. Oh, watch me. Keep your eyes on me. Disciples? You're worried about who's sinned. Watch me. You're worried about what's his parent? Watch me. You're worried about what watch me. Keep your eyes on me. I say today to you that the Lord is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish. And we have to keep our eyes on him Psalmist says it will. I will lift up mine eyes to the hills, from which cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord. Do you know he's watching you? And yet you're watching him. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Watch me. Watch out. Find your God. Your divine God. Stand all over this place if you can today. You may have come today. Burden. And in the midst of you carrying your burden, watch it. He has the answer for your issue and your problem. He's watching you. But more so, watch it and see won't God make a way for you. I've seen it happen. A way out of out of no way. You're between a rock and a hard place. And God is showing you the light. So just keep keep track of me now. Keep watching me. When I move, you move. When I stop, you stop. Watch me. As we come today, perhaps you have showed up in this place and you've never given your life to Jesus Christ. Turn your eyes upon Jesus. He's available for you today. I really believe that. I wouldn't stand here every Sunday and say it. That's the miracle. He can take a sneaky, kind of conniving, kind of behind the scenes, and not as bad as the other guy, center, and transform his life. I used to categorize sin, but now I'm I'm bad, but I'm not as bad as that guy. Do some bad stuff, but my stuff ain't like his. You ever done it before? Ever found somebody you thought was worse than you? You say well I'm I'm in good shape because I don't smoke that stuff. But I drink some stuff. I don't snort. I'm just getting real, but I shoot up. I don't cheat, but I lie. Sin It's sin. And Jesus has come to wash our sins away. If we will but confess unto him. Let's bow today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you for the miracle working power displayed in the biblical text today. We thank you for the middle part that reminds us that time is running out. There's work to be done. Night is coming. While we have this moment, God, I offer Christ to those who may have come. Who've never opened their hearts to you, never turned their eye toward you, they might receive you into their hearts today. The Bible says, you confess with your mouth The Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. With your mouth today, you can whisper that prayer. From your lips to God's ear. I believe that you sent your son and that he died for my sins. I believe that he rose again with all power in his hand. The Bible said you believe that and take it into your Person, your heart, that shall be saved. Father, I pray you, but now if there's one in this building who knows you not, the Savior is available. He's on watch. Just to save that one soul. While those heads remain bowed today, if you know that you've never opened your heart to Jesus Christ, In this moment, you can do it. He'll come in, he'll save yourself, he'll turn your life around. He can do it. And there are witnesses in the house who know it to be sold. Do it, I pray now in Jesus' name. While those hands remain bowed, is this one today who knows not the Savior, who wants to get to know him? Open your heart today. Allow him to come in. There's none like him. He's a mighty good God. If you know that you're saved, give God a praise today. Maybe you come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship called Harvest. Yes. The doors are always open. I'm always amazed that God would take a handful of folk and a vision and say I can make something out of this That baffles me. I tell you when I first started this ministry, I used to say, What am I doing? What have I done? And the enemy would say to me, You bump your head I said, Lord, if it's to happen, you'll bless it. He sent you and so many others that the ministry and the work might go forward. And now you go out to do the work of the ministry. Amen? There's one today that wants to be a part of this fellowship. The doors always open here or on the other side I want to pray with you today. I really want to seal this time with a prayer for you. Bow your heads this morning. Heavenly Father, you know all things. We are limited in what we know. But we thank you for the spirit of discernment. There are persons in this building today who barely got in here. Dragging. Barely in the door. God help them today. Give them extra faith May they fill the function of your Holy Spirit. For that person battling with an illness, you are the great healer. Heal that body and heal that mind today in the name of Jesus. There is none like you. We pray in faith in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. Praise God. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D. But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. com2harvest. org. That's come the number to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.