Hello, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. Listen in today on our worship experience. It's already in progress. Amen. That's love. How many folk know the story was not over? Enemy tried to end your story. Enemy tried to shut you down. Enemy put on a commercial, but God said it's not over yet. Oh my God, you ought to be excited about that. That that's not the End of the story that three days later, when the enemy thought he had him Three days later the Bible says he got up oh my God and he stopped by that He got up He got up with all power in his own. You don't still seem too excited. Man, man, hey, hey, this is our day. Okay? Now I don't know what other folk worship, but as a Christian, man, this is it. I mean, this is our moment. Why? Because that faith is based on the resurrection. Oh, I don't know that you heard me. This is our day. This is what our faith says, that on the third day he rose with all power. I'm trying to move on. But this is your moment. This is what your faith is based on. This is it. Other folk have other faiths and they believe in other stuff. But if you say you are a redeemed of the Lord. Then you know what getting up, or you still sitting down. You know what getting up means. He died, but he rose again. He died, but oh, that's our faith. And that is what we believe. He might get in a corner. Somebody what you believe? I uh I don't know much. I know he died. And he got up. But my God, that'll work. You believe that? That will work even as you stand today. God, we thank you. For sending your only son, Jesus Christ. You said the prophets they couldn't do it. They were stoned. But you said your son. And he became the living sacrifice. Doves and bulls and animals would not do, but it was the blood. That gives me strength from day to day, it will never lose its power And he rose with all power. Word of God says, we too can rise with that same spirit that raised Christ from the dead. Now, God, we pray. That your word might speak to us once again. We decrease so that you might increase. We ask it now in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Amen. I'm just trying to make a point. If you get nothing else today, this this is your story. I mean I you you can you can run with that. If you believe that that's what leads to salvation. If you want to see him again. They're in the gospel of Mark, and we've been there all month and some days, and I love how God laid this out. Not a Mark series, but I just followed Mark right onto the cross. Amen Mark 16, 14 through 16 says, later Jesus appeared to the eleven as they were eating. He rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those who had seen him after he had risen. He said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved. But whoever does not believe will be condemned. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, What's Next? You know, we live in a a what's next society, uh a what's next news, information, entertainment. I work in the news business and we try uh to say to you coming up next, still ahead, uh, don't go to that fridge yet because something is going to happen Oh y'all know I'm right. If I said that coming up a man is giving away plenty, he's giving away a million something, stay tuned. Man, you're not gonna leave that TV You thinking is it a million dollars? Is it a million palm branches? A million tickets? What is it? But even in entertainment, we look for the next episode Y'all holy folk, but everybody got their favorite program. And they tell you all week, you don't want to miss Thursdays. It's an important day. But we always look for what's going to happen next. We have become conditioned in that way, even in life. You might be moving from one grade to the next grade. For some, it's moving from high school to college uh from one job to another. It may be for some of us one day, praise the Lord, hopeful, uh to retirement one day. Amen. Amen. Some of y'all are already there. You can tell me how great that is. But we always look for uh we anticipate. What is going to happen next in our own life experiences? And for the disciples who've been following Jesus all this time, it became a question for them Okay, we know that he went to the cross and he died and he rose again and somewhere in between rising again the disciples scattered They weren't sure about what was next. There was fear because they'd been following Jesus all this time, and even though he had explained it to them, there was some they were they were a little nervous about it. Amen You know the text. They went into hiding. They were nowhere to be found. And if I look at these passages today, I really wanted to kind of talk about uh this sense of how Christ is is helping the disciples. Because see what happens is he's already risen and he stays around for for 40 days. So for a month and some, he he's still around doing prep work. He's still preparing. He hadn't gone back to glory yet. And he's letting them know that there's more to be done That he gives them words of comfort. He gives them words of hope. He gives them words of correction. There are some powerful parting words. Nobody lacks a farewell speech. You know, nobody just said I'm I'm leaving just uh you know I just can't do a farewell speech. But he didn't give a farewell speech until he made sure that they were equipped. And when I say they, I'm talking about disciples, but it also relates to us today. Don't you know there's more that Christ wants you to do? Amen? There's more that we're called to do. See, we we we already have kind of put Easter on the shelf. Amen. Easter Monday comes up and Easter Monday, uh, you know, that spring break for some people, but we've already, you know, we lost the palms, we've moved to another place But I want to say to you today, as believers, that there's yet more to do in the body of Christ. There's more to do for the kingdom. He's looking for some workers. Amen. Amen. I don't see no hands. That the Lord's in need of workers to kill his field today. Amen. How many folk grew up working in the fields? Well y'all ain't never got your nails dirty. Work. And so he shares with them really the importance of being accountable. The importance of being responsible and the importance of being credible. So let's look at this 14th verse. Later, Jesus appeared to the eleven As they were eating, he rebuked them for their lack of faith and their stubborn refusal to believe those Who had seen him after he has risen. There's always tension in the text. You can find all your nice flowery verses, but here it sounds like Jesus is trying to get them straight. Amen. Can we have a meal? And over the meal, he said, Now now it it seems to me that that that you all were not being accountable He gets right to the point. He doesn't over a meal. He says to them that he rebuked them. And that word in itself means that he gave them a sharp disapproval. Nobody's feelings getting hurt, are they? That's what the Lord will do. He will straighten us out, us. Amen. By way of the Holy Spirit. There was some criticism in this case He says, you know what? You had a lack of faith. In spite of what I'd been sharing with you, when the rubber hit the road, you were nowhere to be found. Some of y'all have had this talk from your parents, and you felt real bad when they pulled you up and just and read the rites to you about what you did not do. Jesus is doing that in love And you your stubborn refusing, you couldn't even you didn't want to even believe the women when they told you I was alive. Don't sound like a resurrection sermon, does it? But it is. And that helps us in our walk because we all miss the mark. Amen. And so what he's trying to do is say, you've got to be accountable if you go carry my name. You gotta walk a certain way. You have to talk a certain way. You gotta carry yourself a certain way because there's more to be done. And Jesus sets the atmosphere by getting them straight first before he even sends them out. Amen? We have to be next-minded What's happening next? Some of you all have planners. You have like the 30-day planner and a 40-day planner and you got a five-year plan. But what plan do you have for God? What have you done for him lately? How has he used you and I lately? Amen. And I'm including myself. What what what what's next him? Okay, Easter's over. What you gonna do Easter afternoon? What are you doing Easter Monday? Are you still trying to win somebody for Christ? The Bible says in Philippians 2:52 and 5. Let this mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus. Who humbled himself even unto the cross, you gotta have the right mindset. And the mindset is that yes, I'm accountable, God, to you. We give respect sometimes more to the man. Oh yes we do. Then we do the Lord. I'm bothered afraid that he's the one that gave you that job. Romans 12 and 2 says, Be not conformed to this will, but be what? Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what that good acceptable and perfect will of God Are you feeling accountable now? Or are you taking on saying, well Lord that's right is on me, I appreciate it. Now they they got the feeling, but they were ready to go. And so that's the what's next. But not just that, about being responsible. He said to them, Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. He said, Reverend, I've not been called to preach. No, see, you've got to see it in this context. To share. Amen. You don't need no license to go tell somebody about the goodness of the Lord. You don't need to have oil thrown on you, just do. Go into all the world and preach to the lost. Did you know that there are people who are still lost? Yeah, that's right. There are people who still have no clue what it means to be saved. Did you realize that? He says you're responsible to go forth and do that. Yeah, tell the lost people how they can be found. Let me let me throw this out. When was the last time you told someone about Jesus? Not opening day. Not NCAA. But when was the last time, think about it, that you said, Can I c can I tell you about Jesus? I think we're so often we don't want to offend folk, but yet the joke on the job offends you. But if somebody brings it up, you say, well let me let me tell you about about Jesus And this is not optional. He doesn't say, well, if you feel like going, he says go and to do what? And to share the good news of Jesus Christ with people you come in contact with. Are you feeling me today? Uh and so everybody has an assignment. He he's already up from the grave. Yeah, and he's literally but but there's still more work to be done. And you know what? You may need to reach the person sitting next to you. I think we become so afraid. I don't want to offend people. Man, I'm I'm sorry, I just who I am. I you know I uh I ain't gonna beat you up, but it's gonna slip out. Today, it's gonna slip out some kind of a way there. Let me tell you, uh you know it's a beautiful day. But you can find a way to get it in. And you've been called to reach someone in your home where you live. Where you pray, reach someone right where you are. Someone on your job, someone in your school. You are more than just a church attender. Ah, I was walking through a store on yesterday and uh uh met two young men that was and they they they got me they they they got mr let me praise god And they said, how you doing, sir? You want a coupon book? I said, well, yeah, give me one. And when they had it, they said, oh, by the way, we do home improvements. I was like, oh, so the coupon book drew me, but the one if your basement is leaking got me. Amen. I said, man, that's some spiritual meat in that That he said, hey, here's a cool yeah, let me see what they got on special. And then that, before I knew it, he had got me. And so there are ways you can put the gospel in. There are ways for you to be creative to say, look, you know what? I've been called to preach to all the world. I told us, well, you know, I don't need that now, you know, my house ain't that old, but you might. If you do give me a call. We've got to be that bold to let folk know that we will do it. And and and here's the good news. The word says that one planteth. Paul told the church at Corinth, I have planted. Apollos has watered, but God gave the engine. Are there any people who feel like planting today? I mean your farmer looking self, you overhaul wearing straw hat, dirty boot tractor driving, trailer pulling self. Can you plant a word somewhere wherever you go today? Amen. And then somebody else will come along and water it. And God gives the increase, you water boy, water girl. We've got to be so convicted in this that we are responsible for that soul next to us. Don't be afraid, be accountable, be responsible, but also we got to be credible. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved. But whoever does not believe will be condemned. We have to be a credible witness. You can't be one way one day of the week and then another way. I know. I was there I was the nightclub DJ on Saturday night, spitting the latest hits and Curtis Blow. Oh, some of y'all know about that. Amen. Temptation supreme and cooling the game. And then on Sunday morning, I was the gospel DJ. Uh oh. Something wrong with that. I was not very credible. And left there and went and taught Sunday school. And the children already knew that I wasn't credible. Maybe there was something on my breath. Amen. But they knew I was not a credible witness. But thank God for Jesus, through that, He's made me credible. Amen. Where is your credibility as a believer? You can be a what next person, but are you credible? Amen. That's just first base And you can't rush along the plan of salvation to something like I gave them the you know Romans 1098. If they didn't get it, no, no, no, no. It takes time. And more so they're gonna be watching you, but it takes time to break the word down. I told you this time I was doing uh marriage counseling with a young couple. I say, well, you know what, over in the book of John, you guys say, John who? He don't know what John was. John is this guy. And John was a guy who hung with Jesus. And so, you know, the world may not know that. So take time to break it down. For them, so that they might be able to chew it. They must be convinced that you believe and you're living what you say you're living. I know I sound like I'm I'm around the track, I'm just trying to help everybody today. Amen And these are some reminders. He says, whoever believes and is baptized. We'll be saved. So it's not just I've been baptized, but but do you believe? And so we're really striving to say, here is what I believe, and you too can believe in the saving power of Jesus Christ. Can I tell you what that makes me feel like today knowing that I believe and I can wear the label as a believer when I used to be wishy-washy? Weren't we wishy-washy? But now that you know what you know, what you know what you know, don't be afraid to let someone know that I'm a credible witness. I'm not perfect, but I'm credible. He says, because you gotta let them know there's a process in this. Amen. You can't just say I'm baptized, but you gotta believe that God so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son that he died And then he rose again on the third day morning. Once you get that into who you are, the Bible says thou shalt be saved. Eternal life is yours today because of that. And don't rush too quick because there's a disclaimer at the end of verse 16. But whoever does not believe Everybody will buy your story. You can't make them be saved. You can't twist their arm. The Bible says they will be condemned. That is, they will be lost until they find Jesus. Anybody ever been lost before? I mean shown off lost. I ain't talking about kind of lost. I'm talking about lost, lost, lost. Oh I don't feel y'all feel me today. How many folk know you were shown off lost? Oh, only eight people? Anyone who knew they were lost? I mean uh show okay I I'll take a nod. Show enough love, but thank God the day he found you And save you and put his word in you, and now you are a new creation. My God, I feel new today. Amen. How many folk feel new today because of what? Now you are credible And what you are doing. Condemnation, Romans 8. 1 says, therefore there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ in Jesus. In other words, you're secure in this. Amen. This is the guarantee. Amen. Uh-huh. It's not just 30 days, it's eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. What's next? Jesus certainly moves off the scene. He returns. He's taken up before their very eyes. The cloud hidden from their sight, and they're yet waiting. Melagelian, why you stand here? The same Christ, he'll be back. Amen. Amen. First Thessalonians 4, 16, 17, for the Lord Himself will come down from heaven. He's coming back. Amen. So there's always a what next. But I thought about what's the what now for us as believers. What what's next? What now? I gotta keep acknowledging him as Lord and Savior. That's my what now? I've got to bow down And worship him, that's my what's now. I gotta keep calling upon his name. That's my what now? I got a duty to serve him. That's My what now? I must extend myself for the cause of the gospel. That's my what now. I must fight the good fight of faith. That's my what now I must obey the word of God. That's my watch now. I must love my neighbor as my that's my watch now. I must wait on the Lord. That's my what's now I must trust in the Lord with all my heart and lean not to my own understanding in all my ways acknowledge him. He'll direct what are you doing right now? Now what now is to praise him Now what now is to say thank you, Jesus? What now? Back in the 1930s, a man named Alfred Ackley It was just an evangelist out preaching the word. And he came across at one of his meetings a young man who said, I'm Jewish, and I just don't buy this story. Why should I believe that that you know he he's dead? Jesus alone but you and this thing so got acting, it stayed with him. It burnt him in such a way he kept Saying to the man, man, I I he lived. I I I guarantee ya. Look at me, look at the thousands who've accepted No buying. He wouldn't let that thing go. So he became a pastor sometime later, still believing that God, you sent Christ and He's still alive. He was also a gifted musician. And his wife said, Well you ought to just put that to the song. Thank God for wives. Come on, brother. Y'all better say amen. Wife, you need to hear what you need to do, baby. And so Pastor Ackley began to write the words based on the gospel of Mark, and he says, I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I know that he's living. Whatever men may say, I've seen his hand of mercy. I hear his voice of cheer. And just the time I need him. He's always near. Rejoice, oh Christian. Rejoice. Lift up your voice and sing. Eternal hallelujahs. To Jesus Christ the King, the hope of all who seek Him, the help of all who find, none other is so loving, so good, and kind. And then he ends with this chord: He lives, He lives. Christ Jesus lives today. He walks with me and talks with me along life's narrow way. He lives. He lives salvation to impart. And he says, ask me how I know he lives. I dare you to ask me. Ask me how I know he lives. Come on, come on. Anybody in the crowd today? Ask me. How you know Reverend? Ask me how I know he lives. Come on, push me. I double dog dare you. Ask me how I know he lives. Anybody want to ask me a question? Ask me How I know he lives. Although you you're not pushing me. Ask me how I know he lives. Oh I'm waiting, I'm waiting, I'm waiting, I'm waiting, I'm Wait, num waiting, somebody asked me, as man, come on, come on, come on, come as Ask me how I because he lives within my heart. Thank God he lives right here. Thank God he rules right here. Thank God he serves right here. It's in My heart. It's this Jesus came into my heart. Floods of joy on my soul. Like a sweet bill. Since Jesus. Oh my God, maybe he's not in your heart, yes. I'm gonna ask you. Can I ask you Can I ask you how you know? Can I ask you how you know? How do you know? How do you know? Are any the witnesses in the house today? How do you know? How do you know he lives? How do you know? What's the proof? Can you prove it? Is there evidence in your life? It's because he lives within my heart. And every now and then I get this burning feeling. In my heart, it makes me feel good. I get this burning feeling that allows me to have joy when there might be struggles. I have this burn feeling that allows me to love. Hey God, I'm talking about it's in my heart. And it's got to come deep. I am accountable I'm responsible. And I've got to be credible. That is the word of God today. So come on stand today. Come on, stand over this place today. My God, I feel him right now. I'm excited to tell somebody about Jesus. Why? He's love. You won't know what love is? Know Jesus. And see if he won't love you like no one else can. My God, you know what's next now. What am I gonna do now? I'm gonna go out. Bumping the summer, excuse me, I didn't mean to bump into you. But since I did, let me tell you about Jesus. Oh, I didn't mean to cut you off, but since I did, can tell you about Jesus? Oh, you gave me too much change back. Let me go back and Jesus is love. How many believe that today? Yeah, yeah. Help your children and don't let them fall by the side. Of the road. How many put his love today? And teach them. To love one another, Mama, and heaven might In the Jesus My God, don't forget that. He won't let you down. I know he In my heart You gotta walk on my ma. Walk on through temptation. Yeah. Lord. His loving, his wisdom will be our helping hand. I know the truth. And his word. Will be our salvation. Lift up our heart and be thankful. Bless Jesus. How many know it today? How many feel this love today? I know he oh, yes, he is. As we come today, just give God a praise today. I've just stopped by with a familiar message. And this is what I know to be true. If you confess with your mouth. The Lord Jesus is there. Lord I I I believe that you that you came That God sent you. I believe that you died. I believe that you you rose again. I really believe that. And the Bible says if you can speak that. Confess that say that to him and believe it. The Bible says you will be saved. And so anybody who tells you there's like a 25-step process, don't believe that. Well I got that thing. I said, You mean that's it? I can do that. And once you do that and allow him in, he will provide the next steps. And the next step for you if you're not saved is to know him. I don't want to rush through I don't want to rush through this. Close your eyes right now And I have no crystal ball, I can't save anybody, but there are persons in this building today who have never uttered That prayer unto Jesus. I know it. But you've never said, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner And yet I I believe your word says it that if I if I believe that that you came and I believe that you died And I believe that you rose again because I do believe in Easter and I do acknowledge Christmas. The Bible says you will be saved. And today, right where you stand, no pressure, no pushing, whisper that prayer today. It's nobody's business but yours and God's. But you can walk out of here today having a what next experience because you can say, you know what? I got saved on Easter morning On April Fool's Day seemingly. But I ain't the fool. But I know that I'm saved. I mean I feel like it. I may be struggling with some things that I'm still trying to put away, but today make that decision. Life is filled with swift transition. Not on earth on move concern. Build your hopes. On things eternal. Hold to God's unchanging hand. Father, do it even now in the name of Jesus. Do it, do it, God. Do it today. Do it in this place today. Save that soul today. Right now in the name of Jesus. You know what? Let's just start praying today. Right now. If you're there, just begin to pray for that soul today. Oh, let's fill the house with prayer right now. Let's begin to pray. God, that's one right now in the name of Jesus, God. We're just gonna bang on the door of heaven right now. Oh, touch the heart, God That they might say, I yield, I yield. What must I do to be safe? Answer that prayer today, God, for that person That that person, that person, that person who were who were like us. Didn't know, didn't know how do it today, God, we pray Do it, Jesus. In your name. We pray. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Hallelujah. Thanks for sharing. We're Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To connect with us, go to our website. It's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwoharvest. org. Also, download our Harvest app. It's HCM Baltimore in the Apple Store and Harvest Christian in Google Play. I'd like to invite you to pick up a copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith. at home. It's available on my website at www. timtutentv. com. That's www. timt-im-t-o-o-t-e-n-t-v dot com or on Amazon and Barnes <unk> Noble. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord.