Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Amen. We thank the Lord today. But he's a God who still hears our prayer. Aren't you glad about that today? He don't mind taking you alone in your own garden. And speaking to you that way. That's the beauty of being a believer. Anytime, any place, we can have a little talk with Jesus and tell him all about our struggles. He'll hear our faintest cry and answer by and by. Let's bow today. Heavenly Father, we come at the preaching hour. And we thank you that you would use such a vessel to handle such a precious word. It is our prayer today that I might decrease And that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. But when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Can the church say, Amen this morning? Amen. I know sometimes the weather seems a little gloomy and but you still got fifties. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today that comes in the book of James. Four was read earlier. It says in James 41, what causes fights and quarrels among you, don't they come from your desires that battle within you? You desire but do not have, so you kill. You covet, but you cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight You do not have because you do not ask God. Verse 3 says, when you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives. that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. I want to preach from the Samonic title today, very simply, what's your motive? What's your motive? A motive is really an impulse that causes us to respond in a certain kind of way. It's to do something. Oftentimes it's the hidden and it can be the obvious. Think about the movie industry and television and the legal community, they want to know what's the motive. Why did this person do the crime? Why is it that they find themselves in the court of law? And if you believe LA law and law and order, and uh you believe judging Amy and Perry Mason and Matt Locke, uh they can solve this in 30 minutes But in the real world, you may not find out sometime later what is my motive. Can I break it down? We do things oftentimes to get a response. in a sneaky type way and in a way that really has an undercurrent, he has an ulterior motive. And so if there's anybody who knows that well, it is the person who writes our text today by the name of James. There are many James listed in the Bible, but this particular James is the half-brother of Jesus Christ. And look at this. He did not really believe his brother was the Messiah. Hung out with him. He didn't believe that he was going to die and was going to get up again. But something happened in James' life that changed him. He was actually one who was able to see the Messiah himself. James believed. And so James writes to a church today that could be a modern church. A church with issues. A church with baggage. Let me just say this. I love the bumper sticker. It says Christians are not perfect. They're just forgiven. We can be some hard folk. We can be some nasty folk. We can be some hard people, but by the grace of God. And every now and then you have to tap yourself on the shoulder, look in the mirror, wait a minute, had it not been for the Lord on my side, there I would have been And so James has his life transformed, and he's become a big shot in the church. So James writes a letter to the church. of all of those saints who were scattered, they were going through, he writes words of encouragement. And we have the Bible today to give us these stories and to give us accounts of what happened then, but look how relevant it is today. So James writes to the church. He wants to let them know there's an issue with church order. I've heard about you all. Heard y'all been mean and nasty. Her jaw been fighting. Can I just break it on down? They were quarreling. They were fussing. They were not a church of unity. And James got wind of it. And says, listen up. Now you need to quit what you're doing. Can I put it in modern terms? He said, You're really messing up. And most of it comes from inside In other words, you got your own battle and so therefore it spreads. Anybody want to bring you into their misery? They're having a bad day, they want yours to be bad too. They got a problem. They want you to have one too. Don't want to see you smiling. And so James says at the root of this is really the individual. Not quite sure what you're fighting about, but it starts with you. And so often we've got to look at ourselves and look without how am I contributing to the problem? Am I a part of the problem or the solution? And for those folk who think that churches are perfect, James points out that there are things happening within the body of Christ. that just don't work. And what really appalled me is that at the back end of that, well think about the text, there's always tension in the text. But out of that, they go to prayer. I say, oh Lord have mercy. You mean I can raise all that cane? And they say, alright now, it's time to pray. I mean to have the audacity to cause all that trouble and then say, I think it's time to pray. And you look at yourself now. Am I coming before the Lord on the back end of something that I've done? Or the back end of something I've said? Be very, what's my motive? And what am I saying in this moment and this hour of prayer? I want to just unpack this third verse. And first what we find out is that there's evidence of neglect. The very first word says when you ask. They were not people that always prayed, but when you ask, when you pray, what do you come with? That seems to indicate that there's not really an effective prayer life We talk a lot about prayer, but I would contend that all of our prayer lives could use a tune up. Amen. Could use some work. I can't make prayer the theme for the year and not have a increased prayer life. Can't hand out a prayer booklet and then you're not praying. My God, the Holy Spirit will stop you in the say you've not prayed. And I thank God today for opportunity. I may as well go ahead and share. You know, I got one little incident that always happens that I have to share. I was out yesterday running my errands on Saturday and I didn't even tell my wife, but I was going to go home and have breakfast. But the spirit kept saying to me, stop at this restaurant. Don't y'all laugh now. I didn't want to stop at the restaurant. He said, stop. I said, Lord, I, you know Can I just go home? No. Go by this particular restaurant. I start looking in my car. Well, do I have a CD to hand out? Do I have a card? I found one of the harvest bags. I walk in, they want to give me the bar. I don't want the bar. I want a real booth. I sit down and one of the waitresses comes by and says, Reverend, how you doing? I said, the Lord sent me. He says, He sent you for me. Having a bad day. And the next thing she does is, she says, having a bad day. Let's pray. I didn't have my coffee yet. I didn't have anything. I said, Father, in the name of Jesus on the spot, uh that is why he led me there. So You have to be open to the Spirit's leading. And so when you ask, the issue with this church is they did not pray very often. They did not make prayer a priority. It was not a practice. It was not a passion. They were more concerned about material things Amen. Now it's no secret. When you don't have any trouble, you know you'll you'll get one in every now and then, but let you hit a bump in the road. Let trouble come your way. Let tribulation knock on your door. And all of a sudden, can I confess? But Lord, I need to step my prayer life up. I'm down here, Lord. Do you hear me? And so we sometimes don't make prayer a priority. We neglect God. We neglect the practice and the discipline of prayer. And so He says, when you ask, when you finally show up, when you take time to bend your knee, you have really neglected me to this point, but I'll receive you anyhow. All I'm saying is take the opportunity to pray. Take time in your day to find a corner and to pray. And you may mumble, but it's alright. Why? Oh, saints will say that when you groan, the devil don't know what you're praying. When you moan, nobody may not know what you're going through. And Jesus talks about this sense of encouragement over in the Gospel of Matthew. He says, Now come on to me. In fact, I know you're going through so what In Matthew 11, 29, it says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and you shall find rest unto your souls if you but come to me. I don't know about you, but there have been times I've been been drugging, fighting the whole time to get to prayer. Now once I got the prayer, thank you. Wasn't it refreshing? Didn't you feel better? Didn't you have hope once you left that moment of prayer? And that's what the encouragement is. What is it I'm coming for? My motive is I don't really want to go to prayer. But now that I find myself in this place, it is a blessing. You know, I'm trying to be a little transparent Let a little stuff hang out. But I don't know about if that maybe that's not your struggle. Maybe your prayer life is so tight. You have any issue at all, you can pray until the cows come home That's not me. I'm saying, Lord, the Holy Spirit says, you know, you you've not thanked me today enough. Uh uh You're not giving me praise today I gotta force you by a restaurant so you can pray right and public, Amen. But I thank God for what he does by way of his spirit So there was evidence in an early church as today of neglect. But not only that, there was also of they were familiar with no. When you ask You do not receive because you asked with the wrong motives. No Someone said earlier, God will give you a no. And you'll be thankful later he said no. There's some things you don't need. He's kept yourself by saying no. And so it says, you're not gonna get this. All that sand you raised, all the trouble you've caused All the fighting you've been doing, he said, well Lord, I come now in prayer, and you ask, you're not getting it. Don't you look a God who's real You're not getting that? Why? You got the wrong motive. There's something up your sleeve. And we conto God sometimes with a list. All made up. I want this, this and this, and we call it a five-year plan. We call it a one-year plan. We call it a New Year's resolution. God, if you don't do it by then, then we're done. We don't say it like that Amen. But he gives us this no. He wants to prepare our hearts for prayer. But I al I kept thinking all week. The audacity of persons that raise all that came. I didn't say anything else. Don't say it, Reverend. Y'all know what I mean. And then they come to prayer, bringing all of that baggage, and out the gate the answer is no Amen. But rather, he wants you to come in so he can really stop with you, can really have fellowship with you. Whatever you bring him, he already knows it. Now, how would God not know what's on your heart? How would he not know what you're already going through? He knows it already. No Your desire is to use it for the wrong reason. No. I think sometimes we've gotten to the point we are afraid to say no. No is good. I'm guilty of getting an engagement. Somebody said, Can you do this for me? And I'll say, Well, let me get back with you. And then the day gets closer, let me check my calendar. I didn't check no calendar I should have just said no. You know, that's power in no. Not let me think about it. No. Not when you pray about it. No. And so God said, No. Because of the way you come and because of the motive that you have in prayer, this text helps us to come with grateful hearts. Helps us to open our prayer with confession, God, I've messed up, I've done wrong, now that we've cleared the air, then I can begin to pray. It's not like he said, well, okay, I didn't I didn't see you. No, he already knows. But we try and pull a fast one on God. Yes we do. Like I already know you gotta start over, Doc. I already know what's going on, so I come to you with an open heart. Why? Because I have received you. And what really happens is we have become so worldly and we've been influenced by the world so much, and it can affect our approach to prayer. Like what Paul said in Romans 12 and 2. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your what? Your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Are you familiar with the no? A no is not all bad. We have to come to him knowing that we can be in his presence. Amen? Not only that, but finally, there we find in this text what I would call symptoms of selfishness. He says, now, when you ask, you do not receive, because you ask for the wrong motives. You're trying to be slick. And on top of that, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures, not necessarily money, but whatever you ask for, it's really about you. Me, myself, and I. Lord, you know I need this. Lord, you know I am doing the best I can. Lord, you know I As opposed to saying, God, I'm not the only one. That if I'm blessed, help me to bless someone else. Now I'm gonna touch a button now. Don't worry about the Powerball. If I got the Powerball, I would. What you got now? I know I went off script. Whatever you have now, be a blessing to somebody You homeless, but if I want to win that oh some of y'all got that ticket, I would do this and that and this and there's no chance you're gonna win that thing But you've been one for Christ. Amen? He died just for you. And so we can be selfish in getting something that makes us look oh what's the ought to Holy Ghost filled I mean stuff is gonna make you look good. If I got that, I would really be the person. Huh? We're selfish. He said right there. You want to do it so you can get all the glory? That's why you want it. But isn't it great that God will give you things that you don't ask for? How many have been blessed this thing? God, I didn't even ask for that. But I've been thankful over a few things. Now you've called me up to be ruler over men. I ain't gotta sit there and beg and and connive with God about the you know I I I I came to church this week I paid my tithes and you know I I I I helped out in the neighborhood. No, no, no, no, no. He doesn't work that way. He said you're being selfish. And you're gonna do it for the rest. I thank God today. Won't he change a heart Won't he change a desire? He'll change who you are, folks who knew you said, oh no, there's old Flick Rick. No, that's not my name anymore. God is changing my heart. That's great. And the Spirit of God will lead you in this time of prayer. Again, when you pray, He'll give you the correct language to share. Look what it says over in Ephesians 6. 18. And pray in the Spirit on all occasions. Birthday parties, back to school night, any chance you get, pray. Amen. Pray with all kinds of prayers Prayer of supplication, prayer of faith, prayer of healing, but pray. All kinds of prayers in the group. And with this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying. For all the Lord's faith. That's called intercession. Not my mama, not my daddy, but it's me, oh your Lord. But you know what? I'm praying for other folk too. Isn't that great news to know that you can actually affect someone's life just by praying for them? And you look at them and they'll come back and give you a Holy Ghost report. Oh thank you, Lord. And folk are praying for you right now you don't even know about They're lifting your name up in prayer. What's your motive? What's your hope? I love that song that says, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and his righteousness. I dare not trust the Swedish frame, but wholly lean on Jesus' name. You can't go wrong. On Christ, the solid rock, I Stand. All other ground is thinking stand. All the world stuff will fade away. All the world stuff will go out of date. But stand on Jesus. Won't he do it? Won't he keep you through seen and unseen dangers? And you won't even have to sit there with some under table slick motive because you already know What you need? And so your motive. My motive is to acknowledge Christ. My motive is to be led by Christ. My motive is to be called by Christ. My motive is to be delivered by Christ. It is to be empowered by Christ. It is to be a follower of Christ. It is to be guided by Christ That's my motus My motive is if I want to live better. My motive is to win one for Jesus. My motive is, yeah, I know I said, but I'm trying to tell you what about Savior who died and who rose again. That's my motive What you getting at, Reverend? I'm trying to get you saved. What you up to? I'm gonna tell you about Jesus. Well I don't know. Yeah, you do want to hear it too. Yeah, you do, yeah, you do, yeah you do. Can I just share a little bit with you And so that's it. Make your motive of such you said, yeah, there's old Reverend So-and-so. Uh-huh. What is your motive? You come to prayer with an agenda. Do you come on the backside of a rough place? Take time. Say, Lord, I'm coming with the right intention. I'm better today because of this word. I kept saying all week now, now that that's not me. I I ain't been quarreling. I ain't been oh you got some kind of baggage. And whatever it is, sometimes it enters at the gate of prayer. Take time today, it's no no My motive is to please him. That's the word of God today. It's already best. Come on, stand today all over this place as we give God the praise and the glory. Amen. Prayer works. It unlocks the doors. It works And the fact that somebody is praying for you, man, that's powerful. Don't give me a dime. But I pray. Somebody's praying. Can't you feel it? Somebody's praying. Mighty hand calling me to be called me. Lord, I believe Lord, I believe somebody Pray for me. Let's do that again. Somebody pray. Somebody Somebody praying for me. I have got in me to protect me from me. Lord I believe, Lord I believe somebody is praise How many believe that today? Don't you feel it? Angels are watching. Yeah, yeah. Angels were watching over me. Just think about that today. God, somebody's out there calling my name. Don't even know. But I'm glad about it. Somebody I can't believe Somebody is praying for me. Thank you, Lord. Protect me from what I can't see. Lord, I believe Lord, I believe. Somebody praying for me. Somebody, somebody, somebody, somebody praying. As you bow those heads right now, I'm I'm that somebody I'm praying in the name of Jesus right now. God for every person in this building Every need, every want, every struggle, every problem. God, I'm calling in the name of Jesus that you might let them know. Their prayers have not gone unheard. Let them know that you're not deaf. You're yet on the throne. I pray in the name of Jesus, God, for every person who has desired a stronger relationship with you. Every person who every time they turn, there seems to be a detour. I pray in the name of Jesus. That thing is going to happen in the name of Jesus. I pray for every person, God, who has come with a broken heart today. God, that you might mend their hearts. Every person who come today. struggling financially, God, even now make a way. Every person dear God with the health challenge today, I pray in the name of Jesus by your strikes we're healed. I thank you, God, that you hear us. I pray even now, God, as you look at your people and look at your servants, we come today believing that you're gonna do it Believing in faith that you're gonna work it out. The Bible says to pray without ceasing. So God, continually we pray for that whole. And that need in that situation. God, I pray in the name of Jesus. I'm the somebody. We ought to be the somebody today who's praying for somebody else. Anybody want to volunteer to be that somebody? God, we're the somebody who is praying for someone else. That niece, that nephew. Praying. That pastor praying. That family praying. That child praying. They may not know it, but you are praying for them. And God, you are a God of results. I thank you. I thank you. Thank you for the prayers that have gone over my life. I thank you. Didn't know any better? Somebody pray for me. My mama prayed for me. Still prays for me. Thank you, God, that you hear her voice praying for me. My wife praying for me. Children praying for me. Thank you, Lord. In the name of Jesus. Thank you. Spirit just kind of showed me this. I've done it before, but you're here today and your child is with you. Bring that child to the altar with you. If you both parents are here, that's great. But bring that child with you. That child is present with you. I I just want to do this. I want to do this. I want to do this. If you Are here. Will it come on down? You you you my child. Amen. Yeah, I I want to do this. So I want to do this. There's power in the somebody who's praying for you. And here's what I want us to consider doing. I want the child to pray for the parent. So so I want the child to say no no no no moment you don't pray for me let me pray for you I appreciate that but I want the child to lay hands and to pray Over the parent. In the name of Jesus. I don't know if it's if my sister is my son here. Every now and then he'll come to the kids say, Bishop, let me pray for you. And I'll just bow my head. He'll lay a hand on me And pray for me. So even, Amen. Praise God. There's just power in that. And those of us who are left, just reach your hand toward. You can start without me. But pray. For that parent, that parenthesic today. In the name of Jesus. Receive it, Lord. Cover us, Lord. Hey. Thank you, Lord. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Lord. the prayers of our our children praying over us. Ah, pray and faith children. Pray children. Pray over that parent. Pray over their lives. Thank you, God. Do it today, Lord. Do it, do it, do it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Lord. In Jesus' name. Hey Thank you. Yes, thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you for a teenager's prayer. Thank you for a young adult prayer over my life. Amen Thank you, thank you, thank you. Amen. My God, aren't you in power today? Your child and prayed over you. Hey. Parents need prayer. Parents need coverage. Parents need encouragement. Parents need to know you know what somebody praying I'm doing all the praying no somebody got me covered my child got my back Isn't God good? Allow the spirit of God just to move in this place right now Get ready to go home, but my God, when the Spirit moves, you gotta move with the Spirit. So during the course of the week, mama making donuts, excuse me. The biscuits look good, but can I pray for you right now? Pray for your parent today. You may have come today and you have never given your heart to Jesus Christ. Now's an opportunity for you to accept him as your personal Savior. Pastor, to have no power to save anybody. But you have to confess with your own mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart That God has raised him from the dead. What a sweet spirit in this place right now. I can sense a sweet, sweet spirit in this place right now. If you're not saved today and you want to be saved, you can do it by opening your mouth Say, Lord Jesus, save my soul today. And he'll do it just like that. But you've got to make the initiate. If you're not saved today, you can be saved. By saying, God I, I'm a setup. Messed up many times But I believe today that you sent your son Jesus Christ. I I believe that. That he came and that he died And I believe that he was raised from the dead with all power. And I believe that in my own finite mind. And the Bible says, you believe that And you get it into your emotion and your heart, the Bible says, thou shalt be saved. And God cannot lie. He said it He's gonna back it up. And so if you're saved today, give God the greatest shout in this place. Hallelujah. Aren't you glad today That you saved. Saved by his power divine. That's a good place to be. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement. You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.