That's why. My my my my. How many folks that faithful today? Oh Lord. Did have to do it, but you did. And for that, I just say thank you. My God. Let's bow today all over this place. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There are two words. On our lips. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All of your many blessings. As we stand today, God, we thank you. That you're using us to deliver good news. Thank you for your people. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your power. And as we stand today, God, we We thank you for your spirit. May we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. I tell you what, there's no place like church. You may go to some other places and enjoy yourself, but there's no place like church. Like coming to church on a Sunday morning. Amen. I I I think it's still in. Now you may be at the ballpark. You may be at the club, at the pool, but there's something about church. On this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail again. And the gates have been trying, but they've failing. Oh my god, I feel that thing now in my spirit. Invite somebody to church. Just that you need to go to church. Bring somebody to church. Don't ask them, bring them. Amen. I better get off my soapbox. I feel that thing today. Everybody down on the church. Down on church people. I tell you what You let times get rough. Oh, and the hills get hard to climb. Where's your church again? Because there's power in the name of Jesus. That's power when assembling together in the place. This culture We are the body of Christ. I can just talk about that. In the gospel of Luke today. 17th chapter, verses 11 through 19. It reads, now on his way to Jerusalem, Jesus traveled along the border between Samaria and Galilee. As he was going into a village, ten men who had leprosy met him. They stood at a distance and called out in a loud voice, Jesus! Master, have pity on us. When he saw them, he said, Go show yourselves to the priests And as they went, they were cleansed. One of them, when he saw he was healed, came back Praising God in a loud voice. He threw himself at Jesus' feet and thanked him, and he was a Samaritan. Jesus asked Were not all ten cleansed? Where are the other nine? Has no one returned? To give praise to God, except this foreigner. Come on. Then he said to him, Rise and go, your faith has made you well. I want to talk today from the Samonic title, Whatever Happened to Thank You? Whatever Happened to Thank You. Can we go down memory lane for a moment And recall the words of our mothers and fathers, our grandparents, our neighbors, our teachers, our pastors, reminding us of some basic rules That when somebody gives you something, you say what? Thank you. When you ask for something, you say please. That's lost nowadays. I often kid young people when I go through a line or a restaurant and they say yes, sir, or they say thank you, or they say, I said, Where are you from? Baltimore said, well, where are your people from? It lets me know that people and parents are still pouring in to the lives of our society. Thank you has become one of the most underappreciated and underused phrases on our planet. Thank you is a common expression of gratitude. It can be expressed verbally in a note. It can be sent by way of an Instagram or text, although I just love to hear it Thank you. If you go on your phone, it'll it'll help you out. Start the word, it'll say thank you. But there's nothing like saying thank you. Face to face. Can I say to you today, Harvest? Thank you for being the people you are. But thank you, I'm afraid, is missing from our homes. Thank you is missing from our places of work. Thank you is missing from our communities and from our places of worship that folk have forgot to say thank you. I stopped by this morning to form a search team of posse of sorts to go with me today in search of those two important words. Thank you. In the text today, Jesus is on a mission. The Bible says he's on his way to Jerusalem. But he stops on the border between Samaria and Galilee. You know, Jesus was always on the move. He had a short region, but he was always going to the next place, always connecting with the next person, always in the midst of transforming a life Amen. I stand here this morning thankful that he stopped by to save me. I I'm glad that he went out of his way To come see me. Out of his way to protect me. Out of his way to show me a better way. Aren't you glad that Jesus Without of his way because we were already out the way. But he goes to where we are and ministers to us And this day on the dusty roads of Palestine, he decides to go on the border heading toward Jerusalem. And when he gets to this village, he's greeted by ten men. But not ten ordinary men, but ten men with issues. They had leprosy. And leprosy, in short, was a terrible skin condition in many different phases, but it was also contagious. People who had that condition often stayed out of sight. In fact, when they came near somebody, they would have to pronounce unclean. Unclean because they knew their condition. Jesus Heard them call him from a distance. Because they could not get close, they begin to scream out. And to shout out his name. Yeah, we become so primitive proper nowadays that we don't bother to call upon the name of the Lord. Have you found some things in life that have made you just holler? I'm talking about not. Father, we come. Die! I mean just hollow. God, I need you. And they were saved. Master, have pity on us. Our condition is of such that I don't need to be soft-spoken. I don't know the distance between them, but they raised their voices and called out, and Jesus said to them, knowing the condition, go show yourselves to the priest. Well, the priests were able to verify and identify that they indeed had been cured of leprosy. Until that time, they were excluded from the community. And my Bible says that they were cleansed as they went. Ah God is doing some things in our experiences in the process of our going to the next thing. So often we say, you know what, life is tough, it's rough. I better go stay here. No, no, no. You got to get up and begin to move in the direction to which God is calling you. And he told them, go And show yourself to the priest. As they went, something happened And the Lord is saying to us, just follow instructions. Don't debate with me. Don't tell me about how bad it is for you. I already know. But why don't you just go? Oh my god, I like that. And and in the process of your going, something happens Yeah, yeah. You know, you haven't had your parents say to you, I've told you to go on now. Now go, come on, let's go, let's get a move on. We old school parents do that We have no patience at all. Out the trash now. Clean the room now. Move the car now. We become those kind of people like our parents And so he said you go. And in the midst of their going, they're healed. Well, I feel that thing. In the midst of what you're going through God is already delivering you in the midst as you're heading toward your destiny, he's already changing you from your current condition. I beg you just to just take it all off anyhow. He said that to them. In verses 15 to 19 is where we'll drop our anchor. Jesus deals with this issue, I say, of thank you, and there's some lessons to be learned. Self-respect, self-discovery, self-awareness. Verse 15. One of them When he saw that he was healed, came back, praising God in a loud voice. He threw himself at Jesus' feet and thanked him, and he was a Samaritan. For the first time, this leper realized his own worth. He realized that because of what the Lord had done and the miracle he had performed, that his life had change. He he he knew who it was that it made it happen. And so he came back to the source. He came back to the one who made it happen. It's because the high father, everybody else, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. But first, go back and say, Lord, I just want to thank you. I thank God for Uncle Joe and Cousin Susie and everybody who helped me out. I appreciate the best. Everything. But I know who made it happen. Amen? And so he realized that there was some self-respect involved And he did not come back quietly. The passage says he came back praising God. I mean, one of the same guys who screamed earlier, realized and is going that God had done something. He said, Oh, wait, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me go back. And when I go back, don't tell me to quiet it down. He came back praising God. He knew his healing was not luck. He knew his healing was not a fluke How do you respond in the moment when you realize that God has healed your body? How do you respond? Are you cool, calm, and collective? How do you respond when God has healed your family? How do you respond when God has healed your mind? God has straightened out your finances and God has put you back on that job. Do you come back and say, Lord, I just want to thank you. Whatever happened to thank you. We become some ungrateful people. And I'm mighty afraid that we've stopped saying it. Remember the old folk would say, What do you say? You tell a kid that now, what do you mean what do I say? What do you say? And they will hold stuff back until you say that. No, what if God did that? He's not coming to God Well you run ahead of me. Say say it. Thank you. Amen. And when you think about what God has done in your life, you Thank you for everything that you have done. And then I love the visuals of the text. The Bible says he threw himself at Jesus' feet and thanked him. That that brother does. He was alive there's Jesus. And went head first and threw himself at the feet of and sometimes your blessing Is at the feet of Jesus. The one who walked the streets, the one who walks in the spirit. He threw himself. There was a sense of some self- Respect. And the Bible says he was a Samaritan. I love the text of just saying wait a minute, wait a minute. Don't end there. There was bad blood between the Jews and the Samaritans. But Jesus knows how to cross ethnic barriers. I may as well say it. There's been some national rhetoric Yeah. About going back home. This Samaritan didn't worry about his nationality. He was more focused on his healing He came back to give thanks. The Bible says in 1 Thessalonians 5. 17, in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Self-respect, also self-respect. discovery. Jesus asked, were not all ten cleansed? Where are the other nine? Has no one returned to give praise to God except this foreigner? Jesus was about to do some self-discovery. He wanted to help the man to come to grips as to who he was. And he raises three questions in a row. One right after the other. Well not all ten cleansed? Do you see Jesus' expression? Bruh, you came back, but what but what what the other nine at? Has no one returned except you You to give praise to God and accept this for now. I don't believe Jesus was looking for an answer because after all, he is the answer for the world today. But it was all a part of self-discovery. Jesus called him a foreigner He points out what the man already knew about himself. They had different backgrounds. This man was already an outsider anyway As a leper. And now an outsider as a citizen. Truth be told, we're all foreigners. Uh-oh, uh-oh, uh oh. We're all outsiders. We live outside of Christ. You a foreigner. You ain't got Christ? You a foreigner to the faith. Amen? But thank God for Jesus. That when we lived by the standards of Satan and followed him, you were a foreigner. But thank God what Christ does for foreigners with foreign spirits. And he brings them unto him. I'm glad to be a foreigner. I'm glad I can say that he's changed my life for what I used to be. Oh, you don't feel me today. Folks may call you many things. But once you know who you are, you don't worry about what folk call you. Call me redeemed. Call me a son of the king. Call me blessed. He said, I won't You didn't know. In fact, Luke was a foreigner. He was a gentile. Don't just try to set the record straight on all this go back home stuff. I'm already home. No, no, no, no, no, I'm not. I've got a new home over in Zion, and it's mine. Self-discovery. Psalm 1071. Oh, give thanks to the Lord. For he's good. And his mercy endureth forever. Okay. A moment. Of self-discovery, self-respect, and finally some self-awareness. Then he said to him Rise and go. Your faith has made you well. He gave this man some insight. Help them to see the change in his life, not the outside, but the inside. And not so often folk can't see that. They want to judge you based on what they see on the outside and you don't know me like that, but on the inside, God is working the word. You might look the same way, but there's some stuff happening on the inside that you're becoming aware of. He told him, Rise and go. Your faith has made you well. I love the King James verse. It says, has made you whole. In other words, this was bigger than just a physical healing. His whole person was transformed. Amen. Oh. As a part of a thank you. His mind, his body, his spirit, and for the first time He knew who he was. And knowing who you are makes a difference. Can you imagine him going back into town? And I don't know what other nine are, but man, I just had a talk with Jesus And I know I am different. Amen? Because there's something on the inside. Working on the outside. Oh, what a change In my you see I used to be a leper. Uh this Holy Ghost on the inside, uh working on the outside, all what a change You see, I used to be a leper, you did I tell you that before? Uh there's joy on the inside, uh working on the outside. Oh, what a change in my life. I did tell you I was a leper one time. Amen. Amen. There's peace on the inside, working on the outside. On the outside. I was a liar. Anyway, something happens on the inside. And Jesus knew a lot about thank you. Amen. Yeah, he he he he took a boy's lunch Yes. Two-piece fish dum. And he said, Lord, thank you. And they said Five thousand. Amen. That when he went to town uh there and and there was so much concern about Lazarus being dead, and he said, Lazarus You better come on out of there. And when he got done, he said, Lord, I want to thank you. And they're at the table, as he was at Passover, handing out the brazen. Lord, Lord He gave he gave thanks. Amen. He looked toward heaven. Well, it's that Peter Bolcher who helped to lead John and Charles Wesley from the Methodist movement to the Lord always said, if I had a thousand tongues I'd praise Christ with all of them. And later on, Wesley would do a hymn to that particular title. Oh, for a thousand songs to sing. But the old saints in my church would say, Lord, during the testimony service, if I had ten thousand tongues I could not thank you enough. I was saying myself, I can't even count the 10,000 at that point. But they be news for in other words, there was no limit. So they'll thank you. You might have thanked them this morning, but have you thanked them at midday? You might have thanked them over your lunch hour, but have you thanked them on the way home? You may have thanked them at bedtime, but in the midnight hour, every now and then, all you have is thank you. Amen. I always admired uh Dr. Charles Adams. He is a preacher out of Detroit And he would always close his sermons with a unique style, and it was always on thank you. In fact, he did Rosa Parks' funeral And he had learned over time many of the languages about thank you. Now I'm just a novice, but but I just come to say thank you If I were Arabic, I would say chicron. If I was French, I would say mercy. If I was German, I would say donkey. If I was Greek, I would say efrytos. If I was Hebrew, I would say Toda If I was Japanese, I would say Afritokato. If I was Lithuania, I would say Achu. If I was Russian, I would say Spabina. If I was Spanish, Gracios. If I spoke for Healy, I would say Asante. If I was deaf, I would just but since I'm just a country boy, come down in liable quarter. I just stopped by to say thank you for getting me up this morning. I just come to say thank you. For starting me on my way. I come to say thank you for sending your only begotten Son, and his name is Jesus. I just come to say thank you that he went to the cross. I just come to say thank you. that he died on the all on the cross. I come to say thank you. That he rose on the Thursday morning with all power in his hands. All I've got is thank you. I thank you. For saving me. I thank you for guiding me. Anybody want to say thank you? Is there one thing he's done for you that makes you say, thank you? Had it not been for the on our side. Thank you. What ever happens to thank you? I I I think we ought to bring it back. Hashtag thank you Thank you that you're coming back to claim your own That is the word of God today is already whatever happened to thank you dare you leave this place and thank you Said somebody, thank you. Why are you saying that? Well, it it started a long time ago Well I thanked him for saving me. And so now thank you just on my lips. Yeah, thank you. Anybody feel that thing today? Thank you. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. Oh, thank you, Lord. Yeah, yeah. Come just as you are, with the heart of Thanksgiving. Just as you are. Yeah, yeah. The everlasting. Oh, yes. My, my, my. Maybe you've come today. And God has already done something for you. In fact, He's kept you to this point. And just maybe in your going. living you you haven't taken enough time to say thank you it's been said that thank you makes room for even more blessings but thank god for Jesus That he sent him for us. I want to take a moment even now to declare to you the truth of the Word of God. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus. And believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says, Thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth, one confesses. With the heart, one receives. I'm so grateful today. For the Lord. Let me just say this. It it's not about things. See, you say, Well, I've got some new shoes, girl. Thank the Lord. I got a new rod. Thank you, Lord. I got a raise. Oh, thank you, Lord. You know, I I got a new friend. Thank you, Lord. But but what about just the cost? Amen. I don't need a faith, but I thank you for just being who you are. That's enough. Let's bow to the Father even now. We pray for that soul. In fact, we thank you in advance for the one who will commit their heart today. In fact, When they do, the angels in heaven are throwing apart. So we got another one. Thank you. And for God, for those who are not in a church building this morning, but they're listening over the internet, touch their hearts today. Make us grateful people, God. Not stuck up and stubborn and ungrateful and think you owe us something. You don't. You've given us anything we can have. You've given us Christ. Blessed. Healed saved today in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Maybe you've come today, and it's not if you're part of this church, the doors are always open. In fact, we thank you for coming. If you want to hang around, we'll still thank you. We're a church striving to live in the will of God. Amen. Come on, bless the Lord today.