Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Others might be encouraged, but when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory In Jesus' name, amen. This is the day the Lord has made. We can rejoice and be glad in it. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today from the Gospel of Matthew, and that simply means good news. And there in the New Testament, Matthew makes up that first gospel. There in the first chapter, 18th. To the 21st verse, we find these words, this is how the birth of Jesus, the Messiah, came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant with the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. Verse number 20, but after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, What's the Issue? What's the issue? It was hard not to ask that question this week as we experience yet another tragedy tied to gun violence As I begin to walk around and think about what I would say today, I say, is there a word from the Lord? Not to preach about the subject, but it's hard not to pack this away in our minds, our hearts, in our subconscious. And I begin to ask the Lord, Lord, what what's the issue? What's really going on? And as I began to think about that, it wasn't a long meditative moment. It was between my desk and over across the newsroom that he said it's a sin issue. It's really about sin. I can tell that the nation uh and as a people of faith that at the very core what we're dealing with when it comes to these kinds of tragedies is sin. It's a sin issue, a big word, and we don't take it lightly, but sin in the Hebrew is pronounced Roth. or adversity or bad. In the Greek it's hamorata, which means I'm missing the mark. What causes persons to make decisions on any level except that we are Affected by sin. Paul says in Romans 3. 23 that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Sin is not a popular topic. But sin causes persons to think certain kinds and to do kinds of things that will affect the soul. I say, Lord, what what's the issue? What's really going on here? The experts cannot uh unpack it. Uh the psychologists of the news commentators don't have an answer for it. I contend it's this. At the root. Amen. And one Bible translation describes sin as this. It says sin is a major disruption of God's order. It's a major disruption. It causes us to be pained. Causes us to look for hope. But thank God those of us who are on the Lord's side are not hopeless. Amen. Not saying that we're not being affected, but we're not hopeless. We still have hope that God is on the throne. In fact, we know it. God is not asleep, God is not dead, and yet we deal with the theological question why. I contend we can't always answer the why. But I come back to we're dealing with a sin issue. So for the moment, we know this story so well we can often miss some of the meat in this text. You know the story of the One where the angel comes to marry a teenage girl from a small town and say, guess what? You've been picked to bear the Messiah. I can only imagine her reaction. Say what? Uh but he comes to her with the angelic message and then of course the way the law was arranged, they had been certainly preparing for marriage. Amen. And uh all of a sudden Joseph gets the news, you say what? Uh that she's already praying. Come on, y'all getting too sanctified on me now. Uh you you're what Yeah, that the Holy Ghost did it. Now who who is the Holy Ghost and where can I find him? Uh what's going on? And he tried to do the right thing. I can either have a stone or I can go ahead and just, you know, on the down low, just kind of keep it quiet and just the voice. But then in a dream, the angel comes to him and say, Joseph Listen, don't do anything. You know, God still speaks that way. You already set to go. Had your mind made up. Come Monday morning, I'm gonna do this. But you know what? Keep on dreaming because you know God has sent uh a heavenly messenger in your dream to change your mind based on what you thought you were going to do about an issue Oh y'all didn't have nothing planned for Monday. Oh yes you did. You left Friday, so you waited the Monday morning. I'll deal with this. But God will come and change our direction He affected Joseph in such a way that says, you know, what is taking place is not really about you, uh, but just know that I'm involved in this. He's able to stand tall, he's a great man. A lot of brothers would say, yeah, I hear what you're saying, but I'm still skeptical. And that's the spirit man. The things we don't get. In our spirit realm. The flesh comes in and somehow we just don't get. But this is a spiritual thing. And so he's got an issue then that is that what do I do? He makes a great decision about yes, I'm going to stay because I realize this is bigger than me. And don't you know what you're going through is bigger than you? That what you're facing is bigger than you. What's around the next bin is bigger than you. And so you need a big God who can handle your situation. So this morning as we begin to unpack this, we really talk about this whole sense of the problem of sin, and then about the people that God is trying to reach by sending Christ And yet there's power in the process. What really hit me is I kept saying to myself, now Lord, that's why you sent Jesus. To save people from their sins. That's all that was it. You mean it was all the time I preached these messages, and somehow I'm so caught up in the one thing that I may have missed that the real reason That Jesus came was to save his people from their sins. That's it. Can I say it again? That Jesus Came and was sent for the sole purpose of saving his people from their sin. Let's unpack this. Here's the problem. She will give birth to her son, and you're to give him the name Jesus, because he will save. He was saved. And to be saved is to be rescued. To be saved is to be pulled from some place that we didn't really want to be. But there's this whole sin nature that affects all of us. I don't care what you say, that the problem is, is that sin will cause us to do some crazy stuff He would cause us to say some crazy stuff. That's the real problem. And I'm glad he was saved. Isn't that so elementary that he will save? Not might save, but he will save. And the fact that he secures our future. I'm I'm glad about that, that he still backs up his word Aren't you glad today that he's not out of the saving business? Didn't he save you? Didn't he make you new? You know, in the court of law, attorneys have to put together the best case. And so I used to watch trials if we're gonna bring uh States Exhibit one seventy-four and they bring a little plastic bag out and say, Your Honor, I want to enter this as evidence. into the trial. And I I see my own life that I'm evidence of what God can do in a broken life. Oh maybe I'm by myself this morning. Amen. That I come today as evidence he can take anybody and do a great thing through you. You are the evidence He will save and you are the one that can say I know he'll do it. Why? Because I'm standing here today, not because I was so good. Not because I did everything right, but the fact that he still saves. Hey, you know, we don't hear that much anymore. I've been converted, I've been transformed. No God through Christ saved you. And that's why Joseph, I'm still here. First of all, you get to name him. But no, he is so key that he will save. Anybody can grasp that thing yet that that you know you didn't think you need saving. You thought you was all right and and God reached through A forty in two generations he reached through and said, I see someone who needs to be saved. Amen. Well let me just talk about faith then. Uh you know, I I noticed some baseball folk in here and you know whenever you come in for the run and you hit the home plate, safe! And don't you know you are saved today because you are saved in him? That the devil can't take you out of the hands of Jesus once you've given your life to him? I am saved by the power of the Lord. That's the issue. It's a sin issue. But I've come to send my son to save. I like what Paul says over in Romans 10:13. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. You gotta do something. You don't just say, you know what, if I just be quiet, maybe I might just get saved. No. You gotta do what? You gotta call on the name of the anybody ever called on that name? Jesus. I'm calling on the name that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord But he saved me because I called on his name in my lowest moment. Devil called him. We got cell phones now. I'm talking about grandmamas. I got a phone in my bosom. I'll just call them up anytime. Amen. And so today we do just that. But to say this as I look at you today, and we'll take a two-second break. I sat in your seat this morning and I realized how comfortable they are. I say, you know what? These are some comfortable seats. And so I realize that sometimes they get comfortable. So that's why I'm moving around along. So what? There's a problem and there's a sin problem. Amen I just want to get that in there. You say, Reverend, you understand. These pieces are real nice. I I understand. I sat there for a minute. But if you just think about the fact that you've been saved, you ought to squirm in your seat He said, Lord, thank you that you brought me out through seen and unseen danger. Thank you for bringing me through. And he says, that's the issue. But not just the problem, the people. He will save his people. Yeah. This week I had family come in town. I was trying to get the family tree to see how they was kin to me and then on my daddy's side and and as I said, you know what They're my people. I don't know all the bloodline, but they're my people. And you got some people. You may not want to own them, but they're your people. Amen. You got some cousins and I got you all laughing now. But you know, and so God says, I'm saying because they're his people. He claims us as his own. You may have been rejected, you may have been denied, but know today that you are what? His people. It's not just saying, you know, well the Jewish nation was his no. He's no respecter of persons. I'm glad to be in the family of God and to know what? The Limited people. See, I know y'all are too cidified for that. Yeah, you my people. And the fact that we're saved, we're in the same family. Have I said hi lately, cousin? Amen. Is that he takes time to make it known that Joseph as you process this, you'll name him, but know the reason he comes is to save his people. Aren't you glad that you're included in that number? That that's why he came, is that I became a part of a larger family of God I got connections. I know people in high places. I'm thanking God today that what? He saved me and that I'm a part of his family. His his people. Amen? You you my people. Even though you blow it, you my people. Even though you mess up, you my people. Even though you scandalize my name, you're my people. Even though you lie every now and then, you my people. Even though you cheat every now, you my people. Amen. You still are my people And see, most of us have said, you know what? I'm not going to claim them because they are a third cousin or fourth cousin. But he said, you know what? In spite of what you've done, you still my people I still claim you to my I'm not done with you yet. Aren't you glad God is not done with you yet? He's still brushing you up and dusting you off and changing your tongue and changing your attitude. All because I'm his people. I love what the Bible says in Second Graph. If my people who are called by my name Will humble themselves and pray and do what? Seek my faith and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven, forgive their Sins and heal their land. If you don't get nothing else, you know what? I'm his people. If I don't get nothing else today, I'm glad that I'm in this large family And so sin comes in and tries to destroy that. But he says that's why he comes. Not for a new sale, not for a rebate, not for Black Friday. He comes to save, and there's still folk who are not saved. I've come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. That gets me excited. I might have some real life, life running over the fact that yes, I thank you. I'm your people. I could just stay right there. I'm I'm I I feel important today. What about you? Yeah, you can talk about me as much as you please, but I I I you don't know my daddy You don't know my people with his people. But you know, it's all because of of the power in salvation. Save his people from their sins. Uh-oh. Take ownership. I messed up. I've sinned, but the fact is that he saves me from sin. Aren't you glad today that you can go to him and say I've messed up and he will save you from your sins? Let me just do a quiz, not even a quiz. Uh uh how many folk uh sin this week? Amen. If you didn't raise your hand, then you suspend. Amen. Amen. I don't even know what you did. You don't even know my business. And I I would tell folk I said, you know what? It was a little one instead of thin. There's no category like a that was a one Uh-huh, but no, but really a five. But aren't you glad today that He saves us? And that's the whole piece that got me jumping this week was that what He saves us from our sins And so when persons choose to go another way, a different mindset, anything could happen, but he's still he's still available for those even today, even the worst of criminals And sometimes they don't find him to get him, but he's still available. That's why he came to save from the power of sin. And for our love for sin. We like some sin, yes we do. Yes, we do. We got special sin, some stuff we like. But y'all look y'all look at minutes more than now. Yeah, but he's saving you from that thing that you just that sin that so easily besets you, that one that always gets you. He saves you from that Oh yes he will. And from the practice of sin, beloved us and from the penalty of sin. Now I you don't even be a football fan, but you know that when something happens on the field, the official flows a yellow flag. That that means something has taken place. A wrongdoing on the field. And so therefore, because of that, there's a penalty And you gotta march back. You know, oh why did he pull the face mask? Why did I lie this week? Why did I cheat this week? Why did I duck you know and so therefore there's a yellow flag going up in your life Oh you never seen a flag before? Oh yes, and you know the person is guilty. They put a camera. Oh yes, you did clip him. And so there are things that we've done in life and the and Satan loves that. Flag on the plate. Weren't you glad today that God allows a review system? That now He's given a coach a red flag a red flag? Say, you know what I know I know, but I'm going to challenge this thing in the name of Jesus. Amen. You know, I know you thought you had me, but can we go to the booth and look this thing over? I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking the rise, but the master of the sea heard my The spirit, oh, I got another flag on the plate, and that you can challenge that even though the devil thought he had you, God said, I'll deliver you. That's why I went to Calvary And that's why I died. There's a challenge on the plate. And because he's done it, he can save you from all of your sins. And throw them into the sea of forgetfulness where they'll rise. No, you might bring it back up. I'm done with that thing, amen. I know I messed up in 76, but my God is almost 2016 now I've gone on from that because there's been a challenge on the plate. The fact that people do wrong, they don't allow the Lord to lead them. They allow the enemy to lead them. Song says, let Jesus lead you all the way. All the way from earth to glory, let let him lead you when you are at the point of about to mess up and At the port of a crazy thought, at the port of I don't care what they say, we put my religion at that point. No, he will lead you if you want to be laid. You gotta want to get out your sin. You gotta want to say, yeah, Lord, save me and keep me. Yeah, I I I I need to get out of this. And that was the issue. That when people do things in life, all that I could come down to church is that there must be a sin issue. But he's still available. To the worst of the worst, he still saves. From the utmost, he saves. He still is in the saving business. Our practice is to yield not to temptation, for yielding is sin. Each victory will help you some other to win. What's the issue? I don't know. I'm all confused. It's a sin issue. But he sent his son To save his people from their sins. That's the word of God today. It is already blessed. Amen? Amen. We bless God today. Word says in 1 John, if we do what? Confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and do what? Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Stand today all over this place. Offer Christ for you today. I know you want a special offer. I got the best offer. Is I bring Christ before you today. He's the only one that can make a difference in your life. He's the only one that can save you. I'm talking about Jesus. Do you believe that today? I do. And that's why I keep trusting him. Even when I fall short, I'm gonna trust you. Because I remember why you came to save me from my sins That's the greatest news you ever find is that he's still safe. Let's think a little bit of this today. We are through Christ. To you, all my brother. We offer the price to you. All life is there. He will give you brand new life, the life of bundle. Come on, say like you've been admitted. Say like you've been saved today, amen? You remember that day you got that offer? Couldn't turn it down? Offer Christ to you. Oh my brother. That's the foyer. After Christ to you. Oh my sister. Here's what I've learned. When you life above me I think so. God in my spirit this week I've already had my little text all picked And I walked from my desk and said, Lord They look at the preacher in the newsroom. What do you think of that? Well, well, well, it's a sin issue that that something is happening within a person that causes them to do these demonic things. And yet I remember, wait a minute. Well, isn't that why he came? Yeah. That's why he came. To save his people. From their sins. So I love the text. That's it. And the fact that I'm his people. And today maybe you say, you know what? I'm not kin to y'all. Well, let me tell you, today you can become kin to us, but more so a part of the great heavenly family. Come on. And so I'm coming at the family reunion right now. I know y'all don't hate the word, but can I just have the platform for a moment? And I want to try to get some more cousins in to the body of Christ. We're cousins? Everybody raised their it might be one or two that don't know the family. Let's bow today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. I offer Christ today to those who may not be a part of your family. Not a part of your divine family. And I pray in the name of Jesus that they may open their hearts today and allow you to come in. And you will suck with them. And you will transform their life and their thinking and their going out. And they're coming in by the power. God, for all those who are unsaved around this world, I pray in the name of Jesus, God, your word has power It can affect the life of someone. I don't care what group they're in. Your blood still has power. So I pray even now, God, for the unsaved, not just in this place, but in our neighborhoods in our homes, on our jobs. Help us to walk around like we're some people who really belong to a great family. And even right now, as you're standing there in this moment The Bible says that you shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart, in your heart, that God has raised him from the dead, the Bible says Thy shalt be saved. And that was made possible. Because Christ came. I pray even now. If you're here today while those heads remain bowed today, you're not sure. I want to pray with you in a special way. Father, I pray today. For that soul that's not saved. Bring them into the family today, God. Bring them into your divine family. You know you're not saved today, ponder that thing. Let it sink into your heart today. He can save you right now On the spot. Noah call you back and see me in 60 days. He'll save you right now. Thank you, Jesus, for the soul that you're gonna save in this place. The pastor can't save. Deacon can't save. Nobody, you, you, you only have the power to save. Save today we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well his people give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. If you know you his people. Well, y'all don't sound like counsels today. Acting like y'all know it okay to me, amen. How many folk are glad to be in that great family? Amen. And not shame. Yeah I'm I'm not ashamed. I'm not ashamed of that. Maybe you've come today and you desire to be a part of this fellowship. But you know today that the doors are always open. This is the highest calling I say that you could ever have as far as I'm concerned. I said, Lord, maybe there's one today. Maybe there's one who who walks and says, you know what? I want to change my life. And that you might get the glory. You desire to be a part of this church today. I'd never like to leave without saying you can walk on down like y'all did in Grandmama's church and I'll shake your hand. Or you can keep on coming. But what's most important to me is that you give your life to Jesus. That's my life's mission. Can I get one? Can I can I I get one one one. Hey just just try to get one. Someone try to get one. Yeah, just no one one C D I was uh in the store yesterday and I'll I'll tell all my business. I didn't want no other phone, but I had to get one. And so I'm talking to the young lady there and I just say, you know, I'm I'm your daddy. Yes, yes, yeah, I'm gonna be your daddy in this moment. And before I left her, I said, you know what, you got what you want a podcast? Let me tell you, but give me your phone. Let me send you the seeds of encouragement. So every morning you get up, it'll be waiting for you. Come on. So I said I'm gonna reach one A boy becomes, hey, I'm your father-in-law. I'm your daddy. You gotta explain folk. You know what? Look at me. I'm your daddy. And here's the word you hear. Folk want to hear that. I know you eat my blood, but you know, I'm your people. Today claim somebody today. Alright, cuz. Can I be your dad in the day? I'm gonna be your mama. Come here, come here, come here, come here, come here Tell you about Jesus. We gotta do that. We've got to be bold today. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. He's good and he's worthy. Thanks so much for listening I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's come the number two harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.