Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. All things are working for our good. That comes out of the word. Romans 8 28. And we know that all things work together for good for those who love God. And to those who will be called according to his purpose. I don't know if song got the word in them. Amen? Let's bow today. Father, we thank you Everything is working out for our good. As we come before you today, it is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. When this time is done, we'll be so careful. To give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Yeah, this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. That was your cue. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in the day This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad. I'm I'm I'm trying to eat it. There's a word from the Lord this morning that comes from Second Chronicles there in the 20th chapter, verse number 17. It says You will not have to fight this battle. Take your positions, stand firm, and see the deliverance the Lord will give you Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid. Do not be discouraged. Go out to face them tomorrow. And the Lord will be with you. I want to preach today from the Samonic title What Do You Do When You Don't Know What What To Do? What do you do when you don't know w what to do? Recent research Determines that adults have some thirty-five thousand thoughts a day Decisions that have to be made. Am I gonna eat Fruit Loops for breakfast or honey nut Cheerios? Am I going to take the interstate to work? Or will I do better by taking a back road? There are decisions that we make even as we go about our daily lives. It's sports Sunday, I may as well say, even in sports and football, quarterback may come to the line of scrimmage And realize that the defense looks awful mean. And at a moment's notice will change the play at the line of scrimmage. Now if there's a touchdown, you say go. If it results in a sack or loss of yardage, you're not too happy. But we've all come today with some kind of decision that we're trying to make. I have no crystal ball I don't know your story, but each of us has something that cannot wait until tomorrow, but we are pressed with making a decision even now. What do I do when I'm honest enough to say when I don't know what to do? And that's the honesty of it, is that most times we'll fake it until we make it. Well act as if we got it all together but get us in the back room somewhere and we're just shaking, wondering, Lord, I need your guidance. And that's a good place to be is to seek the Lord when it comes to a decision, when it comes to something that you have to do. It may not be big for someone else, but for you, it's a major decision. Anybody today came in the house with the decision you gotta make tomorrow? Anybody come with a decision that you've been putting off for days and for some for years you figure it would just go away, but it hasn't? Well, I'm glad that you showed up today because the Lord that we serve is able to guide us in making decisions. And doing those kinds of things that we'd rather not have to deal with. Have you noticed that? Things just don't go away just because you quit thinking about 'em. But this morning you got up with something. And last night you went to bed with something. And that thing has been eating at you, and yet you realize that God is able to assist you. In the text today, we find the people of God, of Judah, Jerusalem, they've gotten word that the enemy The Moabites and the Ammonites, those names sound tough all by themselves, are coming to attack them. That's not what you want to hear. That somebody who don't like you is out to get you and they're on the way. You know, I mean it's this is not a schoolyard fight. But I mean the kinds of things in life that will challenge you, and so once they got word The king, Jehozephat, said, What are we going to do? They looked to him as being the leader. And what he does is a good example. He pulls the people together. He calls a fast In the land. Let's turn our plates down. This is serious business. Don't sit around and mope about why me or oh my God. And then a determination is made that they would pray. That seems so simple sometimes is that we forget to pray. Life situations will bind us in such a way is the last thing we're thinking about is praying. That would happen to you? I mean you say if I can figure this thing out, uh I'm gonna figure this out. And you can't, because you've not sought the Lord And ask him what would you have us to do? What what do you do when you don't know what to do? You pray. And and they began to pray and began to come together and families came. Men came and they led the way and said, What is God saying to us? Right. And so today there's some things that I think can help us out in the text as it relates to how do you deal with that major, major decision Jehozephat needed a playbook. He needed a guide, and God had it for him. But before I get to the points, it struck me that the word says that you've already won the battle. That God had given them some advance say you're gonna win. But there's still something to do. And you ever been there before that you know that God is gonna bring you through? And yet you still have to do something in the midst of knowing he'll bring you through The victory is already done. Well they could have said, well, good, we're just going back home then. No. There's some things that we have to do and that God is calling us to do in order to deal with big decisions. We gotta be in the right place. It talks about taking up your positions Being in the right spot. Wouldn't it be horrible to see your team come on the field and the quarterback think he's the center? And the Senate think he's the tight end, and nobody knows their position. Everybody is scrambling about what are we to do. But it says, take your positions. Be where I am placing you for the moment as you're making this decision. Ever been out of position? I I have. Should have been over here and I I was over there. Living a life that did not match up with my testimony. Uh technically, I was out of position. But he says to them, take up your position, be at a place that I called you to be. Take a position in your home. Take a position on your job. Take a position in any situation that you face. Just know. You would know when you're out of position. But that was the word to the people and the word to the king that no matter what I just said You take up the proper place that I want you to be. Amen? You know, and Jesus took the right position. He went to an old rugged cross in a certain kind of position. Amen? And I'm glad today because he died and rose again He's taken up another position at the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. Where do you find yourself today? Are you where you believe that God has you to be to make the kind of decision that's going to be the right one? Are you in order? Are you doing the kinds of things that will lead to a positive and lifelong decisions? I can't answer that for you. But it's my daily prayer that God, I want to be where you want me to be. Why? Because the flesh wareth against the spirit. Your flesh will fill your head with all kinds of stuff. Oh, you you it. You're doing the right thing and you have fine focus. That's right, you tell them. I will if it was me, I'd tell them that. But you are out of position. But when you know that God is helping you to go a place, you will learn How to be in a place where he wants you to be spiritually. Ah, now you say, well, I moved. No, I mean, but moving your whole person Moving your whole spirit to a place to where God can help you. Now decisions are not easy, but my God, with you in the right place, won't it make a difference? What do I do? Well I don't know what to do. Uh take position. But not just that You've got to have the right stance. And somebody who read the text says, stand firm. You right? It's right there the text. Stand firm The word says, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted in the earth. And so that's it. It's hard for us to be still We're not wired that way to be still. We feel like I gotta be doing something. I gotta fix this thing some kind of way. Be still for how long? It's like a spiritual timeout. Well some of y'all have been in timeout. When they put you in timeout, it was in lieu of getting something else, but you were in timeout Be still, don't move. And so that's what he's saying to the people that God is giving. Stand firm Don't don't move to the left or the right. But stand on the promises of Christ our King. It it seemed like it's easy to do, but there's so many things that are trying to pull you off your mark. You ever had a place in line and you were going by something else and you stepped out of line and somebody got your spot? Because you weren't firm and you wanted to fight them too, didn't you? That's my spot. And so God has given each of us a place to be and how to get the right stance. A stance in him. It really helps. Our society is not uh in a way that we will tell folk to chill. Yeah, I mean they knew the enemy was coming. They knew that somebody wanted to take them out, and the word from their leader was is just to stand still Are you kidding me? If we stay here too long, they'll come get us. Stand firm. But you don't realize how bad these folk are. On the way, be still. Ever had a situation where you thought you had to go and once you stay still, God allowed everything around you to work out. In your situation. I know it's it's a hard discipline because we are fixers. But God Is saying, be ye steadfast. I love that passage, 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know. Your labor is not in vain. I'm holding my stance and I'm staying in my place. But stuff is still happening around me. I I hear you God, but I'm getting antsy I hear you God, but there's a deadline tomorrow. You don't understand. I I hear you, God, but that but there's a you don't know my situation. Yes, he does. Yes he does. He knows what you need to do when you don't know what you think you need to want to do, that can't do and shouldn't do. Amen? And so you're holding that stance For that time, Jesus said to Nicodemus, you must be born again. You can't do anything beyond that. Yeah, you gotta be your life's gotta change. And so having A stance that represents where God is taking us. Have you figured out your situation? Now you say, I got this. Now I just need two points. I'm already at a place now. I understand. I'm ready to go. But You also have to have the right vision. Amen? He said, Now see the deliverance of the Lord. Wait a minute. You're telling me To take a position, don't move, and then see what? See what I've already told you I'm going to do in faith. Ah. So what happens is, is even though you can't see it, God has given you the vision that He's worked it out. I used to hear that and say, well yeah I I yeah I see it but I still don't see it. Uh uh you know because faith is the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen And so while you may not see it, don't you know God is still working it out in the background? That while you can't touch it He's still working it out. While you're pulling your hair out, he's still working it out. He said, if you would just take time to see me in the spirit and see if I won't deliver you from your enemies. Even though I told you in advance I was going to, I'm telling you again. It is going to happen. And then he says on top of that, don't be afraid. Because we get afraid. You're telling me to be still and to see. I'm I'm still afraid. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I'm thy God, I will speak thee. I will help thee. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. I'm scared. But you tell me not be afraid and don't be discouraged. Don't mope around Don't look sad. Your countenance sometimes tells just where you are. Amen. But know that if you look closely enough in the spirit, I'm all ready. Work it out. Because you were honest enough to say I I don't know what what to do, and because of that He works it out to the glory of God. And the text wraps up, he said, okay, tomorrow. Go face him. Not next week, not after I pray about it some more, not when I get around to it, but tomorrow you leave your spot and you go face your enemies. Amen Amen. Some of y'all were fighters. You didn't wait for the fight to start. It wasn't bad as meant hitting my hand. You just said, wait a minute, let's go. Amen. Well he said, I want you to go to where the enemy is, and I'll work it out. And he's gonna work out your situation in life if you just follow instructions. You'll face them tomorrow. Now here's the rest of the story. They show up at the place they're supposed to show up. And before they go King Jehozephat says, let's get some praises together. And so he calls the male course. And say, I want you all to go first. And they started singing, Oh the Lord is good. And his love endures forever. Are you are you kidding me? That's not good foreign policy. No, I want some singers to go in advance And start singing like they're crazy, and you'll find out that once you get there, that praise has already taken care of what you were going through When they got to the spot that God had sent them, the enemy were fighting among each other. They started to ambush each other. Are you following me here? That you worried about what's gonna happen and God has already set up to focus after you They fighting each other. And the enemy, when they got down there, it was all laid out. Everybody was done. Why? Because praise made the difference. Don't you know that praise will bring you through some situations in life? That praise will help you to defeat the enemy. And every now and then all you got is just the praise. I can't praise. I can't sing, but I can just say, Lord, you've been good to me. Amen. And so in the end God was already working this thing out so that folk just praise their way through it. He ever done that before say you know what I'm just gonna lift my hands to the sky I'm just gonna praise God. And some of y'all done it at a car dealership. Hallelujah. Praise God. You've done it at the bank when you got approved for that loan. You would definitely Praise the Lord. When something came through, you found yourself saying, hallelujah. I'm praising him. Why? Because praise has made the difference. When I didn't know what to do Praise came through. And that's why I love Psalm 100. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord. All ye lands. Heard the Lord with gladness come before his present with singing. Know ye the Lord, He is God. It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We're his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise, and be faithful unto him and bless his name For the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth to all generations. Can I just say today Praise is what I do. I just love to praise them. I love to praise them every chance I get. I love to praise them when I'm down. I'll praise them when I'm up. I'll praise them wherever I go. I just get a praise on. Now for some folks it's a nice little way. For other folk they get bucked wise. Can I just praise them? I love to praise him. Do you love the praise him today? And praise made the difference in the situation That they went all around just to come to a place where God used the power of praise. Isn't that good news? That's such good news. I'm gonna ask the musician to play I love to praise him. We're gonna end it that way. So come on, Stan. What do you mean? That's it. I love to praise him. I love to to praise his name. Amen? He's my rock? Amen? How many folk are waiting for the musician or you're gonna start praising them now? Amen. I just praise him. I love It's a praise. I love to praise his holy name. I love to pray. Well I love to pray. I love to pray. Along. I love to pray I love to pray. Well, I love to pray. Oh, I love to pray I can't hear ya. I love to pray. Well, I love to pray well. I love to pray. Oh, I love to do that. I love to pray. Well, I love to pray. Oh, I love to break. And here's what? Wah he's my raha. Ma ra My rock, my voice, and he's my will. My will is filled up. I know he'll never I know he'll never he'll never be Just don't you are you and I well hallelujah, hallelujah. I love to pray, oh yes Hallelujah, Hallelujah. I love Hallelujah, Hallelujah. I love the praise Oh I love to pray. One more shot, here's my rock. Where is my rock? My rock And he's my will here. My will. I know he'll never he'll never Don't you ought to hallelujah, a hallelujah, hallelujah. I love the Praise. Oh hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Oh yeah, hallelujah. Hallelujah. I love the I love to praise his holy amen. While you were praising the thing that was in your way, while you were giving God Way, all of a sudden, the enemy was confused. Why you were clapping your hand, God done what you Best thing out. I was obedient. I stood still. I saved and praised. But when you say praise them, I start to give him praise and to give him glory. Praise is what you do. What to do when you don't know what To do. Let's look to the Lord even now. Father, we thank you today. That the thing that we needed was right there. That you took him all the way around and brought them back to praise you. And praise made the difference. God we thank you for your divine intervention into the lives of your people today. They shook some stuff off today. They follow instructions. I pray, but now that you might deliver. There's situations might when they get up to worship service. Oh, did you hear? I just got a text Just got word that God is already working now. Father, I pray even now there's one today in this house who knows you not, God, that you might save them today. The Bible says that you're long-suffering. Not willing that any should perish, but all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Save that soul today, God. Your word says, Shall confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised from the dead, thy shalt be saved. Do it today, God, in this place. Now Lord, we pray for those who've come looking for a church home or looking for a fellowship. They just in a praiseville. Yes. Will we come to give your name the praise it deserves Touch that heart today. Do it we pray but now in Jesus' name. Somebody give God a praise today. Amen. Look at that. There it is again. Give God a praise today Let me just say this to you. God is already working it out. You've been holding your subject all week. If I just need it back. If I just do something, it'll change my dilemma. If I just did something. But sometimes it's to do nothing but what he says. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D But you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. com2harvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest dot org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.