It is time for the Word of God, and I want you to take in your Bibles to uh turn to John the seventeenth chapter, that's the gospel, as penned by John, the seventeenth chapter There, verses 16, 17, and 18. That's the Gospel of John, the seventeenth chapter. Verses 16, 17, and 18. And when you found it at home, give us a thumbs up. When you found it here on the parking lot, give us a beep Amen. Oh, I didn't hear very many beeps now. I expect you to follow the word of God so that way you know what the priest is preaching. Amen. That's right. Make sure I got the right stuff So we find there in the word John 17, verses 16, 17, and 18, it says, they are not of the world. Even as I am not of it, sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, What in the World Is Going On? What in the world is going on? When we consider the Holy Bible and consider how it's laid out, the books of the Bible, Genesis is the first book of the Bible. And I noticed that as Moses began to document what thus said the Lord, he wrote there in Genesis 1 and 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. In other words, God created the world I begin to think about that. I'm saying now there are 31,101 other verses. Why was this verse the very first verse? the very first passage, I think it is important for us to remember that if you don't know any other Bible verse besides Jesus wept, you know that in the very first book of the Bible The very first utterance, and God created the heavens and the earth When we think of the world, I think about my childhood and perhaps yours as well, and we hear the song He's Got the Whole World in his hand. You remember that song? Maybe you sang it, uh maybe you sang it to your children. And I had my own imagination. I'm thinking, God, you got the whole world in your hand? This must be a mighty big hand to hold the entire world. Guess you see that picture. But In 1927, it was James Walton Johnson, an African-American composer and poet, there from Jacksonville, Florida, who wrote the lyrics to Lift Every Voice and Sing. He wrote a poem that sticks out to me. It was called The Creation. Amen? And he said, as he wrote this, that God stepped out on space And that he looked around and said, I'm lonely, I will make me a world. If you know that poem, after each utterance He comes back and says, and God said, That's good. I remember the Mike Knight sisters from down in Florida. Nobody could do it better than them. They would get together as a group and they would do the creation story like no one else. Good, and I would always wait to say, and God said that's good. So so what happened then to the world? What did we fall short in the world? I can tell you. Genesis 3, a few chapters over, sin entered the world, the willful disobedience to God's law And it happened there in the Garden of Eden. That is where Satan deceived Adam and Eve. At that point, sin entered the world. And God even said then that in so many words, I will rectify this. But you know, the world for a working definition Is the evil system controlled by Satan himself? He is one that promotes Power. He is one that promotes prestige. He is one that promotes popularity. He is one that promotes fame. He is one that promotes These even fortune. In fact, when it comes to fortune, uh all it takes is for you to say something and then your phone pops up and say, Do you want to buy this? They don't say it but they know what you're looking for. Around the world, advertisers have spent more than three hundred and twenty-five billion dollars Trying to get your attention and get my attention. Why? They want us to be in. They want us to have the latest. They want us to be what? Into the world system. But I'm so glad That John writes earlier in this book, John 3. 16, for God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him would not perish, but have everlasting life. Why don't you glad about that today? That no matter what mess the world is in, God was so concerned by a broken humanity, he does what? He sends his best. He sends his only begotten son. So here's the challenge today. Instead of asking what in the world is going on, I believe it is our mission as believers to try and win those in the world for Jesus Christ. Can I say that again? I believe that instead of asking Instead of complaining, what in the world is going on? What's wrong with the world today that as believers in Jesus Christ, it is our mission? All right, Cicada, back off me. It is Okay? Amen. Cicate, you better get behind me. Look at that. Look at that. You got a picture of Cicate out of here. Isn't that good? I tell you, a sense of humor. But in our text, we find time and time again where Jesus is praying. Jesus had a prayer life He didn't talk prayer, but he did prayer. Amen. And Mark 135 talks about Jesus getting up early in the morning while it was still dark. and going to a solitary place to do what? To pray to his father. Prayer becomes so key. in the life of the believer. In our text, really in John 17, we find Jesus also praying again to his father But this time I believe it's more emotional because his earthly assignment is almost over, and therefore he is coming to talk about what has taken place to this point. He talks about what's going to happen next. He is so concerned about those who've been following him. He's so concerned about the disciples. And when you think about disciples It's not just the twelve, the ragtag bang of misfits, but he's talking about those who follow Jesus Christ. He says, God, you gave them to me, and they have done right by me. They have obeyed your word. And he prays for their protection. Let me just pause for a moment. That Jesus who sits at the right hand of the Father is yet making intercession For the Saints. Oh, the cicada's trying to have a time messing with my technical team. Get thee behind me, Cicada. Amen. They're real bad here in Maryland. But we know that he also talks about the importance of winning souls for Jesus. And so here it is. In order to win the lost who are in the world, we have to know who we are We have to know the truth of God's word, and we have to know where we are going. Amen. Know yourself. Verse 16 says, They referring to those disciples are not of the world, even as I am not of it. Jesus knows his biblical roots. He knows his lineage, even though he was Sith. By way of a virgin the Holy Spirit that he was born in Bethlehem and he grew up in Nazareth. He knew his home. If I were to ask you where you're from, I do that often. You would tell me I grew up in this town. I grew up on this street. Amen? I would tell them. that this is where I've come from. And so he says to them, you are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. But where are you from? You must have an identity in the Lord Jesus Christ And let's talk about it. So many of us have spent time in the world. I know now we're saved and we're sanctified and filled with the Holy Ghost, but check it out. Some of us, one or two of us, A half a piece of us used to be deep in the world. Oh yeah, following the world system Doing everything we're big and bad enough to not everybody, but one or two of us knows what it means to live in darkness. One or two of us knows what it means to be in the world. I may as well go ahead and say it. It's not just partying. Many of us knew some things that That we did in the world and thank God He brought us in. Amen. I'm glad that because He has brought us in, we have a responsibility. And that's what's been in my spirit all week. Is that it's easier to say, what in the world is going on? It's such a shame. And yet, what are we doing about it? Oh my God, I'm just stuck right there. What are we doing about what we see When we have been the ones who've done what? As first Peter says, we are a chosen generation. We are a peculiar people. We are a priesthood. And what? We came out of darkness into the marvelous light. Or you should not feel me today. Uh Maybe I got two people, two people who were in the world. If everybody else was on a roll, Goody Tushu, never done anything wrong. But I declare that when you've been out there In it, when you've experienced the world and you've followed the world system, that you know what it means to come home. Amen. To God be the goal. And because we are living now this transformed life, I believe that we have to not judge, but try and lead someone. To the Lord. Oh my God. That's where I'm all today. If you get nothing else, it is our responsibility as believers. Knowing who we are, but knowing the truth. Verse 17 of John 17 says, and this is a prayer: sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. You can tell a lot of old stories about what you used to do, but unless you put in there True. Unless you put in there the word, you just talking loud and saying nothing. That sounds like James Brown But he says to sanctify them, that means to set you aside, and to set me aside For a special purpose. And do what? To share the truth of God. Amen. That's why Bible study is so important. That's why reading your Bible and being in a devotion with God, because you've got something to say. Amen. Now you're going to beat nobody down, but at least you've got a narrative. You've got a testimony. Why? Because you've been engaging with the Word of God. I love the game show. It's older than me, to tell the truth. They would sit people on the stage. I think it just came back too in a new form. But Somebody ain't telling the truth. There are three people, but only one of them is the real person. The other two are imposters. And who are you today? Are you someone who don't mind telling a broken world that the wages of sin is death but the gift of God? Is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. We need to make a difference. The truth. John 8 32 says, what? And you shall know the truth. Oh, you know it when you say it. And the truth shall make you free. The world promotes a lie. Oh, the world a lie. My father used to tell us that you are a liar and the truth is not in you. I could not get that. Was that biblical? I think he was talking about something in the text. But as believers in Jesus Christ We have to share it with them the truth, not just our experience, but give them a verse. If it's nothing more than in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. You y you've got that and you can say I can tell you about the world, child. I used to be in the world, but he brought me out. You gotta have somebody to cross over. You know now that school is back in to a degree. Isn't it great to watch the crossing guard? I love to watch that. It's like a mother hand crossing guard stands and they stop the traffic and they'll say come on over come on over come on over and they will allow them to walk over in safety when you invite somebody to follow jesus Become the spiritual crossing guard. Say listen, I didn't come to judge you, but let me just show you a better way. Anyone know what it means to live life a better way? Know what it means to do something different that you now have decided to follow Jesus, that becomes so important. And so when we share With this dying world, be sure to share with them the truth. I didn't say beat them upside the head with the word But the Bible talks about that what? That you ought to let your light so shine before men and women that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven The old saints must have a love to see a sermon than to hear one. So those on the workplace are watching you. Those who live in your home are watching you and seeing if this is all it's been put out to be. Because somebody's not going to church don't mean they don't know the word. But but they're watching us as believers. So we gotta know ourselves and know the truth. But then also and finally know where you are going. Verse 18 says, As you sent me into the world, Jesus prayed, I have sent them into the world, meaning disciples, meaning believers, meaning followers, that you're in a sent mode. Amen? Jesus wanted us to experience what he had experienced. Why? He would go from town to town on the dusty roads of first century Palestine, telling somebody about the good news. Amen? And you too Can share the good news with somebody who just came to you for counseling, came to you for advice, and in the midst of your giving advice, you just said, child, all I know is I was down. He lifted me All I know is I was losing my mind, but then God kept my mind in perfect peace. Tell them I used to be so sad, but God gave me joy. I had no plan or future, but when I start following him, and make that thing real sister. Let me tell you the before and the after that what has happened in my life since I began to follow Jesus. Amen. And somebody in the world will say, you know what? I kind of like that. And they're more apt to follow you and to follow Christ than to do what. Have you beaten them up? Oh my god, we know we can beat some folk up. Tell them what they're not. Oh, isn't that a shame? But God, thank you for what you brought us from. And so we can truly do what? Be effective. An old saying says, very simply, that we can't be so heavenly minded that we're no earthly good. And you can't be so high and mighty. So I've done everything right That we cannot reach somebody who is just waiting for you to give them a word in the world. Mark 16, 15, he says, to go into all the world. And to preach the gospel to all creation, you can't pick and choose. I'm not going to talk to that person because I don't know if I like them or not. You'd be amazed what'll happen if you just start talking about Jesus. And you can have some way, will you like him or not? See, sometimes we get picky. We don't want to we we don't want to do certain people say I'll do the next one. But when the Spirit of God begins to work on you, you'll begin to say, you know what, God, I think it's that person I need to reach. Amen. Amen. Acts 1 and 8 says, You shall be my witnesses. Not just here in Jerusalem, but in Samaria and Judea and to all of the parts of earth. And you know what? You gotta do it in real time. This past week I was in Indiana visiting my grandsons. On the way back, I had on a t-shirt That said hashtag blessed. Now I was going through and and you know checking in and and I forgot what I was wearing. But but but somebody So hashtag bless. Somebody saw that shirt as I got near my gate. A brother said, wait a minute. Now, now I like that. I see I'm just trying to be a witness for the Lord Jesus Christ. And before we knew it, our bags almost dropped. We almost had church right there in the place. And so you can be a witness. Amen. On yesterday, I was being uh Mr. Secret Squirrel, so to speak. I drive up, I see a woman pull up, and and uh, I got out like I was putting something in the back of my truck. And I said, well, praise God. I saw you had Jesus back there. First I told her that was a nice truck. But when it all started, we started having church in the parking lot, right? I just wanted to make sure, just because she had Jesus on the back of a truck. Do you know? the Savior and I become so key today. Say, do you know Jesus? Let me tell you about Jesus and what he has done What have I done to try to affect this generation for Jesus? You may build cathedrals. And they might be large or small. You can build skyscrapers, grand and tall, and you may even conquer all the failures of the past. But can I tell you that only what you do for Christ will last? Only what you do for him Well count and I want my my life to count today. I want my life to make a difference today. I want my life to say, you know, count on me Count on me to be there to tell somebody. Count on you to tell the world that Jesus is alive today. Amen. Because all that we do is be careful. And that's why I love the song. It says, Lord, I'm running. Trying to make a hundred. Now I'm not at a hundred yet, but I know that ninety-nine and a half won't do. Lord, I'm Witnessing trying to make a hundred. And I really feel in my spirit today the importance of being intentional That's what makes us the church. It's not how you dress because we're casual these days. It's not where you attend. Most buildings are closed. So therefore, you gotta go to the streets Amen. Take it to the streets and take it to the coffee shop and let somebody know that, yeah, I know you said the world is lost, but what are you doing? See, sometimes, and I'll close this thing, we get inoculated to by the world. So I got my two shots at my eye. But you know what? We have a role and a responsibility that when you leave this place today Make it your business to tell somebody that Jesus is Lord. When you leave this place today, don't be shy and don't be afraid because somebody is waiting to hear a word from you. Yeah, you church person. Yeah, you deacon. Yeah, you choir member. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You you you got what they need. Amen. You have got what they need. It's not Moderna. Amen. It's not Pfizer, not Johnson and Johnson. It's Jesus. And Jesus. Every time I think about the goodness of the Lord and all that He's done for me, I keep saying Jesus and Jesus. That the world needs Jesus and Jesus to make it. The world needs Jesus. Jesus and Jesus today soon will be done with the troubles of this world going home to live with God. But right now we ain't going nowhere yet. That means there's work to be done. Can I go back to it? Jesus and Jesus. Jesus. What do you got in your arm? Jesus and Jesus? What's in your heart? Jesus and Jesus. Can I show you my card? Can I show you that I've changed my life? Because I've decided to follow Jesus. So what in the world is going on. Well well well what's going on is is not enough believers are stepping to the plate. What's going on is is that we've got to the point that we are afraid to tell somebody about Jesus. Or they may call HR. Call HR. HR needs to hear about Jesus. I declare today there's more we can do. That is the word of God. It is always come on give God a praise today. Amen. Yeah. Yeah, there's something, something, something you can do. Reverend, I I I I I I don't I don't go on the street corner. That's not my thing. But you go to Starbucks. Uh Reverend, I I'm not one to to to do the mission field, but you go to the mall. Reverend I that's kinda out of my area. I I'm kinda shy. Yeah, you talk about everything else and so why Not talk about Jesus. Let's bow our heads today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus Thanking you that you came for such a time as this, that we might be in the world, but not of the world. It is our prayer today, if there's one listening or watching today that they might be drawn in to you, might turn their lives around. May we be witnesses to the goodness of the Lord. I pray but now that this is the day of salvation that someone needs to come. And we might be the vehicle that they need. The Bible says that one planted Another watereth, but that God gives the increase. We pray today, that's why we're here, is to reach somebody in the world For Jesus. If you are that person today, open your heart up. No big public announcement. The Bible says thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God is raised from the dead The Bible says thou shalt be saved. We ask it even now in Jesus' name. Praise God. Let's give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. And as always you can find uh this information on our website Hum2HarvestNumber 2. org. You can share this with someone else that you might be in contact with. I just share the word with you. Maybe they'll get something out of this That will help them and may it encourage someone else. Amen. To God be the glory. Thank you so much for all that you do, and we bless the name of the Lord. God bless you. Until next time.