Hello friends, I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvest Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. It's because he got up that we have life eternal. There's no other way except by the risen Savior. As we bow today, Father, we come in the name of Jesus. There's power in that name. There's hope in that name. There's deliverance in that name. As we come today, we decrease. So that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise. And the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. I want to bring your attention to our scripture lesson for today that comes from The first book of Samuel, the third chapter, verses eight, nine, and ten. It reads, A third time the Lord called Samuel. And Samuel got up and went to Eli and said, Here I am. You call me. Then Eli realized that the Lord was calling the boy. So Eli told Samuel, Go and lie down, and if he calls you, say, speak, for the Lord your servant, is listening. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. The Lord came and stood there, calling as at the other times, Samuel. Samuel. Then Samuel said, speak, for your servant is listening. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, When God Calls Your Name Twice. When God calls your name twice. Can I take you to Live Oak, Florida, my little town? And I want you to see with me my father, the late Jim Tootin, standing on our front porch at 508 March Street, and he's calling my name. He's calling Timmy. I'm with the guys. We're playing little Centlock football and and uh nobody's really winning but it's a tough match. He calls again. Timmy. I could hear it all the way down the street and I pretended I didn't hear him. I got one more play-in. And I heard him call again. It was Timmy, Timmy And there was something about hearing that call twice that let me know I should be moving toward the house. And what he was saying was that supper was ready. And everybody was about to be fed. I got home and he asked me the question, did you not hear me? I said, Yes, sir, I heard you. And I was coming. That was good enough for that day. But in our text today, we meet an 11-year-old boy by the name of Samuel. A young lad that God is using to make a poem. In fact, his name means herd of God. Samuel was dedicated to the Lord at a young age. His mother's story is one that is lifted out of the biblical writ. Hannah was barren. Could not have children, but she prayed unto God. I mean, I'm not talking about just ordinary praying. She she laid before the Lord and she asked for a son. And then she said, if you will give me a son, I will give him back to you. I will dedicate him back to you. And you know, we have to do that nowadays, no matter whether they are eleven years old or thirty years old. Give them back to the Lord. Dedicate them back to the Lord Aren't you glad that somebody in your family just at some point say, you know what? I'm gonna turn you over unto the Lord. Well that was more uh unsettling than anything else. I've told you a hundred times, but I'm gonna just let you go. And let you go back to the Lord. And so that's what happens. She presents him to the Lord. He's there at the temple. He's under the guidance of one named Eli. The priest. And so there he is, a young boy in the temple, and he is working for God. Amen. And there comes a time when he senses that Eli is calling him when in fact it is God who's calling him. See every time he heard his name being called, he assumed it was Eli. Eli said, I didn't call you. Go on back now. He goes back and he lays down again and he hears his voice of God calling his name. He goes back to Eli. It happens again. And Eli says, now when you hear that voice, The next time you hear it, say this. Speak, thy servant is listening. This scripture is impactful for me because it is my call story When I accepted the call to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, I assumed that there was an Eli who would tell me that they had called me. Yeah, I know I'd be called, but I wanted somebody else to say it. Like, tell me I'm gonna be a preacher. Tell me I got what it takes, but nobody would say that, thank God. And I had to read this scripture. And on the moment I said, Lord, speak, thy servant heareth. It's when I opened my heart up and accepted. The call to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so when it comes to responding to the call It is a call that is personal, a call that is persistent, a call that is perceptive. God called Samuel. He was not mistaken in who he was calling. God didn't have the wrong number. God knew who he was trying to reach. In fact, it was a person-to-person call. Now if you know that you got some age on you. Because back in the day, you had to get on the phone Call collect and say it's a person-to-person call. And that meant that they oh some of y'all laughing now. You just told me that you are archaic. But you have to really have the operator say there's a call from Timothy. Will you accept the charges? And they say yes. I will accept the charges from Timothy. Now go ahead. And when God called Samuel, I believe it was a person To person call. And when God calls us, it is the person to person call. He's not calling someone else. He's called you. What has God called you To always know that when he calls you, it's personal. When he speaks to you, it can be by many ways. It's by first and foremost the word of God. You'll be reading the Word of God and and that'll speak to you. That's my my call story. He speaks by way of his Holy Spirit. Not your great idea, but you'll feel the Spirit of God just moving. Has that happened to you? You sensed that there was a moment you felt the Spirit of God. You couldn't describe it right away, but that was God speaking. And you got it Most of the time. And God will use other people to work through them to get a message to you, no matter who they are. It was a personal call. I'm trying to to reach you. But the text admits that that young Samuel was not familiar with that voice. He was not of age yet, didn't have two Bible Academy classes. He didn't have enough of the Sunday school to know that, wait a minute. That just might be God and not Eli. But as we grow in the Lord, we'll become familiar with the voice of God. I was talking to my sister the other day And we were discussing something and she said, you know what? You thinking like a senior citizen now. What you mean by that? You thinking things over? You don't just make a quick decision. And I say, well, does that mean I'm in my golden years or approaching them? Yes. You remember some of the things you would just not even think about? You ain't called on God, you just did it But now as you begin to grow in him, you will sit before God, speak to me on this matter. Amen. It may be small to someone else, but for you, it's a big deal. Praise the Lord. He's just speaking directly to you. Who's got your ear? Who are you listening to? What are you listening to? You gotta be careful. Folk talk a whole lot of stuff. Be careful who You're listening to. Be careful who has your ear. Know that John 10 27 says, My sheep Hear my voice. And I know them and they follow me. Are you feeling a bit personal right now? That God can speak right to you? You don't need to go before anybody to have them to speak on your behalf. Come on now. It's not just A personal call, it is a persistent call. God never stopped calling Samuel's name. God was wearing him out. Has God ever wore you out? I mean you just okay I got it. No, no, you just said no, I'm gonna I'm gonna keep on calling you. You might try to skate through it, you might try to act like you don't see me, you might try to put me on hold, but thank God for Jesus. He said, No, no, no. I'm gonna stay on you. And when God stays on you, you got to respond. It is a persistent day in. And Day out and hour by hour and minute by minute, the Holy Spirit will track you down and shake you up. and bring you to what? To respond. Oh y'all maybe never done that before. I'm talking about, I mean when God is on you. He's persistent. You tried to dismiss it. Oh, it wasn't nothing to that. You know, I I got this. And when you lay down at night, he's on ya. You wake up in the morning, he says, I told ya I'm calling your name. I know ya. I made you, I am persistent. God refuses to be put on hold. He refuses to be muted. Amen? I get these calls now like you do on your cell phone, somebody trying to sell you something. It looks familiar, but it's not anybody you know. Well on the iPhone there's a certain thing you can press. I'll say sorry I can't talk now or I'm on the way It'll come back saying this ain't even a real number. He kept calling Samuel. Samuel didn't know who was calling him. And God is calling us now. We can't ignore his call. And he will not give up. Yeah, folks give up. I give up on some stuff. I'm gonna give up. But he will not Give up the Bible says he's long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but all might come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Christ said to a few of his followers, he says, He that hath ears, let them hear what the Spirit is saying. So put your ears on. Know that God is calling you specifically, and He'll do it persistently. It is a personal call. But also, it would be a perceptive call. God was calling Samuel for a reason. It wasn't just the chat. But once Samuel got it, he went back, and when God called, that next time he said, Speak, thy servant is listening, and he listened. Because by being perceptive, God was developing in him a good understanding of what he wanted him to do. Once you respond to the call of God, he'll then begin to lay out exactly what it is he wants you to do. And how he wants you to do it. In this case, the assignment was to go and to tell Eli, can I give it my around the corner definition? Eli, you've been messing up. Eli, judgment is coming. Eli, your boys have been a mess and you've not kept order in your house. He says, go tell Eli what I said. Now he felt a little uneasy about that. This is the man who told me about you. This is the man who I serve under. This is the person I put in high regard. Yes, but perceptive means that I get what you're saying. There's something I'm supposed to do. In the work of ministry there's always something to do. As Christians there's always something we need to be doing. I love my coffee ministry. I refuse to use the app to call ahead of time because I want to talk with somebody in the coffee shop. How you doing today? Amen. I was at uh a store last night And I got a bag of popcorn because it smells so good. I went by and I I picked up a bag of popcorn. A young lady behind the desk had a cross around her. And I said, What what what what does that cross mean? I said what what's that? She goes, what do you mean? I said, that's a cross, isn't it? What does that symbolize? She said, Now you know. I said, Oh I I pulled my card out. Oh, you a reverend. And then she got me back. She said, you know what? I've often wondered. She says, so you saved? Yes. Tell me how you saved. She said, but can you get saved in your car? I said, yeah. My friends told me it had to be in church. I said, no. He can save you right here at this store. And she said, well, thank you. I didn't know that And you never know what God is going to use you to do or use you to say in any moment that He has you, it was a perceptive call to be aware of. He sends the twelve out. I'm sending you out to do what? Two by two to share the good news of Jesus Christ. Well Besides Samuel, God called other folk more than once. He said, Samuel, Samuel, but he also said Abraham Abraham. Abraham was there about to sacrifice his son, had already drawn the knife out, and all of a sudden you heard God say twice. Abraham, Abraham. Moses there on the back side of a mountain minding his father-in-law's sheep, and all of a sudden you see this bush that's being consumed, and he's a voice that says, Moses Moses. He said it to him twice. I want you to go tell on me if you want to let my people go. There Jesus describes there with Martha and Mary. Martha in the kitchen ministry. Mary at the feet of Jesus. He said, Martha, Martha, don't be bothered by so many things. Mary is getting the real stuff He says to Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan desires to sift you as we You you you see where I'm going now? He's calling that name, Saul. Saul. On the Damascus road. Why are you persecuting me? Saul? Saul. And now on the whole rugged cross, he said My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? There's something about when God calls your name twice. No, it's not an echo. He's got something for you to do. Listen up. He died and he rose again. When God calls your name, Tim Tim I was Timmy, Timmy back then. But God has grown me to a Tim Tim. He's grown me to a servant servant. He's grown me to a follower, a follower. What has he grown you into today? What do you answer to today? Do you answer by the name that you've been given by your parents? It may just be Ma child, my child. It may just be my servant, but one day I heard the voice. It wasn't Daddy's voice, but it was that voice. Sung by says, I come to the garden alone, while the dew is still on the rose. He talks about that voice. Huh? That discloses. And we gotta hear the voice of Jesus. But I heard the voice of Jesus saying, Come unto me and rest Yeah. Lie down, thy weary one. Lie down, thy head upon my breast. And I I love this part. If this is a part of my testimony, I came to Jesus as I was. Weary. Worn and sad. But I found in him a wrestling place and he has made me glad. And it keeps on making me glad. I'm so glad that Jesus lifted me. I'm so glad that Jesus has saved me. I'm so glad that Jesus is using me. Do you hear his voice today? Maybe it takes a a one, a two time because keep your ears on. He is calling you right now. It is a personal call. Yeah. Just for you. It's persistent, it won't leave you alone. Every time you think you done got away, he's still calling at you, saying you you know you hear me. He's never done that in your life today. I mean you were thought you'd gotten away, but he keeps on. And keeps on. But oh won't he do it? He'll just keep saying, well I I I I know what you want to go back, but forgetting those things which are behind and pressing forth to those things that are before. I pray Toward the mall for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. You tried to turn back this week, but he wouldn't. Let you. Ever been caught by the teacher and they grab you by your collar? But you've been caught. And there's this sense of being perceptive. Now that you've tracked me down, now that I've answered, what am I to do? I can't be your Eli today. I can't tell you to go back again. Listen to the Spirit of God That is the word of God today. It's all what is best. Come on, stand today. All over this place. When God calls Your name. Twice. Mary. Mary. Deborah. Deborah. But. Tammy, Tammy. Durell, Durell. He's calling. You hear him today. It'll make you want to shout to the Lord. My Jesus. My Savior, Lord, there is none. All of my days. I want to pray. Your mighty love. My comfort myself. It's strength. Every breath. Every breath. Shout to the Lord. Shout to the Lord, all the way. And the sound of your death. At the words Forever Nothing can pass. As we come today, I just want to say to you, I can't call you. I don't have that kind of power. But if you're honest today, God has been calling your name. He's been tapping you on your shoulder and saying there's something I have for you to do. And you know what? Can I suggest to you? to respond and say, speak. Lord, thy servant is listening. As we come today, let's bow our heads. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. We thank you that we don't need no man or woman to break down or interpret for us the call that you've placed on our lives. Why? Because your voice is so clear. You call us by our name. I pray even now, God, as your people listen. They may listen to you. and might respond to your call. That's my desire and my prayer today. As we come today, there might be one in this place Who has muted the call to salvation? He's been calling you to give your life to it. He's been calling you to confess your sins and believe that. Christ died. And to believe that he rose again. The Bible says, then you will have life eternal. Father, we thank you today. Thank you. Thank you for speaking today. But you're always speaking. Speak to our hearts. Holy Spirit, speak to us today In Jesus' name. You may have come today, and that is your desire. Maybe your call is to become a part of this fellowship. But it's God who's calling you. When you feel that nudge or call, know that It may be his nudge. I thank God today for this word. Let's give God a praise. I was reminded, sitting in the preachment, and that was. That was the scripture. I was still waiting before they told me I was gonna be a preacher. I'm waiting. I said, come on, man, tell me. Do I have what they no I don't know. But you mean you don't know? So I say to you You gotta listen to God today. Even as we make transition I wanna just pray. over you today. So bow our heads because one thing that I do know, and I believe in my spirit Is that he's speaking? He's been speaking for a while and you've not responded. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. It is our prayer today that you might help These your people to surrender to your voice. To surrender to what you are calling them to do You've been calling their name. Not just twice, but in the morning you're calling them. At noonday you're calling their name. Have them just say, Lord, I hear you. And I surrender unto you. Do it for your people today, God. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by CD, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber twoharvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries. You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called Seeds of Encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes, from Podcasting, or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.