He came along and hallelujah gave you some joy. Somebody ought to praise God today. Is that your testimony? Nobody but you Lord As we come today Father we thank you Father for all of your many blessings There was a time when the world was the center. When the next drink was the center. Or smoke. Our party. We thank you now, God, that your spirit resides in us. As we come today. We decrease so that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory In Jesus' name, Amen. Amen. We serve a great God. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from Prophet Isaiah 43, 18, and 19 says, forget the former things. Do not dwell on the past. See, I'm doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it? I'm making a way in the wilderness. and streams in the wasteland. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, When God Does Something New. When God Does Something New. I may not speak for all of you, but I speak for some of us who get excited about getting something new. It may be a uh new gift, maybe a new phone, maybe a new home, uh maybe a new relationship, new car, new dress, pair of boots, sandals, cap, hat, I could go. But we get enjoyment out of things that are new. Visiting new places that we've never gone to before and shooting selfies on where we've been for that week. But it's something that is new for us. And some of us will justify that we need something new Because it makes us feel better. No, I'm not going there, ladies. I've been around long enough not to get myself in trouble. In fact, that's the plot of my wife with coupons. I said, You're gonna go Get a discount. But scientists say that we are science uh we're wired in a way that our natural desire is to Look for something new. But I won't look beyond just the natural today and look into the supernatural. Amen. See when the world gives us something and when it shares something with us and when it sells us something uh it becomes old and worn out and at some point uh we have to replace it. Replace it with something that is new and shiny And no one else has it. But let me tell you that when it comes to what God gives us, it is not temporary It will last forever. Can I just say that when he gives us joy, it is joy that's unspeakable? When he gives us peace, it's peace that passeth all understanding I was saying to someone this morning that when it comes to wealth, the Bible says he'll take the wealth of the wicked and give it to the righteous. They may not have given you a raise, but God's gonna get it some kind of way. Amen? Now I don't want to prophesy. Don't you go in now and say that the pastor students said, I deserve a raise. In our text today, we find the biblical character Isaiah. He's called the major prophet because he is one who hears from God. His particular set of instructions take up a great deal of that New Testament, Old Testament, rather. But he is speaking to a people in bondage. God gives them the assignment gives him the message to tell the people that I am thinking about them. And the fact of the matter is, is that throughout the Bible you'll see where folk will do good Ask for God's mercy and then turn on God. God help us. We're down here. We can't do anything without you And once they get on the mountaintop, they show God the hand. Does that sound familiar? Remember back on 9-11 when everybody came to church, they thought the world was going to end. Man, you turn folk away. But as soon as things got better, folks don't believe church is important. I may as well talk about them because I was one of those same people. I never quite felt quite comfortable on Sundays when I didn't go to church. It was something that was in me. I I wouldn't wash a car on a Sunday. Still don't. There's certain things you just didn't do on Sunday. But he's talking to a people who have been disobedient. And and now they find themselves In a predicament where they need God. Isn't that amazing? That sometimes we call them only when we need him. 1-800 God But you know, his promises are always true. He promises to bring them out of their dry place. Promises to bring them and change their circumstances. And I'm glad about that today. The Bible says that the Lord is not slack on his promises. As men would cause slackness to be described, But he is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, so that all might come to a relationship. That his promises are always true If God said he's gonna take care of you, he will. Even though it may not feel like it now. Even though it feels like things are up and out and things are upside down, he still comes along and he keeps every one of his promises. This morning I believe that in order for God to do something new, he calls on us to do a few things. To deal with our past. To focus on our future. And to adapt to our present. Forget the former things, do not dwell on the past Me and my half-English person saw a semicolon in there, which means that those are two thoughts, but some that are tied together. He says Get it out of your mind. Cease to think about the past. There's some things that we have to let go Forget the former things, not former blessings, but there's some things that we kept In us from our past that we refuse to let go. But there's some things that we have to disregard. What are your former things? Maybe somebody wronged you, you say, until the day I leave you, I'm gonna get you. Former things. Somebody crossed you the wrong way, and you are yet not dealing with your past. Your your circumstances, your situations, your mistakes, you continue to dwell on them. God has since delivered you and you still are hard on yourself Oh Lord am I no He done delivered you from that. Free yourself today and know that he whom the Son sets free is free indeed. Do not dwell, do not pull your hair out about the past. Talking about it. Getting stuck on yesteryear. Being consumed by God is about to do something new. I don't know about you, but I still get excited when Christmas morning comes. I'm sixty years old. I'll be like, what did you get? Is that mine? Oh, y'all know how y'all be. And you just it's new. Who put a used item in wrapped-up paper? He has something new for you if we just take time. to receive it. That was the mindset that he was sharing with the people. I love what Paul says in the book of Philippians. So I count not myself to have apprehended. But this I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and pressing forth to those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. See ya don't want to be you. You have got to get past You'll pass. Amen? If you want something new, you can't just say, you know what, you can't take new wine and put it in old wineskins. At some point, we've got to move on. Amen We gotta deal with our past to get that which is new, and then also to focus on our future How many know that you've got a future? Amen? Reverend, I done went to school and I'm about ready to retire. No, there's a future for you. I don't know. I don't have what other folk have. God has something for you First 19 says, see I'm doing a new thing. Now it springs up, do you not perceive it? He says, I'm doing a new thing. Exclamation mark. Yes, sir. That means there ought to be some volume on that. I'm doing a new thing. See. He's doing a new thing in your life even now. See? See what? Over here, what I'm doing. We're so focused on other people and other things that we miss what God has for us. How many folks get the most say, God, you're going to do a new thing? I'm all ready for it too. Whatever you got for me, you've got just for me. I'm not worried about brother Brother Bob and Sister Sue, but you've got something for me I'm doing a new thing. Take it off of your physical eyes, because you looking to see what's in the mailbox, or you see what you know about email. No. He's built a new thing in you And that's also important that he gives us his wisdom and he gives us his knowledge as we focus on our future we have spiritualized. There's some things you can only see in the spirit realm You miss it in the physical, but in the spirit. Has God ever showed you something? Yeah. Now I'm not being psychic. This is not Mother Rose I mean showed you some listening I caught that thing. And I realized it was just for me in the spirit. That that new thing that you promised me Take notice of this new thing. And then it says, a question. Now it springs up. It's happening right now. In church. Do you not perceive it? What do you mean, Isaiah, do I not perceive it? Do I not get it? Have I not come to understand it? Do I not yet recognize it? But just because you missed a new thing does not mean that God is not doing a new thing. Does that make sense? I've been waiting all week. I ain't seen no new thing. He's already begun the new thing in you. God's word must come into play. That becomes the compass For your understanding what he's doing in your life. I I've I've been reading some other books about you know thirty days and I'll be better. And I said I'll get my new thing when the book is done. No, there's only one book that will guide you towards your future. Only one book that's laid out the future for you. It is the Holy Word. Uh-oh. It's still the number one bestseller. It is the Word. Of God. First John 3 and 2 says, Beloved, we are the sons, and I'm going to add the daughters of God. It doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he doth appear, we will be what? like him. We'll see him as he is. You got a future today. Had you got us kind of say, What do you want to be when you grow up? I'm gonna be a professional football player. That was that was not that wasn't even starting. She said that's that's good. So what what else? How you gonna ride the bench and say you wanna be in the NFL? That don't work But I could talk. And that worked for me. Amen. So God be the glory. Focusing on our future. Dealing with our past and then adjusting to our present. I'm making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland You know, they were familiar with the wilderness. Why? They had been in the wilderness before. God was trying to get them to a place, but they just didn't seem to get it Anybody ever had a wilderness experience? Seems like, Lord, when am I going to come out of this? Times are tough. There's discomfort. their trials, their temptations, their spiritual attack. But he's saying, I'm with you in the midst of your struggle. And so he begins to paint the picture for the people. He says, I am making a way where? In the wilderness. Making a way in a place where there's not much going on He'll make a way in your life today and streams in the wasteland. The mother always sang this son, Jesus. He's a way maker. One day he made a way for me. Don't you know he's making a way for you right now? How many believe that today that he's already making a way as you go towards this new thing that he wants to do? Streams in the wasteland? That he allows water to come of the place that you don't normally find it? Look at God. How he makes this real plain He'll bring freshness in your dry situations. He'll bring hope in your dark situations and light. He'll give you comfort no matter what you're going through. Why? He's about to do something new. Water. God knows we need it. John 7. 38 says, Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water. Will flow from within them. God is already showing them what He can do. And they know what He's done before, but He's saying, Isaiah, tell them I'm about to do something brand new Some of y'all know when you were in the world, couldn't wait till that new hit came out. Oh, there's some DJ in me, y'all know that. I got the new Marvin Kate, nobody else got it. Amen. It's about to drop But what God's about to drop some stuff on you today, amen? Something that the world has never seen is about to drop. Amen. I'm glad about that today. And so this was welcome news for Israel This new thing comes after 70 years in the wilderness, in bondage. Seven years, maybe for you, maybe seven days, maybe seven hours, seven minutes, seven seconds for God Does not lie. If he said he's gonna do it, he's gonna do it. Why would he tell them folk that? They say, oh, I was just kidding. No, God is real about what He does. Well, never forget that God wants to do this new thing in you. Uh-oh. Reverend I was looking for something material. You mean in me? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He who began a good work in you will perform it to the day of Jesus Christ. This newness starts with in you So don't look for like this material thing to break out until it breaks out in you. He he really wants to do a new thing It's us today. Anybody open to that? Anybody lining up for that? Anybody's getting it? Yeah, I want him to do a new thing in me. See knows me by my name. Many years ago As a boy, I would sit there and watch the church people. Y'all did it too. I would say, Lord, I I would see Deacon Boston feel more. And he would be sitting over on the side And he was at that's when they were just poor. He would give them, I got a new name over in Zion. It's mine, it's mine, it's mine. And that keeps going I got a new walk over in Zion. It's mine. It's my own thought beacon feel more. I got a new talk over in Zion. And by then. Somebody had caught the Holy Ghost. And they say, I got a new shout over in Zion. It is mine. It is mine. It is. Zion is this place of God. Zion is the city that we call heaven. And aren't you glad today that one day your feet will strike Zion? Oh, yes. One day he'll allow you to see the newness of him. You'll see him in all of the His glory. And that's good news today. That as I go, I can be assured today that He's about to do a new thing. He's given me a new attitude. Taking me to a higher altitude. He's allowed me to praise God along with the multitude. I'm just glad to be in the number. Amen? And to be able to get there and say, you know what? My soul looks back and wonder how I got over. But all of the new things he's been doing in me, they've been manifest now, and that's why I have joy. All the new things has made me a better man All the new things, know that I've got a new song that I sing. Anybody ever had a song you sing in your car, it had no note with no artist that sung it, you just made it up because you were going through something. Father I stretch my what let me I don't know the word but I'm gonna sing it. Did that song make a difference in your life? And sometimes you ought to just have a new song that you sing for the new thing that God is gonna do in you. My God, you just hit number one with that song. He says, I am about to do it now. Don't you see it? And so he does the miraculous in our lives. When God does something New. Not thrift sharp. Not used. Not discounted That's why he went to Calgary. No one had ever done what he did? He died. That wasn't new, but he rose. And that's new. Aren't you glad today that he rose from that grave with all power in his hands? That is the new thing. He's doing for us. If God can do that, think of what he can do in your life today. Walk out of here today Looking all new. Well gotta hear the day saying, I I feel pretty good. Well you just no, I ain't I ain't been to the gym. I just feel good. Because Every time I think about Jesus, it makes me feel good. Anybody feel good today? Knowing that whatever God has promised to do in you, He's already doing it now. Do you feel the newness? Do you sense his transforming you? He does it in this moment. That is the word of God today. It's all but come on stand today all over this place. When not if When? Not maybe. When not possibly. He does A new thing. So we come today offer Christ to you. It's an invitation. I want to be new, but I want to try my own method. Your method has failed. Today, walk in the nudeness of God today Let's just think a little bit of that. It's an invitation. Right now, come to J. He will save you. He has he done it for you today? Has he saved you today? Just now. He will say he. He will say sixty seconds. You know when you follow the Lord Life is is not the same again. You you you you can't be your old self. You you try sometimes To fit in and you just don't fit. Because he's doing something different in you. You're not perfect. But but he he's he's working the work in you. And other folks may notice it before you say you you you you gotta you you differ. The Bible says we're procured people a royal priesthood How many folk don't mind being different? Amen. I'm a different kind of person. It is because Of the new thing he keeps doing in me. Give me a new tongue, give me a new ear, give me some new eyes. Let's bounce a day. Maybe you've come and you want This new thing. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. I'll pray today, God, that there's one under the sound of my voice Who's living the old life, stuck in the past. I pray in the name of Jesus that they may hear the words from the book of Romans. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Save someone today. That heart that's open. Save him That young person, that senior, that man, that woman, save them today by the power of your word. Do it today, God. We pray In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Amen.