Oh that is the same. Let's bow to day right where we are. Father we come And we come with joy in our hearts. As we think about this time, it's just something on the calendar, but every day. We adore you. As we come today, may we decrease and may you increase. Save someone today, encourage another. When this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Praise be to God. There's a work of the Lord today that comes from the prophet Isaiah. There in the ninth chapter in verse number one. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called a wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. This morning I want to preach from the Samonic title, When Jesus Is missing. When Jesus is missing. More than twenty years ago, a nine year old girl Amber Hagerman left her home in Orlington, Texas on her bicycle. Along with her five-year-old brother, they drove Uh we called it driving back then when we had a bike down to the bike ramp right near the old store that closed down some years earlier And her brother headed back home and she stayed there and minutes later someone abducted her. Four days later she turned up dead. That is still a coal case. And thus comes what we are familiar with as the amber alert alert. that whenever there's suspicion that someone has accepted a child that on your phone and over your television and On some of the street signs you see an amber alert. That's right. Giving you the make and model of the car. I don't know about you, but whatever I see that it causes my heart to drop. On a lighter note, a couple years ago I preached as sitting in the city of Baltimore, and right when I stood to preach, there was Amber alert. Everybody's phone in the church went off I started again and the alert was off again. It let me know that something was serious. I said to the church, Can y'all tell me who's missing? Can you give me the description? But thank God that this child's mother fought hard to have some system in place So that if this were to happen, that someone would be alerted. I thought I issue another alert this morning. Jesus is missing. He's missing from our homes. He's missing from our workplaces. He's missing in our government. He's missing in our communities. Jesus is missing in our churches. The number one suspect in the disappearance of Jesus is the culture. Come on. They weigh a hand in the disappearance of Jesus. They hid Jesus behind Christmas films. They hid Jesus behind Christmas tree. They hid Jesus behind Christmas parties. Uh-huh. And that's what I find it important to issue in Advent Jesus alert. And today we join the search party. What are we looking for in our search for Jesus? based on his personality and based on his profession and based on his power and based on his permanence and based on his preeminence. Personality and he will be called wonderful. Wonderful is a description of something, in this case, of someone We hear the phrase, it's the most wonderful time of the year. Well any time of the year is wonderful if Christ is operating in our lives. Why? He's a wonder to our soul. But a personality really is a way of thinking It embraces moods and attitudes and opinions. I laugh every time my neighbor says you are a media personality. That just means I've been on TV for a long time and a few folks know me. That makes me a personality. But what a personality our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ has. It is a dynamic personality. It is a life-giving personality that's always displayed Matthew 9, 46 says, he was moved with compassion when he came across people. Isn't it great to have a heart of compassion? But it's not really about you and your hard self and you don't nothing breaks you, but Jesus look at the people and he had compassion upon them. He realized they did not have a shepherd. That is who he is. What is your personality? You've been told you have a charming personality. But is your personality Christ-centered Is what you do something that lifts up the name of Jesus? So when you're looking for Jesus, look for someone with a great and wonderful personality. But also take note of his profession. He will be called wonderful counselor. Now, many of you are professionals. Why? Well you go to a job every day and you get paid. And you're paid for your skill set. You train for it, you're qualified for it, and that makes you a professional. Amen? But when it comes to what our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ does, he is a counselor. And there is no charge for infections. Amen? You can bring your problems to him. You can bring your hurts to him. You can bring your disappointments to him. It's what he does. He helps people. Heard a preacher say some time ago he was traveling against cross country and you know when you sit next to somebody, I always talk to everybody on the plane, and he must have looked distinguished Woman says, What do you do for a lady? What's your profession? He says, I bless people. Amen? What is your profession? What do you do? Beyond your nine to five, it is that I want to help somebody to see Jesus Christ. The counselor, Matthew 11, 28, come unto me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You look at that On this couch before? Been going through something and realized that you've told everybody, but you didn't tell Jesus. But once you told him, once you begin to share with him what he already knew. Didn't it make your life better? You didn't pay a shrink nothing. You said Lord, I come to you because I need you in this hour. And so our profession is to go on the highways and the byways and the walls, letting folk know that Jesus Christ is still the King of kings. Only what you do for Christ will last. You'll know him by his profession and by his personality, but also by his power. He shall be called Mighty God. And Mighty describes the type of power in the Godhead, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. There is power. I recall singing every Sunday, holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. And that's because we serve a God who's all powerful all the time. Have you plugged into his power lately to realize that I serve a risen Savior who's in the world today in his name is Jesus. His power to be on display In our lives. That's right. We're going to say you are strange sometimes. And the Bible says it will procure your people. Yes. And we're looking trains. And why? Because we are doing what we're sharing with folk out of the power of the Holy Spirit that's been poured into us. Something about that name, the Libya student says that at the name of Jesus, you won't do anything with my name and say But in the name of Jesus, every he shall every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And the power is always in him. And when you come across power, know that you're on the hunt for he who the world has cast away. You don't mind sharing his power. There's his profession, his personality, and his permanence. He is the everlasting Father. We say that that means someone stays the same. That he's always been God. He's always been powerful. He's always been the ruler. of the world. He's always been up top. He's always been in that position. Why? He's a God who sits high and looks low and it does not change. He doesn't kind of a a a time limit. There's no administration. He's not voted out. He's this God. Who is everlasting? Who everlasting? He never runs Out of style, he never expires. He's just a God through his own power. It's always a new model of suffering You bought your new car, there's a new model off, there's a next model. That's right. Two more buttons that your car didn't have. Amen. But we serve a God who is beyond new and improved. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever more. You see, our time on this earth is temporary. But he promised us a home. A real place. Say so he's got a mansion? Guess what me? Yeah. That's where we're going to be going, amen. We will be in his presence. So we can find Jesus. Familiar with his presence. His power, his profession, his personality, and his free elements. He is the Prince of Peace. Frilleness is the the quality of being superior. Nobody stacks up against God. No. Nobody is equal. No. Amen. That's Lucifer. He he wanted to take over heaven. God booted him out. In all of the demons. But we've got to get close to him who is the King of Kings. And the fact that we can track him down, we're looking for someone with peace. And you know you're getting close to Jesus when you feel peace. You you know you're getting told that you're on the right track when you feel this sense of peace. 263 says he will keep you in perfect peace if your mind is staying on him. Today When you find him, you will experience his peace and his grace and his mercy. Tony Evans, the Well known pastor out of Dallas, Texas, who has groups in Baltimore. Tells the story of a woman who's driving through a small town. And she's going 100 in the 55. Well that kind of drive, they they they bring you in. They brought her in before the judge. The judge says you've broken the law. And your fine is $100. She said, Your Honor, I have no money. And she was pleading. He said, Well, that means you'll be in jail for the weekend. And she cried and asked, please, I I don't have a hundred dollars. And the judge did something as Evans tells the story. The judge pushed back his seat. Stood up and took his roll off and walked around to where the woman was. And gave her $100. And then he walked back behind the bench, zipped up his robe, and took out a gal and said Your fine is $100. It looks like you paid the fee. Don't that sound like he who is the judge? The one that is so merciful? Amen. That he saw our situation. That we could not pay the debt of ourselves. I don't know about you, but I've messed up So many times that I have nothing to offer but that judge. The high judge did something that was very unique. He did what? He took some of himself. He he still Our glory. Zipped down his deity. And then he gave us Jesus the Christ. And then he went back and he zipped up his humility. And all I gotta say today is that I'll that we found the savings. I think that the search is over. And here's why. Jesus Pay them off. And all to him I hold. Yeah. Same has left a Christian saved. And now He made me white as soon. Aren't you glad today that you finally followed Jesus? He may have been missing in your experience. And here's how you know But you've got to go. The Himmler says he touched me. And oh, what joy has filled my soul. You see, something happened. And now I know. He touched me and made me whole. That's what I know I've got close enough. Hey, I found him. Hey, I found the Savior. Hey, I located him. Anybody ever found him? That's no longer is he missing? No need for a missing person. I found the answer when I learned to pray. Thank you, Lord, for saving me. Thank you, Lord, for keeping me. Thank you, Lord, for forgiving me. Thank you, Lord, for guiding me. Jesus is no longer missing. Cat down the missing person, folks. I found Have you found it? Have you found it? Have you found it? And when you find it, you'll fix your life. Brand news. Only do it. Only do it. See him? Yes. Thank you, Lord. He's in my experience. Yeah, thank you. He he walks with me. Thank God. And he talks with me and he tells me I am canceled. Counsel the alert. Jesus is no longer missing. That's the world God today. In my back in to your home. Make Jesus center for Pisa in your relationship. Thank you Make him the one who makes it all well. Yes, he does. But you got the You got to come to him. He won't chase you? He's the goal. Yeah. Come on to me. Yes, I want to be. It's that love. Oh I love you. Here's why. Because Let me let you in on piece of information. He never was really missing. He was there all the time. We have gone missing. But once you allow him into your life, Your life will never be the same. Would you recognize them? Walk into your experience today. If you're here today, just bow your head. Maybe you you don't know. Maybe you're still searching. Search party has just come in when you're still looking. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. As we come today, God, we realize that we've gone missing. But you are always available. You are one prayer away. So we come today, God, because there may be one in this place It was never given their heart to you. And something has been missing in their experience. There's no joy, there's no peace, there's no love I pray even now, God, as your word says, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says you will be saved. Father, save someone today under the sound of my voice. It's not my voice, it is your voice. And once you hear his voice, respond today. In Jesus' name. Come on, face today. Maybe we come today to the bar, the car, this ministry. The doors will always open. Church of almost say the doors of the church open. I know I came out. Maybe you desire to be a part of of this fellowship we always are available. So our church is God's church. Amen. Let's give him a praise today. Come on, thank the Lord.