I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website. I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you to strengthen your faith. and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries or worship experience already in progress Amen. Somebody ought to give God the praise. How many come to worship the Lord today? Just Because of who he is. I don't want to rush past that moment Because people will ask you why. Why do you come to church? Why do you carry your Bible? Why do you say praise the Lord? Why do you pray over your food? Why? Just because. And once you know what he's done. For you, my God, there comes a moment that you just tip over. Ever had a cup of coffee that just tipped over into the salsa? Allow yourself to be free today and just enjoy the worship Of the Lord today. Thank God for gifts in this place. I was in bed last night and I tossed a little bit. Finally got to sleep. In the spirit realm, I felt the spill heaviness. Like I was carrying somebody. And I could feel the weight of them on me. I didn't get up and do a sermon, I didn't process it But you may have come today. And it feels like you're carrying another you. Maybe your life right now is at such a place that you feel a weight. If that is the case, today you can release that. If you've come today and feel like, you know what, I can't take another thing. The burden in my life is so heavy. Today, because of the Spirit of God. You can release that today. I'm not just saying it because it's in the script, it's not But I want to minister to you before I even preach. You may have come with many cares today, and they've been weighing you down. I mean that's not a thing was like get off me but it was me on me and sometimes you will feel a weight and today you can release that weight See, we come and we have a good look, but somebody's going through something. And somebody could barely get into that because they got such a weight. Don't you know God will lift that? From you today, allow you to have freedom where you are today, and that's why we give God glory Because of what he has done in our lives. I want to just praise me transition. I really want to just follow the Spirit of God today. Because I can't tell From the outside, what you're going through. I don't know your story. Let's pray today. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. God, we're burdened on every side. In our quiet moments, when nobody's looking and when nobody is around, we reach up to you. God, help us. Allow it to be lighter. It is my prayer and desire today, God, that you might allow your people to be free from that burden. Free from that extra weight they may be carrying. Do it today, God. We pray. And even now we declare your truth. I pray that I might decrease and that you might increase. Show yourself strong today. We thank you for your word And what it means. In Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. I've just learned to be obedient to the Holy Spirit We come today and we give God the glory and the praise. I'm just glad to be in the number today. There's a word today from the Lord from Acts of the Apostles, the second chapter, verses 44 through 47. 44 says, all the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, When the Pieces Fit Together. About this time last week we were preparing to have our annual cookout, and man, we did. It was a great time. The weather was perfect The food was good, the fellowship was on it. But there came a moment during that gathering under the pavilion that it got quiet. Our activities coordinator had somehow corralled people together, gave them what was probably a $1 crossword puzzle. Put it on each table, and each person would have come together and put that puzzle together It got quiet. People were helping each other. And all of a sudden, out of nowhere, someone screamed because that team had actually completed their puzzle first. But what I took a mental note of was persons around one table taking pieces that didn't look like much and trying to put them together. How many folk love cross-word puzzles? Oh you like them, huh? They look good on the box though. It's like a model car. It looks good until you start working with it. But in our own lives sometimes we live lives that where it seems like the pieces are all over the place. But I learned from the cookout. What I've learned from the Bible, and that is that there are people who come together and who are able to fit things together all to the glory of God. We find in this early church and the Acts of the Apostles, I love to call it the movie book, because what it does is it tracks 30 years of the early church. From Jerusalem to the Roman Empire. And what it really does, it gives highlights of what they did. A bold people. I mean they came together, didn't have much, but they stuck together And when they went through something, somebody else was going through with them. Wouldn't it be great to have that kind of community where if I'm hurting, you hurting? From down, you down, the Bible says to rejoice with those who rejoice, and to do what? Mourn with those who mourn. As we come today, I want to drop my anger in that particular passage right there in the book of Acts. Written by Luke the Physician, but this book paints the picture of a people A people who had seen hardship and who'd seen persecution had been through something. And there's another person in here who has not been through something. Amen. I mean, folkmen are seeing you behind the scenes. You come in there swinging this morning saying, I've made it over. I've been through something. But they come together and allow the situations in their life to be fitted together. We're talking about 3,000 or more people The Bible says that on the day of Pentecost, they've come together, and the Word of God, now they've been drinking Because they were just giving God the praise and speaking in unknown tongues. That was not the case, but the Holy Spirit, the power of God, had showed up. He said, Rebel, what did it look like? It showed up right before the sermon. Did you see it? The Spirit of God came through and just breathed on us just for a moment. When he goes off the script and says, Did you catch me? I'm glad whenever the Spirit of God shows up and catches me in a moment that allows me to feel the burden lifted from my soul. But what I learned from this people, the church, and the church is simply a body of believers. Church has never been a building, it's the people who make up the church. They were a unified people. All the believers were together and had everything in common. They liked the same stuff. Uh maybe they like the same song. They had been through enough together that it linked them all as one. I mean can you imagine this There were probably 12 different languages there, and yet somehow God comes in the midst and allows somebody who didn't, you all met somebody you didn't know And by the time you get up on the next bush and they do it, what do I know you from? You don't know me. But there's this whole sense of being unified. There was unity with that early church. As they came together. As they had things in common, so much so that when I come to church on Sunday, I feel unified people I see folk I know, folk I don't know, folks I can set fire with, folk I can say what's happening, and that's it. It's that no matter where we are from, we have things in common. Educators from all across the state, but they know the same things, the same curriculum, the same drive, they have the same passions. It's unified. And so as believers, we're called to be Together as one. Not I'm better than you, not I got what you don't have, but to come together. This church was so together and so unified. is that they sold everything they had. Now they didn't have much. Did they sell the car? They didn't have no car. Did they sell the, you know, the the app no they didn't have much. So keep in mind there wasn't much from the start But whatever they had, they shared it one with another. Some of y'all are too young for that to know that the day when mama would send you down the street and ask Miss Johnson to send her two eggs Because he was baking the cake. Well, I'm I'm from the south, y'all know that. And so uh uh uh tell Miss Miss Eulie to give me a cup of sugar. And so people didn't mind sharing one with another Somebody uh had a little extra thing in their garden and daddy would get some greens out of the folk who didn't have them. But they came together and they gave as persons had need And so often we've been so blessed by God that we're trying to hold on to stuff. But the unified church, if we're going to fit together as one, you've got to be willing to say, you know what, I don't have much, but what I have, I'll share with you. Amen. Ever been in a situation where someone says I have a little bit left, but can I have a little something to share with? And when it comes to our lives, We can share our testimony about where God has brought us from. It unifies us. I thought I was the only one going through that Only one who ever missed the payment, only one who ever filed bankruptcy. Amen. I've been there, fouled it one time. Amen. But God will bring you around, and so there are things that we have in common that unify us, as the early church did. But not just people who were unified. But man, they were satisfied. Verse 46 said, every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They didn't mind going to church. They didn't have a whole lot of building, but they got together, not to gossip, not to talk about anybody, but they got together. You know what? We are satisfied where God has us at the moment. I'm satisfied with the Lord today. I'm satisfied with my life. I'm thankful where God has taken me and where He's taken you. Are you satisfied today? Amen. Are you still grumbling? Sometimes we grumble with God. Yes we do. Gotta good and still complain. Nobody in church now But satisfied means that I'm alright. Being satisfied means God thank you. I know you got me in this situation. And I can be satisfied with that. Do I want things? Of course we all want things. But if he didn't give me another blessing, I'm alright right now. Amen. I got eyes to see, ears to hear, can walk back and forth, got a place to live, car to drive, food to eat. I'm thank a job to go to every day. I'm thankful today. I'm satisfied with the Lord And then they broke bread in their homes and they ate together. I see that that was early too. You thought a potluck dinner was something that you all created But the early church didn't mind bringing a piece of meat, sitting down at the table, and and once you start fellowshipping, you may not know me but you can you pass the potato salad We'll start knowing each other. Can you give me a biscuit? And so they're satisfied because they're doing the thing that allows them to have joy It is not just the physical food, but when we come together and we begin to eat on the Word of God and share a Bible verse or two, man, I feel good with that. I'm satisfied. And they ate together. My God, I've eaten with some of you all. I know your appetite. Y'all can eat. I've had ice cream with y'all too. I like that. I mean that that's all fellowship. But what it does, it draws us together as one, allowing the pieces to fit together. And they did it not for any motive, but with what? Sincere hearts. I'm not doing it so that you can help me out later. I'm not doing it for a job promotion. I'm not doing it because I think down the road you hooked me up. But I'm doing it because it's coming from my heart. Isn't it great when you do things just from your heart I'm doing it just because God has been good to me and because I'm studying so I don't mind sharing with you. That's good news today. This early church, man, they gave us a real snapshot of what it means not to have much, but to hook up. And to put the pieces together so that they might become one unit in Christ. Unified, they were a satisfied people, but they were also a people who magnified the Lord. They put the fork down and says, we praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. They didn't mind saying, you know what? I don't mind lifting up my hands in there. I don't mind saying God made it happen. I don't mind saying He gets the glory. I don't mind stepping out and saying, you know what Yeah, I'm thinking for what I've got, but it's all because of what he's done. It's okay to magnify the Lord. Song says, Oh magnify the Lord with me and it will do what? Let us Lift up his name together. And to magnify is what? To make big. Don't you serve a big God? My God's big. I don't I don't mind saying, oh yeah, yeah. I'm one of his sons, I'm one of his children. It's about magnifying, and that's what they did. They made God big in the experience. Do you make God big where you live? Or do you just have a cross around the rearview mirror? Do you make God big? In your office, no, it's not against the law. The Holy Ghost has no law. You can go in your office and give God some praise. It's that I want to magnify. I want to put God on the big screen to let him know how good he's been to me. It's okay to magnify his name. And they enjoyed the favor of all the people. And what do you want to be in that kind of church? Sound like a good time later. And in the midst of that, they were still being hunted. In the midst of that, there were still people who were public enemy number one to the world because what? They were Christians. I mean they could be killed for just saying, give God the praise. We got the freedom today to do that But they did not magnify him. I know my educators are here today. I mean a microscope, man, you would look at a microscope, it makes what is small, big. And sometimes the things you're going through in life, you gotta get a closer look at what they are. And what you see, is that all that was? I can beat that with Jesus, and I'm going to magnify his holy name. In fact, right now, I declare, won't somebody just magnify him. Anybody want to make God large today and make him big and just say, God, you reign in this place? You sit on the throne of my life, I magnify you. Be a reflection of God This came to me in the spirit, may as well tell it. We boys were kind of tricky. And so when it came to reflecting, we would get a piece of mirror from somewhere. And if you hit the sun just right, you can make an angle. And mess with the neighbor. I would get a piece of broken off mirror and I would reflect the sun and uh and you watch people just I mean that was just a boy's thing to do But as I got older I realized I can really say y'all don't y'all don't look at me for this I can really reflect who he is and it may not be what I say but what I do My walk and my testimony show that I'm magnifying a God I can reflect in my life day in and day out. A unified people, a satisfied people A people who didn't mind magnifying the Lord. But finally, they were a people who witnessed the church multiplying. Lot of Paula verse 47 says, and the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. In other words, there was some math going on. Can I admit that's not my favorite subject? I remember those multiplication tables. Do y'all remember those I know they're on computer now, I mean that were those little cards. And man you were tested on those things. I got into broadcasting. I said, you know what? I can do this. But When we look at what God is doing in our lives and putting the pieces together, some of y'all caught that, didn't you? Yes, uh so how many people love math? All right, praise God. I didn't want to love it. And so I tried everything I could do to get around it. And so in the house my wife helped out. I didn't. I was a writing expert. The church grew And through tribulation, you and I will grow. And we'll see the blessings of God multiply in our lives. I mean, think of this triune God that we serve, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. But God specialized in math To see the things happening in your life that God will allow you to see the blessings add up over and over again. Has He done it for you today? So much so you say, you know what? Had it not been for the Lord on my side, I like that because the church grew. They were had a message that worked, they talked about what God had done for them. And that's your only message. You know what? Let me tell you where I've come from. Let me tell you where I started from and where I am now. It is all because of the hand of the Lord. Truth be told, my life was all over the place. Can I just testify for a moment? I just I did the real math here. If I'm still living next week, it'll be my birthday. Amen. I'll be fifty-six years old. That means I'll be twenty thousand four hundred and fifty-one days old. 2921 weeks old, 671. 9 months old. I was born on a Wednesday according to the calculation. But I'm thankful today that God has kept me to see you and to see another day. Aren't you glad today that He's never missed a day? Every morning he gets you up Every morning he starts you on your way. My God, all the pieces are coming together. Truth be told, don't judge me on this. I used to be a mystery. A misfit means you don't really fit in with anybody. Anybody ever been a misfit and you were the piece of the puzzle that didn't quite work? Some of y'all are being real honest. Aren't you glad today that God sent his son that he would take a misfit and and to make him be something He allowed a misfit to fit in. And that's why he died, so that misfits like me and you could find a way in. That misfits who didn't fit anywhere, that God has a place for us, and that's why He says, I've got to prepare a place for you, that where I am you'll be also in my father's house, the many nations He died for misfits. And he rose for misfits. Aren't you glad about that today? My God, if you look back on your life, if you're honest, your life was all over the place. A half a leg in church and a half a leg in the club and a half a leg over here. You were all over the place. But God pulled you together. Put all those broken pieces together and said, now I'm gonna make you whole. And that's it. It's what God does with a life that may be broken. A life that may be scattered, he's able to pull that life together. My God, you can relate to the old fairy tale carrot the hunk the dumping. Hunt the Dumpty, you know about Hunt the Dumpty, he sat on the wall, didn't he? And he had a great foe. And all the king's men, and all the king, nobody could put him back together again. But let me just say the king that I serve can put your life back together again. No longer will you live a scattered puzzled life, but God will come in and he will bless you and give you a new opportunity My God, I get excited just thinking about where I could have been and where he brought me from and where I was going and how he turned my direction to life. All of a sudden now things are starting to fit There's something that just fits you and he pulls together the pieces of your life. I know you think we had it all together, but my God, there was a piece missing. In your life. He said, wait a minute. The box said it should be this way. But my life was this way. And when the pieces were lost in a puzzle, you're done. But when I was lost, he saved me. When I was lost, he said, Let me find a new peace, and that is peace that passeth all understanding. He said you need some joy in your life. The joy of the Lord is my God, I'm excited about that. And so when I look about what does not fit, he has the ability to pull all the pieces together. Don't you feel whole today? You look like the picture on the box. Because God has come in and has made your life new. When all the pieces fit Together. There's a unified people and a people who don't mind saying, I'm satisfied. And a people says, Can I just magnify him? But most of all, when you do the math, he makes up for the difference. That is the word of God today that is already blessed. Stand on your feet today. Let's give God a praise. When the pieces of my broken experience and my broken life And my broken challenges all come together. It feels right. I feel right when everything is in place. So don't try to fix yourself up, but the song says come just like you are. Don't try to adjust, but let him adjust your life. I want to appeal to you today if you come to this place and your life seems out of sorts. I do believe that God can make a difference. I can go to State's exhibit number one and say, you mean me? Yes, you. He'll change your life around. He'll allow the pieces of your life to fit together. But there's something you have to do. You have to open your heart to him and say, Lord Jesus, I confess that I'm a sinner. And I accept you in. One thing God will not do, He won't force Himself on you. Gives us free will. He won't make you do it. But there comes a time in life when if nobody else sees the pieces missing, you'll notice that the corners of your life are not connecting. With the other edges and all of a sudden there's a void in you. An empty place. A place with gaps I'll come out and let you know today there's good news that Jesus will save you from your sins. I feel like a country preacher. Country lawyer, I'm a country preacher. I'm a country lawyer. You can't be that for a moment. Can I just make the case? Since I started following the Lord, showing up, I mean not playing the Lord. My life has been so much richer. I've been seemingly a little bit wiser, made better decisions. And sometimes you'll see people in your life from your past, and you realize they'll look at you and say, are you the same person? Because they see the transformation that's happened in you. The Lord will transform your life today. Accepting Him Is a personal choice. I'm not a beat-you-down preacher. I just lay it out there and say, if you will confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus. And believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says you'll be saved. Now I believe that. Today, if that is your prayer, as you bow and take inventory of your own life today, allow him to come into your life. And to make your life brand new. To make you a new addition today. I've seen him do it. I know he will. All you have to do is say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I confess it now that I've missed the mark. But I believe that you sent your son, Jesus, to die for me. I believe that he died. And that he rose again in faith. If I can get that to spell into who I am The Bible says that I'll be saved. Today, the limitation is for you. Lord, touch somebody's heart right now. Lift their heavy burden. Let them see that all the pieces can come together if they would just trust you. In Jesus' name. Amen. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's come to harvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.