I just want to do a poll. Has to never been broken before? And he fixed it? May maybe you've been broken before. And the repair kit from heaven came right along and fixed you up. If any person be in Christ, they're a new creation. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. That didn't sound confused. How many folks have ever been fixed up and patched up and propped up and held up in the name of Jesus? And we blessed the Lord tonight and I want to begin by acknowledging my mother, Lady Man, Doris P. I said to someone not long ago that uh she was so supportive of my early ambitions uh in broadcasting. I Got a job in Washington DC and she put her best face on as I boarded the Greyhound bus for that two day ride and she never said anything. I said, well, I gotta be a person. You let me go like that, oh yeah, that's what you want to do. But you know, we're helicopter parents now. Where are you going and who do you know? And so I thank God for her prayers And the prayers of the righteous do avail much. Amen. Amen. Even next to her, Sister Janet. Her husband is here, Brother Bruce, as well. Well, there's a word from the Lord tonight on this second night. We thank God for those who were able to come Up for our noon day. Uh since we had the building all day, I said we ought to have another service. So we had uh service at noon. On tomorrow we'll have a noon day as well And then we'll wrap up on tomorrow night. And then me and Mama going on vacation. Amen. Mama as in my wife. Amen. But our theme during this time is love in real time and certainly want to thank Brother Orthod Uh brother White is a real uh foot soldier. He's watching on Facebook Live. I know he is. He's gonna press his way out. Let's pray for him as well There's a word tonight from Romans the 8th chapter, verses 35 through 37. We'll take just a few of those. And it reads, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine Or nakedness, or danger, or sword. As it is written, For your sake we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. But knowing all these things We are more than conquerors through him who loved us. I want to preach tonight under the larger banner of love in real time. From the Samanic title Where's the Evidence? Part two. Where's the Evidence? hard to. There's nothing more frustrating than running into a roadblock or a detour, especially if you've got to be someplace on time. First you think, how can I get out of this mess and why did I take a wrong turn? And you say, Well, Reverend, this is live oak But I know you may not have big city traffic, but every now and then a tree will fall in the road. Every now and then something will happen that will separate you or create a barrier for you getting to where you had planned to go. Isn't it amazing that life is like that? The best laid plans. Uh you had your five-year plan that by the time you got a certain age you would have this and that But there are things that happen in life that can put your plan on hold for the larger plan of God. But this this whole thing about separation anxiety, there's some things that causes us to be a little nervous about not having what's at the core of our life. And when I think about our preachment tonight, the evidence we're looking for is we found out that there's something out there that seeks to separate us from the love of Christ. We know he loves us, but they're there are barriers. Uh we go to Sunday school but there are barriers. We pay our tithes, we Treat our neighbor right. We we're helpful and handy people. But every now and then in life, uh unbeknownst to you, there are things that seek to separate you at the level of your faith Things that want to get in the way of your love for Christ. Isn't that amazing that that something would happen to keep you? You want to love Christ, and then there are things that occur in your life that keep you from doing that or cause you to become frustrated? Oh last time we had Jesus uh in a conversation with his disciples over in John thirteen and he says I have a new command that you love one another as I have loved you. And then verse 75 says, by this, men and women and children and co-workers, God just add to it, will know that you're my disciples based on how you treat one another. Amen. Amen. And so we really begin to talk about that on last time and about this sense of where is your evidence How does love fit in this particular narrative? And so tonight is post-resurrection. Tonight it is uh after Jesus has already gone back and the apostle Paul is writing to the church at Rome. In his writing to the church at Rome, he is discussing with them something that's happening in the camp that's affecting how they believe. We're blessed tonight to be able to come to the Rec Center. Nobody's going to bother us. And we can have church. Amen. But you will find that many of you travel all over the world that kind of freedom is not always there. And Paul detected that there was something happening in the camp He discovered evidence that the saints of God were being blocked from loving the Lord with all of their heart. You say, Reverend, I don't have that problem. I love the Lord, but I want to declare, I want to suggest tonight that there are things and people and places that will get in the way of your loving Jesus. And so the key question becomes who can separate us from the love of Christ? I I kind of grappled with that thing. I said now now all the friends say who And so tonight I want to talk about the people and the problem and the process. Amen? Uh-huh. So who shall separate us? Maybe for you it's one person who gets on your last nerve. You can say amen. It's one person that rubs you the wrong way. That's the who in your experience That's the evidence of somebody who keeps trying to trip you up in your faith. Or it may be a group of people. Now don't don't don't don't don't don't don't name names A group of people who just seem to rub you in a way that causes you to almost want to lose your legend. Amen? But but the Paul said who? I got stuck right there. Yeah, he didn't name names. Who can get in the way? Who can try and trip me up? Who can try to start some trouble with me as it relates to my trying to be a nice down the earth, love Jesus? But there's something that frightens. Our love. Oh my God. Bible says there's no weapon formed against you that shall prosper, but the weapon is formed. Oh yes it is. Yes it is, yes it is. It's it's not been let go, but it's formed. But greater is he that's within us than he that's within the world, but there's some folk who seem to have your number. There's some folk that Seem to have everything they need to touch you the wrong way. And love is at stake. Who can separate us? Who can unhinge us? Who can make us man? Who can begin to challenge us in the love we've developed for Jesus Christ? And there was a reason that Paul shared that. Because of the persecuted church. There's a reason he wrote that. Because they were folk who had uh this whole goal in mind, and Paul would know. His MO is that he used to persecute the church His name used to be Saul. He was the bad somebody, so if anybody could talk about who, Paul would be the one. But he writes to encourage the church To hang in there, to don't give up, and continue to press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling in Christ Jesus. And so now that you've identified in your own mind's eye that who Begin to pray for them. And now that you've gotten that who overtake about it started, but begin to love them with the love of Jesus Christ That who, that person that causes you all the pain, begin to love them in such a it still becomes the evidence that you are a disciple. But but here is the problem, and Paul lays it out. He says, who shall separate from the love of Christ? And he says, trouble. He he begins to name the things that affect us. Who hadn't been in trouble or caused some trouble? Or started some trouble. But he says trouble at the the backup choir saying, trouble in my way. Oh look at that. I have to cry sometime I stay awake at night, but that's alright. And I know Jesus will fix it. And that's not a cop out. He will. But trouble will still show up. Amen. Amen. And so Paul begins to list what he knows and has observed. Trouble and then hardship. akin to hard, rough, tough on the net. But he says, you're going through this. The problem is that there's some hardship in your life. That you have to deal with in his all getting in the way of your loving Christ with all your heart And then persecution. Reverend, I'm not back in the old days, but that's some folk who may be persecuting you in such a way that you have to stand on the Word of God. He says, famine, but reverber, I got plenty of food in the cupboard. But there's some things you're lacking in your own life that you're that you're you don't have. And so he lays out one by one nakedness. That's when you come in a place of life. I got clothes, but I feel like I'm I'm not being used. I I got a three-piece suit, but I still got problems. Amen He begins to list them one after the other. Sword. Yeah, that means something that can hurt you. So it is not just for a display, but these are the things he describes that get in the way, that become the evidence of our not being able to embrace the love of Christ. And then verse 36, put in the problem. For your sake we face death all day long. We're killed all day long. Reverend, I've not been threatened, but yes I have because the enemy is always on our track. That every day you step out of the believer, you've got to fight the good fight of faith. Every time you stand for Jesus, the enemy is always mad. Aren't you glad today that God has always lifted up a standing against them? But you ain't got the word, but it exists. That every day you face someone trying to kill your spirit. Look at that, look at that, look at that Trying to kill your joy, trying to kill your peace, trying to kill your progress, trying to kill your success. Why? To separate you from the love of Jesus. Evidence. Court rule made evidence that we're considered as sheep to be slaughtered. Man, sheep knew when they were about to be slaughtered Amen. They knew something was about to happen. When you see trouble coming your way, but know that you never walk alone in the Lord. Amen. That you are never alone. He's always with you. There is people of persons There is a problem and we name them one by one and your list is longer because you thought of five more things that folk have been trying to do to steal your joy. But there is a process. Verse 37, no or nay in all of these things we are more than conquerors Through him that loves us. Isn't that great? Don't that bring a smile to your face that in spite of whatever trap the enemy has set for you, that you're not just a conqueror But you are more than a conqueror. You're not just existing, but you are child of the high king. You're not just oh no, no, you you are somebody in the Lord that in all of these things. In all of the trouble you face, in all of the things that were trying to steal your joy, that you are a conqueror. Now how many folk really believe that? Now that sounded good, but no, no, no, I mean I mean I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I believe that's good. I may not have the skill set, but I can do them It'll have been on the job somewhere and ask you what's your skill. You could have padded it up a little bit, knowing you weren't qualified, and you said, Holy Spirit. Help me. Didn't he do it? And that makes you more than a conqueror. You can take out the enemy by just praying unto him. There is that process The evidence, the who, the what, the when, the where. And knowing that every now and then you'll be called to the witness stand to defend your faith. Just because you love God, you gotta go back to courtroom 8. Amen? And in that setting, you can testify on what God has done in your life. Every now and then you might be cross-examined. Cross-examination is used to get favorable facts. One judge may say, Now, now what did you say again? You said on the night of October the 21st, you were well. It's cross-examination. It works in the favor of a particular attorney. And don't you know that as a believer in Jesus Christ, that you're always on the cross? Well, y'all know where I'm going, a cross examination. But there's something about that cross Don't fear when you're being cross-examined. Don't worry when you're being cross-examined. Why? Because you know something about the cross. Oh, yes, you do, yes you do, yes you do. At the cross? At the cross, where I first saw the light and the burdens of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith I received my sight, and now I'm happy all the day. Yeah, yeah. Oh sad me. Oh troubled me. Oh frustrated me. I don't mind says I Will tell the truth, so help me God. And when you think about on where he's brought you from. I I want to just go back to to those things that get in the way. You can turn your trouble into a testimony. Said child, you don't know what he's done for me. Your your hardship can become a hallelujah. Anyhow, uh your persecution can become your praise That famine can become a faith starter. The nakedness can become a no-thank you. That danger you face becomes your determination. That sorrow becomes your sanctified mother. And don't you know that we are community, and again we are more than conquerors? Why? I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today I know that he's living. Whatever men may say, I see his hand of mercy. I hear his voice of cheer. And yes The time I aren't you glad to have a right on time, God. I need him. He's always there. He lives. He lives, Christ Jesus lives today. He walked with me and talked with me a long life's narrow way. He lives, he lives. Salvation to impart half me. how I know he lives. I'm just gonna double dog dam you. Ask me. I beg you to ask how I know. Ask me how I know. Ask me how I know he will. Well I'm waiting, I'm waiting, I'm waiting, How many football ask me How do you know he lives? How do you know, Reverend, he lives within my heart? And I'm glad today that he lives. I'm glad today that I can walk and talk in this narrow way just because Healing. And that was something that was trying to Every time they did that, you just rose up in G. Every time they scandalize your name, you rose up in Jesus. Every time a hardship King, you said, Lord, I thank you for everything that you've done. Every time, forgive me. Tried to bring you down. You said I lift up my eyes unto the hills. From which cometh my help. All of my help cometh from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. Aren't you glad today that there's evidence in the love of Jesus Christ? You tried! Everything you could. The devil assigned someone to try and discourage you. And then went one by one everything they thought. Would bring you down. But you are more lucky. Amen. Come on, give God the praise today. Come on, stand over this place today. We serve a great God. Where is the evidence? It was laid out just like last time the enemy thought he had a case. Thought he had won that thing, but Jesus is sitting on the right hand of the Father, making intercession for the saints. On tomorrow, where's the evidence? Part three. But let's take a moment even now to Present Christ to you. We offer Christ to you, oh my brother, oh my sister. It's the the holiest time because We have a generation that knows not Jesus. Mama didn't know Jesus, and mama's mamas didn't know Jesus And so we are called as believers to share our testimony. Maybe you've come tonight and you've never opened your mouth to Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me from my sin. sins. And what's so great about that he can do it right now on the spot? The Bible says you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that Christ has been raised from the dead by his Father and thou shalt be saved. Let's bow today all over this place. Heavenly Father, we thank you that nothing can separate us from your love. And that's how it remains current and in real time because any attempt To separate us from you will never succeed. God, I pray now in the name of Jesus for every person in this building who is common, and maybe they know you. But there is evidence that something is trying to discourage them. We pray in the name of Jesus, God, that they may go through the process. And to see your mighty hand at work. God, we thank you. And we love you. And we give your name the praise. in Jesus' name. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. Amen. Yes, indeed. We bless God tonight. And taking your time to be in the night. In God good. I just got I got stuck on who today. I I that ain't jumped out and I say, Lord, who is it? It's trying to get in my way, but no matter who it is, they won't succeed. And that's the good news. That's the takeaway my old preacher, Professor used to say say say Reverend is your sermon portable? What do you mean, Professor can people take something home with them? Is there a carryout? No, you eat too much. Let me just carry that with me. I pray tonight you've taken a biscuit or something with your home to share with someone else. Amen? Amen. We're so glad to have you and sort of be in prayer for us tomorrow at noonday. We'll be right back here. proclaiming the word of God and then on tomorrow night we thank God for the Mount Sunday family and their sting pastor for being here tonight And thank God for the backup God sustainers. Amen. All the way from Lybo and Lake City. Sudden wanna thank Robert Scott for being here my special friend. And we've been able to connect. Uh we got uh