Everything in every door She I be fail he never failed. He never We come in by the day, Jesus and we know. He never failed He never paid me. Oh, help me. Can then around becomes by day just the other day I heard a man say he did not believe God's word is true, but I can truly say That the Lord has made a way. He never bade me. Don't you know that we have come in? Ah bad day every day, Jesus, and we lean in leading on the law with Shut in Shusty, Holy World, He never fails, He never failed me. Help me sing alone. Oh can't ever be captain thought by just the other day I heard a man say he did not believe God's word is true. I can truly say the Lord has made a way. He never failed me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, we come. It's five day every day, every day, every day on the Lord We've drifted, life in his own. He worked, he never failed me again Everybody thinks oh can around We come in part that day. Oh, oh, cake and around. We can be both a baby one more champ. Oh, oh, oh, get an around Amen. How many folk know that you come this far by faith, not by your intelligence? Not by your good looks, not by who you know, but you've come this far by who you believe in. And that is believing in God our Father. It's so great to be in the house today and so great to be on the Lord's side. I get a joy every time I come into this place to proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. There are many things I like to do. I don't guess I have a hobby. I just love giving God the praise. Anybody with me today? How many folk just love praising the Lord in seal? That was okay. How many folk love praising the Lord every now and then? Amen? All right, all right, all right. I know it's raining. I I know you're getting it together. I know I'm buying time, but how many folk are really grateful today to know that God has kept you? Amen. Amen. You know, uh let me let me just say this. If I look the Ravens got a win, didn't they? Yeah. And y'all were excited. Didn't you? Did you get excited? Or maybe it was your team. But that's an excitement in sports. So let me say it one more time. How many folks are just excited? to be on the Lord's side today. Amen? Well praise God. For this is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice And be glad. There's a word from the Lord today that comes from the Acts of the Apostles in the second chapter. Going to start at verse number 42. It says, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe at the many wonders and signs performed by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common. They sold property and possessions to give to anyone who had need. I want to preach today from the Semonic title, Who Cares? Who cares? Those two words can be taken and interpreted in different ways If I said, based on my tone and my nonverbal cues, I could say, who cares? And that would say that what I'm sharing is not important. You ever done it before? Who cares? And it was how you looked. It was how you said it that let folk know whatever I don't really care. Y'all being too holy today You said that. Don't want to talk talk to the hand. But then if you change it around And you change the tone and you change the verbal cues, I would say. Who cares? And it would take on a whole different light. Can I tell you that God cares for you? That he loves you with all of his heart, and that he really genuinely cares just for you. In fact, he created a caring people Somehow we got offline. Somehow we kind of changed up. But you were created in his image. You were created to be a caring person. There was a caring chip in you uh that you may have uh uh deemed dysfunctional, but you were created to care. The person next to you is someone who cares. In fact, you might be that person who has a heart so big. That you genuinely care about people. And you care about situations. You could be called someone who is compassionate. You know, Sunday after Sunday we come to harvest, and hopefully you walk out of here feeling like you've been cared for. Hopefully you can walk in here and someone will look at you and say, you know what? How you doing today? I I really believe that this church is one with the caring spirit. Eleven years ago we began this ministry. It was out of a caring heart. And I just have a heart for people. I have a heart for asking them how you doing. And you ever done that? Ask someone how are you doing? And they unloaded on you like 49 things? Well you ask. But just having the kind of spirit, it's not original to harvest. But I think we are a caring community. It is based really on the biblical model, the early church. cared for each other. And so it's Luke who writes this particular book of the Bible called the Acts of the Apostles. It really is a recording of all of the great things from the early church. It's like a videotape of all that they went through. all the challenges they face. But through it all, they remain a caring people. 3,000 people were baptized and they began to share with each other, but they but they care for each other. And that is so important. And so as Luke is writing this, he's writing to a church in its infancy Trying to encourage them. But they really lay out for us what it means to take time to care for each other. Am I making sense this morning? I I think sometimes we've kind of lost our focus. It it's me, myself and I. I've got mine. You better get yours. I pulled myself up by way of my bootstraps. That's old country talking But I've arrived and I don't really care. But isn't it great that there's still people who don't mind saying that I have a spirit of caring? Have I told you lately that I care about you? Amen? Well let me just say it publicly where everybody's listening. I really care about you. About what you're going through. I really care about you. About what you're facing, my heart goes out to you. So, what did we learn? There's some evidence in the text today about this early church This caring church. Well, first of all, they were a learning church. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. An educated church. And the apostles were those who were sent. They were those who spent time with Jesus. They were followers of the Lord. And they came on behalf of the Lord just to teach the people. They're seeing some things. They'd witnessed some things. They'd been in the classroom of life. And therefore, they didn't mind sharing what they knew. They were like special agents. They were like ambassadors of the High King. They were on assignment to let those who were being persecuted and beaten and threatened to let them know that the Lord cares about you Isn't it great to be in a neighborhood where you know your neighbor and you can c can I go way back? There was a time you could knock on your neighbor's door unannounced and say, Can I borrow an egg? Can I have some sugar? Uh can I can I but nowadays your doorbell rings and who's that? At my door. Do I know you? You want to borrow borrow what? Uh uh times have changed, but I think there still is a genuine caring I laughed about this on the blizzard of a couple years ago. I did not and still do not own a snowblower. And my shovel was falling to pieces. But I told I said Tim, there are two neighbors that got some major snowblowers. So let's go out and start the process. Man, we get out, we start, and they came by and just blasted it. But those are caring neighbors. I'm not gonna buy one this year. I got folk in my neighborhood who care about me I thank God that it's great to have a heart for people and to love on people. And you know, 2 Timothy talks about how we ought to study. To show ourselves approved. Work but need not be ashamed. Rightly divided in the word of truth. We really can tell sometimes by studying each other that we're going through something. You may not say anything, but I can kind of look at you or look at me and say, How are we doing today? And you'll put on your best face. But this church learned how to love. They learned how to care for each other, and they were the kind of church that really embraced other people. That's a good thing to have. It's to have that deep down spirit that you care. But not just a learning church, they were a church that fellowship. Teaching and fellowshipping and breaking of bread. Now fellowshipping means to hang out. Amen. And so they really took time, in spite of what they were going through, to come together and to fellowship. And to break bread. And fellowship comes from the Greek word kolonia. It means unity. It means community. But they came together and didn't mind slapping five. They came together and didn't mind saying, you know what? Can we hang out together? And so many of you, we fellowship right here on Sundays. Not just in the sanctuary, but we fellowship in the line. We fellowship together. It's that kind of love that we share. And it's not just in the house If I saw you at the store, I'd get all excited. Now that they go to my church. Wait a minute, excuse me. I'll run over to the produce section and greet you and let you know it's good to see you outside of church And I'll introduce somebody, you know what? Also, this is someone that I know. And fellowship and breaking of bread, they were talking really in two senses They've meant the breaking of bread as in holy communion, but they also mean just pot luck. You bring something, I bring something. Come on now. I've sat with you all, had a chicken wing or two, and laughed at you and laughed with you. That's fellowship That means that I care that I'm not just the pastor, but I can actually have a good laugh with you. And that's what's wrong with Christians sometimes. We too we we're too serious. Why not? Give a good laugh and let folk know you're glad to see them. This early church cared and they did it by way of fellowship. They were together. They were going through the same things. And you know when you talk to people and you realize what they're going through, well let's let's take a moment to fellowship and see what God will do in our midst. The Bible tells us in Hebrews we should not forsake the assembling of the saints. In other words, you ought to come together. What I'm saying in code is you ought to come on to church. Now I love my Facebook friends. God bless y'all. I love all y'all, but I wouldn't mind seeing you in church. Amen. Some of y'all live in Florida, you can't come that quickly. But there are others who might be at Bedside Baptist Church. But I care for you. Y'all got my back, right? I care for you. I know you watch it on Facebook, but boy, would I love to see you so I could give you a hug. The early church talked about this sense of fellowship. A learning church. They learned. They wanted to know more about the goodness of the Lord. They wanted to grow in the Lord. They wanted to be in a position so they could share with others the goodness of the Lord. And that's not necessarily mean you got a degree, but they fellowship, but they also was a church that prayed. Amen? A praying church. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, fellowship, breaking of bread, and to pray. There's an old theme that says, bumper snicker-wise, the family that prays together stays together. Some of y'all went way throw back. That's when you put stickers on your car. But the church that prays together. Stays together. Amen? God has kept us together for 11 years because of the encouragement and the prayers of the saints. And when you pray, you develop a bond with each other. The person sitting next to you, they feel the same way. They don't know what you're going through, but if they were to ask you what you're going through You could say, you know what, I need to pray for you. And that may not mean a full-scale, can I hold your hands? Can I get loud? But just whisper, even now, a prayer on behalf of the person nearest you Come on, let's do it now. I don't know who you are near. I'm gonna whisper a prayer on your behalf. I don't know what you're facing, but I'm praying for you. I don't know what your week was like, but I'm praying for you. I don't know what your tomorrow holds, but I'm praying for you. Now that ought to mean something Amen. Not folk who want to get in your business, but say, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen. I don't have much, but can I pray for you? My God, it's good to pray one for another Not to be ashamed to pray. We do everything else. You may as well pray together. Anybody feel excited about that today? Amen. This was a church That prayed together. They had prayer meetings from home to home. When trouble came, they prayed. Now trouble will make you pray. Won't it make you pray? If things are all good, you look, well, you know, praise the Lord. I'll get around to it. But boy, you let a crisis come. Oh Lord, get up your knees. You're praying. And it's okay to pray in your own way, but know who you're praying to. You're praying in Jesus' name to the Father who made the heavens and the earth. But my God, take time today and to pray. It shows that I care for you based on my prayer. Bible says in 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people, which are called by my name, are you my people? Will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven I will forgive their sin. I will heal their land. All based on prayer. Isn't it amazing that we do everything else but pray? Well, let me testify then. I have I tried to work that thing out, I tried to fix that thing up. I tried to use my 2. 1 education chip, but nothing happened. But one day I learned how to pray. And when I begin to pray, I begin to pray for myself. Our Father, which out in heaven. And I may shift somewhere else, but either way, I know I'm praying to a God who sits high and looks low. I'm stuck on that thing right there. Amen. And that showed they cared based on the prayers they shared with one another. Some time ago I did this. I had all the parents to come down. And I had all the children to come down with them. And I said, okay, now you pray for your parents. I ask the children to lay hands on your parents. Parents need prayer too. Amen. Take a moment and say, Mama, thank you for paying that tuition bill. Daddy, I'm praying for you. Thank God you gave me a plate. Oh, can I just get home? For for living. Thank you for the car you provided me with. Thank you for paying my insurance. Thank you for blessing my meal plan. But it's good to pray for one another. Let your folk know you love them, amen. And that you can't. Oh, I'm gonna get some bonus points today. Come on, pray for your parents This church prayed. And so we painted a portrait, I think, of a caring church. And God cared so much for us that he sent his only begotten Son, Jesus. He he didn't just talk the talk, but he walked the walk by sending Jesus Christ to die for our sins. But he didn't stay in that grave. He rose on the third day morning with all power in his hand. That's that's a caring father. Amen? Aren't you glad that you know that kind of father who is in heaven, who cares that much for you, that he would send his very best? He did it. Don't forget that he cares. As you walk away today, say, you know what? I feel cared for. As you leave today, say, you know what? You know, I ought to care for somebody else every now and then. And I think about the little kitty song we used to sing back in the day, it's not so kiddie. He's got the whole world in his hands. With all that's happening in the world, he's got the world in his hands. Do you believe that today? That the God that we serve cares so much he'll take this old mean, hard-headed, forgetful world and still care for them? He cares for the little bitty baby. They're in his hands. He cares for you and me, brother. In his hands. He cares for me and you sister. Oh, you don't feel cared for today. In his hands. Aren't you glad that he cares so much for you? And because of his caring hands, It empowers me to lift my hands unto the Lord. Father, I stretch my hands to thee. No other help. I know. If thou would look at those hands, withdraw thyself from thee, oh whether shall I go? He really cares for you. You answer the question? Who cares? I know. But I know the answer. God cares for me. And just knowing that he cares for me changes my attitude. Knowing that he cares for me reminds me that I'm blessed. Knowing that he cares for me gives me clarity in my life. Knowing he cares for a little country guy from down home Kind of hit and miss. He gives me joy unspeakable that through it all. He still cares for me. He gives me peace because he cares for me. He gives me everlasting life. All because He cares. So the question has been answered. Who cares? I do. And I learned how to care from he who cares for us. That is the word of God today. It is already blessed. Come on, stand today all over this place. Because you serve a caring God who made the whole wide world. And you in the world. Folk may have beat you down coming in here. You're nothing. You'll be nothing. No, no, no, no, no. I got somebody I know who cares for me. Early church couldn't help themselves. It was embedded on their behalf. Come as you are. Cromest be Come with me, come and hit Come just as you are. No need to have to fix up. He'll fix you up. He's calling even now. Come to command comic. That's what you'll get today. Maybe you've come today into this place and you feel like nobody cares for me. I want to introduce you to one who really loves you. So much so that he displayed it on an old rugged cross. I believe that today, that he went to that cross for so many. And so I'm being intentional today Not mixing words, not kind of sugarcoated. We sugarcoat too much stuff. Let me say this to you. One day, at the age of six years old. On a Friday night, June 14th, I sat on a little wooden bench In my hometown church. It's still there. And when the pastor came down Me and Morris Williams said that you've heard my testimony. We were scared to death. We were six. But all week long we were targets. They were preaching to us. Preacher came down to asked us, we're gonna give our heart to Jesus Christ. Fist bump wasn't around then. We were like Let's do it. That day I gave my life to Jesus. The next day I was baptized. And while I didn't get all of it at six, Something was planted in my heart that day. That even he knew what I would become beyond. So don't dismiss your encounter with the Lord Jesus Christ. It it it means something. For you it may not have been a Friday night on a wooden bench in a small town He may have touched your heart some other place, but I know he's been he's been knocking on the door of your heart. And he continues to knock. And the question is: will you open the door? That's the bottom line. Will you let him in? Will you open your heart today and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner In need of a savior. I believe that God sent you. Because I believe in Christmas I believe in the babe wrapped in swamping clothes. And I believe that he died and rose again because I believe in Easter. And the Bible says, if you can grasp that and put both pieces together and make your own public confession unto him, the Bible says, thy wilt be saved. I wasn't trying to water it down. I want to make it real because I ain't six no more. But I'm glad what happened at six Made a difference. As you bow your heads very briefly. Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And I hear the the knock On the door of that heart. It's only through their acceptance can they open the door and let you in. Save someone today, God. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll just glorify you for the changed life And you did it because you cared for us. Thank you, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise today. I like that. How many folk will just glorify the Lord today? I mean just lift him up and just praise his name. My life Lord be glorified, be glorified, be glorified In my life. My life, Lord, be glorified. There's a fresh spirit in this house even right now. In my home. In my home. Lord be glory. The glory in my home in my Oh Lord be glorified. One last time in my life. I'm trying to let this thing go, but the spirit's still moving. In my Life Lord be glory. I feel good right now. How you feel right now? Today. Come on, put those caring hands together. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good and he's worthy to be praised. I pray you feel cared for today. As you leave this place. I've often said what my preaching professor used to tell me back at St. Mary's, Reverend He said, make sure the message is portable. What do you mean? Make sure folk can take something home with them, like a carry-out. I pray you grab something today In this message that you can take with you for the week and share with someone and let them know I care for you. Amen. Maybe you've come today and desire to be a part of this ministry called Harvest. The doors are always open for you. Come and join in This caring church, look at that.