Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. and then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. It's already in progress. Come on, give him a thank you, God praise. Come on, give him a praise that he is all that you have Come on, give him a real praise today. I'm talking about praising him. Amen. Bless him, bless him, bless him. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. Amen. Amen. You may take your seats in the presence of the Lord. Certainly always grateful to stand before the Lord. I look at the course of my week and all I'm thinking about between work is making sure that I am listening to the Lord. God, what would you have your people to hear this week? It always starts with me. We thank God as always for our our friends by way of Facebook. And I was at a store on yesterday at the dollar store. And I was looking for something to say, I see you on Facebook every week. I said, won't you come on see us in person? And I think they're planning to come uh to the glory of God that we might fellowship. But we always thank God for uh your people, your cousins, your friends in Carolina, Florida, Virginia West Virginia, etc. Thank God for you. And when you get the message, share it with someone else. We never know who we're reaching. There's a word from the Lord today, and this word we we visited back at the beginning of the year. And I felt like it was time to go back in the same pool. God's word is so expansive until you just can't uh you know, get it one time. But these passages are key to me because they represent my call story. That when I said to the Lord, I am going to preach, my knees were buckling, scared to death. But I was waiting for somebody to tell me, Tutin, you are preacher. And nobody would say it. And so I had to realize that I had to hear it for myself. And this was the passage or two that reminded me of who I am in the Lord and that God had called me to preach Man, that's no joke. So here I am now. Say I can't turn back. I know too much about him. There's no word today, so I've given you the backdrop of the text. Samuel, 1 Samuel 3. 9 through 11. So Eli told Samuel, go and lie down. And if he calls you, say, speak, Lord, for your servant is listening. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. Verse 10, the Lord came and stood there, calling as at other times. Samuel, Samuel, then Samuel said, speak, for your servant is listening. And the Lord said to Samuel, see, I'm about to do something in Israel that will make the ears of everyone who hears about it tingle. Father, we come today and we thank you for this moment of proclamation. It is our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today, encourage another, and when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory. In Jesus' name. I want to talk today from the Samonic title, Who Has Your Ear? Who has your ear? People love to tell you how they think you ought to live. And they make no bones about it. They'll say, you know, you ought to be doing this and this and this It may be family members, it may be friends, it may be the next-door neighbor out when you bring up the trash can who has an opinion or advice about what you ought to do. There's always someone trying to guide you, and someone telling you an old story about their own life situation. And while there's some wisdom in that, We must always be careful to make sure that we put a filter on. I would even suggest that when people say, well, tell me Tim about your journey. I may say a bit too much. Well, eat the meat and throw the bones out. But just making sure who is it that you're listening to on a daily basis? Is anyone listening to God? We're listening to the television talk show. We're listening to the celebrities We're listening to everybody about what they think you ought to do with your life. But the question will always remain, who has your ear? What voices are you listening to? Where are you putting your stock when it comes to advice, opinion, etc. ? At the very beginning of the Bible, Adam and Eve, and even though God had spoken a word to them about the garden, what they should and should not do, Uh turns out that Satan had Eve's ear and and spoke some lies to her and she believed them. And then Eve had Adam's ear because he went alone. Amen. He was an accomplice. But just even from the beginning of time, as the Bible records Always be sensitive to who you listen to. In our text today, we're listening to the story of a 12-year-old boy. a middle school student, a seventh grader, who can help to guide us when it comes to making sure that you hear the right voice. His name is Samuel, and the backdrop to his story is he's a miracle child. His mother Hannah prayed under God that God please give me a son. And she praised and prayed and prayed. She was barren and she was not supposed to have children. But she leaned on God. She prayed to God. Anybody ever done that? You just leaned on the Lord and you kept praying for something, and and French told you, child, I would just give up on that. And you kept praying And she said, God, if you give me a son, I will lend him back to you. In other words, you're giving me the child, but I'm going to give him back to you. Uh it's just a lease. Amen. Sometimes even with our vehicles, we don't buy the car, we just lease it. So it don't really belong to you. And with our own children, we're just leasing them for the time being We make payments into their lives, but we cannot control who they are. But she makes this agreement with God that I will give him back to you. And so as a little boy Samuel finds himself in the temple, in the holy place, serving the Lord. Isn't that something? I mean, 12 years old. He's doing what God has called him from a baby to preteen. And so one night there he is in the temple. And he's awakened by a voice That he thinks belongs to Eli. After all, it was just he and Eli there. And so when he heard this voice, he assumed it was Eli. So he ran back, Eli, did you call me? No? Okay. I heard a voice that I didn't know who it was. He went back and he laid down again and he heard that same voice. He came back to Eli and says, I think you you must have called me. Nobody here but us. Amen And he goes back a third time, and Eli, who obviously had poured into his life in the elderly prophet, says, wait a minute, the next time you hear this, do this. Say, speak, Lord, thy servant, hear it. His instructions to Samuel is where I'm going to drop my ankle this morning. In this story, there's a witness about confusion, connection, and godly direction Verse 9, so Eli told Samuel, this 12-year-old boy, once you go and lie down. If he calls you, say this. Speak, Lord, for your servant is listening. So Samuel went and laid down in the place. Samuel was confused. Wait a minute, you you're telling me that it's not you and that I should go back and when I hear that voice again, that I should respond in some way. He was looking for clarity. He wanted to make sure that what he was hearing was the right thing and the right voice and the right person. And that's good news for us. Make sure you hear what you hear and not have someone to interpret it for you that all of the things that Eli had shared, he had his own issues. But said, Boy, if I were you, I'd go back. And here's the passcode. The next time you hear your name being called, here's how you respond. I've said it before. That was my call story to ministry. Tim, lay back down, Able one person gonna call you and that's God. The preacher can't call you, the committee can't call you, either you know you've been called or not. And that freed me up, but the same can be said about you and I. Life is not about a gut feeling. Amen. Life is not about what things seem to be lined up right. You know, the weather was good, the traffic was light, everything seemed to be in place. And you've heard this old theme And all the stars are lying. Oh, okay. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. But when you hear him, and keep in mind that he spoke audibly. Amen. He spoke audibly, and he had to get past his confusion to get some clarity, and that's an area of life we all Struggle with at times. Can I just say you have to be still? Yeah. And find yourself in a place And really sit before the Lord and shut everything down to Lord, here I am. Speak to me, your servant Is listening. Your servant is not texting. Your servant is not on Facebook. Your servant is not surfing. Your servant is listening. Eli gave him something to rehearse. And when it comes to your hearing from God, knowing who has your ear, Make sure there's some clarity in it. He didn't have a firm relationship with God. Well what did he hear for himself? He had not grown to the place to where he could distinguish. As you and I grow in the Lord, we get to a place that we know tracks talk when we hear. It was all yeah, right. Thank you. And we know things that come from people that will actually bless us. And folk will do that sometimes in passing, but make sure you're hearing the right voice. Moses there on the backside of a mountain was confused. He was mounting his father-in-law's sheep and all of a sudden a bush caught on fire that would not go out. He said, What in the world's going on? And from that bush, in that experience, God speaks to him Don't count out how or when God will speak. You'll be amazed it may not be doing your devotional hour. It may be when you're doing something else totally different. You might be doing some housework and all of a sudden God speaks through your laundry. Well, y'all hear me today. You might be doing something. Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute, wait a minute. I think I just got some clarity. And I hear the voice of the Lord. And then he makes a connection. That the Lord came back and stood there calling as other times. I'm just glad he didn't stop at the first time. He he keeps coming back and he's speaking to you and to me. He said, I I've been told you I I've been I've been calling you your name now. You you got too busy on me, but I'm still calling you. Can I have your ear for a moment? Eli helps him. And so this on the fourth time, when he hears this voice. Sam just said, wait a minute, let me get my script out. Speak for your servant is listening. How are you responding to the voice of God today? Have you put God on hold? Got him on call waiting while you listen to someone else? Well they've got experience in this area, so they must know. Uh they they got a degree in that area. They must know. They they you know I I'm gonna listen to them, but why not check in with God first? God may send someone your way with the word, but don't build up On them. If I come every Sunday say, well, that was a good word, but let me read first channel for myself. I'm gonna go home today and look at this thing and see how it ministers to me I won't just take your word. That's why I try to stay in the word. Amen. One day, nor may the God a connection. Folk thought he was crazy. God told him to build an ark for his cruise ship. And do what? And folk thought he was crazy, but he heard from God And the things that God speaks to us, the world may think we're off. That's right. The world may think we'll look crazy. Why? Because we have moved in the Spirit of God. Kind of hard to explain that that when God wants you to move, he'll keep leaning on you. You say, Well, I had a good dream. He may speak through a dream. He may speak through your devotion. He may speak to a friend, but ultimately it is the Spirit of God. Who speaks to us? God forbid we shut everything down for a moment and say, Lord, speak with my script. For your servant is listening. That becomes so key. It's like having a line that you call and you might get a little static in it I I I didn't hear you. Can you say that again? Uh some of y'all know about long distance. I worked on a radio station. I told you we were such a small station that once you got a certain point, you heard part of The Commodore. It ain't all of them. It was just part of it. But God is speaking and He wants to make a connection to us. That's what he desires is for us to be listening to him and not everybody else. And then of course there's some direction that comes with it. And the Lord said to Samuel, You'll see, once you got his attention, I'm about to do something in Israel that will make the ears of everyone who hears tingle. Not the end of the story. It wasn't like, oh man, I heard him. I'm good now. Yeah, I heard the Lord. Yeah, yeah. I was talking to Eli. Eli told me to go back. I went back. I got it. Yay! No, no, no, no, no, no. No, that's something I'm doing. That's an assignment connected with what you heard. So if God has spoken something to you, there's something for you to do. Uh oh. Why? Because you're getting God's direction. Not out of your flesh, but God has said to you, speak. And so this was not a one-hit wonder This was an assignment connected to what's next. What am I to do with what I've heard? Uh-oh. And so oftentimes it's something we don't want to do. My God, I don't I don't talk to them already. I I don't you know I I I don't save my peace. I don't no no no no no no he says I want you to go to Eli The one you're working under, and tell him in Tim Tudon's version, you're messing up. You messing up, your boy's messing up, you're disrespecting the house of God, you're disrespecting me. He was like, huh? Yeah, yeah, and there are people that God will send you to that you said, well, nah, nah, God, we we're okay, but I don't want to go there. There was direction to go and to share with Eli, what was going to happen? Your family will be punished. Eli kept saying, Come on, man, I know he told you something. Tell me Yeah. He loves it, oh man, I I I I told you how to hear it, and now what he told you will affect me. And he shares it with them. And God has told you something today Based on what you've heard, to deliver a message. And be associated with people who have a connection with the Lord Those who are living for the Lord. And be careful for wolves. In sheep clothing. Everybody don't mean you good. Every word may not be for you. Let me just say this: whoever has your ear has your attention. Whoever has your ear has a way to set your agenda. Whoever has your ear is helping to deform your belief system. Whoever has your ear is trying to alter your future. Whoever has your ear may want to short circuit your joy. Not everybody means you well. Whoever has your ear may want to press down your piece and may want to affect your walk and your talk. Be careful who has your ear But you don't know, man. They they got a reputation. I just saw in the magazine where they're number one. But is what they're saying lining up with what God is saying I I'm I'm getting to a repetitive stage now and I'm just saying it again. Uh uh that that make sure that if somebody is coming and speaking into your life, make sure that you have your ears on I remember back in the 70s, there was a phenomenon with CB radios. Man, they were big. I didn't have no car, so I had no C B. That's a citizens band radio. Now if you had one in your ride, I I I won't tell nobody. But man, that was like break a breaker I mean you thought you were still God's just right down the road. You're like, hey doctor, this is uh Bluefoot, you know, uh breaker, breaker, breaker And man, we would drive down the road, uh uh some of y'all young folk and you was like, man, you had your C B. Come let me say something. And just messing with truckers. Hey good, buddy has to look it up there. Hello there. And you would always say, Do you have your ears on? Yeah, I got my ears on. And what that meant is, are you listening? And my question to you today is, do you have your ears on? Can can you copy what God is saying to you? Can you understand what he's speaking in his language? Hello, good Christian. Do you have your ears on? Because I'm speaking something to you that's going to change your life. I'm speaking something into you that will lead to your success. I'm saying something to you, but you got to have your ears on. My God, I'm listening. It took me a while to understand all the lingo in scripture, but now every day I got my my ears on. Love that hymn that says, I come to the garden alone, while the dew is still on the roses. And the voice I hear falling on my ear, the Son of God discloses. In he walks. With me and there it is again, he talks. And he tells me I am his own. Can I just stop right there? He tells me I'm somebody. He tells me I'm important. He tells me I'm redeemed. He tells me I'm saved. He tells me he's made away for me. Why? My ears are on. I know who has my ear It is the Lord himself speaking by way of his spirit. Take time today to say, wait, what was that again? That don't line up with John 316. That's right. That don't line up with Psalm 34. That that that don't line up with what I learned in Sunday school. That don't line up with what I found out in Bible study. And if it don't line up, don't deal with it. Don't be pressured to say, well, yeah, I did try it. No, no, no, no, no, no. Who has your ear? Can you answer that question today? Do you know who's speaking into you? Some folk mean well. But they're speaking some bad things into your spirit. And you're receiving them and you're running with them and they're not of God. Oh I'm trying to stop. I need to stop. I need to stop I need to stop I need to stop. But but that's it. And so now I've got a small circle of friends. Folks who done been through some stuff. I got a Deacon Jarrett Waller who done walked with the Lord for a while. I'll listen to Deek. What's that again, Dick? Because I want to hear from some experience, somebody who walks with the Lord. And that's so important is identifying someone who's speaking truth. That is the word of God. It's already a blessing. Come on, stand today. Who are you listening to? What are you listening to? And be careful who you answer to. Do they mean you well or or they setting you up? Tell you how good you are and how great you are Just say yes Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes Lord From the bottom of my heart to the depth. To the death from my soul, yes, Lord Yes, Lord. Take comedy my soul My soul says yes. Come on, let's say it again, yes to the Lord. Yes, Lord. Yes la bottom of my heart to the depth of my door Yes Lord Let me take a moment. This word is so serious, as all words are, but there's somebody who's been speaking of your life, and you say, I don't know what's going on Because you listen to them all the time. They always got a a word for you out of their experience and how they done some things and you're saying, but you're not even in the word. You you don't even acknowledge Christ. Eli had issues and problems, but he knew enough to tell that boy, wait a minute, hold on, hold on. It ain't me It's him. And I'm saying to you, it's him. He's the one who wants your ear. And when he speaks, you'll know it. It'll be like no other voice. It'll be so sweet. It will pull you off, it'll remind you, and you'll know, Lord, you spoke. As we come today, let's bow. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. We thank you, dear God, for the example of a 12-year-old boy. Who grew in you, but initially did not know your voice. Help us not to miss all that you're saying to us as a church, as a pastor, as a people. Maybe we've been tuned into the wrong station. Help us to go back down the dial to heaven's channel and to hear clearly what you're saying to us. God, there might be someone here today who has not heard your voice to confess their sins unto you. They they've heard some things, but speak today, God, to their hearts. And let them know that if they acknowledge you as Lord and Savior, believe that you were sent by God the Father, that you died and that you rose again, if they believed that and confessed that, you said that you would save them Speak Lord even now, in this moment, to each of us individually. You can carry a conversation, God, with all of us at the same time. Speak. Speak, Lord. And we'll be so careful to give your name the praise. In Jesus' name. Amen. Come on, give God a praise. Thanks so much for listening. I want to tell you about a couple of other ways you can be inspired, of course by C D, but you can also listen to our sermons on the website we have for you It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's comthenumber to harvest. org. Or by way of sermonaudio. com, that's sermonaudio. com, all you have to do is to search for Harvest Christian Ministries You can also listen to our daily devotionals. They're new and they're really gaining popularity. They're called seeds of encouragement You can get them by way of iTunes from Podcasting or from Facebook. Either way, we want to inspire you on a daily basis. Have a great day in the Lord. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Be blessed.