I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Once again we come this way. And we thank you as we enter close to the end of another year. We thank you for every day that you've given us. Some days have been up and some have been down. But God, through it all, you've been with us Bless your people today and bless your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The Lord is good. Can you believe we're near the end of another year Oh, you can't believe it, huh? That God has yet been faithful, kept his word. Look at you, you're still standing. Look at you. Some folk didn't think you was gonna make it. And you've made it. To be just on the outskirts of 2015. There's a word from the Lord today. It comes from the book of Psalms 90 and 12. Teach us to number our days that we may gain a heart of wisdom Want to preach today from the Semanic title, Who's Keeping Count? Who's Keeping Count? I was uh laughing amazed and chuckled a while when my grandson said I can count and they began the process one got to ten and was excited about it And the other grandson said, Can I do 100? His mother tried to discourage him. He would not miss a beat until he got to 100. Had I pushed them, they would have gone further. But isn't it a blessing to know that God is yet a God who takes care of our days? And many of us learn to count at home My God, the experts say that that's the first part is being able to know your numbers and be able to know some addition and some subtraction and some multiplication Uh never my strength. So I went into something different that did not require a lot of math. But we live by numbers here Seven days in a week, and most times 31 days in a month, and 365 days in the course of a year. And we stand this morning and look back, and we all can celebrate that we've got a streak going, that we've not missed a single day of living. Every morning God has guided you up. Every morning God has started you on your way. That sounds something to be excited about. My God, you are still here, you're breathing and you're living and able to tell that through it all I've learned to trust in Jesus. In our text today, we meet one by the name of Moses. Theologians believe this is the oldest psalm written. That Psalm 90, mostly we hear about the Psalms we think of David, but Moses wrote a psalm. Moses was one who knows what it means to count your days. There he was born of a time when his very life was at risk. But God made a way for him that his mother would put him in a basket and put him on the river protect him and then turns out that Pharaoh's daughter would say, look here, there's a baby, and then hire his mother to take care of it. Moses grew up and realized things were not going the way they should have, but he knew who he was. He murdered a man, ran away, a fugitive from justice. God tracked him down on the backside of a mountain. With a bush that would not be consumed, said Moses, I found you. And I have an assignment for you. He had one of the great assignments that made the biblical headlines to go in and to tell me Pharaoh that God said, Let my people go. And to lead over a half a million folk back across the desert, complaining and groaning, and to get through the Red Sea experience. And now he comes and says, God, I thank you for what you've done. How many folk are just thankful today that God has kept you in spite of yourself? That through everything you've been through, that each day He wakes you up And folks by that, who's keeping count? I'm keeping count. The fact that he saved me, the fact that he's kept me, and the fact that he continues to guide me along my way, that's a big deal for me. My God, I feel good this morning. I can't leave this thing. The fact that I'm still able to walk and to breathe and to have my being that gets me excited. I don't know about you. I'm glad God you kept me. So many didn't make it. But God you kept me right here In your care. And I thank you for that today. It may not be a big deal for you. How many folk are glad to really be alive today? I mean, shown up God, you got me moving, I'm breathing, I can look. Thank you for what you've done I can't go past that because I realize that my days are numbered, but God, you kept me one more time. I can get excited just on that. The fact that I'm still here See when you're young you don't worry about that oh man I got everything but when you get to be up in the little age God you did it again you got me up again I'm in my right mind again there's food in the house again Amen. And so we come today and say, who's keeping count? And so today we'll look at this sense of keeping count as it relates to the importance of asking. The importance of doing and making sure that on the back end we are receiving as we keep count. And in the text today, it's in the 90th Psalms, is that we find that Moses really is making a request of God. Verse 12 says, Teach us. Now Moses said, I don't know it all. And the people don't know it all. And yeah, I may have been through some stuff, but there's some things that I can learn in life. Ever said I'm the real tutor, had them to grill you and to help you, and he's saying, Lord, teach us. It's not just about me, but he stands at the gap and he prays for the people Moses is not a perfect person, but he knows where to go to to get some help. Anybody know the importance of saying I went to everybody else and they say, Well, here's what I would do, but I'm going to the one who can make a difference The one who sits high and looks low, the one who's God all by himself. He says, I'm coming because I know there's a need in the Lord. Will you teach us? Amen. Got a degree or two, but teach me. Got a certificate and a half but teach me. Been through a thing or two, but I want you To teach me, I'm asking, I'm requesting of God that you might help me to know more about you. How many folks want to know more about God today? Learn of me Amen. And so he does that as he comes and approaches God right in this one passage. I couldn't get past this Teach us. That means that there's some things that he didn't know. He needed more knowledge about God. And there's nobody who knows that much That they can be God themselves. Some people want to be God with a little G, but I mean saying there's some stuff I don't know this year, and I need for you to take me to class. I need for you to keep me after class. I need for you to teach me everything I need to know about you. And that's what the word talks about. The other places we see where he is one who is always teaching and helping us. Amen? Matthew 7 is an ask, and it shall be given to you. I want to learn. Seek, and you shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. See, you're not already want to learn of God. You can just say, you know what, I'll stay in first grade all my life. But life's circumstances will teach you something. You say, you know what? Can I be promoted? Can I know more of him? And there are things in life you'll say, Lord, I don't know it all. Anybody that smart? Did they know it all? How many have had to just ask God, lead me, and guide me along my way? I just don't know what to do. I'm not that smart. And since you are God, I come to you and I'm asking. The other passages, John 16, 24. Now you've not asked me for anything. Some said we're not even asked for. In my name. Ask, and you will what? Come on, Sunday school class. And your joy will be complete It's okay to ask God. God, I need you to help me. God, I need you to guide me. God, I need you to lead me. There's nothing to be embarrassed about. I don't know you like I should And so therefore, as I keep count, I'm coming to ask you to help me along the way. Amen. James 4:3. When you ask and do not receive, it's because you got the wrong motive. Asking for stuff you know you don't need. And won't God give you everything you need? Amen. We take time and ask. And that's what Moses. I want to get no further than saying, Lord, teach us. Anybody want to be taught today by the Lord? Amen. But not just that. It comes with doing. Teach us to do what? To number our days. You know what day it is, don't you? You know what time it is. But he says, obviously we've not gotten it all. I need you to teach us. And Moses lived to be over 120 years old. But he said, you know what? There's some things I still need to know. Teach us to number our days. You don't know what tomorrow holds. And that's why I always encourage you, there's some stuff that's on you, get it off you. There's a phone call you have to make and say, I'm sorry when it wasn't your fault. That's all right. But get it off. You don't know what tomorrow holds. Always say to folk, don't go to bed mad. But go to bed glad. And even though somebody may have wronged you, the Bible says, Well to forgive them, what? Seven times seventy. It's I need you to help me to keep track. Of my days. May as well say it. The big fad now is uh these trackers. I got one on my wrist, and I'm getting steps right now. And they measure how many steps you take a day. You might have one called a jawbone, flex, fit bit, but after church I added up. I said, Man, you've been walking today. And what it does, it keeps track of your steps. Keeps track of your sleep. Keep track of your active minutes. And when it comes to the things of God, God keep track of my living. God keep track of my giving. God keep track of what I'm doing in my everyday life. It's about doing. I need for you to what? To number our days. My God, how many folk are a few days over fifty or sixteen and you say, Lord, you brought me from a mighty long way Amen. And so I'm asking you that I might make each day count. That I might make each moment count for something in my own personal life. Isn't that good news today? When it comes to doing, the Bible talks about that in a lot of different places. Lamentation says it's of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, that every day His mercies anew. Great is that faithfulness. Don't you know you got a brand new day today? Out the package, a day you've never seen before. A day you can number and say, God, I've made it in the ranks of the living. Amen. Every day his mercies are new. Aren't you glad about that today? That every day you get a fresh start Might have messed up yesterday, laid somebody out, did something wrong. But God, you want me to get up today and my your mercies are new. You don't sound too excited about that. Maybe y'all have been real good, never done anything wrong. God thanks you for another day. To get it right another day to tell somebody about the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Amen. And the other passages that relate to this whole sense of being able to do. James 1. 22 says, be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own self. Yeah, I know. What have you done lately for the Lord? What have you done lately? Are you doing anything? Are you keeping track of the days that God has given you and making the best out of the day? Amen. He's given you this day, and yes, I'm keeping count Another day he's given me. Aren't you glad about that today? Man, you don't seem too glad about that thing today. I mean the fact that you're still alive and well, it's another day the Lord has given you And he didn't have to do it, but he did. He woke you up and got you on your way. That's about doing something. What is he doing? I'm checking the calendar. You did it again. You kept me again, and God I thank you. And then Luke 11, 28. Blessed are those who hear the word of God, but also obey it. Something about doing the word. I know 15 scriptures, but are you living any of them? That's the challenge today, amen. Oh my god, I'm numbering my days. I want to make sure that I'm doing something, and more than the teachers to keep track. We're some hard-headed people. Help us to be doers of the word. Amen. Isn't that good news today? The fact that the Lord says to you That you know what? Number each of your days. If you don't get anything else today, say you know what? I'm keeping count. I'm gonna be better tomorrow. Some of y'all know that you knew a certain day was coming, you start acting real good Hey, yes you did. To get a nice gift. And we can't do God like that. We just said God you've been so faithful to me and I thank you even now But then finally, there's something about receiving. Teach us to number our days. Why? That we may gain a heart of wisdom. Amen. And man's wisdom is a little different. Doc, I've been around 40 years. Let me tell you what I've been through. That's man's wisdom. God's wisdom comes from the Word of God. And it's something you can stand on. It's great to have knowledge. But when you put that knowledge to use, you say, you know what? It looks like it's right, but I'm trusting God for his wisdom, and that's what Moses wanted for the people. Number your days not just to be counted, but to number them that we might do what? Receive your wisdom. And to receive your understanding. And I always say to folk, you got great hair, I'm wise. Has nothing to do with your hair. You can be a gray-headed somebody and don't know a thing. Amen? And might have die in it But nevertheless, it's not about your hair, it's about what God is doing and what He's brought you through and what you've learned along your journey. You've learned after a while to gain a heart of wisdom To do some things that make sense. Not make the same mistakes over and over again. But God, as I keep track of my life, help me to be a wise somebody. Amen. How many folk want to be wise in Him? Amen. When folk are wise, they give you a wise look and say, well, Lord, let me just tell you a thing or two. And it's about really standing on the Word of God. And when somebody is sharing with you and what they're sharing with you is not something just from the experience, but based on the word of God, it makes sense. Where can I find it? Go on over there in Psalms. Where can I find it? Going over to John. Where can I find it? They want to know where I can find the word, and that's what's so important. Amen. As it becomes distance of receiving, 2 Chronicles Samuel said, Give me wisdom. He said, Now, Lord, what do you want? And knowledge. Why? That I may lead this people and to govern this great people. He said, What do you want? He said, I I want you want gold, do you want silver? So I said, No, no. Well, I want some wisdom. I want to be able to know what to do in every situation. Don't you want that today? That I just, yeah, I might have a half a piece of paper, but I want to be able to say, Lord, is this right in your sight? Is it pleasing you? Am I doing the right thing? In your sight. And so we keep counting these days, it's till we might become a little bit more wise in the Lord. Amen That's the good news of this text today. John 9 and 4. I must work the works of him that sent me while it's day. Why? Because the night will come when no person can work. Is that even Christ said, You know what? My time is short with y'all. I got a few years to get in, but I'm out of here. I got a plan, a divine plan, but I need to let you know that you got a number of your days. Hebrews 13 and 8. He's the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. That's real good. That he never changes No matter what day you find yourself, he's still God all by himself. No matter what you're going through, he's still good. Amen. Name them one by one. Count your blessings. See what the Lord has done. Count your blessings and see what He's done. What has He done for you today? Can you have a countdown? Some of y'all are gonna count down with uh with the when when the ball drops. Amen. Those who are home. Don't count down as you enter a new year. But I'm counting down on what God has done, and my feet blessed me. I'm glad about it. To see another day. He's called me to share the good news of Jesus Christ. He's helped me to press my way through situations that I've been through, and so have you. He's kept you in his divine care He's never left you alone because God is always dead with. And that's why I praise him. And that's why I give him praise today. Why? Because he's good. Oh, oh, what he's done for me, I never shall forget what he's done for me. Have you forgotten what he's done for you? Have you lost track of the blessings God has given you? Every day he gets you up, you ought to make note of that. God, thank you. You've kept me in my right mind. Yeah, let me check that off. God, you made a way out of nowhere. Let me check it off. God, you provided for me when no one else was around That's keeping count. Look at what he has done in your life. My God, you don't get this thing yet, because you're not too excited about it. I'm keeping count. What number? Another day he's given me Another day he's kept me. Another day he's saved me. Another day he's forgiven me. Another day he's given me joy. Another day he's g Me peace. I thank him one more time, just for everything I'm keeping count What number I'm on number nine now, he's still keeping me. On number ten, he keeps making away. On number eleven, he's still a God who will take care of me, and I'm glad about that Who's keeping count? I'm keeping count. Are you keeping count today on the things that God has done for you? Have you made a mental note on what He's done in your life? My God, He'll do it. Yes, He will Yes, he will. God will take care of you. Through every day, He will take care of you. He'll do it in your asking. He'll do it in your doing. And as you receive today. Stand all over the church today. That's the word of God. It is already blessed. How many folk are counting their days today? Counting their numbers on what he's done? And the response that is God, you didn't have to do it. That's it. But you've kept us in your divine care every day One day at a time. Here's my message today. Life is so fragile And life is just like this. The Bible says that one day there's a thousand years to him. It's not a morbid message. The fact of the matter is, soon and very soon we'll all see the key. But when you make the best of the day that God has given you now, all you have really is right now. And to make the best of it. Don't put off what for tomorrow you can do for what? Oh, y'all gotta wake up this morning. Amen. And that's it. That message and that passage stopped me in my tracks. Teach us To number our days that we might gain a heart of wisdom. Are you keeping count today on what God has done in your life? As you come today, I want to pray with you. This is the day of salvation. Tomorrow is not promised, but right now you can accept Christ into your heart. Right now you can go into a new year, a new person Not with just a new attitude or a new resolution, but a relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. As you bow your heads today, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. And God, I pray Like Moses prayed, teach us today as a community of faith to trust you and to believe you and to accept you. Father, I pray even now there's one in our bench who has never taken the time to say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner and I need to be saved. I'm not going to say next year I'll do this because our days are numbered. And what you have is right now. And so if you've come this way today, you've never confessed Christ as Lord and Savior. I want you to take a moment, a private moment, a personal moment as you close your eyes today and bow your heads today. Ask the Lord today to come into your heart and to save you. You can say something like this: Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. And I need a Savior. I believe that you sent your Son Jesus Christ to die for my sins. I believe that he died and rose again. And the Bible says: if you believe that, confess it, believe it in your heart, that you shall be saved. And so as you consider that, ask yourself the question: Am I saved? Do I have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ? If you can't answer that question, I want to pray with God. I want you to go into another year. Doubting, not sure. But right now, while those heads bow, if you've never given your heart to Jesus Raise your hand where you are today. Nobody's business but your business. I want to pray God's blessings upon you. You know for a fact That you are not saved, that you don't have a relationship, that if you left this earth today, if you're wondering, well, maybe I will, maybe I won't, today you can be assured of salvation In this place. One last time, if you're here today, you're not sure. And I want you to leave and say, Well, you know what? Nobody put the offer on the table. Nobody presented Christ to me I've got the evidence. I can mark it down. That on December 29th in the morning at Harvest Christian Ministry, I stopped by and I put the offer on the table, offered Christ. So you can say, you know what, I heard it, but did I respond today? Will you respond to the Lord today? Will you let him into your heart today? It's the greatest thing you can ever do is to receive him as your personal Savior. Yes. Amen. If you're sure today, give God a praise. Amen. God is so good You may take your seats today. We're moving toward our time of communion, but maybe you come and desire to be a part of this fellowship The doors are open at harvest. You can walk for the Lord today. You can talk with us afterwards, but I think membership is important I think salvation is extremely critical. Amen. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org That's Come To Harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten. Have a great day in the Lord.