Hello, my dear friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. We are a non-traditional church with traditional values. Listen in today on our worship experience. It's already in progress. Amen. Blessed is he Who comes in the name of the Lord? I don't get any plainer than that. What name are you coming on? Using your name, using somebody else's name. There is power in the name of Jesus. The Bible says at the name of Jesus, every knee shall bow. Every tongue shall confess that he's Lord. How many know that today? How many folk have tried that name out? How many folk have dropped that name? Oh yeah. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. For the name, we thank you for sending your only Son, Jesus Christ, to die for us. Our Finite minds can't even comprehend what you did. But we're glad you did it. That you saved us from our sins. As we come today, we decrease. so that you might increase. Save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, We'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Praise God. There's a word from the Lord in the Gospel of Mark. We've just been in Mark for what a month now? Yeah, it's good just to go through uh the next chapter, the next episode. Some of you TV watchers know that. Y'all wait for the next episode. Amen. And what's going to happen next week? Oh, you know you watch your stories. Say what's going to be on the following week. Well, the word of God is like that. It's a sequence of what He's doing in the lives of people. Mark 11, 7 through 10, when they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, Hosanna, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David, Hosanna in the highest. I want to preach today from the Samonic title, You Make Me Want to Shout. You make me want to shout. We are emotional beings. We have feelings. And we don't mind expressing them. For some, it may just be a tear running down your face because you've learned of a situation in which you can't control for others, it may be to a point that you have to shout That nothing can contain what you're going through, and only a shout will do. But God is so good that no matter what we face, He is able to bring us through There are tragedies in life that will come our way. Jesus says, in me, you shall have peace. But in the world. You will have tribulation. But to be of good cheer, for I have overcome the world. A shout is a utter, a loud call or cry. And it is to express that emotion. Let me just say this. Uh have you ever had a good shout that it made you feel better? Somebody in the other room and say, you okay? I just had to shout this out. I just had to get it out and being collective and calm wouldn't do it. Some of y'all too cool. How many folks just said, you know what? Let me go on the back porch and just let it out. Yeah. Didn't that feel better somehow that you did not keep it bottled up or can take or y'all y'all still being laid back Any shouting people in the house, you say you know what? I can't take no more. I can't stand it. Can I just shout it out? There's some things that make you want to shout. On the lighter side of life, sporting events will cause you to shout. Man, you go to your grandson and your child's ball game, and you'll be shouting My wife was famous for that. She would shout at the coach and shout at the ref and shout at the police officer who told her to hold it down. That there's some real emotion. In shouting. That's the God-heaven truth. Others like to shout at concerts. I mean, I know you're holy. But get you in the right venue and you say, girl, you better sing. And you are shout out. Amen. One of my co-workers posted something online and I guess somebody was sitting in the back seat of their parrot's car. And they were swaying to the oldies. And they were just singing like no tomorrow. But we use opportunities just to get it out. And that's so important. Jesus knows what it means to shout. And shouts are hard to ignore Especially if someone is in close proximity to you. Did you hear me? Or there may be a distance, but you can recognize a kind word or a yell or up in the volume and a downright shout. Do you know the difference? I'm talking about shout, eyes, book, head, I mean showing up just getting it out. And but Jesus would have people who always follow him, who always shout. They shouted because they needed something. Blind Bartimaeus noticed he was coming out of the city and he just heard that Jesus was coming through. And based on that, he just, I think I hear him, he shouted out, son of David Have mercy on me. See, see some things you can't be cool about. Some things you can't say, well, whatever the Lord does. Something you can't say, well, you know, we get around to it. You gotta shout sometimes and make sure that God hears you. God does not have a hearing aid, he can hear, but every now and then you feel better and say, Lord, I'm down here Waiting on you. The saints of old didn't mind getting a shot on. Amen. We used to watch the old saints at church get happy. And said, look at that. I remember the story of Deacon Ralph Cherry. Now Deacon Cherry would come in with a cane. We have told you this story, but he was barely making it. And once the Holy Ghost moved, Deacon Cherry will rear back, grab the bench, throw his leg in the air, and sway it back and forth. Other deacons were going for cover. After church, he could barely move. But there was something that happens on the inside. There's something that happens in life struggle that will cause you to shout Are there any shouting people in the house today? Is there anything in life that makes you want to shout? Oh God. Jesus shouted as he got word that his friend Lazarus had died. He got there. He'd already passed, but he said, Lazarus! Come forth. He didn't whisper it. He shouted. And Lazarus came out. And we know that there was a shout that came from that cross. With the pain he was suffering. He had to shout it out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It makes you want to shout. In our text today, the people knew how to shout. They were set They were seen and they were heard. Let's unpack verse number eight. The word says, Many people spread their cloaks. on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the field. Jesus was now heading into the Holy City. It was a tough week ahead. He had been sharing all along what was going to happen. For three years he kept telling them what would take place. And now comes the time that he would head into Jerusalem. And this is no accidental gathering. That they were set. They knew based on the culture that people would come into Jerusalem normally after a big victory. And the leaders would come in from the military on a stallion. And folk would just be excited to see. They would say, oh my God, you know, we won the war. But then Jesus shows up on a coat. Zechariah had prophesied that you would come on a donkey. But the people knew that something was going to happen. They come to Jerusalem for the Passover. And in doing so, they know they would celebrate what God had done in their life, how he had brought them out of Egypt and brought them to freedom. And that he told them that if you put blood over the doorpost, then the death angel will pass over. See, we don't celebrate enough the things that God has done in our lives. You say, you know what? Last year he brought me out. You ought to be celebrating. Lord, two weeks ago I couldn't have made it Celebrate. Anybody just want to plan a celebration for what God has done and make that your holy day? Had it not been for the Lord on my side? I would not have made it. They were set, because they knew what to expect. And they took their cloaks. Cloaks were nice pieces of garment. They didn't have much, but they took that they had and laid it in the pathway. Some of y'all won't take y'all son to go to meet stuff. I was kidding to some of the others. I said, you know what? I still remember and still to this day I've got Sunday clothes. Oh come on y'all, y'all with me. And I got some Monday clothes. Some stuff you just won't see on air But they laid out their best because they were set for the coming king in the person of Jesus Christ. This was red carpet treatment And they went to the fields and cut down the palm branches. There again, a symbol that royalty was coming that way. They began to wave those palms and begin to lay them right so that Jesus might come over them. They had heard about him He had made the headline news. Everybody had talked about this Jesus. So much so that when he would go to towns and villages, they expected something big to happen. But now this was the large stage. He was coming into Jerusalem, celebrating greatness. And you know what? The Lord will allow you to be set up for his presence To be set up for what he's going to do in your life, but we have to be still. Amen? The Bible says, be still and know that I'm God. I will be exalted among the nations, among the heathens, and as big as we want to be, you have to be sad. They were ready for the king to come. They were prepared to see him come down. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15, 58, to do what? To be steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor in the Lord is not in vain. You gotta be still every now and then. You're waiting for Jesus, but then you say, you know what? My time is up. I've done waited for two weeks now. I got the role. But how many know the value of just waiting on the Lord? No the value of saying I can't make a move yet. I just need to give it one more day and give it one more prayer and give it one more time of fasting give it one more time of being still just So that I'll be able to see him. Anybody with me today? Trying to leave this point, but I'm I'm I'm gathering that that do you know what I mean when I say to be set That is not to move by the flesh, but to move by the spirit. That's the scene. They're set and they're waiting. But they also wanted to be seen. Verse nine says, those who went ahead and those who followed. So so some folk Wanted to get the best picture. Some folk wanted the most effective selfie And so they ran ahead knowing that Christ was coming their way. Oh y'all been to a parade or two. Yeah. Try to get that candy off the ground. Am I telling my age? Somebody you knew on the floor, you were like, yeah. And you would go ahead of the parade so that you might what? See everybody. There were some who went ahead just to see Jesus come. Others who came behind. They were following, and that's a good thing to follow Jesus. But they were seen. The writer noticed something. There may have been others along the way, but these two groups Did something a little bit different. What do you fall today? Are you a follower of Jesus Christ? Are you one who would just sue him and say, you know what? He can catch up. I'm gonna go way ahead of him and then let him catch up with me. But either way, isn't it great to be seen in the light of the Lord? You know what our folk told us and be seen and not heard. Oh, some of y'all got real country on me now. You've heard it before, amen. It's all it's all good. It's a little little water fell there, amen. Even the water moving. Praise God. Amen. But we've been there. And they took time to position themselves to see Jesus. Where are you positioned in life What what do you find yourself today? What do you find yourself when you're going through? Are you finding yourself in a place that the Lord can see you? The Bible says so let your light so shine. That other folk might see your good works and glorify your father. Put yourself on the road. Throw down your cloak and grab your palm branch. Jesus is coming your way. Amen. I'm glad about that today that no matter what I do, he's still gonna show up. No matter what happened, he was still going to come through the area where they were. Song says, Come by here, my Lord. Come by here. If somebody needs you, Lord, come by here. Anybody know about today that you had the Lord to come by and visit you right when you needed him? I mean he showed up right on time. They were set And they were seen, they were at the right place at the right time, but they were also heard. Those who went ahead and those who followed, there is again, shouted, Hosanna. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Nah, they they were heard. They were not silent. They were not whispering, but there was a specific shout. They shouted, Hosanna, which means save us now. They were facing oppression. They were facing persecution, and they believed that this king This earthly king, so they thought, would come and take over with a new administration, appoint new heads, but they didn't realize this was not earthly stuff He was going to save the world. But they shouted, Hosanna, save us now. Aren't you glad? That you're saved? Or am I making an assumption? Any saved people in the house? Amen. Save and know you're saved? Every now and then you ought to shout out In January, Hosanna. Shout out in December, Hosanna. Shout out over the summer. No, no, Hosanna. Because you're saying God save us now. Save me from this problem. Save me from this issue. They had a specific quote that they shared. And they were sharing scripture. My God. It was not just something they made up. They had scripture. They were saying back to him what he'd already put out. It's amazing when you pray back. God's word to him. If all you know is the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not why dare you pray that Lord, I know you my shepherd. And you say, I shall not want. And don't you know God will come through? He responds to his own word. I know you got a vast vocabulary. But when you say, God, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I dare you to pray and to shout back his word to him. That came out of the book of Psalm. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. They wanted to be heard. I would dare say we've got some bottled-up shouts. Yeah. That that we're sitting on a good shower. We're holding down a good hallelujah. Well We're still owning another thank you, Jesus. Why? Because we are not wanting to shout. Now shout means shout. And so they were loud enough that Jesus could be could hear them at that time. They knew he was coming their way. Amen. And look at this. He says, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And there's something about his name. Amen? Y'all look sleepy today. My God, let me let me just let me just I I I know I'm not that deep. I'm almost done. But I I I sent some sleep demon up in here today. Can I start over? Psych. Amen. So they were being heard. They were set Amen. They were in place, and they used the name of the Lord. Romans 10, 13, for everyone Who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. My, my, my. Have you ever called on his name? Have you ever called on his name? Have you ever called on the name of Jesus? Have you ever screamed that name? Have you ever shouted that name? Why? Because it made you want to shout, thinking about where God had brought you from and brought you through. And do you know how to contact him? Do you have his holy self? I came across this week on social media. There's some good stuff on there. And it listed what someone posted as Bible emergency numbers. So I like that. In other words, call them up When in sorrow, call John fourteen. When people fail you, call Psalm twenty-seven. When you sin, call Psalm 51. When you worry, call Matthew 6, 19 and 34. When you are in danger, call Psalm 91. When God seems far away, call Psalm 139. When your faith needs stirring, call Hebrews 11. When you are lonely and fearful, call Psalm 23. When you grow bitter and critical, call 1 Corinthians 13. When you feel down and out, call Romans 8, 31 through 39. When you want peace and rest. Call Matthew 11, 25 through 30. When you want assurance, call Romans 8 1 through 30. When you feel depressed, go back and read dial Psalm 27. I stopped by to tell you that the one in the Bible Who rolled in on that cold was the same Jesus who was beaten. He was the same Jesus who was buried in a borrowed tomb. He's the same Jesus who got up On the third day morning with all power in his hands. Jesus is sitting at the right hand of the Father. And you can still call him. He'll make intercession for the saints. But you know back in the day they would just say Jesus is on the main line. Tell him what you want Anybody ever get on the main line and say, Lord, I'm calling your name because I know you will bring me through. He's on the main line. You need a blessing? Call him up And tell him what you want. You need peace. Call him up and tell him what you want. You need power. Call him up and tell him what you want. You need deliverance. Call him up and tell him what you want. You need Call him up and tell him what you want. Jesus is still on the main line. And we're yet trying to get through. He's always available. Aren't you glad today it's the kind of stuff That makes you want to shout. When God blesses you, shout. When he brings you through, shout. When he lets you know he'll be with you always, shout. My God, you ought to know when it's time to shout. Anybody want to shout today? Because what God has done in your life? Every now and then you ought to just shout Thank you for your goodness. Shout. Thank you for bringing me through. Shout. Thank you for delivering me. Shout. And that's it. I'm on mine today. To shout unto the Lord. It makes me wanna shout when I think about what he's brought me through. Shout. Think about where he's taking me. Shout. Do I need a a shout sign? To orchestrate every time you think about what he's done, shout. And where he's brought you from. The people shouted And today, you've got a shout in you. Today, just shout Anybody want to shout today? I'm I'm I'm I'm talking to you. Y'all still being cool like anybody Got a shout in them. Anybody have some stuff they need to get out today? This is a safe place. Nobody won't look at you all strange, but I just got a feeling that you're sitting on a shower. Am I right? Come on, stand today. So you might get a better circulation. And we want to shout so much so that Baltimore County will call 911 Hey! I thought it was a movie theater Anybody feel like shouting today? Come on, shout to the Lord today. Come on, shout to the one who can make a way out of the way. Come on, shout because he brought you through. Come on, shout unto the Lord. They said, Hosanna! And you may be saying, thank you, thank you, and thank you. Even now I can shout. Because only I know. My story. Your story may not be at the shouting stage yet, but let him come along this week. And bless you what you've been praying for over a year. You shout. Let him come through and deliver you. Out of that place. I bet you a shout. Don't let anyone keep you from shouting. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed. My Jesus. None like you can love your mind. My comfort, my shelter will Yeah, yeah. Here's your cue. Yeah, yeah. Power and passions take way to the name count and Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I control at the world. Forever I love you, forever I think comes to the proper side. Nothing can pass. Nothing compared to the problem that I have in you. I want to pray with you today. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. A familiar passage. But sometimes we overlook the obvious. The people shall Not just for anyone, but they shouted because they had hope. I pray in the name of Jesus, whether in public or in our private places. Teach us how to shout. Teach us how to express our thankfulness to you. Teach us how to say, Lord Thank you. As we come today, there might be someone in this place who found life so difficult that shouting is the only way out. the medicine for their dilemma. I pray today that we might continue to lift your name higher. You came through Jerusalem. You cleaned up the temple. And you went to that cross. Just for us. And some theologians have said that the same ones who said, Hosanna, said, crucify him. Help us not. To change our script, but to stay on point, to thank a God to do anything. As we come today, Lord, there might be one in this building who knows you not. I pray you're not going to be able to do that. Pray even now that you might touch that heart, as only you can do. Save someone today. Hosanna means that. Save us not later, not next week. Not down the road, but save us now. Save someone now, Lord, we pray. In this place. Your word says, if thou shall confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus, and believe in your heart. That God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Do it today, God. Do it today, God. In this place. We believe it and we count it done. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thanks for sharing. We're Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. To connect with us, go to our website It's www. comthenumber two harvest. org. That's www. comthenumbertwharvest. org. Also, download our Harvest app. It's HCM Baltimore in the Apple Store and Harvest Christian in Google Play I'd like to invite you to pick up a copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home. It's available on my website at www. timtutentv. com. That's www. timt-im. T-O-O-T-E-N-T-V. com or on Amazon and Barnes and Noble. I'm Dr. Tim Tutin. Have a great day in the Lord.