I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries for a worship experience already in progress. Jesus Christ. Amen. Just remain standing if you could today. It's okay to move in the Lord today. Let's bow our heads in this place. We thank God that we can have movement in our bodies. Father, we thank you today And we do get joy when we think about what you have done for us, namely that you've sent your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ. to die for us. As we come today, God, at this moment we ask that we might decrease and that you might increase God save someone today, encourage another, but when this time is done, we'll give your name all the praise and all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's take a moment to look at our Scripture passage for today, and we just have taken the one verse, Philippians 4 and 8, and it reads, finally, brothers and sisters, whatever is true Whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy, Think about such things. We want to have you to take your seat. We're going to preach today from the sermonic title, The Mind That Matters Most, and we're going to talk about you are what you think. You are what you think a quick highlight from last week. We talked really about an attitude adjustment and we really were able to see that to have the mind of Christ, it was a mind that surrendered. That Christ surrendered himself to us and for us. He also did not mind getting low and served Amen. And we're called to serve this present age, not always about us, but how God will use us in so many ways. And he suffered. That's what Calvary was all about. But there was also victory there on the cross. Isn't that good news today? that even though he died, he rose again with all power in his hand. So we talk today really about this sense of you are what you think. And there's a saying and a Uh we hear that you are what you eat. That is the kinds of foods that uh you put into your body and may describe you. And uh some of y'all might be a sub and Some of y'all might be a a two-piece. Some of y'all might be a salad. And it's great to have balance when it comes to what we eat. Many of us, I'll testify, I'll do light in the morning, boiled eggs and yogurt, and I'll do a salad at lunch But then in the evening, I just come mess all that up. So at least until noon, I am what I eat. It's a picture of health. But when it comes to our own mind, we must Believe in the same type of approach. You are what you think, what's on your mind. And let me just tell you right now, just knowing that I would share this message today I was challenged by the enemy uh even this week. He'll try to change your thought life. So you're gonna preach about thinking? Uh-huh. And he will put a robots in your life and you have to decide, am I gonna dwell on this? Am I going to replace that thought with something that is holy? Looking at me kind of funny this morning. You mean you ain't thinking nothing bad this week? Were you that good? All your thoughts were holy? Amen Experts say we have anywhere from 50 to 70,000 thoughts a day. That means you brought about 30,000 in with you Things that may consume you, things that may distract you, things that may encourage you. I read somewhere in a book about preaching. That to get to the point. Why? That people come to church with remote controls. And if you don't move along quickly, they'll change the channel. I'm saying to you, don't touch this dial. And today we're talking about we are what we think. And so we're really look in a real way about this sense of what kind of thought Profound thoughts, precious thoughts, and positive thoughts. Again, profound thoughts precious thoughts and positive thoughts. So the Apostle Paul is writing to the church at Philippi, there in modern day Greece. He writes them to encourage them in the Lord. That's what Paul did Sitting in prison, he had a way of saying, even though my condition is one way, I'm writing to encourage you. What an encourager he was. And sometimes in your own situation You don't just dwell on you, but you find a reason and a way to encourage other people. And so he writes them to encourage them. So we look at this whole uh beginning of this first chapter As it relates to Philippians, we see Paul really talking in a real way in verse one about care. Care for one another. I care about you. And verse 2 and 3, he says, you know what? Because you're a people, there's always conflict. It was not a church that didn't have problems. They may have looked good on the outside, but Paul got the loadow on and said, get alone with each other. And he says in verse 4 and 5, and then you will have some joy in your life. Isn't that amazing that it connects that once you are able to get along with other folk? And not get all worked up that you'll find the joy of the Lord will become your strength? That's great news for me. And then in verse 6 and 7 he says, you know what? Don't worry. Don't lose it. But pray and you will get the peace of God in your life. How many folk have ever worried? Oh, you know you have. I made that thing on your mind again. Uh oh, Pastor, I was doing good thing you said that. And once you said that, I started to worry about five things. Well, let me say, pray. Without ceasing. The old saying, saying, if you're going to pray, don't worry. If you're going to worry, don't pray. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your heart in minds in Christ Jesus. But it's really in verse 8. And I want to really unpack all of these things he talks about. He gets very specific when it comes to, here's what you ought to think about. What's true, what's noble, what's right, what's pure, what's lovely, what's admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy. Think about such things. And so really it's about really bringing our mind to a place to think on the things of Christ. Now I know you're not so deep And I'm not so deep that I just all the time, hallelujah, 24-7, my mind is always on Jesus. No. We're flesh. And because we're flesh, our minds will wonder. Our minds will go back to the good old days. Our minds will hear a song and our minds will hear a program on top. Our minds will read something that may not please God. Can I be honest this morning? But as we make an effort to really renew our minds in Christ, there are some things that I think will help each of us along this daily journey. And to be profound, really, I like that. It really is to be what? It's to be deep. It's serious. Yeah. I'm a profound person. And so when our thoughts are profound We may look deep, we may look serious, but saying to yourself, I want to have the kind of thought life that it is so profound that it may not impress others, but it really gets and touches the heart of God. Deep thinking. I mean focus deep. Oh yeah, y'all some deep folk. Go ahead and minute. I'm deep, man. I am serious. And we see people on an outward appearance and they try to look deep. And try to look heavy, as they say in the country. He's a handicapped man. He he brought some real heavy stuff for us. That was real, that was real deep. But when we put Christ in our lives, we have profound thinking Really profound. And so really, and so those things which are true. Amen. And we know the difference in what's true. And what's a lie? Yes we do. We know it's that you know what that's that's true stuff, and we're not careful, we'll fill our minds but we'll tell ourselves a lie and start believing the lie that we tell ourselves And we know who what? Who's the father of all lies? It's the devil himself. And so our mind becomes the battlefield for this sense of who controls the mind. And so I want to stay on things that are true. Things that have been tested, things that my mama told me, things that my daddy told me that when I grew up, I said, you know what? They were on something. How many folk know the difference between right and wrong and true and a lie? And sometimes when they say, we'll live a lie. We we we're okay with that. Nobody else knows, but we're living a lie. Amen. And so it We'll find in many places in the text where it really addresses that. John 14, 6. Jesus said, I am the way the Truth and the life. And no one coming to the Father except by me. He spoke. He said, you know what? Looking for truth? I am truth. And everything you need, truth is contained in me. And so when you're looking for truth, you look in the Word of God You'll find truth. When you're looking for truth, you look at what Christ has done in your life. That makes you a profound person. That makes you real deep when you dwell on the things of Christ. Let me ask you a question. How many folks feel profound today? Come on, don't you feel profound now? Because you got some things that you're taking into your mind and your life that said, you know what? I am deep because I serve a deep Savior and His name is Jesus and the truth is in him. My dad would always say he would catch us and you know you would uh not quite tell the whole truth. He would say you are you're a liar and the truth is not in you. And then whatever happened next, happen next. Some of y'all can relate to that. But make it your mission to be one who has a profound thought life But not just them. Noble or honest. A noble thought. Something that's really honorable. Amen? May not have riches in gold, but I'm somebody to be trusted. May not be on Forbes list of billionaires, but I'm honorable. Amen? And so I want to have honorable thoughts. I want to do what's right. Amen? So if I go into a store and they give you too much change back, give it back. Don't walk out the door knowing that you got a discount when it wasn't your discount. Ouch. Honorable integrity. And so when you begin to think that way, not how can I beat the man Not how can I beat the system, but what is going to please Christ, what's going to be at the forefront of my mind, it is I am a profound but noble and honorable thinker Isn't that great today that I'm an honorable person? And I don't want to just say it, but I know someone who deserves all honor and all praise. And his name is Jesus. Amen. And it's always something to find. Romans 12 and 2, and Paul talks about be not conform to this world, but do what? Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. You've got to have a mind transplant You gotta transform your thinking. It don't just happen by doing the same old thing again. You start reading that word, it'll start transforming your thinking. You start praying and you will start transforming your thinking. You start loving other folk with the love of Christ and all of a sudden then you will become a profound person A noble thinker and an honorable person. Amen? Do you desire that today? To have this sense of I am what I think? That what I think defines who I am Not what I do, but and then my thinking leads to proper living. My thinking leads to good decision making. My thinking leads to things that are going to help me to be all I can for Christ. Anybody feeling deep right now? You look deep. You look deep. Amen. But let's move on and continue to unpack this. Precious. Uh-huh. Amen. Precious thoughts. These are prize thoughts. These are treasured thoughts. And so, even in the text, he says those things that are right. You know right from wrong. Oh yes you do. Some of y'all are seasoned folk. You done graduated from I'm not sure I was doing something wrong. To I know what the Lord has said to me. Amen? And so when you have the right thinking, uh it's been said that if we're not careful, based on what we take in, we'll have stinking thinking. Hmm. Garbage in, garbage out. Now I'm not picking on anybody today because every now and then the enemy will place something on your mind. That's stinky. Amen? That does not please him. And we have to transform our thinking to say, you know what? What is really the right way to think? I don't have to ask anybody. I don't have to get on and go see Mother Rose. And by the way, I drove by one of those places not long ago, and they were doing good business. Uh people reading their palm and say, well, my God, they doing good business. And they got a building. Well my God, if if if Mother Rose can get a building. Based on reading poems, well my God, we ought to as a church community say, you know what? We're preaching some real truth. Why don't we get a building as well? Wanna drop a commercial in there on the Amen? But this sense of right thinking Thinking those things that are right and being able to compare them or decipher them for those things that are wrong in our lives. You know, thinking right means you're you're grown. How many of y'all wanted to be grown? Yeah, I'm twenty. Uh twenty-one. Got my own place. I'm grown. But just deciding am I able to do the right thing in my life now? I don't have to be accountable to mom or dad or anybody else. I'm grown. But even as the text, Judges, it says in the book of Judges, 225, in those days there was no king in Israel. People like that. We don't want a king. You know, we we want to hell our own business. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And sometimes you'll debate till the cows come home. I'm right when you know you're wrong. No, I know I'm right. You have no facts to back it up. I know I'm right, but the Holy Spirit will change that in your life. And you'll say, you know what, I know the right thing to do. Amen. And the Holy Spirit will weigh on you in such a way that it becomes a precious and prized thought because it's doing that which is right before the Lord. Not it's my thing, do what I want to do. Some of y'all know the eyes of brothers. Don't know. Yeah, y'all y'all heard that. Some of you 70s folk. Amen. I can do my own thing. There was a generation of don't tell me what to do You know, war, peace, love, but I'm saying in this generation, we have to serve the Lord. Amen. That's what I like about that, is that these are precious thoughts. And then are the thoughts pure? Are they real? Young folks, I'm just trying to keep it real. Yeah, I know a fake when I see one. And in your own life, as you do an inventory at the end of the day, and look back and Lord, what was I thinking about all day today? What did I post on Facebook on the job when I shouldn't have been doing it? What did I email? What did I say around the coffee counter? What did I say in the lunchroom? What did I say on the phone? On the gossip line? And was it pure? Was it pure thinking? Was it something that pleased God? And we asked ourselves that question. And I just want to bring it to your attention as I bring it to mind. What are you thinking about? Where is your mind? You are what you think. You look like what you think. Amen. You act like what you think. I contend in so many situations as I look around and people have their own opinion about societal issues I always say, in my little opinion, that a lot of things come from the home. And this is not broken home. These are homes that are supposed to be together. And children will model what they see. I don't know what's wrong with him. He's seen you do it. She really lost her mind. You've lost your mind. And so often it's the modeling, and so we have to do what? Live the kind of life as best we can before our children. And you are the model. Not society. You are the model. That's the Amen moment there. Amen. And so you are the one that they look up to. You are the role model. And so you're striving to live the kind of life that might be modeled by someone. Amen. Psalm 101 and 3 says, I will send no wicked thing set before mine eyes. I'm going to choose whether it's going to be holy or wicked. He said, Well Reverend, I never thought wicked. You just told a story. You've had some stuff on your mind. I mean, oh I can get to them now. And you didn't mean to. You saved and sanctified, but for a moment Uh your your thoughts kind of went uh a ray. Amen. But aren't you glad that you are done better now? And you are really what you think, what you thought before was gonna be trouble But thank God for Jesus. You've changed your mind now. He has given us these great thoughts, and they're all in the Word of God. And then finally, have a positive outlook. Clear, confident. I'm thinking about some good stuff. Amen? I'm thinking about stuff that's lovely. Yes, sweet, nice Amen. Isn't that great today? I'm just a nice person. And when I see you, I'm thinking nice things about you because I'm a lovely thinker. Amen. And so we we strive for that. It's to be a lovely thinker, to have the thought and the mind of Christ as we go about our daily living. Lovely. But let me just add a scripture passage to that as well. Colossians 3 and 2 says, set your minds on things above and not on earthly things. If you look at the situation you're in, you say, you know what, I don't know I know how you're telling me to think, but I'm I'm saying what I see with my own eyes. But when you begin to look to the hills which come at your help and to set your mind on things that are above, you'll get some peace and some joy because all of a sudden now it's crazy down here. But I'm gonna look on up and say, God, I know you can make your way. You've done it before. I know you can bring me through. You've done it before. You brought my children through. I can tell you you are the kind of God who cares. And so I can have a lovely thought because my mind is set on higher things. And then admirable thinking. That's nice thinking. That's thinking that sets apart from any other. Amen. Romans 6 says, do not offer any part of yourself to sin as an instrument of wickedness. And so really, not just your thinking, but How you have your perspective can really be different. And so I want something that the Lord will be pleased with I'm not saying nice stuff, so you'll pat me on the back. I'm not thinking saying, hey, you know what I'm thinking today? I'm thinking great stuff. No, the Lord is the one who judges that. The Holy Spirit is the one who's able to be the tester on that But I declare, I believe today that as we put in our minds that we are really what we think, that our thought life will change, will be more positive. Amen? Everything around negative people. They can never see good in anything. Ah, it's not all that. And you want to get around me. I don't want to be around you. You just everything is bad You know, and so I want to have some real positive thoughts. I'm I'm hopeful today that God can do anything. I'm I'm hopeful He'll bring me through. I'm hopeful He'll make a way out of no way. And so hang around positive people, amen You can't always pick people, but allow your thoughts to be positive. Be the one who says, you know what? Well, there's another side to this. And so, you don't see good and you see good and everything. No, I just want to be positive. Anybody want to be positive today? Yeah, being positive is being spiritual. It's being spiritual. Think about Uh Joel Olstein and he's someone we see on television and and uh I interviewed him a couple times and he's just Mr. Positive. Hey Joe, hey! And he's the same way in person. And I said, man, do you are you concerned about how people think about using Joe Lows thing? Say, you know what, Tim? I don't take up much time in my thought life with that I I try to think on some great things. And so when you think about your own life, what's on your hard drive, fill it with things that are holy and things that are pure and things that are righteous, and God will allow you to live the kind of life That you'll be a blessing to someone else, amen. That really is what I want to say today in terms of this sense of your mind Isaiah 26, 3 says, he'll keep you in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on me. If my mind is fixed on him. My mind is looking to higher things and not things that are down here. I am just trying to, you know, when I think of the goodness of Jesus was in that song earlier and all That he's done for me when I think of the goodness of Jesus. When I think of the goodness of Jesus, when I think about the goodness of Jesus and all that he's done for me, do you follow me? When I think about the goodness The goodness, the goodness of Jesus, and all that he's done to it, my soul cries out, Hallelujah. And I thank God for saving me. He did it. By sending his son Jesus Christ, he was thinking about me He said, you know, there's a fellow down there that I'm he was not even born yet, but I'm dying for another generation. And why he was thinking about the condition of humankind. And that's why he went to the cross Thinking about you. And that's why he was beaten thinking about that. That's why he took all that abuse because he was thinking about your line Isn't that great news? Does that get you excited? He was stressed out with you on his mind. He gave up the ghost thinking about you. He was put in a borrowed tomb with you on his mind. And then he got up on the third day morning with all power in his hands and still thinking about you. And guess what? You were still on his mind. As he sits at the right hand of the Father making intercession for the saints, you're on the you didn't really get that thing, you are on his mind. He's got you on his mind. And so when I start thinking about him, thinking about me, I get excited. But you mean I'm on your mind? Yes That's the good news of the text today. It's not really about Paul. Paul says, here's what I found out. To get peace, you've got to change your thinking. Anybody want to change their thinking today? To trade some stuff in? Yeah, it's time to get rid of that stuff. Some spring cleaning with your thoughts? I mean throwing some stuff out and getting some new stuff in, getting a new vocabulary, putting some stuff aside, so I'm gonna think on great things about what he's done for me, and that gets me excited. Amen? And that's why I can press on. The upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day. Still praying on bound, Lord, flatten my feet on. Anybody want to go higher today in your thinking? I mean higher thinking today. I want to be really. Think on him I am what I think, not just on Sundays. Christ says, if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men unto me. And I'm going to raise the question. Anybody want to lift up Jesus? Anybody will help me? You have the mind to lift him up? You got a mind to lift up Christ? Come on, stand that's the word of God today. Come on, anybody have a mind to lift Christ up today To really lift him up. Amen. He's a great God. He's a wonderful God. I've got a new Attitude. I got some new replacement thoughts that will help me on my journey. Tuton You are what you think? Oh Lord. I'm gonna make sure they're profound and they're precious. And they're positive. Make your mind up today. How many love the Lord today? He heard my cry. Did he hear your cry today? That's a Christ who is thinking about you. Mind, let's say it again together if you love him today. If you really know it, your mind is made up. Come on, step together, church. Made in my mind up a long time ago. Exact Come this morning, I want to say to you, ever had an old car you wanted to trade in, start to run down on you. See, I need something new. Today you can trade in Your thoughts. So you know what? I'm getting rid of this, and this, and this, this week. And I'm asking the Lord to give me some new thoughts. Today, make that kind of decision. And you know what? I my thinking hadn't been all great. I I declare that this week it was like, where am I coming from? There was a complaining spirit that is not like me. I said, you know what? It's because I'm gonna talk about you or what you think. Now ain't nobody hear me here, just me grumbling But guess what? It was not pleasing to God. By the end of the day, I said, oh. Holy Spirit said, you know what's going on, don't you? You need a new thought life. At the end of the day, you are what you think, and I am what I think. We're placing the day. As you come today, I want to offer Christ to you. Something to think about today. I so believe in this truth that I'll stand on. I had a conversation this week with a co-worker. We always talk between commercials that y'all don't see that. And we begin to have a discussion. He's been meeting with someone who does not believe in Christ. And he's just trying to kind of get it. And you know the old me would say, oh, you need to get this. But the new me Said you know what? At least the person is still coming and trying to grasp Christ and His loving kindness. And so I never take a chance that You know the gospel or that you're saved. And so I said, Well, I come again to say, you know what? God so loved the world that he said His only begotten son in the person of a babe named Jesus wrapped in swabing clothes and lying in a manger. And that that baby grew up. And became someone of wisdom. But he was holy man, but also holy God. Because he God the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Or one. He gave some of himself to save humanity. And yet the plan was that he would die but would rise again. And he did die. And in three days, as promised, he rose again. Rebe, this is not kindergarten. But I want you to get it. And that's what my faith is based on, is that I believe that God sent his son. What's your proof? In faith. And that he rose with all power in his hands. And the Bible says to me in Romans 10, 9, 10, if you Well, confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart, that is, in your set of emotions, that he rose again. The Bible says, based on your Confession unto the Lord, you shall be saved. What is being saved? It means that if I die right now, I've got life. eternally. That heaven will be my home. That's the big deal. Because we won't be here always. You're going to leave here At some point. But and we get comfort when our loved ones are gone because you want if they're in Christ, while we hurt, we say, you know what? They're saved. And so they go to heaven. How many folk plan to go to heaven? I do my last call is you bowed your heads today. If this may sense to you if it changes your thinking the Bible says even now that you can confess your sins under Jesus and that he will save you I may never know that. I'm not the saved checker, but I do believe in this saved life. That even when my thinking is not always on par, he saves me from that kind of thinking. And gives me new hope in him. While those heads above today, it's the most profound moment of the worship experience. If you have never given your life to Jesus Christ, never declared him as your Savior, today you can do it. Right now, where you stand, you can say, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner. I know that in my own mind, but I want A change of heart and a change of mind. Will you save me? And he will do it. He will do it If you would ask him today. Why those heads bow today? If you know you're not saved, you desire prayer in this place, while other heads abow Raise your hand today. I don't want to ever leave nothing untouched or unknown. Do you know Jesus? It's it's on me. Did you tell them to every Sunday I tried to make it plain because somebody made it plain to me one day. If you don't know Jesus today, there's nothing to be ashamed of. But I want to pray with you where you are today. If you are not sure, not kind of sort of But sure that I am his. I'm one of his children today. One last call. There's a hand today I want to break with you today. If you're not sure today, I want to lift up the Lord on your behalf today. Amen. That tells me that you're saved. Let's give God a praise for being saved. If you come today you desire to be a part of part of Christian ministries, the doors open. You can walk for the Lord today. You can meet me after, but I don't mind the walk. Anybody want to give Their life Jesus by way of this fellowship want to join today. Amen. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website. It's comeetoharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.