I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, Pastor and Founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. Thank you for taking time to listen. Whether it's over our radio broadcast, on CD, podcast, or our website, I really do believe that God has a special message just for you. A message designed to encourage you, to strengthen your faith, and to guide you in your daily living. Let's go now to the sanctuary of Harvest Christian Ministries. For a worship experience already in progress. Amen. How many know that Jesus is the center of your joy? Let me ask that question again. How many know that Jesus is the center of your joy? It's not things, it's not people, it's not places, but it is. Jesus Christ, as we bow today, Father, we thank you. There was a time that you were not the center There was a time when you were just the side beast. But God, I thank you. And over time and through seen and unseen dangers You've been faithful and we thank you today. As we come to declare your word, I ask in the name of Jesus that I might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today, empower another. But when this time is done We'll give your name all of the praise and all of the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. Isn't God good? Oh, y'all just slow him in today. Isn't God good? Amen. If you know he's good, just I'm not ashamed to let folk know he's good. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. You know he's been good to you, don't don't you be ashamed. Don't Don't don't act shy. Come on, come on, give God some praise. I mean, really, really, really, really, really. Come on, come on, come on. Come on, sit on your feet and give God some real praise today. I know you don't feel like it, but come on, give God some praise. Why? He deserves it. Come on. Come on, bless this name today. Oh, he's worthy. Is he worthy? Of all praise and all glory. Hey, we bless his name today. That's it, that's it, that's it. The Bible says to make a joyful noise. Unto the Lord all ye lands to serve the Lord with gladness come before His presence with singing, know ye the Lord, he's God. It is he who hath made us, and now we're ourselves. We're his people, and the sheep of his pastor enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with Praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? The Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth To all generations. I'm about to get excited for Jesus right now. I'm about to wave my hand in the air. Right now, because he's been that good. There's a worship of the Lord today. Gospel of Matthew, seventh chapter, verses one through four. It says, Do not judge, or you too will be judged. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged. And with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye? I want to share for a little while this morning from the Samonic title. You don't know my story. Amen. We live in a society that's based in part on assumption. Something that we take for granted. An assumption is a guess. It is the hypothesis. It is a theory at best, assuming. Author Miguel Roos in his book, The Four Agreements, says if others tell us something, we make assumptions. If they don't tell us something, we make assumptions to fulfill our need to know and to replace the need to communicate. Ruiz goes on to say, even if we hear something and we don't understand, we make assumptions about what it means and then believe the assumptions. We make all sorts of assumptions because we don't have the courage to ask questions ouch. We're all guilty of seeing someone and assuming something in their life when we don't really know their story Are we guilty today? We're all guilty. We've done it somewhere along our life path. There's an old saying that says curiosity killed the cat We had to know so much about somebody's business, so much so that it was to our own detriment that we had to know. But we don't know people's stories. By the time we get to our text today, and Jesus is trying to help his disciples to see. Uh the importance of not assuming anything about anybody. They are up on the mountaintop, he's sharing with them, uh having shared that famous sermon, the Beatitudes on the Sermon on the Mount They've talked about the importance of loving your enemies, the importance of praying, the importance of fasting, and then he kind of turns the table because he taught them He was always teaching, always trying to encourage, saying, don't assume that you know people's life story. Can I just really back up for a second to keep it real honest? Here's how this sermon was birthed. A few weeks ago we were at BJ's, me and my wife. You know, good to be honest today. Nothing theological. And you know, we saw somebody crossing from we said, Mmm And then we both went, we don't know that story. And you too have done the same thing. You went, mmm, in somebody's situation based on what you assumed. And based on what you saw with the naked eye, and that thing stayed with me ever since you don't know my story You might think you know what I'm going through. I might put on the good show on the outside, but you don't know what I'm really facing. And so this morning we're going to unpack these passages uh by looking at it from a journalistic standpoint to be careful first of all to stop the presses hold on don't go there Strike a balance when it comes to dealing with people and most of all stick to the facts. You don't know what they know. Ever walked into a room? And it felt like somebody was looking you over and you even caught them whispering and you felt bad about that. Now can I flip the script? You ever had somebody walk in the room and say she thinks she's all that? Uh-huh. And look what she's driving and look what he's wearing. I'm just being honest today, church. I'm just saying that we make assumptions And not know the other person's story or what they're going through or what they had to go through to get to church this morning and what they had to go through in their own homes just to get here today. I know what it feels like to be on both sides of the coin. But I'm so glad that God gives his grace. When we mess up, that he'll say, You can come to me and ask for forgiveness. Let me just pause 20 seconds for station identification and let's just ask the Lord even now to forgive us for what that thing that we did, that assumption that we made. The judgment that we made, we don't know anybody's story. And so Jesus is addressing this, and that's what I see in the text before us today. And I see it from the standpoint that, you know, he takes time to explain to them that as they go about sharing the good news of Jesus Christ, you're going to run into all kinds of people. And sometimes we think we're a little bigger than somebody else, don't we? Based on where we live or what we drive or our little piece of job. But really you don't know what they are going through You don't know what they're facing from day to day. And so really we should not judge. And so first and foremost, we have to stop the presses. That's an old journalistic term that we're about to go to press, but wait a minute. Something just came in. Wait a minute. Don't print that paper because I found out more information. He says in this passage, do not judge It's not a suggestion. It is a command. He says to his disciples, those who've been following him, I know what you're thinking, I know what you're up to, I know what's on your mind, but I'm saying to you, as your Lord and Savior, stop it. Now that's not say we can't find fault in people. Let's not say we turn our heads when we see things that are going on wrong, but don't pick on people. Yeah, some of y'all are bullies. Oh yes you are. Y'all y'all y'all pick on people. Yes you do. And so he's saying, hold on, wait a minute, don't move forward, don't judge, because otherwise, guess what? Somebody's gonna judge you. Amen. And so we got to be cognizant of the fact that as we look at people, as we begin to share with them the good news of Jesus Christ, we don't know their story. I was in line on yesterday and I picked this particular line because I know this sister had been down. I just gave her a word of encouragement. I don't know her story But I said, you know what? I say, God is able. You know what I said to her? I said, you know what? I said you look back over your life. God has done some things in your life. He's brought you through some tough places Over some mountains. I said, look back and see the history that you have with God. I didn't say, hmm, I wonder what happened. I didn't say, mm-hmm. I wonder what she did I didn't say, mm, I wonder uh how she got herself into that mess. Now I'm talking to an honest church this morning. I'm trying to help us. That's what the word of God does. It don't just make us feel good It says out every now and then. You don't know my story. It's a game changer really when he says it That don't judge because it's going to turn on you at some point. We have to make sure that we think of the old saying, I've never walked in your shoes. And once you walk in somebody's shoes, you say, child, I didn't know you were going through that. I didn't know is that right Once they sit down and they get permission to tell you their story, you start your eyes get bees, oh god. And you don't know. How many folk have been through some things in life and you have never told your story, but you got a story Amen. If folk knew what you'd been through, if folk knew what you have to climb around and what you have to fight your way and scratch your way through, they'd back off you. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. I apologize. I don't know. your story. Stop the presses. Don't print a thing. Don't break into programming because you don't have the whole story. Isn't that good news today? Jesus says, I don't want you to go out there not prepared because when you go out there, make sure you take time to not make an assumption in the life of someone else. I like what Paul says in the book of Galatians. He said, brothers and sisters If someone is caught in a sin, you who live by the Spirit should restore that person gently. And if you're not careful, the same thing that you own them about, it'll get you. Oh Lord have mercy. In other words, I don't know how they got caught doing that. Child, I don't know. They must have been weak in the same thing, we'll get you. Has it ever happened to you? You were so much criticizing somebody for I don't know why in the world they couldn't pay their bills and then you lost your job. Amen. And realize, oh, I got it now. That that is their story. Stop the presses. Don't be so quick to make an assumption. Don't be so quick. Stop the presses right now. But not just that. Strike a balance. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it'll be measured against you. In journalism it's important to balance the story. You can't go with a he said, she said. That don't make the air because it's dead wrong, amen? There has to be some attribution according to who? I heard and the word on the street is, uh-huh. I ain't talking about nobody, but I I I I saw it on Facebook and there's no balance to be struck there, and then every now and then that thing will boomerang on you How many folk know what a boomerang is? Australians use it a wooden piece. They take it and throw it. And it was used as a hunting weapon, but it came back. And some very stuff you're talking about, people, it's gonna come back on you Brother, what you know about that? Because I've talked about folk before. And all of a sudden they're like, oops, I know their story now. And you gotta strike a balance They didn't give you permission to put the business in the street, but yet you have. He says, now you gotta be big and bad enough to issue it, but take it. Can you handle it? Amen? This is all biblical stuff now. This is not this is built, this is not Steve Harvey. This is the gospel. He's saying now the same way. Yeah, you you you big boy, big girl. Now you done started some stuff, but now it's come back to you. You gotta strike a balance in your life. Sticks and stones will do what? But what? Oh yes, they do hurt too. Words will hurt you. Anybody ever cut you down by saying something to you? They meant well or they didn't mean well and they cut you down and then your tongue has been sharp too. This just a seminar, yeah. You gotta say amen. This this is a class we're having today, amen Amen. But there's no balance. And then they didn't give you any. Go ahead and say, I didn't tell you to put my business in the streets, but you did. You got to strike a balance and know that there's the other side of the core and the very thing that you've done, it may come back on you. And then you want somebody to feel down for you when you've already killed them with your tongue. Tongue is a dangerous thing. Amen. Yes it is. James talks about it. Say you know one minute you got sweet water, next minute you got bitter water. It's like a little fire You're the start something. And Galatians also talks about this. It says, do not be deceived. Galatians 6 and 7. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. Don't think you're gonna keep messing on people and messing over them and talking about them and not have it come back. Woo! Huh? You think you can get away with that? No, we can't Yeah, somewhere down the road, didn't your mom and daddy tell you better watch what you do? You better mind. It'll come back on you because I don't know your full story But I'm praying for you, and you're praying for me that we say the kinds of things that will build people up and not tear them down. And sometimes Christians are the worst Oh yes we are we build uh yeah but the world say you alright with me but the Christian community sometimes will beat each other down so bad Lord help us Striking a balance. Stopping the presses. But finally, you gotta stick to the facts. And Jesus, it's not happen chance, he's a carpenter's son Jesus is the son of Joseph, his earthly father. And so I think he kind of goes to the to the carpenter shop. He said, you know Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye, in your sister's eye, in your neighbor's eye, in your spouse's eye, in your children's eye, and then pay no attention to the plank in your own eye, that two by four that's sticking all up in your eye. And you busy saying, uh-huh. As supposed to say, no, look, have you looked at the mirror lately? He talks about the eye because the eye is important in terms of what we see and what we're guided by But he's saying to them, be careful that you stick to the facts. I see what I see, but make sure that you're not just running somebody down How can you say? Let me take it out. Can I help you? Help what you said. Let me help you out. And you busy looking. I wonder what happened I wonder how they got into this. I wonder and you're trying to help them, but really the fact of the matter is you've got something in your eye. Don't blink too quick We all have some salt dust. And we all have a two by four, a piece of wood. Isn't that gross to think you got a big old piece of wood in your eye? But it gets your attention, doesn't it? What a great metaphor, huh? And now you go check the mirror. Make sure my eyes are all right. Stick to the facts. Sometimes we fail to stick to the facts because we cannot see. There were those who followed Jesus who did not want to see And sometimes we don't want to see the truth in somebody's life. Isn't that sad? As long as we can talk about it, that's good. But I hear they're trying to move up and I heard he got a new job You know, I heard, but we as a Christian community have to be careful. We don't cover assume somebody's story. Jesus knew what this was all about. Because persons assume things about him He's a rabbizer. Amen. He's a son of Elsebuz. He's the devil's son. All kind of stuff. And even when he was having a meal in Mark 2 and 16, when the teachers of the law who were Pharisees saw him eating. With the sinners and the tax collectors, mm-hmm. Why does he eat with tax collectors and sinners? They didn't really get the whole story. They didn't know what he had come to do. They didn't know he had come to save. They didn't know that he'd come to heal. They didn't know what he was doing. And so they were messing up the facts. Amen. And so just to keep you awake, say to somebody near you, you don't know my story. Don't be afraid that they're not gonna bite you. So you don't know my story? And I can't tell you the story yet, but one day I will. I'll have a testimony about what God has done for me and what God has done through me I've got a story, amen. Aren't you glad the Lord gives you a story today? A story that's filled with agony, a story that may be filled with challenges, a story that might be filled with downsettings. An uprising story that might be filled with failures and insecurities and lonely moments and midnight hours. Your story has all of those elements And it has pain in it. Amen. But Jesus can relate to pain. Why? He went to a cross. He was in pain. That was his real story. That I came to die For humanity, who don't even respect me. I went to the hill and I gave my life. There was pain. And yes, that story is the story that we've been telling for 2,000 years that he died just for us. My God, you don't sound too excited about that. Didn't he die for us? Do you want the whole story The truth, so help you God, He sent His only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, to die, and then all the meanings of it. Amen. I'll tell that story. How he came As a babe wrapped in swallowing clothes and lying in a manger, but how? He continues to know what I'm going through. He ain't got to know my story, but he knows my story. I know what he brought me through Amen. I know what he brought me from. I know he's taking me. I got a story to tell today. Amen. Everybody says, blessed assurance Jesus is man. Oh, what a foretaste of glory. This is my story. This is my song. Praising my Savior all today. Oh, what's your story? Do you have a story today? Is your story filled with praise? Is your story filled with joy? I'm talking to you, church. Is your story filled with peace? How many folk have a story today? You ought to celebrate the story because he's a part of that story Had it not been for the Lord on my side, I'd be a mess. What about you? That's my story. I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking to rise to a butt The master of the sea heard my despairing cry, and from the water he lifted me. Now see, that's my story. It was love that lifted me I'm glad he keeps lifting me. I don't have to do everything right, but he said, you know what? Let me add some love in your story. It'll make all the difference. You don't know my story. Stop the pressing. Don't you front that? It's not true. It's an assumption. Strike a balance. Wait a minute. He said, she said. And then stick to the facts. And the fact is, he died for me and for you, and he rose again. Now you'll get a different eye now. You say, uh I don't know their story, but I can tell them about my story, about a savior who came from glory. His name is Jesus. That's the word of God today. Already blessed. Stand all over this place today You got a story. Come on, give God a praise today. Amen. He got a real story to tell. So, child, if you only knew That's just page one. You hadn't seen page two and three of how he continues to pull me out of my struggle today. I think God deserves the praise today. And that's why we come to him. We come to him because he's great and he's greatly to be praised in the city of our God. So we invite you today to come to Jesus. For the time that is left, I want to make an appeal to you today. One thing I'm so thankful for is the love of God. We all fall short. We all blow it. And then the Holy Spirit will remind you, hey, you just blew it. And then you know what is so great about our faith? We can go to him and say, Lord, I'm sorry. I just messed my story up. I've been a bad witness, but I want you even now to cleanse me of my sins. And that gives us Hope today. As you bow your heads, I want to tell you about this Jesus. I want to present him to you. And if you don't know him, I want you to accept him. I strongly recommend him. As you bow those heads today, Father, I come in the name of Jesus. There is one in this place, and only you know that, who has not given their heart to you. I pray in the name of Jesus that their heart might open, that their story might change even now, because there's new information that just came in. He'll save me This just then he'll make my life brand new. The Bible says if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead. The Bible says thou shalt be saved. Do you want to be saved today? If you do, you can do it right now in this place as we stand. You all have to do is just say Lord Jesus I am a sinner. And here's my story. I I I've been out there, but I need to come in. And I want you to be my Lord and my Savior. And all of a sudden the headline changes to redeemed. We thank you, Lord. While those heads above today, if you have never accepted him, you can pray that prayer or one like it, but invite him into your heart today. I'll just take a minute to do that. So important. It is the cornerstone of all that we do every Sunday is to try to let someone know About our story, about where God has brought us from and what he's taken us through. It's not old folk, it's not grandma stuff. It's real what he'll do. One last coffee here today And one of those heads above. Just raise your hand if you want prayer today in that regard. If you don't know him, it's the most serious time of the worship experience. Devil already told you ain't no need for it. No, you you came to church. That was enough. He's a liar. And the truth is not everyone. God wants to save your soul today. He can do it right now. You've got to open up to him. You've got to admit that I am a sinner and I am in need of a savior right now in the name of Jesus. Hallelujah. Amen. Let's give God a praise today. Maybe you've come today, you desire to be a part This fellowship called Harvest, the doors are always open for you. Always open for you today if you want to be a part of this fellowship. I want to give the invitation. I want to pray for you. I got something this week that blessed me. And it wasn't that I was just asking you to pray for me, but I've been praying for you. I walked in the sanctuary this morning, touched every seat, prayed over it. So the seat you've been sitting in today has been prayed over. Yeah. And the one next to you is nobody sitting, I still prayed on it. Even when people come to the matinee later, prayer has been covered over these chairs And by the time I got about midway, my prayer changed to breakthrough. I just kept coming a breakthrough, a breakthrough, a breakthrough. It went from In the name of Jesus, I plead the blood to break through. So today, God's got a breakthrough for you in your life. He's coming through. He's going to break out. He's going to break out today in your life. All this week I'll be praying for you. Praying for the listeners. God, is there something that you want them to hear? You want me to hear? I'm praying for you. I'm praying for you. I pray you are helped in some way by this message. Be sure to follow Harvest Christian Ministries on radio, CD, podcast, or over our new website It's comeetoharvest. org. That's come to harvest, C-O-M-E, the number two, and harvest. org. Take time to experience the website and all that we have to offer as a ministry. In the meantime, pray that God will continue to allow us to reach a community for Christ for the cause of the kingdom. I'm Dr. Tim Tootin. Have a great day in the Lord.