Hello, friends. I'm Dr. Tim Tooten, the pastor and founder of Harvest Christian Ministries in Baltimore County, Maryland. I just wanted to tell you that I'm so glad you're taking time to listen to this sermon. It is my hope it'll lift your spirits. And then motivate you to move out of your comfort zone. Stay tuned now for a message from Harvard's Christian Ministries. Amen. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. The Bible says to make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands, to serve the Lord with gladness. To come before his presence with singing, know ye the Lord. He is God. It is he who hath made us and not we ourselves. We're his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his course with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name. Why? The Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting. His truth endureth through all generations. Let's bow today. Father, we thank you. For being so good to us. Even when we don't deserve it, you've still been good. As we come today, God, to proclaim your truth It is always our prayer that we might decrease and that you might increase, save someone today. Encourage another. And when this time is done, we'll give your name the praise and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. There's a word from the Lord today from uh psalm 27 and we'll focus today on verse number five and here's how it reads it says for in the time of trouble He shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock. I want to please today for this money title, You Are Covered. You're covered. We've all been glued to our television sets and have been sitting around our radios listening and following all of the developments taking place in the Carolinas. Hurricane named Florence is wreaking havoc. There's been a loss of life, a loss of property. For some of you it may be personal. You may have family in that community. You may have friends. And yet we continue to pray for them as the storm makes its way across that portion of the country. And while Florence may be a distance away from us, somehow we all, at one time or another, experience our own Florence. Our own storms of life. Maybe a category one, it may be a two, a three, or four, or five. It's been said that either we are in a storm, about to head into a storm, or that we're coming out of a storm. For you, it may be a storm of health. For others, it may be financial burdens and situations. It may be a loss of life It may be something that is emotional that burdens you down, but I would declare today that we all know what it means to be in a storm. And even more people will tell you they mean well that when you're going through your Florence, they'll say, you know, I got you. I got your back. You know, I got you covered. But we must always receive that, but always depend on the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to remind you. that you're covered. Now I sold insurance for a short time to feed my family. And once I got the application done, I sent it to the underwriters, I got the health med done, physical, and then I would say to the person, now you're covered. You've got a policy. So if anything were to happen, you're covered. How many people feel covered today? Covered by the grace and the love of God And God will guarantee all of us what? That He will bring us through, He will deliver us to whatever we're going through, He will provide hope. And he will provide peace that passeth all understanding. In our text today, we meet one by the name of David. What a history of a leader. We meet him first as David the shepherd boy. He's the one who is assigned to watch over his father's sheep. He's the one who fights off lions and bears. But one day David makes the headline news He goes down to take lunch to his brothers. Once he gets there, he sees that they're fearful because there's a giant Philistine by the name of Goliath. And David gets his slingshot. He don't know what all the fuss is about. Gets his five smooth stones and takes down a giant David. David, the one who writes today's text. By the time we get to the 27th division of Psalms, David's an older fellow now. David's an older man. He has experienced life situations. He has been through a storm or two. He's made a mistake or three. There's some David in us. But David is able to pin words that encourage us even in the here and now. He begins by saying, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, and whom shall I be afraid? He talks about those who will come against him. David knows what it means to be covered. He writes in that fifth verse, for in the time of trouble, he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock. That's a promise. That's not a maybe so. That's not a I hope it'll happen. But is there anybody here who knows that God really will cover you? And take care of you and watch out for you and be your company keeper and be what you need in the midnight hour. God knows when to cover us. He knows where to cover us. He knows how to cover us. God knows when. It says, for in the time of trouble. In the time of trouble. And we seem to sense God more when we're going through. When things are going well and we're on top of the hill. All is well. Where's the next party? If they like. But trouble will come. And when trouble comes, we know that God is close by. Trouble. Difficult situations. Trouble. problems you're dealing with, trouble, persons, places, and things that stress you out. That cause anxiety to come and to knock on your door. But let's face it, my God, trouble is trouble. You ever heard folks say, I think you're in trouble? When you heard that, you knew something about to happen. But trouble will show up on your doorstep uninvited. Trouble will show up in your life, but thank God. That he knows that trouble is coming. And he will be with us. That when the winds and the waves of life start blowing My God, you can hear them. You can see it coming, but you know that you're on a solid foundation. And wouldn't it be something if we just had no trouble? If everything will just be every day is Sunday, that's not the case. And just because we know the Lord don't mean that we're exempt from situations that may cause us some stress. But thank God we've got hope in Jesus. Amen. You can ball up your spiritual fitness and say, you know what? I know you may come in trouble, but I know a risen Savior. And he's in the world today, and his name is Jesus. Amen. Folk wonder why you're smiling. And you're going through. They wonder why you got joy and they can see your struggle. They wonder why you're so upbeat and so happy. Why? I've got Jesus. And that's enough. When trouble comes. Jesus had a situation with his disciples. They were on the boat, and the winds of started to blow. But he was there in the hinder part of the ship. I loved him to text. It says he was asleep on a pillow I don't know what brand it was, but but Jesus, the holy man, was catching a few. Oh y'all I love Naps. I ain't gonna tell no story. And yet when life started to rock and when the boat began to fill up and the waves begin to blow, folks say, Well, who who do we call? We ain't calling the ghostbusters. We need to go call on Jesus. And they go and they wake him up. He rises and says, You know what? What what what's the problem? He speaks to the waves. He rebukes the wind and he says, Peace be still. So so when trouble comes up, Know that you're covered because what? He controls the wind. He controls the rain. He controls those things that would seek to discourage us. No who's in charge. He knows when to cover us. But he knows where to cover us. What to provide safety, it says, He shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. David wasn't talking in the third person. He was saying me. David. Amen. Me, Tim, I know what he'll do. A pavilion is just a hut It's a booth in the physical. A tabernacle we think of as a portable tent that the Hebrew children would take from place to place. There was no place to worship. They would bring a tent with them And they would have church and they would reach God by way of this tent. Amen. But you know, our tabernacle ought to be just being in a place and a space we can connect with God. How many folk just have a tabernacle? They say, excuse me, over at my desk, I've already sectioned off in the spirit realm a place that I can go. In my home I found a tabernacle, a place I can hide from all the trouble of life. And so we know that He will provide in that place. He's already made reservations for you in his tabernacle. All you gotta do is just check in. Oh, some of y'all look important when you've already made your little reservation. You come up and excuse me, the name is Tutan And God forbid they don't have your name on that pass. But amen. He said, You know that I don't I don't I made my reservation. I'm gonna get in. He has provided a place just for us. You gotta just check him in When you're going through the storms of life, check in. When you're going through situations you can't control, just check in. Check in with the master why he provides a place just for you. Psalm 91 and 1 says, He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High shall abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I'll just take the shadow. That's all you need sometimes is just knowing that you are near, knowing that you are close by. Have you ever found yourself in a situation and you think that the world is all against you and you say, you know what, I just need a moment. And I need a place because I serve the kind of God who will bring Oh some of y'all know y'all always have to laugh at your witch end and you say no I don't know. Here's the come back come back I got a hiding place from you that the enemy can't find you. I got a hiding place from you where I'll give you peace. I got a hiding place from you where I'll give you joy. I just come on to know. You're covered. Isn't there relief in that? Isn't there some peace in that? That win my Florence. Comes along, there is a place. He knows where. To cover us. He knows when and he knows how to cover us. He shall set me upon a rock. See, pavilions and tabernacles in the natural can fall apart. A tent cannot set up correctly A pavilion can be crushed. But there's something about a rock. Amen? Yeah, he will set me upon a rock. God shows up in the form of a rock. David, remember, has some smooth stones that he used for protection when he took out Ogoliah. Rocks are hard. Rocks are solid. They are formed in the earth. Psalm 24 and 1 says what It says, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, and those who dwell therein the sun what it says on Christ. The solid rock I stand on other ground is sinking sand, rock of ages, left for me. Let me hide myself in the God is taking you to a solid place. He's taking you to a firm place that as you go through, he says, lead me to a rock. that is higher than I. Christ says over in Matthew 21, he says, the stone that the builders refuse became the cornerstone. In other words, I am the rock. Amen. I'm everything that you would need. And he talks about the stone, but it was a stone. What? That God had the angels to move away from the tomb so that what he could get up from the grave. Well that's old Sunday school talk there. He died, but he rose again. And while there may have been a big stone blocking the tomb, he moved the stone away. Has he moved some stuff out of your life? Has he moved some situations? Has he moved some people? Has he moved some places? Has he moved and every now and then you may want to hold on? No, I need to move this To give you a better view. I need to move this so that you can see me for just who I am. High and lifted up in his train filled the temple, he will be that rock. The story is told of a World War II veteran, a U. S. Marine, who was fighting in the Pacific. And during the fight Something happened where they got disconnected from his crew. He ended up running into the jungle And as he ran to the jungle, he was able to find in the jungle, up in the rock, there it is again, a cave. He hid himself in the cave. But he knew that would not last long because he could hear the enemy. They were coming and they were searching every inch of that jungle. As he hid out in the cave, he began to think about what could happen. You know they're gonna find me here. But he does what we what we do. He starts to pray. And to ask God to protect him in the midst of his situation. And while he was in this cave, he notices that there's a spider. And the spider is near the opening of the cave. And the spider is weaving back and forth. The spider is providing a web over the cave in which he is. He didn't make much of it. Do you all kill of a spider when you're going through life situation? But he could hear them getting closer. He was prepared to surrender. He was prepared to give in. But he realized that when they came next to his cave That the spider had put such a web that they figure nobody has been in there. And they kept moving. And don't you know that God will Provide for you. He'll take the simplest thing to let you know that you are covered. Be not just made whatever time God will take care of you. Beneath his wings of love abide. God will. In the simplest matter, take won't he take care of you today? I'm so glad today he's taking care of me. And not just yesterday, but he took care of me last year and he took care of me back when I was just a boy. He will govern me and he will take care of me And I want to know, is there anybody in the house today who knows that God has got you covered? That no matter what comes your way, you're covered. No matter what the enemy will try and do, you're covered. No matter what detours are in your life, I am covered. I thank God today he covers me with his peace. And he covers me with his joy. And he covers me most of all with his love. God so loved the world that he gave his only Begun Son. My God, that changes the whole picture when I throw in Jesus. That changes the whole situation when I say, I know. He'll make a way somehow. I know he'll cover me. I know he'll keep me. I know he'll leave me. What? I'm covered by covered by the blood of the I am covered. I'm covered. It's in the policy. It's in the fine print. It's in the word of God. For in the time of trouble, oh you'll hide it. He'll set me up. And that's why we give him the praise. That is the word of God today. It's already blessed of any covered people today. That when the storms of life come your way, I got Jesus. And that's enough. Thank you. How many have seen his hands? How many has witnessed him? He never goes back on his word. Don't be the long rings forecast. He'll just be there. Always even to the end of the earth. Storms. Storms. Come on, stand today. I receive it today. As we consider the storms of life and also the storms of nature. Peace be with us. My my. Hey hey. How do we cover today? Oh the stones keep on raging My life And sometimes it's hard to tell the night from day. Still that hope that lies within is we are sure. As I keep my eyes upon the dish I know he leave me safely to That blessed place he has prepared Mamma And the stone And if the wheel keep on blowing in my life, my I Soul Heavy. I realize that sometime in this life you're gonna be told. By the way, and the current that seems no fears But in the word of God, I got an anchor. It keeps me steadfast and unmovable. So despite the tide and if the storm don't cease and just In case the wheel they keep on blowing in my mass. My soul is anchor in the Lord. My soul. My soul. Mate, my toll denk. Ma my God As you come today No matter what life throws you away that you've been anchored in the Lord. Your roots run deep. Thank you, Lord. You might get tossed and you might get Turn and you might be disappointed and you might be heartbroken, but the story is not over yet. Glory, glory. He has the long-range forecast He knows that there's sunny days ahead. And so that's why we give God the glory today. That's why we praise him today. That's why we lift him up today. Why? Because he knows our end. Father, we come in the name of Jesus. And we thank you for your presence. We thank you, God, for being Our present help in the time of trouble. So even now, God, we praise you and we glorify you. And we give your name the praise. Why? We are more than conquerors through him that loved us. Father, today if there's one in this place who've been trying to fight their own storm all by themselves. You sent your son, Jesus Christ, who came through 40 and two generations. To die for us. And so today we offer Christ to you, the one who will save you, and the one who will keep you. Father, today if there's one in this place, only you know. Bring them out of the storm today, God, and bring them to dry land and holy living. Father, we thank you for who you are. We declare it in the name of Jesus. Amen. Somebody give God a praise today. Thank you for listening to the Leading by Example broadcast. To learn more about our ministry and to pick up your copy of my brand new book entitled Leading by Example, A Parental Guide to Teaching and Modeling Christian Faith at Home, Go to our website. It's www. comtoharvest. org. That's www. comthenumber twoharvest. org. Have a great day in the Lord.