Uh turn your Bibles please to Isaiah, Isaiah chapter forty-five. Isaiah chapter forty-five. Like I said, it's always a blessing to be here at your church. Let my daughter serve here and that was a blessing to us and also Jackson while he was here and that was a blessing to him and to us. And so we felt feel like our hearts are knit with uh Pastor Mitrell and with your church and so it's a joy to come here. It's going to be a joy today to be able to serve you a little bit, uh some of the food of Mexico you who are fifty-five and older, and so we're excited about being a little minister to you tonight with that. Uh Isaiah chapter 45, let's look at verses 21 to 24. Tell ye and bring them near, yea, let them take counsel together. Who had declared this from ancient time? Who had told it from that time? Have not I, the Lord? There is no God else beside me, a just God and a Savior. There is none beside me. Look unto me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God. There is none else I have sworn by myself the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness and shall not return. That unto me every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall swear. Surely shall one say, In the Lord have I righteous And strength, even to him shall men come, and all that are incensed against them shall be ashamed. In the Lord shall all the seed of Israel be justified And shall glory. And I want to concentrate on where it says, verse 21, There is no God beside me, a just God and a Savior, and there is none beside me. Then uh especially verse 22, look unto me And be saved, all the ends of the earth. Look unto me and be saved, all the ends. of the earth. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help me to be a blessing to the church here, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, that has been a blessing to me all these years. And Lord, I I'm thankful for this church. I remember I was here the second Sunday it was established and Lord it's good to see some people here that were here back then and and many new people as well. Lord I pray that you just Just continue to bless this church. Lord, just help me to be able to open up their eyes a little bit to the need of missions. And Lord, if there's anyone here who's not saved. God, that this would be the day that they'd receive the salvation, the message of salvation that I'll be preaching about today. And God, that this would be their day of salvation. And Lord, that we realize that we need to get this message out. We have a mandate by God to get this message of salvation, this glorious message to the world. And Lord, that you've even promised to to to be with us as we do that. And so Lord, I pray that you use this message, God, for the cause of Christ. I I pray that you give me words to say and power to preach. Pray these things in your name. Amen. God has always had a desire to see the whole world saved. Even back in the New Testament, when God concentrated mostly on the nation of Israel. He you his plan was that all the ends of the earth would have an opportunity to be saved. He's always reached out. To the ends of the earth. And we see that here in our text. We see that also in other verses. Turn with me to Isaiah other chapters. Isaiah 56 here in Isaiah. In the Old Testament. God had the desire that the stranger, those who were not, of the house of Israel, that they themselves would also join themselves to him. It says here in Isaiah 56, verse 6, also the sons of the stranger, and that would be the foreigner, that would be the one that wasn't part of the nation of Israel, and also the sons of the stranger that joined themselves to the Lord to serve him. To love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone that keepeth the Sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant, even them will I bring to my holy mountain And make them joyful in the in my house of prayer, their burnt offerings, and their sacrifices shall be accepted unto mine altar For mine house shall be called a house of prayer for all people. And I'm thankful that the house of prayer, the house of God isn't just for the Jews, it's for all people. Amen? It's for us as well. Verse 8, And the Lord God, which gathereth the outcast of Israel, saith, Yet will I gather others to him, besides those that are gathered unto him, and those others are us. From every tribe tribe and tongue and nation, amen? From the United States to Africa to Asia to Russia to Australia to the ends of the earth. I'm so thankful for that And that was God's will. It's always been God's will that the world be saved. In Psalm 6831, it says, Princes shall come out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands to God. That's always been the will of God. And he wanted Israel to be that witness for the rest of the nations. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 43, verse 10. Isaiah chapter 43, verse 10. It says, here, ye are my witnesses, he said to Israel, ye are my witnesses Saith the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am He Before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. I, even I am the Lord, and by beside me there is no Savior. God wanted Israel to be the witnesses. of the glory of God and of his salvation, but we know that Israel failed. In fact, they turned from God to the idolatry of the nations around them. And uh they were finally cured of that after uh Babylonian captivity, but even when they came back, uh their religion turned into formalism. They weren't really the witnesses that they ought to be And so that's why God established the church to be witnesses of salvation to the ends of the earth. And that's my title of my message, The Witnesses of Salvation to the Ends of the Earth. I want us to first of all look at the message of salvation to the ends of the earth. The message of salvation to the ends of the earth, like we saw in our text, look unto me Look unto me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, from Hunt Valley to Cockysville, to Baltimore area, to the outermost parts of the earth. But that word salvation tells us there's a need for every individual in this world to be saved. And there's something that they need to be saved from. And what is it that they need to be saved from? They need to be saved from their own sin. I want to talk a little bit about that. As we talk about this message of salvation, we can't talk about salvation if we don't talk about what we're saved from, what we need to be saved from. Turn with me to Genesis chapter 2. We see the first time sent into the world. The reason why salvation need to be Sent to the end of the earth is because every person on this earth is a sinner because of their father and mother. Or we could say grandma, grandpa, or great, great, great, great, grand-grandfather, and grandmother, Adam and Eve The Bible says that Adam and Eve were told in chapter 2 of Genesis, verse 16 and 17, and the Lord God commanded them man saying, Of every tree of the garden thou shalt uh thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die And we know the story that when they ate of that fruit, they didn't die physically immediately. So that tells us that that death wasn't just a Physical death. There are three deaths mentioned in the Bible. They all have to do with separation. The separation of the soul from the body at death, at physical death. But when that h uh but even before then we are born because of Adam and Eve's sin, we are born separated from God. It's called spiritual death. That's what happened when Adam and Eve ate from the tree that they were prohibited to eat from. In fact that we see that here in chapter three, verse one. And the woman said in verse one, it says, Now the serpent was More subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of the every tree of the garden. She said, Well Uh we can eat of every tree, but there's one that we can't treat can't eat of, and there's one tree we can't eat of, and we can't even touch it. Now of course that's not what Jesus God said he said you can't eat of it. He never said about touching it, but that just showed what was in her heart that she uh was a little perturbed, that she wasn't able to do all that she wanted to do And uh it ended up being that uh uh Satan convinced her that she could not live without eating that fruit. That she wouldn't be able to be able to be happy without eating that fruit Just like uh uh Satan does with us today. He tempts us saying, You can't be happy unless you have that sin. And so that's what she did. She saw that was pleasant to the eyes. The Bible says in verse 6 And that the tree was to be uh was to be desired to make one wise, and that she wouldn't be happy unless she ate that fruit. Of course we know it didn't bring happiness, it brought the opposite, and that's what sin always does. It always makes us, it always does the opposite of what we think and that we're uh that we're fooled to think that it's going to do. We know what they did. They weren't jumping for joy after eating that fruit. Their eyes were open, the Bible says in verse 7. They knew that they were naked They heard the voice of the Lord God and they hid themselves. Why? Because they were ashamed. The only thing that sin brings to us is shame and sadness and sorrow. And separation from God, most of all. And the saddest words in the Bible is when God had to call out to Adam and said, Where art thou? After every day of fellowshipping with God and God with man in the cool of the evening, what a great Well, just to be able to fellowship personally with God, face to face, what a great privilege they had, but they lost their privilege because of their sin. And we as sons and daughters of Adam and Eve have lost that great privilege of separ uh and are separated from God, from our youth, from our birth, because of our sin. Adam and Eve hid from God. They fled from his presence. And perhaps you've come here today. And because of your sin, you're running from God. You're ashamed, perhaps you're even afraid of God. I don't know how many people I've talked to. Uh uh uh you know, I'm witnessing to them I've said, have you ever read the Bible and they said no? And I say, why? Because I'm afraid. Deep in our hearts that we sin against a God that will one day judge us. And people try to put that out of their mind, but we you can try to put it out of your mind, but it's gonna happen one day. You're gonna be judged because of your sin And since then man has hid from God. Turn with me to Romans chapter 3. Not only have hid from God But have gone unto their own way. The Bible says in Romans chapter 3, verse 10, as it is written, there is none righteous, no not one. There is none that understandeth There is none that seeketh after God, and how we know that. Oh, if everyone was seeking after God, all these fields would be saved and would be filled with people. Amen. You'd be saving seas, try to find try to try to get in here But we know that there is none that seeketh after God. Oh, they're seeking after other things. Some of them at our ball game right now Some of them are visiting their aunt or their uncle. Some of them are out there fishing on the Chesapeake Bay and uh and things like that, but they're not seeking after God. In fact they're hiding from God And they're separated from God. I told you there is a separation of the soul from the body, that's the physical death. There's a separation of our soul from our creator, and that's the spiritual death. But if we don't get that taken care of, if we don't reconcile ourselves with God, the Bible says there's going to be a day when there's going to be an eternal death If somebody does not want to be with God in this life, if somebody doesn't want to take care of that separation that's separated from them in this life, They're going to receive that same thing in the eternal life, separation from God forever. How can we expect to not be condemned when the Bible says we're condemned already? And how can we Expect not to be condemned when one is satisfied with being condemned and separated from God in this life. How can you expect then to be with God in the next life if you've never wanted to be with God in this life? It just makes common sense. But it's so sad. And why do not people want to be uh reconciled to God? Well the Bible says in John 3. 16 that in spite of God's love for not just as we read in Isaiah His love for not just the those of Hunt Valley, Maryland, but those for the whole world. In spite of that, there's many who reject that love. The Bible says in John Chapter 3, verse 16, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. Oh, if you've come here and you don't know that you're saved, God wants to save your soul. He wants to save you from your sin. He wants to end that separation that there is between you and Him. He wants you to be reconciled to Him. He doesn't want you to be condemned to hell. In fact, He came here to save you from hell. He loves you. But the Bible sadly says in verse 18, he that believeth on him is not condemned. Well that's something to rejoice about, but then it says, He that believeth not is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. The Bible says that if you have not come to him to be saved, you're still condemned. And sadly, many people are satisfied with that because the Bible says it also in verse 19, and this is the condemnation, the light has come to the world. But the Bible says men love darkness rather than light because their deeds are evil. Oh, don't hold on to that sin. Come to the light. Come to the light of the Lord Jesus. He came and he died for you. And because God loves the world, including you, he wants you to trust in him as your Savior. The Bible says in First John one nine. Wanna turn in your Bibles to First John one nine? 1 John 1. 9. I want you to understand, if you've come here, if you've never understood the message of salvation, it's very simple. You're a sinner. You're separated from God because of that. That separation will end up in hell forever. But it doesn't have to be that way. God loves you. And he wants you to come to him. He wants you to be reconciled to him. He says in his word, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us. our sins. He'll forgive you of your sins and he'll cleanse you from all unrighteousness. He says in verse 2, and he is the propitiation. That's a long word I know and I'll explain in a minute. And he is a propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. He oh, he came to be a propitiation. He did it for his love for this world. He did it for you. The Bible says in chapter 4, verse 4 of 1 John, it says, we are of God, little children. I'm sorry, it's it's uh It's 410. It says here, herein is love. Herein is the love of God for us. Not that we love God, but that he loved us. Oh, when we were turned from him, when we were his enemies He turned to us and all he asked is that we turn back to him. He loves us. And he sent his son to be a propitiation for our sins. I said I was going to uh uh explain what that word means. Propitiation means this. A sacrifice that bears God's wrath. God's wrath that He has for sin. A sacrifice that bears God's wrath to the end. And in so doing changes God's wrath toward us into favor. That's what happened on the cross of Calvary. God's wrath was changed to his favor. Amen. He allowed his son, his beloved son, to bear the wrath, his wrath for sin, for your sin and my sin. That he might change that wrath to his favor to you and to me. Oh, that's an exciting message. Amen. Wow, what a message of salvation. And the reason why God forgives us is only because He has already poured out His wrath against our sin. We don't have to be judged because our sins have been judged already. Amen. Unless we decide to keep that sin, then we'll have to be judged for that sin. But it doesn't have to be that way. Jesus died for your sin and mine. That's why he was beaten. That's why they took those cruel cat or nine-tails and tore the flesh off of his body and ripped it off of his body, that that blood that he shed would cover our sins. Turn with me to Isaiah. Jesus has been called the Lamb of God that was slain. But we need to remember he was slain for you and for me. Oh, we should never that that that should never get old to us, amen. That Christ would pay for our sins. Bible says in verse 4, surely he had borne our griefs And he carried our sorrows, Isaiah 56. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. It was God that smote his own son, knowing that was the only way that his wrath could be turned from us and be changed into favor. It was by Allowing his wrath to be poured out upon his own son. Look what it says in verse 5. But he is wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him. And with his stripes we are healed. Oh, he was wounded. All that he went through there on the on the cross, and even before the cross, with his Scourging was for your sin and my sin, your and my transgressions. It was his and our iniquities that caused them to be bruised. That word bruised in Hebrew means to be torn into pieces. His body was broken for you and for me. Oh, how could you reject that salvation? If you're here, if you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, realize that his body was broken for you. And for your sin and mine, Jesus as God hates sin just as much as his Father does. But he allowed that disgusting wicked sin of yours and mine, that disgusting sin that of yours that if it was put on a screen here, you'd be running out the doors, wouldn't you? That disgusting wicked sin that God hates, that Jesus hates. Uh I don't know how to describe the only thing where I could describe how God sees You know how we how the most disgusting thing to us that I could think of would be uh uh animal dung or or our own dung, wouldn't it be And that's how God sees our sin. And just think that when God, the Bible says that here in uh in verse 9 Oh, we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. We've already talked about that. We've turned from God. But the Lord laid upon His son, that Lamb of God, the iniquity, all that gross, disgusting, wicked sin was placed upon the holy son of God. It would be like having uh poured upon you or on me the dung of uh of animals and of people poured out on us. Can you imagine how disgusting that would be? That's how it was for Jesus Christ. To bear our wicked, vile sin. It's no wonder that Christ cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It was a cry of desolation. It was a cry of anguish because the suffering that he had gone, that he bore, the suffering of the all the wicked sins. sin that he that that you and I have committed that he had to bear there and the guilt of our sin. You know how what that guilt's like Just think the guilt of millions of sins placed upon him. And then the wrath of God poured upon him for the love of man. Oh, that cry of anguish that he cried was because the suffering that day had gone on so long with no relief in sight sight. Hour after hour bearing our sins and bearing the wrath of God That's why he cried out, basically what he was saying is, Why have you left me so long on this cross? Jesus in his human nature knew he had to bear the sins of the world To suffer nanda and to die, but in this human consciousness he probably did not know how long that suffering would take Yet to bear the guilt of millions of sins even for a moment would cause the greatest anguish of soul. To face the deep and furious wrath of an infinite God, even for an instant, would cause most uh uh uh uh profound fear. But Jesus suffering was not only a minute, it wasn't just a couple of minutes It wasn't just ten minutes. It went on hour after hour after hour. When would it end? Hour after hour went on. The dark weight of sin and the deep breath of God Hour after hour went on, wave after wave of the deep breath of God poured upon Jesus, our Savior. Jesus at last cried out And I think you would have done the same thing. My God, my God, why has that forsaken me? Why must the suffering go on so long? Oh God, when will you bring it to an end? They probably didn't, and that's why he said it is finished. Praise God, it's finished for us. Amen. Oh, if you've come here, but you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, how could you reject such love when he was willing to bear your wicked sin and mine and the wrath of God? Bible says he's the Lamb of God in our s if you're still there in Isaiah 56, it says in verse 10. Isaiah 53, I'm sorry, verse 10. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him That's something that's hard for us to understand. I think the only way we could understand it if we could understand the love of God for us. That would please him to bruise his own son for us. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make him a soul for offering for sin, he shall see a sea. He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. His wrath was satisfied by the travail of the soul of his own son But I want us to look concentrate where it says there, when thou shalt make his offering So an offering for sin, he shall see his seed. Why would God be willing to allow his son to suffer so much? I'm sure it says that it pleased the Lord abrupt, but that wasn't that he was joyful that his son was uh uh wa wa was treated such a way, but it it pleased him because he knew what his son's suffering would do. He knew that there was a seed That would be that would be the result of that. What is the seed that says he shall see is the seed is every tongue, every person that's been saved from every tongue, tribe, and nation over the last two thousand years. That is the reason why. The Bible says in another passage in Hebrews 2, 2, if you want to go over there, Hebrews chapter 2, verse 2. The reason why he was willing to allow all that to happen is because of the seed that he would see through the corridors of time that would be saved over the last 2,000 years. As it says in Hebrews 12, verse 2, I'm sorry, Hebrews 12, 2. Looking unto Jesus, this was mentioned earlier in Sunday school, the author and finisher of our faith Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. Why did he endure the cross? For the joy of the soul that would be saved Throughout the world. There was a saying said by the Moragan missionaries back in the 1700s May the lamb, that's the lamb of God that we just talked about that was slain. May the lamb that was slain receive a reward for a suffering. What's a reward for a suffering? The seed. Souls that are saved. How can we bring a reward to our to our Savior? How can we bring a reward to that land that was slain for being slain for us? How can we reward him with souls saved? I don't know how a person can be saved by what Jesus did for us being beaten and and and being crucified and then having the sins of the world placed upon him, and then having God's wrath poured upon him and not want to be able to reward him for his suffering The only way we can reward him for his suffering is for bringing souls to him. The seed for which he died. That brings me to the second part of our message. We've seen the message of salvation to the ends of the earth, but we also see a mandate to be witnesses of that salvation to the ends of the earth. Mark chapter sixteen, verse fifteen. Mark chapter sixteen verse fifteen. We all know it. And he sent most of us. And he said unto him, Go ye into all the world, the ends of the earth, and preach the gospel to every creature. That's a mandate given to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That's mandate given to you and to me. Mark Luke chapter twenty-four. Luke chapter twenty-four. He goes on and says why he died. In fact, his death would have been vain. That's basically what he's saying here in Luke chapter twenty-four, verse forty-six. And he said unto him, That it is written, and thus it behooved, it was necessary that Christ Suffered. It says it behooved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day, and their repentance and remissance of sin should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. He said He died so that we could be the witnesses of that death and the efficacious of how efficacious his death was To be able to see souls saved, have their sins forgiven, and repentance should be preached. We need to be preaching it because He already did His part. Now it's our job to do our part. Acts chapter 1, verse 8. Then this isn't a suggestion, it's a mandate from God. Are you doing your part in seeing this mandate fulfilled? Are you being the witness that you ought to be in your Jerusalem as it says here? Verse 8, but ye shall receive power. I can't tell people about the Lord. You have been promised power. There's no excuse, amen. The excuse is taken away. Ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost is upon you. And the Bible says we all have the Holy Ghost if we're saved. Amen? He's in us. The powers available. And ye shall be witnesses unto me both in, and then we see a program here, both in Jerusalem. And in all Judea and in Samaria unto the uttermost part of the earth. This is a mandate given to this church and every church around the world. The Hunt Valley Baptist Church to reach third Jerusalem. Hunt Valley, Cockysville. But then it says also at the same time, Judea. Okay, that would be areas around here in Maryland, Baltimore County. Okay. Then it says Samaria, the rest of the United States. Then it says the animals parts of the other. How can we do that? How can we accomplish that? Well, I'll talk about that in a minute. But what a great message we have. We've just heard about that wonderful message. But it also says in Romans chapter 10. Romans chapter ten. That great message. Let me repeat it. It's right here in Romans chapter ten. How people can be saved from their sin, their wickedness of their sin, and death and hell. What a glorious truth. It says here, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God had raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Verse 9. What a wonderful truth. Verse 11, what a wonderful truth. Whosoever, doesn't matter who it is, in what country it is. I've seen them in Mexico, the United States, Guatemala. Souls can be saved anywhere, amen. Believeth on him shall not be ashamed. Verse 13 Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And then it's but then it says in verse 14, how then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? How will one in Barnier Be saved if they've not believed. How should they believe in him whom they have not heard How will that one in South Africa believe if he has not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? How will that one in Peru hear the gospel, that glorious message? There's not a preacher to preach it. And how shall they preach in Mexico City, for example, if they be not sent? We have a mandate. To talk to our neighbors, amen? Talk to our friends, talk to those in our immediate and extended family, co-workers. Hey young people, if you're in a public school, you've got an audience right there, amen? Your fellow schoolmate, even from your teacher. But then the Bible says you have a responsibility for this state. Isn't that what it says? It says Samaria and Judea, that means the area around, a little bit further away. I can't get to Uh I don't know. I can't get to Bethesda. I can't get to Minneapolis Okay. Well maybe uh this church could someday s support uh someone who starts to evangelize as annapolis, amen. Okay. Now what they didn't brogue? Didn't they say, hey, Hunt Valley needs to be evangelized? Why don't we establish a church theater that can be evangelized, amen? And here we are. I remember in our home church, uh we've we've taken that seriously. Send buses out, not just to reach Chesterton, they're in Chesterton, Indiana, but buses to go out to LaPorte. Go out to Valpo, go out to Gary, Indiana, even New Buffalo, Michigan. Because the mandate is to reach your Judea But I preached that not too long. Wouldn't it be great to have a church start in LaPorte? You know, it could do a lot more than just a bus route, a church plant. And they did that in Chicago. A fellow named Courtney Lewis came out of the church there and started a church right there in Chicago. I think of how the church was started out uh then the then you're Samaria, the rest of the United States. Wouldn't it be great if a church was planted out of out of this church In some other state, amen. Someone that would come out of here and church plan a church in another state. Rogue did that. Is isn't Maryland in another state? I think it's different from Pennsylvania, amen. And I think of our church there in Mexico. They sent out a fellow named Steve Booth that was raised in the church all his life. Started a church in evangelizing area and started a church in Virginia nearby here. Amen. And I think of a fellow named Pat Gordon who was raised up in the church there with his wife Breta and they went out to Zambia, the uttermost parts of the earth. That's the program for every church. I think of a verse that's on my prayer card, but as it is written, to whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. To the person that was never spoken of, I think of when Maurice started when we go to that mission there on the other side of Mexico City, over there by the airport I rejoice when I go out and I start knocking doors, realizing those people there behind those doors have never heard the gospel, and I have a chance to give them the gospel for the first time. How exciting that is. To be able to go to an area that's never heard the gospel before and share with them something that's never been heard. To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see. And they that have not heard shall understand. There's nothing so exciting. There's nothing so exciting to be involved in a program like that. Amen You know, we started those churches because uh those other missions, I think of that verse, let us go into the next towns. Amen. There's some towns around here that need the Lord Besides Hunt Valley and Cockysville, there's others around here that need the Lord as well. That's our mandate. You think that's very daunting, and it is daunting, but that's why we not only have the message of salvation to the ends of the earth and the mandate to be witnesses to the ends of the earth, but finally a maintenance of God's presence to the ends of the earth Well, I'm just I I just have a hard time being a witness. I just don't have the words to say. I'm just uh fearful. I tremble at the thought Well turn with me please. So you know what? Uh Matthew chapter twenty-eight tells us. Matthew chapter twenty-eight It seems like a daunting p task. It was for me when God called me to the ministry. I thought I can't do it. You talking about me? I was the shyest person in our high school. You could ask anyone. You could ask some of the people I went to school with. Okay. I had a hard time talking to my friends, much less a girl, man. I'd be all bred. And then when God called me, I said, how in the world could I Be a missionary. How you gotta stand up in front of people, eh? But but some of us have a hard time even talking to people on one-on-one. I'm one of them. But the Bible says here, praise God, in Matthew chapter 28, verse 18, all power is given unto me in heaven and earth, Jesus said. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the earth. Amen. He promised that he's going to be with you and me to the ends of the earth. Whether it's Hun Valley, Cockysville, wherever you work or wherever you live. To the rest of Maryland, to the rest of the U. S. , to the uttermost parts of the earth. He promised to be with us. First Corinthians. I love this. Paul, we think of Paul as great evangelist, you know, super Christian, super soul winner. Look what it says here, and this gives me comfort whenever I read this. 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verse 3. Paul gives his testimony about when he came to Corinth. And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. You know, he came to Corinth like we do when we get to a street and it's time to knock it. Amen. We knocked the door. Nobody's home. Let's go. I know how it is. But God promised that he'll go with us Paul came, he had good reason to be trembling. Just think about it. He goes to one city, he gets thrown in jail, Philippi. He goes to another city, Thessalonica, and he's thrown in. thrown out of town. He he gets chased out of town. He goes to Berea and the people that were in Tessonica go there to Berea just to throw him out of town again I guess he had reason. He had a lot more reason than we do, amen. Somebody slammed the door on my face. So? Have you been beaten? Have you been thrown in jail? Then it says, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in the demonstration of the spirit and of power. Amen? Not our power, his power. See what happens verse five, and that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. See what happens when we by faith just open up our mouth with our fear and trembling, that's when the power kicks in He honors faith, doesn't he not? He honor your faith when you preach the gospel, when you are a witness, the maintenance of God's presence to the ends of the earth. Let's pray.