I'm one of those who believes that what God's doing in your life is just as important as what he's doing in my life. I I'm not one of these that thinks all about me. It's my turn to talk And so I'm going to take a few minutes today in this chapter. But nearly every church that I get to, one of the first times I preach there, I give my testimony And I haven't uh ever done that here at Hunt Valley. I came for a missions conference and then another missions conference and then we had a family emphasis and this year it was the men and boys camp out and uh today just for these few moments together I want to just tell you what God's done. It'd be good to know that the preacher that's here is actually a Christian. And um but uh God did some unusual things. I I was raised in a family that did not go to church. And consequently, by uh even though we were successful dairy farmers there in Wisconsin, and even though we were taught Bible principles, hard work and integrity and all of those things, I didn't know the Lord. My brothers, sisters, eight of us children, we didn't know the Lord I was not against God. I was not against the Bible. I was not against Christianity. But I just simply didn't know. And by the time I got to my senior year in high school, there was a new blonde girl on the school bus. Now I wasn't saved, but I wasn't blind And hey, when you're in a rural Wisconsin small school, the the six or seven girls that would even spit my direction I had already dated. And when there's fresh fish in the pond, I mean, hey. So I asked her out, and she said, I can't go out with you, but I'd like you to come to church with me. Now listen, that's the first time any human ever invited me to church or talked to me about anything spiritual. Well, I didn't particularly want to go to church, but I wanted to go wherever she was. And so, boy, just a couple weeks later, she told me about seven o'clock on Sunday night. And so her family would pick me up and her dad and her brothers were in the car and boy we went to this Baptist church. There was about 20 people there I think a whole set of teeth in the congregation And wow, I've never been in any church. I don't know the Virgin Mary from Aunt Jemima. I don't know anything. And the f they stand up and they sing the song. Now this is an old building. This handful of Baptists had bought this hundred and ten-year-old Methodist building. broken out stained glass windows, a big furnace in the middle belching out heat. The women when they'd walk across it, their skirt would fly up. I thought it was kind of a hilarious setting, but The very first song. We stand up and sing. I don't know the songs. I've never heard these songs. I know I'm not a musician. I've got a I don't sing. And I look, and the women have a songbook on their head like this. Now if you've never been in church, you don't know what this is. You don't know if this is a Baptist thing? If all churches do this. But I'm scared to look, but the second verse, I look, and sure enough, the girl that invited me has a songbook on her head. I don't know what I'm into right here. And so after the song I sit down and I broach the subject, what's with the songbook up there on your head? And she says, Oh, the bats come out and we don't want the bats in our hair So we just it's not like that in the morning when the sun's up, the pigeons fly in here, she said, but the but the bats don't come out in the mornings That's a God on his truth. That's my first time. Now, my opinion has gone down from there No. But right, I'm just saying, I don't know anything. And the pastor stands up and preaches on the love of God, the forgiveness of Christ, eternal life And he says you need to be saved. Well, I don't know nothing, right? And and uh if ignorance is a bliss, I'm a blizzard. This is all new to me And afterward, he comes up to me and he says, Randy, are you saved? No, I wasn't saved, but doesn't it sound like the kind of club you'd want to belong to? And so I said, Yeah, yep, yep, I'm saved. I wasn't ready for the second question. He said, When did you get saved? Right? Right. Well listen, I I promise ya I had no hiding place here. But I had had one religious experience when I was 16 years old My dad, we we would milk cows, but before the evening milking we had supper. And mom was in fixing supper and Dad and those kids were all there in the living room watching. We had then at that time kind of a scientific intellectual program. You guys maybe didn't have it here, but Gilligan's Island They had a professor on there. And my mom stepped into the living room and said, Supper's on the table. But then her eyes rolled back in her head, and she began to seizure, and she convulsed and vomited all over herself And collapsed on the floor in front of us kids. And we jumped up, one called the ambulance. We carried mom into the bed. She seizured and seizured and seizured. When you live where we lived, it was an hour before an ambulance came. She continued to seizure. We had my brothers go out and milk cows. My dad and I followed the ambulance. We went to the hospital They ran all kinds of tests, and at midnight they came and said she's had a massive brain aneurysm. And the pressure on her brain has been so long and so severe that if she lives at all, she'll be a vegetable. Listen, nobody had ever called my mother a vegetable. But the most helpless, damnable Well what what what are you gonna do about it? And in that helpless, fragile moment, I walked out of the room and down the hall, and on my way, there was a chapel. And I went in there and I prayed for God to spare my mother. That's the only time I had ever uttered a prayer any place. But at 4 o'clock in the morning, while I had my arm around my daddy and my head under mama's head, she shuddered and breathed her last breath and went off in eternity. When the pastor says, Are you saved? When did you get saved? My hiding place was I prayed the night my mother died, which was a true statement. But those of you that are Christian, you know praying for your mother is not salvation. But what's he going to do? Is he going to attack me when I when I say this, right? And I went on and off to church for a year. One Sunday night he preached in December of 1969, and he said, you could fool other people about whether or not you're truly saved, because Nobody could see your heart. And he said, you might be able to fool yourself, but you will never Fool God. He knows what you're honestly trusting in your heart of hearts to take you to heaven. And that was ah ah ah just a dagger in my heart What difference it makes if I fool this handful of people? Someday I'm going to stand before a holy God. And that night I asked the Lord to forgive my sin and save my soul and take me to heaven. And I meant it. And I got wonderfully saved in December of 1969. Now listen, I'm in college at that time studying mechanical engineering. And the pastor had said, once you get saved, you need to be baptized. And so I said, okay, I want to be baptized. He said, fine, we'll baptize you the first week in January. Try to get friends and family there. Now listen, if you don't know, you don't know, you don't know. And so I say to my college buddies, hey, you guys want to come watch me get baptized? Have we got baptized? in a Baptist church go right down into deep water. All of me gonna get baptized. And they said, no, we don't want to go to a Baptist church. Well why not? It's me. Nope, we're not coming. I said, listen fellas, I'll take you out to the tavern afterwards. I'll I'll buy a few rounds and we can hoist a few, celebrate. Mid-December, I'm in a Baptist church on a Wednesday night and say, hey, pray for my friends. I got four friends coming to watch me get baptized and we're all going to the tavern and I'm paying, I'm buying. Any of you want to come, you can come Well listen, if you don't know, you don't know. And and the miracle is the pastor kept a straight face from the pulpit By March of nineteen seventy, Good Friday, there is a youth rally in Milwaukee. When the pastor says, hey, we're going to take a bus, and I know you're already 18, but you want to come with our young people? Sure. Up until that time, I never heard of Billy Graham. I don't know anybody. As far as I know, this nest of people is the only Christians on this planet. I know you say, well how is that? Listen, uh i i oh where where I was from, we knew a lot of stuff. I put rings in Alice Chelmer's tractor, but I didn't know nothing about this stuff. And I got on a bus and we get down there to Milwaukee and here it's a church with padded pews, which is a sign of apostasy. This baby sleeps five, you know. They got 500 kids there from Illinois and Minnesota and Iowa and wow they got a 70-voice choir. They're doing skiffs. They're singing from their toenails. I'm like, holy cow, I I never saw this. And the pastor stood up to preach, and he said, turn in your Bibles to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I want to show you five reasons to stay faithful to Jesus Christ. No. That's fine. I And then he said the average Christian only zealously serves the Lord for three or four years and then they slip it in the weeds somewhere And I thought, that's a lie. That can't be true. How is that possible? I didn't just start a new hobby. I didn't just start leathercraft or snowshoeing. I meant this. This is eternal. What are you talking about? They quit on God. Then he says, look, even in the Bible, lots of people started out well, but they didn't end well. King Saul and he went through, and I'm going You gotta be kidding me. They're off in the devil's trophy case someplace when they started out so well. He says, yeah, listen, a lot of people They failed in the second half of life. David was doing fine till he stayed on a rooftop. He said, I don't trust anybody that has a body of flesh. Bones, he said, flesh is flesh no matter whose bones it's hanging on. Wow, that was an important lesson to learn And then he said, God uses the Bible. This is the sword of the Spirit. And he will use the Bible to help you stay true. And he said, my prayer is that you start well and finish well. Now he's preaching at a youth rally. And a very sincere young man sitting right back there where Brother Mark is. And I'm promising you, my antenna was up and my ears were open. He's going to show me from the Bible how I can stay true to Jesus Christ. Every single inch of me wanted to be true to Jesus Christ. I listened to every syllable. So I'm going to show you the five verses. And then we're going to go beat the Methodist to the restaurant or something. So Slip with me down and 2 Corinthians down. Come to find out there's a lot more in the Bible and there's a lot more in this chapter. But these are the five things that he's pointed out that day, March Good Friday, nineteen seventy. Verse ten For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. And he said that day Every one of us is going to answer for ourselves. There's going to be no hiding place. You're not going to say Hey, I'm not as bad as Hitler, but I'm not as good as Mother Teresa. No, you will just answer for you. There's no group therapy, there's no hiding place He's appointed a day in which he's going to judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he's revealed, and he's going to know not only your deeds, but he's going to know your motives. And you're going to be judged in righteousness. Wow, that's a sobering thought. He said it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. No man that gives honest attention to it. Has anything but sobriety when he gets done thinking about, I'm going to stand before a holy God. He said, you know, sometimes to lighten the moment we'll kind of kid about it, but here's a pearly gates and a big ladder and a line and Up they go and they're up there for a couple hours and come back and up they go and come back and up goes Pastor Bittrell What what are they doing up there? Well, before you go into heaven you have to write out all your sins on a chalkboard. Well he's up there for eight hours. He comes back down and everybody's looking, he says, Oh, I'm not done. I'm back for more chalk And listen, while we chuckle about it, you know the truth. Every one of us. It's embarrassing how vile we really are. It's just embarrassing. And he said, listen, when people uh say to you, Well, yeah, well, what about the hypocrites? What about the charlatans? What about the pretenders? He said, you've got to be smaller than the hypocrite to hide behind one. Have you ever seen a counterfeit seven-dollar bill? No, you haven't. You know why? Because there's no real ones. And when you see counterfeit Christianity, you know what it proves? There's a real one someplace. And he said that day, it's real with me. I'm not going to deny that there are those. I'm not going to justify what they do, but I'm telling you there are genuine Christians that live their creed and believe what they say. It was such a help to me. We're going to stand before God and give account for ourselves. Verse 14, excuse me. Verse number 11 is the second one. Therefore, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. He said, listen, this is written to Christians. The Corinthians knew the Lord, but he's giving this stern warning. We know the judgment on the doomed and the damned. We know what the Bible says about hell. We know it when you read it, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness forever The smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, that obey not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished. Where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched, then Lazarus to dip his finger in water and cool my tongue. I'm tormented in this flame. Knowing, knowing, therefore, the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. He said, listen, souls hang in the balance. We're the ambassadors. And what we do matters. God's keeping the books on all of this. From the day I got saved till this moment. I've never told a joke about hell. I've never laughed at a joke about hell. I never let somebody finish a joke about hell in my presence. For all I know, my mama died two years before I got saved. For all I know, my mama's in hell. I never laugh about it I never joke about it. I see nothing funny about it. But I might be able to help somebody else's mommy. Right? This is serious, serious stuff. And he said, look, I don't have to wonder. If my life has meaning or purpose, people are waiting for a word of witness and I get to do it. Verse 14, it says, knowing therefore the tear of the Lord in verse 11, but verse 14, it says, for the love of Christ constraineth us. The love of Christ constrains us because we thus judge that if one dies we're all then we're all dead. And he said, listen, even if there was no judgment seat, and there surely is And even if there was no hell to shun, there is a heaven to gain. And he said, even if there were no eternal consequences for me, wouldn't you want everybody to know our lovely Lord Jesus Christ? The rose of Sharon, the lover of our soul. Wouldn't you want people to know the one who knew the worst truth about us and loved us anyway? That we're accepted in the beloved, that he took us knowing the worst truth. Wouldn't you want people to know what it's like? Neither pray I for these alone, but for all them that shall believe on me through their word He loved us before we were a gleam in our grandfather's eye, the lamb slain from before the foundation of the world. And he talked about how the love of Christ constrains us. You say, come here, come here, I gotta show you this. The most important thing, it's not your new pickup truck. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. High and lifted up. Then he said something that I'll never forget. He said, God shows mercy whenever he can. Judgment only when he must. In James it says, Mercy rejoices against judgment. He's not some big mean ogre up there just waiting to whack you, whack you, whack you His holiness comes justice and judgment, but his love comes long suffering and mercy and forgiveness. He shows mercy whenever he can. Judgment only, only when he must He said, when someone hears of the love of Christ there on the cross, hanging between a holy God and a sinful mankind Hanging there, shedding his blood, when he died for others and not himself, when he cried out, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do He said, when someone hears of the love of Jesus Christ, the forgiveness of God Almighty, the mercy extended from Calvary. And when they reject that, it's as if they shove that cross over and they trample underfeet the blood of the Son of God and they say that Not good enough for me. And when you reject the love of God, all that's left is the judgment of God Oh, I never forgot that. Boy, I want him to know the Jesus that could forgive me, save me. Verse 17, that says, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Many people, and I delight in hearing about it, hey, they got saved out of a life of crime, or they got saved from debauchery, or they got saved from drugs or alcohol Hey, I love hearing how God can miraculously deliver. But I've never been drunk. I drink a beer socially, but I've never been drunk. I like having full possession of my faculties. I only have a little brain. I want to keep what I got. I've never done drugs. I've never done any of that I didn't have to get delivered from all that. But Randy needed to be delivered from Randy. We were successful. I had a blonde girlfriend. Hey, life is good Our families, all successful, well known, a family farm from 1847. Everybody knows where the king farm is. Our genetics are bought all around the United States. Some of the fanciest dairy cows in the country. Hey, I just didn't like two people. I didn't like little kids. They'd bug me, these curtain climbers, they come around and if the little kids came by me, I kicked them. You'd be surprised after a couple times they don't come by you anymore. That's the truth, that's the truth. And the other people I didn't like was old people. They drool, they smell, they they drive stupid, they tell stories that never happened. When old people would talk to me, I just walked away. No fear, they can't catch me. I don't want to be by him. I like my peeps. I just like my peeps. I just want to be by my buddies But when I got saved at 18 years old, and our church grew from 20 to 30, and when you have crowds like that, you need staff. And the pastor says, Randy, I'd like you to be my new assistant pastor. A title and everything? Assistant pastor? I don't know. My dad has said, Randy, I want you to be the son that takes the farm. A two million dollar farm? Debt-free At engineering school, there was a company in Oshkosh that offered to hire me. We want someone who does fancy woodwork. That we could hire to design the spiral staircase for the Library of Congress and all the. And they, as a freshman, they offered me A job starting at 70,000 a year. Now listen, that doesn't sound like much today. Back in nineteen seventy that was saying something. And the pastor said, we can pay you twenty-five dollars a week. Well, hey I don't know. I don't know what God wants. Don't be too hurr- much of a hurry when you're a young man. You don't know what God has for you. But there I have three choices in one week. And if you do this, you're stupid. But I got up at four o'clock in the morning, rolled out of bed, knelt beside my bed and said, Lord, you're just gonna have to show me, should I stay with our family farm? Should I pursue my career? Or should I be The assistant pastor. And I opened the Bible and stuck my finger on a verse. I'm so glad it didn't say Jesus, Judas hung himself But it was James and John, the sons of Zebedee, along the Sea of Galilee, and it says immediately They left their father and their nets and followed him. I went up and milked cows and sat stood by the milk house and said to Dad, Dad I believe God wants me to be in the ministry. He says you're gonna starve to death, which did not happen. I go to the engineering school, I do my calculus class, computer programming class, meet with the head of engineering and I say hey thank him for the gracious offer. But I'm I'm going to go with the church. I go to church on Wednesday night, and I say to the pastor, well, I don't know if you're going to want what you got, but you got what you wanted. Meet your new assistant pastor. And he says, that's wonderful, Randy. I want you to be charge of the youth ministry and the nursing home. And I go, No, no, this is a case of mistaken identity. I'm I'm just gonna be the assistant pastor. We got a nineteen forty-eight Chevrolet bus that came with rust from the factory. It's got a splash and splatter six in it The brakes don't work. The culture only half works. Now listen, we were raised hard-working, diligent farmers. I didn't know these juvenile delinquents existed out there. I get on the bus and I go and I pick up these kids and they're running across the Backs of the bus singing greasy grimy go for guns and they're doing and I'm like no way I this is and Jimmy A twelve year old, right straight I think he's an axe murderer. I don't mean he's gonna be, I think he's done it twice. Jimmy goes behind the back wheel where it's all rusty in back of the back wheel well and he stops a hole In the back of the bus, and out goes our first aid kit, out goes our fire extinguisher, out goes our flares Out goes our jackhandle, out goes our jack, and now, now, every time I stop, he lowers himself down onto the street. And when I start again, he pulls himself up Listen, you know how I know about this? Because a guy with funny red and blue lights follows me into the church parking lot. And explains to me where half of our bus is. Gotta go down Michigan, Randy. Just run your route again like you did. And here's where you're gonna find the jack. And here's where you now when he left, I had a chat with Jimmy. And I picked him up. Listen, I just got done bailing, hey I pick him up by his throat, I have my thumbs on his Adam's apple, I could have popped his head off like a pimple And he is kicking at me and slailing at me and saying, you put me down, I'm going to kill you. I said, you ain't going to live long enough to kill me. You're dying here and now But in our church, if a kid came six weeks to Sunday school, we went back to the home and gave them a Bible with their name on it, because we had a fancy printer. And when I went there on Saturday morning at 10 o'clock, and I got a Bible for Jimmy and Linda and his sister, other sister. And mom is drunk on the couch at ten in the morning. I walk in, she gets shaken awake, beer bleary eyes staring at me. I said, listen, I'm just here to thank you for letting the kids come on the bus. And she goes, what bus? Those kids had been gone six weeks in a row on a Sunday and she never knew they were out of the house And I realized not everybody had the same advantages as I did. And God broke my heart for those kids. And I fell in love with them. And God changes old sinners' heart. I stayed driving bus and stayed youth pastor for 17 years. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of kids got saved. Seventeen couples in our church today got saved, met, and married through our youth ministry, through the backbone of the church. to this very day because somebody loved those kids. I say, what do you do at a rest home service? He says, it doesn't matter. They're deaf. You're just practicing. That's the truth. That was my training. I go there the very first time. I'm not a strong leader. I don't know nothing. I'm gonna preach Sean 316. I open the Bible and before I even speak, a lady on this side says, Dry up, you're boring, you know, you're boring us. Why are you talking? Why don't you just leave? I don't want to be here. But I'd preach. I just dread going there. The whole facility stinks I just don't like anything having to do with it. Hard, hard, hard ministry, if you honestly Tell the truth. Boy a year or two after I had married and I had a little girl and My daughter is there with me because old people like to pet dogs and kids and so th I take my kid and And and there's a woman against the wall in back and she's sitting right next to a staff member and I know they can get pretty oblivious to what what they're saying in this woman sitting by her in a wheelchair help me somebody help me please won't somebody help me Help me, please, somebody help me. Please want somebody help me. And the staff member is sitting right there. Now when you're trying to preach and this is going on, can I say it's more than a little bit distracting? And I'm just looking up and I'm pleading and staff members just writing things and And my little girl comes up and tugs at my pant leg and says, Dad, should I go help her? And I go, Yeah, obviously somebody should. And you're as good as any, so go ahead So she goes to the aisle and back and across toward the woman and says, Can I help you? And that woman Spit out her dentures and says, could you put teas in a glass of water? And my daughter freaked out. She didn't know teas could come out of your head She came running back her eyes this big and she sat there, I'm going, oh, she's traumatized for life But one day there was a lady sitting up front, and you ladies know this is true. There are some women Who are just elegant people. Their bearing, the way they carry themselves, the way they behave themselves. Well, this was one of those ladies who had had a stroke and she was paralyzed and strapped into her chair, but her hair was done perfectly. She sang the song. She had a smile. But when I said turning your song, but she had just that little tray. And when she went to turn the page The book started to fall off from that tray, and she lunged for it with the only hand that worked. And that shawl that was over her fell to the floor. And there she was, unclad, except for that see-through 90. And she's right up here, and the staff can't see her. But I looked at her and she had the most mortified look on her face. But can I tell you, curly black hair approaching 50 years old and looked forever like my mother But I stopped what I was doing and went down and straightened her up in her chair and tucked that Afghan back around her and she just mouthed thank you and changed this old sinner's heart forever And I fell in love with him. I have taken more women to the beauty parlor. I've been kissed by more women. I've knelt beside him in a puddle of pea. I've done their funerals. I've Listen, the entire time as youth pastor and as pastor and even when I'm home, I don't let anybody else do the rest home service. I love them. I hope somebody treats me with dignity and respect when I'm in that situation. Now I am the guy that drools. Hear me? If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. I put my head on a pillow at night with the joy of the Lord in my heart. I'm glad He changed me. He made me a new creature. What I didn't naturally love. I knew God loved them. And I said, Lord, you put your love in my heart for them. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. I'm done, except for verse twenty. It says, therefore if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature in seventeen. But here it says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you. In the 60s, they say, if you can remember the 60s, you weren't really there. But everybody's asking all the questions. What's the meaning of life? What are we here for? Everybody's wondering what's true love? The flower children, the Volkswagen vans, the orange shag carpet, the tie-dye t-shirts, the bell bottom pants, the long string hair I wanna listen, I got saved. And then I found out, I'm not here to please me, I'm here to please him. I was created for his pleasure. I was created for his glory. I'm here to be an ambassador. I don't talk about me. I talk about him. I get to talk about the Lord Jesus Christ. He's gone and right now I get to show people what he's like. Here's what Jesus said, what he did. I get to be an ambassador. Not one time, not one time from the day I got saved to the day do I wonder is my life worth it? I'm not talking about being a pastor. I'm talking about being a Christian. I know what I'd do is important. If I wasn't going to serve the Lord, he may as well knock me in the head and take me home. But I'm left here for a reason. And so are you. Every one of us. Brother Reber, who preached that message, who's on my speed down on my phone, nineteen seventy till this day What is this, 2022, almost a hundred years ago? A very sincere young man Left a pew, came to an altar and said, Lord, no matter what anyone else does. Through your word, by your spirit, help me to finish well. I meant it I don't know about five hundred people in the room. I know today, as fresh as if I heard it today, God uses his Bible and his spirit to keep me on the straight and narrow. I've not done everything perfect. I mean I married a Norwegian. But God been mighty good to me. I know if I was left to myself, I'd fail him. Put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make not provision for the flesh. Walk in the Spirit And you'll not fulfill the lust of flesh. I need his help every day. But I'm glad it's not a boast. It's just the testimony of a grateful heart. He's been mighty good to me. And so my challenge to you, listen, you you've been very attentive and thank you for being patient, but I just can't tell you how important I believe this is, not just for an 18-year-old young man, but for everyone here. Don't you want to finish well? Don't you want to complete the race God put you in? And no matter what anyone else does, are you humble enough to say, Lord, please help me? Please help me. I'm so far so good I'm here and now, but I need your help, Lord.