Isaiah chapter number sixty-five. A few weeks ago Pastor and myself were having a discussion on the idea of investing. He taught um on that a week or so ago in one uh Sunday service, uh the idea of making investments and and what that means and some biblical principles behind that. One common objection to the idea of investing is the question of gambling. So my We ran down that rabbit hole for a while uh as we were just bouncing things off each other about investing in biblical principles and things and got in this question of of of gambling and then w went down that rabbit hole of where that could go and what application you could make and what's right and what's not. Um and so he asked me uh to study it and teach it tonight. He said, well, we're talking about all this with gambling and figuring out what the Bible says about it. So I'm going to be out gone on that this Thursday. Why don't you preach on gambling for me while I'm gone? So that's where we're at tonight. We're going to look at a biblical perspective on gambling. A biblical perspective on gambling. What I'm going to try to do is give you a clear definition of what gambling is so we can work from that definition and understand, okay, what is categorized as gambling. So we're gonna get a clear definition. We're gonna give clear Bible principles why gambling is wrong, why it is sinful, and we are going to try to answer some general questions or illustrations or or things that come up when it comes to the question of gambling in in in uh religious circles and church circles. People would have different things they've been exposed to and well what about this? What about this? We're gonna try to get into some of those questions. to end out the evening and concluding with the question of is investing gambling? That's where we're going to end up. So that's what started it. That's where we're going to end, but we're going to lay a lot of groundwork, groundwork first. I heard a story a few years ago that a that um really illustrates or captures the corruption that's uh that's part of gambling. It's in gambling's nature. The story, it's an old story of a of a guy from the city who moved out to the country. He was going to get away from it all, go back, connect with the earth, those types of things. He gets in the country and he needs to start taking care of his property, so he negotiates with the farmer nearby to purchase a mule, 'cause he's got a heavy mule to take care of and to plow the ground and his is for four tractors and machine So he negotiates with this farmer to get a mule. And uh they agree on the price of a hundred dollars. The the city fella he gives The farmer the hundred dollars and says, Okay, bring the mule to my farm on Friday. I'll have his I'll have his crib ready for him. I'll have his stall. I'll have the hay all set up you bring on Friday Well Friday came around and the farmer shows up and says, hey, I've got some bad news. City Sicler says, well what's what's what's wrong? Farmer said, mule died. So well that's okay. Give me my hundred dollars back. Farmer says other bad news. Can't I spent it already? Um so the city slicker said, well, that's fine. Just bring me the dead mule Alright, well farmer said, okay, you never know by these city folks what they're what they've got going on. So he brings the dead mule over to the uh city guy's farm and then leaves him. He sees him about a week later and he says, Alright, so How did it go with the dead mule? The city sucker says, hey, it went great. So what'd you do with him? I sold him. I said, I got $198 How'd you get $198 off a dead mule? He said, well I raffled him off. I sold a hundred tickets at two dollars apiece. He said you can't you can't raffle a dead mule, didn't anybody complain? He said only the guy that won. I gave him his two dollars back. So he made $198 on his transaction there. But that's the thing about gambling is nobody wins. Nobody wins. Everybody loses when it comes to the idea of gambling. Well, what about the people that do win? Well, I've read dozens of stories in my study, and we've all heard the stories of the big winners that end up as losers. Uh they end up losing it all, everything they win. So nobody wins When it comes to gambling. Gambling is a terrible sin that exacts a terrible price. One statistic, there's dozens and hundreds of statistics that I could give you about how bad gambling is and how much it affects, but one that stuck out to me was just the the sorrow that comes from gambling. Because when you have a bad habit, often these bad habits or these sinful habits can end up killing you, like like drinking, like smoking. These things will give you cancer, they'll give you Gambling is the one that won't kill you. And there's somebody who said gambling will kill you because it doesn't kill you. There's no cutoff. There's no cutoff from the vice itself that says you just can't keep going. You can go as far as you can go. Uh there's a funny, funny skit video I watched of a brother and sister sitting on the couch board and they said, well, we'll flip a quarter for a dollar. They flipped and the one lost and they said okay well let's do double or nothing and they doubled or nothing and they kept going the one guy kept losing up to somewhere where he h owed his sister in the neighborhood of one billion four hundred and something million dollars And then he flips and it was heads and he he was okay. His debt was absolved. He was all relieved that his and then the next thing that is, well, heads or tails. He just goes right back into it. But it just there's no stop to it and A statistic that I read was that 20% of addicted gamblers have attempted suicide. That's not too surprising. Here was the one that really hit me. The suicide rate for the spouse of a gambler is 150 times the national average. Your sin doesn't just affect you, it affects those around you. So we're going to look at the idea this evening on gambling. I do have a lot of material. I'm going to try not to go too fast, but we are going to try to get through it with our um Study this evening. So we're going to start with this idea. Answer the question: what is gambling? Give it a definition. We're going to start in the book of Isaiah. Isaiah 65. You should have your place there, verse number 11. Why don't we stand together for the reading of God's Word? Isaiah 65, verse number 11. There the Bible says, But ye are they that forsake the Lord, that forget my holy mountain. That prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number. Let's open with word of prayer. Pray you'd help me to clearly uh explain this idea tonight, Lord, and that your people could have a conviction uh about this topic that's based on biblical truth. Lord, I pray you bless this time around your word this evening and ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, maybe seated. So there are, when it comes to the Bible, God didn't give us a thou shalt not gamble in the Ten Commandments. We don't have that clear description of gambling in that way. This is actually probably one of the most clear verses. in the Bible on gambling. You said clear, I didn't I didn't understand anything in there that had to do with gambling. Well we're gonna get into some definitions of what's going on in this context and I'll explain it for you. But God didn't give us a a direct reference uh to gambling. We do have the idea of casting lots. We're going to cover that in the questions about gambling portion. We talk about casting lots, but what's going on here in this verse? Let's just read it phrase by phrase. We see, first of all, but ye are they that forsake the Lord. So we have going on here is God's people have departed from God. God doesn't leave us. We leave God. We go in sin. We turn away from God. And so God's people had turned away. They had forsaken the Lord. We'll bring this up as one of the Bible principles, but gambling is putting your your confidence and your trust in something other than God. They have forsaken God. But not only have they forsaken God, it says, Ye are they that have forsake that forget my holy mountain. So the mountain that's being referred to here is the mountain where the temple was located, the temple mount, Mount Moriah there in Jerusalem. where the temple temple was built at this time and that was where God said you've forsaken me you've forsaken my temple what took place in the temple well that was where the sacrifices happened That's where the worship of God took place. That's where people centered centered around the Word of God, the will of God, the law of God, and God said, You've left that. You've departed from me, you've departed from my law, you've departed from worshiping me, and you've gone somewhere else. Where do they go? We could keep reading the verses. It says, that prepare a table for that troop. So ye are they, you, the Israelites, or you, God's people, have left me, left my law, left my worship, and you're preparing a table for that troop. So preparing a table, that is a sacrifice that was being made. They are putting food before some type of an idol. Now this could Have been literally taking place. They could have had an idol that they were preparing a meal offering before. Or this could be God just talking spiritually. That spiritually you had this other thing that you're worshiping instead of me So what idol was this that they were worshiping? What is that troop referring to? Now many commentaries take this and rewrite this reference and they try to make it apply to the tribe of Gad because The word gad is related to the idea of troop. It's a similar word. But however, in this this context, in this verse, this word is carries the idea of the one who distributes fortune. The one who gives out fortune. You're making an idol, you're making a sacrifice to the idol that is in charge of giving out fortune. Now, not in the idea of wealth, but in the idea of chance. Like having good fortune. Not fortune like I've got a bunch of money, fortune like things are going well for me. So they're w giving their sacrifice to the idol that's in charge of chance. They stopped relying on God and sit instead were looking to an idol of fortune. or chance. We'll keep reading. Says ye prepare the table for that troop and that furnish a drink offering. This is another type of sacrifice. unto that number. Now that number is another idol that's being referenced here, at least another false God that Israel had turned to instead of following the Lord. They were turning to the idol of fortune or chance And they were turning to the idol of that number. What was that number? That number refers to the idol of fate or the one who decides. Today we would call this luck. They had turned away from worshiping God, they had turned away from following God's law, they had turned away from their relationship with the Lord, and instead put their confidence in chance and luck. That's what they were making sacrifices to They had turned their reliance away from God. They had instead beginning to worship luck and chance. So here we see in this verse, God is condemning that. condemning the worship of luck and the worship of chance. So there's we get a condemnation in the Bible of the idea of gambling So what is gambling? The term is thrown around a lot and it's applied to a lot of different things. So really narrowing down a definition, I went first of all to where I go with With the diction uh definitions, that's the Webster's 1828 dictionary gives a very simple definition. It says that gambling means to pay To play or to game for money or some other stake. To play or to game for money for some or some other stake. DictionaryTeGot. com goes into a little more detail. It says that gambling means to stake or risk money. or anything of value on the outcome of something that involves chance. The most technical definition I found actually came from, I believe it was Minnesota's state law code. They defined what gambling was so that they could outlaw it. So here's the definition that they gave for gambling. It is a bargain. Whereby the parties mutually agree to a gain or a loss by one to the other of a specified money property or benefit dependent on chance, although the chance is accompanied by some element of skill. Read that one more time so that's a Very technical, but it does get the gist of what this is. It is a bargain whereby the parties mutually agree to a gain or a loss by one to the other. Of specified money, property, or benefit that is dependent on chance, although the chance is accompanied by some element of skill That's the definitions of gambling. I'm going to try to break that down for us and give us a three parts that are always involved in gambling to help us understand and help to judge: is this gambling or is it not. These three things are involved, the elements of gambling Number one, gambling requires a stake. There is a gamble or a wager of money or some other item with the hope of gaining more without effort. You have a stake. You have something you put up that I'm going to either get a lot more or I'm going to lose it all. That's my stake that goes into it. So gambling involves a stake. Secondly, gambling rev requires uh random chance with an occasional margin of skill. This is an outcome that's based on some degree of chance, often completely beyond the control of the gambler. So it requires Putting something into it that you're going to gain or you're going to lose. It involves a random chance that you may or you may not get something. It is kind of a roll of the dice. That's where the term comes from. It's a gambling term. A roll of the dice. Just a chance, all right, involves chance. Thirdly, gambling requires a payout. There is a winner and at least one loser. No wealth is created in the wager. So somebody gets money, somebody loses money, somebody puts money up, and there's chance involved. These three elements are involved in gambling So to see how this works and we can kind of apply this definition to something to understand whether it's gambling or not, I brought a couple examples. Number one, a raffle. is a raffle gambling. Well does it have a stake? You have to put some money in that you're gonna either get or you're gonna lose. That's buying a ticket. You're either getting something back or you're gonna lose everything. There's the stake There is the random chance is they're gonna just pull a number out of a hat. There's no skill, there's no no effort, there's nothing you can do to to to offset it in your favor there, like unless you're putting up more of a stake and buying more tickets So there is the random chance aspect, and then there's a payout. One person wins, everybody else loses. So is it gambling? Yes, by those three categories. You have the idea of a of a raffle. Secondly, we have the idea of just a drawing. Now I'm gonna give you an example from my life personally. Last couple weeks, my grandfather, grandfather passed away, and he owned three guns because he had three grandsons. And my dad asked me, do you guys have any way that you want to decide who gets what gun? I said, well, none of us care about any of them in particular, uh, but if I have a choice I want this one, and if he has a choice, he wants the same one. If he has a choice, he wants the same one. So let's just throw all of our names in a hat with the guns, pull them out, and we'll do it that way. So there's just the idea of a drawing. Let's just pull names out of a hat. Is there a stake? No We don't we're not putting anything in that people are gonna get we're gonna lose or have the opportunity to lose. Is there a chance? Yes, there's random drawing. We're just gonna pull a name out of the hat. Is there a payoff? We all get a gun. Some are nicer than others, but everybody gets something nobody loses. So no, it's not gambling. Just have a drawing out of a hat in that type of a context. What about another example? The lottery. This is kind of when we think of gambling our mind goes here to the lottery. Is there a stake? Yes there is. And this would be include any other traditional forms of gambling. Whether it's a penny, whether it's a nickel, whether it's a quarter, whether it's a fifty dollar ticket. You put money up that you're going to either gain a lot more or you're going to lose it all. So is there a chance? Yes. There are random-ish I put in there winners. I say random ish because if it comes to like something like a slot machine, those are programmed to let somebody win after the machine has made so much money. You can set that as the owner of the machine. You can say I want this to make a thousand dollars before it pays somebody a hundred. And you can just set that in the settings and the and the the machine just works that way. So it's random ish because it's it's controlled by the people that own the machine. So it is a random, it is chance. And then what about the payout? Well, the house wins. So the idea of a lottery as a way for a state to make money is that they know people are going to lose We talk about gambling, people are gonna bring gambling in, and it's gonna make a whole bunch of money. How are they making money? By other people losing money. So it's it's it's in the nature of gambling that people are going to lose. And so yes, a lottery is a form of gambling. What about a competition that requires an entry fee? This is often with something like a a race, uh marathon. Everybody pays five dollars to be in the marathon, sometimes a charity run, and they give away a prize to first, second, third place winner. Is there a stake? Yes, there is a ticket you pay to participate in the competition. Is there random chance? Well, there's a little bit of chance in that the fastest guy might break his leg, so you have a chance to win Um but no it's it's a skill. It's a competition of you've worked hard to try to participate and to win. So it's not a random chance. It's heavily the r the the chance the slight chance that the fast guy breaks his leg is heavily outweighed by the skill of those participating. And is there payout? There's first, second, third place prizes. So no, this wouldn't be a form of gambling to participate in a competition where there is winners and first put second third place winners in that way. So that wouldn't be by these three requirements for gambling, that wouldn't be an example of that These three elements give us a good template to define what is and what is not gambling. So that's what gambling is. Hopefully that is clear. And I I've I'm sure we're gonna have all kind of fun conversation after church tonight. I'm gonna be in the I'm gonna be hiding so nobody can ask me any questions. Uh no, well I'll be in the foyer. I'm sure this is gonna well what about this? Well what about this? So these give us kind of a a a standard that we can say, okay, is it meet these qualifications, well then that makes it that makes it gambling. So secondly, as we keep going with defined gambling, let's look at what's wrong with gambling. What's wrong with a from a biblical perspective about gambling? Now, gambling, I said in the beginning, we don't have a real clear thou shalt not gamble in the Word of God. We looked at the verse in Isaiah that talks about the idolatry related to luck and to First of all. Gambling goes against the Bible principles that surround our finances. God's given us instruction on how we're supposed to use our money, and gambling doesn't fit into that picture. A couple years ago with the teens, just looking at the Bible said about money only in the book of Proverbs. There's a lot the Bible has to say about how we use our money. So some biblical principles surrounding how we get money. First of all, our ability to get wealth comes from God. Deuteronomy eight verse number eighteen says, But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. How do we have the ability to gain wealth? It comes from God. God gave us the mental ability, God gave us the physical ability for us to gain wealth. So if God gave you the abilities you have in order for you to get your wealth He has a say in how you use those abilities in order to get your wealth because they're a gift from God. And we're stewarding them. That idea is going to come up again, but we're stewarding our abilities for the Lord. So God gets a say in how we gain our wealth. So secondly, how does God say we get our wealth? First of all, wealth must be gotten in a God-glorifying way. In Jeremiah chapter 17, verse number 11 There's a illustration given about a bird sitting on eggs that don't hatch, and it says, so is he that getteth riches, and not by right. There's a wrong way to get riches. Riches. God says clear in the Bible there's a right way to get riches, there is a wrong way to get riches. So God says, I gave you your ability to get wealth And here's there's right way to get wealth, and there's a wrong way to get wealth. So we have these principles getting put in place. So how does God want us to gain wealth. How does God say in the Bible, here's how you should get your wealth? Proverbs 13 verse 11. Wealth is to be gotten by hard work. Proverbs 13, 11 says, wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished, but he that gathereth by labor shall increase. There's two ways in this verse that people get wealth. Some people get wealth through vanity. The word vanity carries the idea of emptiness or of not putting anything of value into the getting of wealth. And then you have he that gathereth by labor, and that the lay that type of wealth is a wealth that lasts. There will always be loss when wealth has no value invested into it. For those of you that are a little more interested in economics, this This is kind of a side note, but this verse teaches a biblical principle related to inflation when it comes to wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished. So if you'd like to think about that, it's not something I have time to deal with now, but very interesting that God's talking about inflation here in the book of Proverbs. But you have this idea. You do not value something that you do not work for. This is why somebody can win millions of dollars in a lottery and be broke. or or or destroy their lives or the lives of their family because when wealth is gotten by vanity it has no value. You take g better care of something when it has labor invested into it When you see the labor you've put into that money, that money has more value than when it's just given to you. And so God's plan for us to make make our wealth or make our money is through hard work, is through labor. When I was a teenager, I had a little trick that I would play to help myself spend my money wisely. I would be looking at something that I wanted from the store. Let's just use the example for a while when I was a teenager, everybody was skateboarding So getting a skateboard and you could you could really get into all kind of things with your skateboard. I still have the one I built when I was a teenager. It's got about $75 worth of parts in it, into the skateboard. I didn't buy them all. They were my leftover parts for my friends. When they got nicer ones, he They had a $20 part and then they bought a $50 part, so I got their $20 part for free. So anyway, you've been looking at the skateboard, and it's $40 to buy this skateboard deck. That's the wooden part. And so you get you know I'm looking at it saying, do I want to buy this? Here's what I would ask myself. Is that worth four hours of pushing a wheelbarrow of mulch uphill? Because that's how I made money is I pushed barrels of wheelbarrows full of mulch sometimes uphill and I made ten dollars an hour. So if something was forty dollars, I would say is that worth pushing a wheel wheelbarrow of mulch up a hill for four hours No, I didn't buy the skateboard. And that was a trick I would use because when I looked at my money through the value of my labor, the money took on a different thing. My friends who got $20, $30, $40 a week in allowance, they didn't mind spending $40 on a skateboard deck. But when mine came from labor, it had value in it, and so I was able to save that money and do make more wise choices with it So what that this that's what this verse is talking about. That wealth gotten by vanity. When there's no effort involved in the wealth, the wealth is gonna do more harm than it will good. But when you gather by labor, that that wealth is going To be beneficial to you. You'll have more wisdom when it comes to it. So God's given us the ability to get wealth. God has a say in how we use our wealth. There's a right way and a wrong way to get wealth. God's way is through hard work. And the opposite when we have the idea of this idea of gambling often is associated with the idea of greed. And we understand that greed in the Bible is the mother of all kinds of sin and sorrow. First Timothy six, for the love of money is the root of all evil. There is a lot of evil involved when greed is at the at the heart source when it comes to our wealth. And that is the reason people are are are involved in gambling is because I want to put in no effort so I can benefit myself at the expense of others. That is greed So these are the Bible principles God's given us on how we should gain our wealth. So does gambling fit in God's plan for making wealth? No, it doesn't. So here's some other Bible principles on why gambling is wrong. First of all, gambling is based on covetousness. We kind of brought that out there in the idea about greed. Gambling is based on covetousness. The tenth commandment, thou shalt not covet. And then God gave us a whole list of things that we're not supposed to covet. We talked about this in our Sunday school lessons on the idea of materialism. You can dress it up, but people want gamble because they want money without labor. That's the heart of it. And that is covetousness. And covetousness. This is a sin. It is one of the Ten Commandments. God said, Thou shalt not covet. Secondly, another reason why gambling is wrong is that gambling is idolatry. Gambling is idolatry. We looked at the nation of Israel, how they forsook the Lord, forsook God's temple and his precepts and his sacrifices and his worship to go make sacrifices to the gods of fortune. And the gods of luck, and the gods of chance. So it is an idolatry, and we see this described in the New Testament as well. Colossians chapter 3, verse number 5 says, Mortify therefore your members which are upon earth. Fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry. Covetousness is idolatry Gambling is covetousness, covetousness idolatry. Gambling is idolatry. Trusting in chance instead of trusting in God, that is idolatry. Trusting in luck instead of trusting in God is idolatry. We saw from the nation of Israel, chance and luck were actual, literal, historic idols that people would worship. That we have their names, we can go back and look at them, these false gods that people worshiped. People would say things like, Oh, if I could only win in the jackpot, then I would be happy. instead of finding our contentment in God where God's supposed to, because they're not going to be happy. If they win, they're not going to be happy. You can only find that satisfaction in the Lord And so um this is idolatry. Someone who buys a lottery ticket is making a f religious financial sacrifice to the idol of chance. It's false worship. It's idolatry when you are participating in this sin. Thirdly, we see gambling, another Bible principle to apply to gambling, is that gambling is poor stewardship. What is the expression related to gambling? The house always wins. Alright, the house always wins. I have seen people and talked to people that gamble with the intention of losing all their money. That's what they do. They're gonna go in and they're gonna that's the way they talk, my great grandmother. Um she used to save up a portion of her social security every year, so she She could go to Vegas and lose it all. That was what she was going to do. She was planning to lose. When you go into gambling, you go in planning to use money. There are some people who treat gambling as a form of entertainment I budget fifty dollars, I go in, I lose it all, and then I come out. They they go in knowing they're going to lose it. Alright? If you had a financial planner that you were giving your money to, and he said, Well my plan is to lose it all, then I'll come back and give you my bill. You would fire the guy. We're God's financial stewards because all that I have belongs to Him and He's given it to me. And if I have the attitude that I'm just going to lose it all Then uh God should fire me um as one of his financial stewards. So gambling is poor stewardship. God requires, moreover is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. So gambling is idolatry, gambling is poor stewardship, gambling is covetousness, gambling is also stealing Gambling is also stealing. Thou shalt not steal, another one of the Ten Commandments. You say, how is it stealing? Well it is robbery by consent. Just because the other guy agreed for you to take Take his money away with for an and not give him an exchange of goods, uh, doesn't make it right to do just because he agreed to it. Thou shalt not steal. And or if somebody to win a gamble, somebody else has to lose. Take the laundry, for example The majority of people who play the lottery make under $20,000 a year. What is the quote good thing that they do with the lottery money? They use it to fund college scholarships. Now imagine with me that a politician put a bill together where the poorest people in the country had to pay their fair share to send middle-class kids to college. There would be outrage. People would be very mad about the theft of why would you take it from these poor people and give it to these middle class people so that they could go, that's what the lottery is doing. That's what the lottery is doing, and that's what they know is going to happen. When they allow the lottery to come in, they know we're going to rob the rich to give it to the poor. That's the motivation of the lottery. It's coming and they know what's going to happen. They know how it's going to work. It would be stealing. It is stealing. That is what gambling is, even though it's stealing by consent. Robbery by consent Next, we see another principle that gambling breaks the golden rule. This ties in with the last idea: gambling results in one person losing at the detriment of others Do any of us want to be the one that loses what we have in order to benefit somebody else? So if we don't want to be treated that way, do unto others as you would have them Do unto you. You don't want somebody else benefiting off of your loss. Don't benefit off the loss of others. So it goes against the goes against the golden rule. We also see that gambling has many associated vices. You look at gambling, whether you see it in a casino, in a city, in a movie, wherever on TV, wherever it is, there's a lot of sin that goes along or hangs around the nature of gambling. Stealing, prostitution, immorality, murder, drugs, drinking, lying, deception, that all takes place in the environment of gambling. You know, we talk about this idea of guilt by association. If we didn't have any other Bible principles related to gambling, the associations which should be enough to keep a holy Christian away. You know you are known by the company that you keep and gambling hangs out with some bad companions. Alright, and so if you associate yourself with that, you're associate yourself with those associations So there is the associations. There is surrounded by a lot of evil gambling is. Alright, lastly, another Bible principle, gambling is addictive. Very addictive. That's the way gambling's nature is. It is very addictive. We are told in the Bible that we should not be brought under the Now that verse is not talking about sin. It's not saying don't become addicted to sin because you're not supposed to be doing sin to begin with. He's talking about things that are lawful for him as a Christian. Things that are okay for me to do, but I'm not gonna let myself be brought under the power of any. An example we like to use in Baptist churches is coffee. That we have it's it's okay to drink coffee. But if you're addicted to it, then it's a problem. So it's talking in that verse about don't become addicted to things that are okay. So if we're not supposed to be addicted to things that are okay, how much more should we stay away from things that are wrong that we can become addicted to? to. So there's another Bible principle. Gambling is very addictive. So there's a lot of Bible reasons why Christians should have nothing to do with gambling. This brings us to our third point, questions about gambling. Alright, there's a lot of things that come up. I was listening to one ma message on this in my teaching a Sunday school hour. And he went about 15 minutes and then he opened it up to the congregation right there on the on the sermon, listening to it online, and there were a lot of questions. people had so I I wrote down some of their questions, some that I've heard before and given answers to. So we're gonna look at this idea. Just this will be kind of a random go through it. There's not gonna be a lot of structure, uh one thing leading to the next. We're working our way towards the big question. is invest in gambling. So number one questions about gambling. What about lots in the Bible? What about this idea of lots in the Bible? Now there is a type of lots that the children of Israel used. Typically it would be the priests and that was something per prescribed by God. Now there's other lots like when the soldiers cast lots for Jesus' garment. We're not saying that the Bible condones that whatsoever. But there is this idea of lots that were used by the children of Israel. Well, when lots were used or condoned in the Bible, it has a couple things that were true. Nothing was risked. There was no stake. Nobody was putting up money to see which way the lots would fall. There was nothing risked. There was nothing won or lost. In that nobody lost anything, nobody won anything when it came to the casting of lots. The lots were something that God commanded and controlled the outcome of. Lots are no longer used to determine the will of God. They were used mu primarily in the Old Testament, where the children of Israel were discerning the will of God in a matter, and they were used once in the New Testament by the disciples for the replacement of the of Judas and this was prior to the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. After the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, he's the one that guides us into all truth. The lots were done away with. So lots in the Bible were something that were used. No winner, no loser, no stake. It was something that God used to reveal his will to his people. people. So it was not gambling like we see today. It wasn't throwing dice and see if you get a whatever number is good when you roll dice. Alright, I'm just playing Monopoly. Double sixes that gets you 12 points on the board and uh that's a good one to get. Or Snake Eyes is Two ones and you get 500 bucks from the that was a house rule or something. So I don't know anything beyond that when it comes to the dice side of things. Um but whatever you get, we would roll that's not with the idea of casting lots. So that answers the question about lots. What about risk? This is another question. Not the board game. We're not talking about the risk board game. When we're just talking about monopoly, I'm getting confused. Using mixing metaphors here. What about risk? Risk is not something that is de defining of gambling because there is a difference between risk and chance. And I'm going to try to explain it here. Risk is the possibility that something could go wrong. Chance is a combination of circumstances operating at random to bring about good or ill to a person. Risk is that something could go wrong. Something might happen. Chances you're putting yourself in a situation where you are at the luck of the roll of the dice. There that's something that's outside of control. You can't really mitigate. It's just something that can happen that you have no. control in. We look at this idea of risk, we understand that all of life entails risk. So we couldn't say that all risk is wrong because uh all of life has risks in it. Because what is the opposite of a risk? The opposite of a risk is a guarantee. And we don't have guarantees. We don't have very we have some We don't have any guarantee very many guarantees in life. In Proverbs 27, 1, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. You were not guaranteed that you would get to church tonight without a car accident um without without that risk. You didn't have that guarantee other than Matt and Lauren. They had the guarantee of making it without a car accident So, but everybody else, we didn't have the guarantees, so what did we have? We had a risk of coming to church, but we looked at the risk, we did what we could to mitigate the risk, and then we proceeded to live our life. The risk itself was not sinful because God wanted you here at church tonight. So risk in and of itself is not is not wrong and it is different Now when it comes to risk, it is very wise to mitigate that risk or to manage that risk. Proverbs 22, verse 3 says, A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. Prudent man is someone who can look to the future and say, if I keep doing this, this might happen, so let me change what I'm doing. That's wise to look at what might happen, what could go wrong, and do what you can can to mitigate that. Most of you did that on the way here when you clicked your seatbelt. What were you doing? You were mitigating risk. So you're you're making things making decisions that would when it came To mitigating risk. Some of you that have teenagers that are driving, there's sometimes you walk outside, say, ah, you're not driving today. There's rain or there's fog or there's ice or whatever. You mitigate risk. You make decisions because that's prudent. You can prepare for risk, you cannot prepare for chance. Risk can be offset by skill and knowledge. A couple examples of ways to prepare for risk, an emergency fund is a way to prepare for financial risk. Uh if you have a risk that something goes wrong, you have an emergency fund, you're mitigating that risk. All right. Insurances are a good way to prepare for risk. And there's there's some great deals when it comes to insurance. Such as life insurance, because you know we all have the risk of dying. Actually, we all have the guarantee of dying. Uh so that's one guarantee we do have. So having life insurance is a way to mitigate some of that risk to your family because it's very expensive on your family for you to die. It's very inconsiderate of us to do that to our family. But we need to we we need to look at things and say here's a potential risk, here's something I do to mitigate that. Your car, car insurance, house insurance. These things are ways to mitigate your risk. Investing is another way to prepare for risk, and we're going to get to that question here in a little bit. Wise business ventures, here's another example, wise business ventures are not gambling, although they do entail risk. So here's another question. What about risk? Risk and chance are two different things. Chance has to do with gambling. Risk is just part of life. Number three, what about this question? Doesn't a gambler's skill make it not gambling? You see, hey, you said you You can mitigate that chance with skill, so it does that does that offset it. Does it then become where he's competing and he's no longer gambling. Well the question is no to start out with just to give that. But some examples where somebody might say this is where you have somebody dealing with cards and you got somebody who can count cards or you're talking about sports and somebody who knows their team so well and they know this team can be this team because of these stats or whatnot, these they're saying through my skill I can mitigate the chance so then it is my um then it is then I I'm no longer betting because for me it's a sure thing. That would be the the gymnastics that they would do. I never used the skill, but as a teen I did learn how card counting works. I learned how to count cards. You don't you don't get away you don't get away from chance. Card counting doesn't mitigate chance. It makes it a little bit gives you a little bit of an edge, but it doesn't take away the chance aspect. Both of these examples, you still have the elements of gambling You have the stake, you have the chance, you have the payout, you have winners, and you have losers. Your skill can offset some of the chance, but you're still relying on the chance. You're still relying on the luck of the draw, the roll of the dice. All these gambling terms. That relate to chance. So does the gambler skill make it not gambling? And the question the answer is no. What about somebody, here's another question, what about somebody who gambles for entertainment? I use this example already as an illustration of bad stewardship, but it also violates several other principles uh related to gambling. You may have eliminated the covetous portion because you've decided you're not gonna win. So I'm not really eager about getting the money, so my covetous Isn't there? Well, you're still not being a bad steward. You're still engaging with evil. You're still opening yourself up to addition addiction. And you're participating in fl in theft, even though you're the one agreeing to be robbed. Very unwise, but you're participating in the robbery that way. So somebody who would use gambling for entertainment Another question here, what about harmless wagers? We would put throw out these like what about something that doesn't really matter? If I I'll bet you a can of Coke that I can do. So there is a difference between I'll admit there's a difference between sitting down in a slot machine and honey if I make this napkin in the trash can you have to do the dishes. All right there there's a there's a scale there uh of of a difference between these two And I know of individuals that try to negotiate or negate one of these three elements of gambling in order to make it okay. I've heard of of of the illustration where somebody will take and will just buy a bag of MMs We'll split them so nobody has a stake, nobody's paid in. We'll use the MMs to play poker and nobody wins because nobody wants to eat the MMs after everybody's touched them and split them around the table. So we've taken out these things, so then is it no longer gambling? So some of this is going to fall under the principle found in Romans 14. 23. Whatsoever is not of faith is sin. Well that verse means if you don't know that it's right to do, then it's wrong to do. If you don't know this right, then it's wrong. There are certain types of wagering that are always wrong because of their association. I told you I learned some things when I was a teenager. I know how to play poker. I'm never going to do it even for MMs or for imaginary numbers on a piece of paper. Why? Because it's got a lot of bad associations that I don't want to be associated with, so I'm never going to do it. It'd be wrong to do because of those associations Something sports betting is another one. Sports betting has those associations that are with it. One time when I was in college, I made a bet with another college student. It was actually my girlfriend at the time, and I said, Hey, your team's playing. Who are they playing against? And I didn't even know, I didn't care. She said the other team, I said, well if i uh uh that's my team. Um and if they win then you've gotta make me brownies, and then if uh then if your team wins then I'm gonna take on a date and it's not something I would ever do again Sports betting is another thing that has those bad associations. We as Christians shouldn't be associated with that, and so um that would be another bad association. There are other areas where we start to get where things aren't so clear. And this is where it's a matter of your personal conscience and say, where do these lines, where do I need to draw these lines in my life? Whatsoever is not of faith. is sin. One reason that things can become a little more gray or unclear is I mentioned already that skill can offset that chance. Let me just give you an imaginary example here. Let's say after church tonight, Pastor Gus were to come to me and say, hey, let's play basketball. Loser buys dinner. For Pastor Gus, that would not be a gamble. If I agree, then he knows that I'm gonna buy him dinner. For me, it would be a gamble, because I'm I'm counting on the chance that he breaks his leg so that I can win and he he would have to buy dinner. So in these questions, some things to l to to guide you, and where say ah it's not so clear, is is it a is it a competition? Is it a game? in these things, have a clear conscience before God and guard your testimony. You don't want to be the guy known as the better, as the gambler that hey five bucks if I make this shot, five bucks if I do this, a dollar if I do that. Don't don't be that that guard your testimony. You don't want that. association. As I said, there's a gray area in some of these questions where levels of risk bleed into levers levels of chance, where skill can offset probability, where one type of interaction would be gambling, but done differently it can be okay I give these examples not to give you permission to start making wagers, but to lay a little bit of the foundation when we get into the question of investing. And I had one more question that I'm not going to get to here with for sake of time. This has to do with, I'll give you just a brief overview. It's not going to get as detailed as I want, and you can ask me questions about this one. We get to this expression, I don't believe in luck or chance. Now, I know what people mean when they say that. And I don't want anybody to be accusing me of heresy here. So that's why I wanted to really be careful as far as I'm saying this. I don't believe in luck. Luck is a false God And it's an idol. It was a false God. It is a false God. But you get this idea of chance. Chance is related to probability. Which is part of math, which was created by God. So there is this idea of things that can happen in a random or by chance. And you say, well, I think God controls everything. God is in control of everything, but God doesn't control every detail. If he did, he would be controlling the people that go into sin and making them do that. He'd be controlling who gets saved and who doesn't. So we understand that God doesn't make every decision for everybody. God doesn't pick the order the cards came in when the guy shuffled. So people would say, well, I don't believe in chance, everything's ordered by God. I heard somebody defend a Christian gambling. Well, I'm just God just controls it, and if I win, that's God doing it. If I lose that's God doing it. That's that's that's blasphemous. Alright, so this idea we understand. Luck is a false God. Chances related to probability that was designed and created by God. So we get to this question: Is investing a form of gambling? Is investing in the stock market? That's the question specifically, a form of gambling. It can be, but it doesn't have to be. And it normally isn't. Alright? Let me give you an example that's a little easier to picture. If I were to notice in the spring of 2020 that lumber prices are starting to rise, and I go out and buy 1,000 sheets of plywood at $15 a sheet. I have incurred some risk because if the price drops to ten dollars a sheet, I will have lost some money. However, the risk is small, and I'll not lose everything because the ply was not going to be worth zero as long as I don't destroy it. Now, if I decide to sell that plywood in November of 2020, let's say I decided to do that for $30 a sheet. Was did I gamble? Is that gambling and making that investment? Well, here's our questions for gambling. Was there a stake? No, because I didn't put up money that I could completely lose or could um could could gain a lot more got a lot more on. What I did was I traded something of value for something of equal value I bought wood for money. It was the same price. And the store benefited. I benefited. I wasn't putting up this money as a complete loss. So that's the idea of a stake. What about random chance? No, there was minimal risk, as there is in everything, but I bought a known commodity that I know holds value. So there wasn't chance there was a little bit of risk. Was there a payout? Pages are stuck together. No, there was not a payout because I didn't win and somebody else lost. What did the store get from me what the plywood was worth at the time? Yes. Did that store or did I lose on that transaction? No. When I sold my wood, did the buyers lose by buying it? Now they wish they would have bought it back in March, but did they lose? No, they traded something of value for something of equal value. The value had just changed during the time of the purchase and the time of the sale. Did I get from my buyers what the pilot is worth? Yes, neither one of us lost in that transaction. So there was no stake, there was no chance, there was no payout, there was a profit, there was a little bit of risk, and there was an investment. And so that's a picture that we can kind of see and understand there. I brought something at its proper value. Later I sold it at its proper value, and I made money in the process. No one lost anything in that transaction. What if the plywood would have gone down in value? I would have lost some money on my investment, but no one lost for the benefit of somebody else My buyer did profit from my my buyers would have profited from my loss, but I still would have traded it for what it was worth at the time. So it's not a loss of one person's losing so that somebody else can gain This is what happens with wise investments. There's not an all-or-nothing stake. There's not a random chance. There is risk present, but risk can be mitigated. When it comes to investing, you can mitigate your risk through research through investing in things with good reputation, through allowing the time to pass in your investments, and through having diversity. These are all way that you s ways that you can mitigate risk in um in investment. Nobody's taking advantage of advantage of or benefiting in an Another person's loss. Now, there are ways that one person can interact with the market that would fit under the category of gambling. You can get into situations where your risk is so high that it can be categorized as chance. Failing to diversity diversify is one way thing that can cause this. You can get into speculative markets that are much more all-or-nothing type investments We don't have time to go into all the details of ways and things that people can do, but there are people who can and people that do treat the stock market like a key casino. They engage in risky and sometimes illegal behaviors Where they profit off the misfortunes of others and they're relying on random chance in order to make it big. But if investing is done properly, with biblical principles in mind, is not not only is it not gambling But it is wise and it is prudent to do because it's a way to mitigate your future risk that you're saving and investing towards these things. And so there's uh there's kind of the idea and hopefully I can explain that well. I know I kind of worked through that last bit very quickly. I know we dealt with a lot of teaching tonight and I'm sure we'll have some interesting conversations and people have some questions for me. And anybody wanted to disagree with me, that's fine as well. Every sermon that I looked at on on um And on gambling, had comments at the bottom where everything was great except for this. Alright, so I know that's going to be there. But tried my best tonight from the Word of God to give you a biblical perspective on the idea of gambling.