So turn your Bibles to Revelation chapter number 19. Revelation chapter number 19. Our theme for the year is on this banner, which is above my head here. It's press on. Press on. And we many of you here the first Sunday of the year, you committed with your fellow uh believers in Christ. The people attending this church and you said I want to press on this year. I want to go beyond the normal, I want to go beyond myself and the power of God. I want to see God do great and mighty things this year. And you actually signed your name on that banner. Now I know the print is too small. for you to read from the ground, but your name is probably up there. If it's not, we'll set up a ladder for you and let you get up there and sign it if you would like to. But uh that's our theme is press on. In the next week I preach the first of a series of messages that I'm going to preach one each month, that we are to press on to the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What is the high calling, what are the things that we are called to press on in? The first of those that we were called to sainthood. The high calling of sainthood and what that means for us that all that is that God has given us by giving us the position of being saints in Jesus Christ. And hopefully you're still musing upon and pushing forward in what those Calls are. But this morning we're going to go on and we're going to preach from Revelation chapter 19, verse number 9, and the high calling, this called to a supper. called to suffer. And what does that mean for us as believers today? And how can we apply it to our lives? Now I've got a lot of ground to cover. But if you would, look, we'll start, so we have the context starting in verse number six, reading down through verse number nine. Follow with me if you would. And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thundering, saying, Hallelujah! For the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white. From the fine linen is the righteousness of saints. And he saith unto me, right, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, these are the true stains of God. Well, for almost 10 years I lived in York, Pennsylvania, and I'd drive down 83 every day on my way to the Baltimore area to work. And uh I don't know when it changed, and I can't remember exactly, but some of you that have made this trek for a number of years might remember. For a long time there was a billboard for Camden Yards. And the billboard said, Camden Yards, 23 miles. The roar, three miles. Basically, and I don't know that that's exactly how it's phrased, but basically there was the idea that the excitement The roar of the crowd, the thundering sound of voices raised in cheering and excitement is going to be heard a long time before you actually get to Camden Yards. I think of that as I the the the the excitement and the and just the the sheer volume of voices when you're in a large stadium or coliseum or uh arena like that When I read verse number six here, he says, And I heard as it were a voice of a great multitude. Like many waters, like that thundering sound of the water traveling over the Niagara Falls, if you have ever had the privilege to stand there and hear that as the voice of mighty thundering is saying, Alleluia for the Lord God, omnipotent, reign. This is the opening verse for this passage on the marriage supper of the Lamb. We're going to look at this this morning. As we have a call to press on, we have a call to suffer. What does that mean for us? How can we apply it to our lives? I hope God will teach us this morning. Would you pray and ask God to speak to your heart as I lead. Lord, we ask you this morning that you would give me liberty to preach, give me clarity of thought, allow me to be able to present the truths this morning in a clear and powerful way. That Lord, your spirit would reach down from the heights of heaven to even the most hardened heart And draw us into your presence. Stir us afresh and anew. Draw that one lost soul who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior. Draw them, Lord, to see their need of a Savior today and trust you before it's eternally too late. And Lord, we'll praise you for all that's done as we meet this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. The topic that is before us today is such that words have yet to be spoken that could adequately describe the grandeur and the magnificence of this topic. For C. H. Virgin, that Prince of Preachers himself, the one gifted with the tongues of angels, said this about dealing with this passage. He said, I can talk but feebly of lofty things that need a poet's eye and a poet's tongue No, put away your poetry, I say. The sobrest language that can fit a tongue might better fit a theme in which the highest sublimities must be presented In the lowest simplicities. So this morning I will speak of these most glorious truths contained in the canon of Scripture And strive to lift them to the height of sublime excellence in which they truly are worthy. But I will do so in the simplest of language. For an effort at eloquence will still fall far short of the grandeur of the subject and may sue to actually provide a mask or to hide. the truth that is there. So simply this morning, let's look firstly at what is supper What is this supper that we're called to? From the book of Genesis to the book of Revelation, weddings are present. Weddings are a grand and magnificent event. Even Jesus Christ Himself performed his first miracle at a wedding Weddings were looked upon with joy and happiness. They were great events, and you know, no matter how magnificent your wedding was. Or how magnificent and great some some prince or some king. Imagine the show that's been put on by different princes and kings over the years. No matter how great and magnificent those were, the wedding that takes place in our text here today is going to be greater still. It is going to be greater still. This wedding in our text is followed by a reception that is unparalleled. When Christ is restored to his bride, it is called the marriage supper of the Lamb. And my, what a reception that is going to be. Could I give you some context and explain to you how it is we got to this place there there was the traditional Jewish wedding which this story, this marriage supper of the Lamb, this uh the Jews would have understood very clearly uh all of these things with regards to these truths that we see throughout the pages of Scripture I'm going to do my best to try and bring it down to home and touch your heart with these truths this morning. Are you ready? Are you awake? First of all, I want you to realize that there was the arrangement. In a typical Jewish wedding many years ago, there was the arrangement. This was something that the father would do. The father would go and pick. A bride. Now you're gonna have to engage your your mind. You're gonna have to put your thinking caps on because what I'm wanting to do is see the correlations between the the Jewish traditional wedding and what God is picturing for us with his bride, the church. I want you to see how all these things put together. And if you'll engage your thinking cap and start thinking ahead, you'll be able to see these things even before I lay them out for you. What I'm saying is the father picked the bride. The father went out and chose the bride, and it was an arrangement was made. You know, many years might pass. Sometimes the bride might have been very young when she was chosen. The church was very young when she was chosen to be the bride of Christ. And Many years might pass between when the bride is chosen and when they are reunited in marriage. A dowry was set. What bride would not be thrilled? About not just a dowry and before you let your westernized uh thinking you know get you all upset about a woman being bought. This is not what the dowry was for. A dowry was to express and show the love and how much the groom valued her. It was to show how much she was worth to him. It was an understanding that if he was going to take her from her father's house that there was a loss there, that the father was going to lose this valuable, valuable, precious bride, and so the groom would give all that he could in order to Pay because the the father that that family was going to lose her and he was going to gain her. Now what bride would not be thrilled about somebody not just giving a great and magnificent dowry But the greatest dowry of all. What bride would not be excited about a groom that was willing to sacrifice for her? Not just sacrifice for her. Are your minds engaged this morning? Not just sacrifice for her. What we're talking about is the church is the bride of Christ, and Jesus Christ gave himself for the church. He gave his all. He died on the cross for his bride. We know the Bible says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not to be robbery with God, not thought it not To be robber to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation and was found and served and became obedient unto death, and I'm messing that verse all up. Don't you hate it when your mind goes south? Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus Christ gave himself to the bride. You know what? He didn't just give us lofty language and write down some nice little poems and declare his love in a card on Valentine's Day Jesus, the Bible says showed. The word commendeth means showed. Jesus commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He gave it all because he loved you, friend. God loved you enough that he died on the cross and you man Sir, adult, child, teen, whatever, if you were the only person on earth, God would have died for you. He loved you. He gave himself for you. He paid the ultimate dowry because he loved you. Oh Paul speaking to those Ephesian elders in Acts chapter 20, talking to them about the church and how they're supposed to care for the church. He says, take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseer to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. You see, God gave it all for the bride. He gave it an amazing dowry. Listen, you have first the arrangement was made, and then you get to the agreement stage of the arrangement. The agreement would be called the betrothal time, much like our time today is an engagement Now, today's engagements don't have the level of commitment that the betrothal does. The the uh an engagement today, I mean, if you decide you don't like them, you just give the ring back, right? Uh have you ever seen uh on Craigslist or somewhere else uh relatively new, hardly worn engagement ring, you know? Uh ready to be you know passed on because the engagement didn't work. Well, in this time a betrothal was a very serious thing. They were committed to one another. It was actually recognized leas legally The betrothal period ranged from many different things. It might have been relatively short, but most of the time it extended over a period of time even greater than nine months. Can you figure out why the betrothal time was supposed to be greater than nine months? Because there was supposed to be a a a guarantee That this young couple was getting married, they were pure and clean. Which we, of course, know from the story of Mary and Joseph, who were in this betrothal time. That Joseph found out that she was expecting. And the Bible says he thought to put her away privately. But then the Holy Spirit came and told him what was happening. They were betrothed to one another. During this betrothal time, there was a time of separation. Now listen, this is this is rich. This this stuff just it it oughta uh make your backbone tingle. There was a time of separation. You see, they wanted to be together. The groom loved the bride, and the bride loved the groom, but there had to be a time of separation. Where they couldn't be together. And all the time that they were apart, he was looking for and longing for the bride. To be reunited with her. And she was looking for and longing for the day when he would come and she could be with him. Beloved, the church is the bride of Christ, and right now we are in what's called the church age. And we are currently separated from the groom. But we as a church are commanded to be looking for when he's coming We're to be looking for when he's going to break that eastern sky and be ready for him to come. My, not only was it a time of separation, but as a time of preparation. You see, beloved, the groom had to go get his house ready. He had to get his house ready to receive the bride. And what does Jesus tell us? Let not your hearts be troubled. You believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. And he says, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. And receive you unto myself that where I am, there you may be also. Hey, the groom's gone getting the house ready. The groom is preparing a mansion. In my father's house are many mansions, and beloved it's not a shack It's not a little hut down on the corner. It's not a little storage room in the back of somebody else's house. It's not grandma's apartment in the basement. He says he's preparing a mansion. Amen. There's a mansion for us in heaven, and that's not what we're looking for. We're looking to be reunited with the groom, but beloved, the groom is preparing a mansion He's getting it ready for the bride. He's getting it all prepared. He's making every preparation, anticipating and looking for the day when he'll be reunited. Not only was it a time of preparation, but it's a time of purification. You see, look in verse number seven of our text. He said, Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife. Has made herself ready. Beloved, there's a couple things I've got to point out in this verse, isn't it? It's amazing to me. Notice there, it says, and his, what does it say? What's the word? Wife, right? Wife. It it it just struck me. It's amazing. You think about this all the way up through the New Testament. The church is called the bride, the bride, the bride. What bride isn't looking for the day? When she can be changed from bride to wife. Huh? What bride isn't just looking for that day when that title will be changed? I mean, she's been anticipating it. No longer are we engaged, but we have been presented as husband and wife. I think this is pretty neat to see that change, that name change there, recognized as wife. But it says made hath made herself ready. You see, we're supposed to be getting ready for when he comes. It's a time of purification, and if you know that the Jewish laws they had ceremonies and they prepared the bride and e every Every spot was to be washed off, every blemish was to be was to be fixed as best as it could. Everything was to be done in preparation for when the groom would come. But notice it said made herself ready. What I want you to understand, beloved, is that Although you're going to do it in and through the power of God, and God is the one that does it in us, our righteousness is imputed unto us. God will not make you do it. God will not just do it for you. We have to do it. There has to be something in our heart that says, I want to be pure and clean. I want to be ready. I want to be all that my Savior wants me to be. I don't want to be dirty. I don't want to be like this world. I want to be looking for my Savior. I want to look for the groom. I want to be all that I can be. And that desire in your heart to please him And with the power of God enables you to make the changes in your life. I'm glad, friend, that I'm not what I was. Every day, a little bit at a time, God is changing me and making me more like Him. I hope you have that desire today. It's a time of purification. Right now, beloved, we're supposed to be getting ready. We're supposed to be getting purified Sadly, many Christians are living their lives like tomorrow's never going to end, like the bride is never coming, and they don't have anything to get ready for. But we do, don't we? We do. You see, look at verse number eight. He says, and to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the fine linen is the righteousness of the same Now we know that it's not our righteousness. We are supposed to have righteousness, but the righteousness of God is imputed unto us. God gives us the ability to live righteous, clean lives, and he wants us to do it, but it's something that we've got to desire ourselves. In Ephesians chapter 5, that verse that compares that relationship between the husband and the wife in such a powerful and poetic way, talking about how the husband is to love the wife, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it? I'll tell you what, husbands, if you loved her like that, you would have a lot less problems. In that passage of Scripture, verse number 27 says that he might present it to himself a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that he should be holy and without blemish. That's what we're supposed to be We're not supposed to have a spot or wrinkle. We're to be holy and without blemish. But look at the amazing terminologies in this verse. He says that he might present it to himself It's like if I spent a week working on this It would look nothing like this if I did. But let's say I did spend a week building this. And at the end of the week, I said, man, Caleb, I made this for you. I want I just want to present it to you. Oh, thank you so much. I really appreciate that. Man, that's just you did such a great job. Do you see the tree? He said that he might present it. to himself. What I'm saying is that although we need to have the desire, it is in and through the power of God that he enables us to live clear, clean. Pure lives. He is working in us to will and to do his good pleasure. And he is doing that in us. Why? So that he one day could present it, present us as the church. To him without spot or blemish. Isn't that rich? That's rich. That's powerful. God is doing that. It's a time of purification. Then you have the attainment. So you have the agreement, you have the arrangement, and then you have the attainment. What everybody's been waiting for, the time when the bride and the groom are put together, when the bride and groom are no longer separated and they're together, never again to be parted. Our text says blessed. You know what blessed means. What does it mean? Happy. Happy. We could throw this right in with all the other beatitudes given to us in Matthew chapter number five. Happy is he! This says them. We could apply it to them. Happy are they which are called, called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. Hey, it's a time of rejoicing when the bride and the groom are finally united. Isn't it? In any in any wedding That time of separation is over. The engagement is done. You finally are together and you are one. Hey, this is the story of the ten virgins as they sat and waited for when the groom was going to come. They sat up and waited, they were looking for and longing for the groom to come, and when he finally appeared, there was much rejoicing. And this time of celebration is great, but it's not for everyone So let me talk to you about who is called. Who is called to the marriage supper? So we saw first what is a supper. Now who is called to the marriage supper? Look at verse number 9. He saith unto me, Right, blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. So who is called? Let me first say that everyone is invited. Everyone is invited. You see, this called is a very strong Greek word. It's a little bit beyond called, and sadly, many modern interpretations. put the word invited there. It's actually the other way. Invited is is less than called. Let me let me put it to you like this If you received in the mail a letter that said you're invited to appear to court next week, you would say, Well, I don't feel like taking off. I'm not sure I want to spend my Tuesday in court. So I don't think I'm going to go. But that's not how they invite you to court, is it? They say you are summoned. There is the idea of you will be there. This is not really up for debate. You're coming. That's the idea behind this called. So with that in mind, let me say to you that everyone in the world, every woman, boy, girl. In every nation has been invited. God said He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come. To repentance. Us as believers, it is our duty to invite others. That's what missions is about. That's what the Smith family is going to do in Columbia. They're going to go to Columbia and they're going to say, hey, can I invite you to the marriage supper of the Lamb? Can I can I give you an invitation? Can I invite you? Everybody is invited. It's our job to carry that message Of Jesus Christ to the world and extend the invitation for any, just as Eliezer was sent by the Father to secure a bride for his son You see, this from the from the first pages of the Old Testament all the way through the New Testament, this theme is given over and over again. Eliezer was sent to secure a bride for his son Isaac. Do you remember that? You and I, as servants of Jesus Christ, of God the Father, have been sent to secure the bride for Christ. We're to go and extend an invitation and bring into the family of God. Listen, we extend the invitation to people And this says you're invited to Hunt Valley Baptist Church, but I want you to understand the reason that we give these, because on the back is the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ, how Jesus Christ came and he died on the cross For the sin of mankind, that man might be forgiven of their sin and taken to heaven when they die, so that when the marriage supper of the Lamb is called, they could be there We don't hold services and extend invitations and do all this just to try and bring more people into Hunt Valley Baptist Church. That is not our ultimate goal and our objective. Does that make sense to you? Our goal is that we might bring more people to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And that ought to put a little bit of a of a you know fire under you. This is what it's about It's not about growing Hunt Valley Baptist Church, although if we're doing our job correctly, we will be ministering to more and to more people. But it's not about getting them through the doors here. It's about getting them to heaven. Where they'll see and know the groom Jesus Christ. He said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Now listen, if you don't come to the marriage supper, it's not because you weren't invited. Everyone has been invited. If you don't come, it's because you chose not to. Maybe you made some excuses. Like in Luke, that parable which describes and talks about this marriage supper of the Lamb. He talks to him about those that He actually says the words blessed. Blessed are they that eat bread in the kingdom. You see, it's not really we're we're not really talking about bread. You wouldn't think of bread as that magnificent of a thing. But the idea is that they're in the kingdom. They're with the Father. And in Luke, he talks to him about that. Blessed are they which eat bread in the kingdom. And then it goes on to talk about how the master sent forth the severance and said, invite them to come. And do you remember the story? How they were invited to come, except one said, Oh, I've bought some oxen. So bid excuse me. Okay, you guys remember, you know what I'm talking about? Is that in the Bible? And then another one said, I married a wife. And I can't come. Do you remember that story? They made an excuse. And the scripture actually says the master of the house was angry. Beloved, you cannot ignore the invitation of God again and again and reject the sacrifice of his son and God not care. God cares. He loves you. And he wants to save you. He's extended the invitation. Many people, they want to provide their excuses. They've got religion They've they've got they're they're full of themselves. They've got enough enough money. They don't need Jesus But in that story, do you remember he says go out and get the lame and the halt and the blind and bring them in. And when the servants went out and they got all the lame and the halt and the blind, you see the picture there is that there's people in this world that aren't full of themselves There's people in this world that know that everything was created by God and without God nothing was made that was made. There's people in the world that understand that it's not all about how much money's in the bank But that God's in control. And he says, Those people that aren't so full of themselves, they would walk away from God. Go get them and bring them in. And then the servant said, We have done what thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. There's still room in heaven for you, friend. There's still room for you. And Jesus tells them that passage, those most familiar words, he says, go out into the highways and the hedges and compel them. to come in, that my house may be full. The invitation has been given to all. Some make an excuse and don't come. There's never been in the heart of God an unwillingness to receive the guilty Only an unwillingness in the heart of the guilty to receive God Do you understand in the parable of the wise and the foolish virgins that all of them were invited? Those that were were made ready and those that didn't. All were invited. But some came because they prepared and some didn't, and they couldn't get in because they didn't make ready You see, here's the thing. The invitation has gone out to everyone, but you must RSVP. Okay? Have you ever seen a card that said RSVP by? And there was a date? If you don't RSVP by this date, you can't come. You see, we must RSVP before we die. Or you can't come. Contrary to all of the popular jokes about Peter standing at the gate asking you why you're going to get into heaven Peter's not going to be standing at the gate and you're not going to get to give him a reason or ask him for one more chance. Beloved, you must RSVP. before it's too late. And what happens? When you are SVP, your name is put on the guest list. Huh? That's rich. Come on now. If you went up next week and you had not previously signed up to be part of the couple's retreat and you showed up at the desk And you said, My name is Bob, and this is my wife Carol, and we're here for the couples retreat. And they they would look at the list and they would say, Okay, let's see, Bob, Carol. What's your last name? Oh, oh, uh You guys aren't on the list. Sorry. You can't come. Now they had the last two and a half months to RSVP. Yeah, yeah. But they but they didn't. And so their name wasn't on the list. Listen, beloved, can can somebody help me out? What is the list? The Lamb's Book of Life. This is called the Marriage Supper of the Lamb. The Lamb of God which shed his blood to take away the sins of the world is going to have a marriage supper for the bride. And the invitation has been sent to everybody, and all that's necessary is you must RSVP, and then your name can be put on the list. And the list is the Lamb's Book of Life, where your name is recorded as having accepted Jesus Christ shed blood as a covering for your sin. And when you get to heaven, the Bible says the books are going to be opened, and they're going to read in there your name. Can you imagine with me all of us sitting in the a large the size of the Colosseum we couldn't even a picture but if we just for us group let's say right here we were sitting there and were wondering is my name in the book is my name in the And you're wondering like how how is he going is is it alphabetical? Is it by region? Is it uh, you know, uh Carol's name gets read and she gets to get up? And Through those doors is glory. It's heaven. It's everything we've ever dreamed and thought about. And her name is read and she gets up and go, and Bob's like wondering, hey, wait. We got the same last name. If it's arranged, I'm next. He's like, wait, how are they arranging this? And and they they read through everybody we were looking and they they come over here and and the the name is is is read. Marley. He's out say your name on. And Marley, he's been sent There with anticipation in his heart, and he knew he accepted Jesus Christ. He's just waiting, and his name was read, and he stood up and said, Woo! Amen! Hallelujah! And he jumps up and he goes through that door into eternal glory with heaven In heaven with the with the groom forever and ever. Amen. Listen, you gotta get your name put on the list. How do you RSVP? You accept the blood shed blood of Jesus Christ. You pray. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth and Believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Whosoever calleth on the name of the Lord shall be saved. URSVP by Confessing your sin to God, ask him to forgive you and to take you to heaven when you die. And your name is put in ink that cannot be erased. Into the Lamb's Book of Life. Forever and ever. Because of what Christ has done for me and because R I R SVP'd, I've been justified. Justified means just like I've never sinned. Justified have never sinned. Now I'm also presently being sanctified. You see, I'm in that time of purification where I'm getting ready for the groom to come. But praise God, one day I'm going to be glorified. I'm going to be in the presence of the King. That difference between the invitation and the call, you see that summons, that call, blessed are they which are summoned. To the marriage supper of the Lamb. Those that are going to be called are only the ones whose names are on that list. So let me lastly And I'm going to wrap this up really quick, two minutes, because this is a big topic that we're going to look at in coming weeks. Lastly, why are we called to the marriage This is a time of rejoicing. And what is the reception for a wedding? Except a time to rejoice and to fellowship with The groom and the bride. It's a time of fellowship For the sake of our theme and what we're called to, I hope first and foremost that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that your name is on the list Written in the Lamb's Book of Life, and that you're going to be called to the marriage supper of the Lamb. I hope you have that settled. But then what does it mean for us today? Beloved, it means that we're called to fellowship. We're called to rejoice. And we can fellowship with our Father even today. And we can fellowship with one another the bride of Christ, the family of God, even now. And this is what we're called to To be fellowshipping one with another. First John chapter 1 and verse number 3 says They that which we have seen and heard declared we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son. Son, Jesus Christ. He says, Hey, we're telling you all about this so you could fellowship with us. And truly, because of it, we have a fellowship with the Father and the Son. Amen. That's what we're called to, and we're going to be challenging with regards to fellowshipping with the family of God in the coming weeks. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?