That's our theme verse for the month and I'm going to be preaching on that verse this morning in a title of a message called Press On We're Called to Service. Called to Service. Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask you, dear Lord, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would stir us, that you would uh feed us from the word of God in the few minutes that we have this morning that Lord we want to We want you to do what only you can do. Lord, I pray that uh I would be able to step out of the way. Lord, you would uh through the power of the Holy Spirit minister to the hearts of each and every one of your people Lord, we thank you for bringing us together in your house, and Lord, for the freedom that we have to gather, to assemble, and to preach the Word of God. Lord, we thank you for this. As we as a church have set for a goal, a banner for this year is to press on. We want to press on the upward way. We want to gain new heights every day. As believers don't want to be content where we're at. We want to move forward. We want to press on as a church and as individuals. Thus far, we began in the month of January. We looked at the idea that we are called to be saints. Every one of us are called to be saints. God wants us to live and act like a saint. We were given the position of sainthood on salvation, and since we're saints, We ought to act like one, amen, instead of stop acting like the devil, right? Uh that's what we want to do. We want to act like saints. That's what we're called to be. So we preached on that in January. In February, for the month of February, we've really looked on the ideas. We're called To a supper, the marriage supper of the Lamb. And I sure enjoyed that study, and really uh the heart of that is that we're called to fellowship. Fellowship with God, fellowship with one another And we looked at that for the month of February this morning as we begin a new month. This month is a month that we focus in the church on missions. We have we kind of lift our eyes on the fields that are white under harvest. We get a gaze and look at the world and the need that's around the world, and that's kind of our focus for the month of March. And so we have here this Paul called to be an apostle We want to talk to you about this call that we have of service. There are many different aspects of the Christian life. One of the most important is service. I think that if you you you know this morning, if you're saved by the blood of the Lamb, you know that you're on your way to heaven, you know that God saved you. Because he loves you. God saves you because he's not willing that any should perish. He loves you so much he doesn't want you to perish. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The Bible says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God saves you because he loves you. But God commended his love toward us, that is, showed his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. But that being said, I think that everyone here also would understand that because I'm saved There should be in my heart a desire to serve him, to serve the Lord. We do not serve God in order to earn salvation or to earn more favor with God. You know there's something here that that when you ponder and think about, you can't do anything that would make God love you anymore. There's nothing you can do that could make God love you more than He already does. There's nothing you could do that make God love you any less That's what you call perfect love, agape love, the love of God. It's almost beyond our comprehension because our love so many times is very conditional, isn't it? But God's love is not that way. It's a perfect love, and God loves us. Because that love has been extended to us. The Bible says the love of Christ constraineth me. It pulls me, it motivates me, it moves me to desire to serve the Lord, to do what God wants me to do. Because you've been saved, you should want to serve him. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse number 9, the Bible says For they themselves show us of what manner of entering we had unto you, and how ye turn to God from idols To serve the living and the true God. They turn from their turn to God From idols to serve the living and the true God. I like it how he put that descriptive term in there Living God. Do you understand that the world and many of us at one time we served and bowed down at the altar of idols? Things that maybe have hands but cannot help. They have eyes but cannot see. They have ears but cannot hear. Idols But they're not living. And in 1 Thessalonians, there Paul's describing a change that took place in those that came to Jesus Christ. And the change was that they turned. From idols something dead to someone living They turned from something that could not help to something that could help. It was a testimony. They turned from their idols to serving the living God. We serve a risen Savior. I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I know that he is living, whatever men may say. I see his hand of mercy, I hear his voice of cheer And just the time I need him, he's always near sing it. He lives, he lives, Christ Jesus lives today He walks with me and talks with me along life's narrow way. He lives, he lives, salvation to import You ask me how I know he lives, he lives with in my heart. We serve a risen Savior, somebody that can help, He can hear, He can see. We've turned from idols That could do nothing, and that should motivate us in our heart to have a desire to serve God. He saved us because he loves us, and because he loved us and saved us, we ought to desire to serve him. Paul describing this change that took place in the heart of a believer, he noticed something. What stoke out to him is that they were not saved to sit. They began to serve. In fulfillment of this duty before God, we are called to serve our Lord, our Savior. So I ask of you this morning, what is the primary service in which we are to provide? What is to be our theme as a Christian? What is to be that banner that we hold high before the world? What is to be the focus of our service? Let's look at this Paul, who was called to be an apostle. Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number one and other passage of Scripture where Paul was called to be an apostle. Actually the only other passage in the scriptures that say that word called. Now Paul was referred to and referenced himself as an apostle in all of his epistles. Except the epistle to Philemon, which was a personal letter, personal document. The rest of them he establishes This idea that he's an apostle, that he's called to be an apostle. He says in Romans chapter number one, in verse number one, he says, Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, Called to be an apostle, separated unto what? The gospel of God. He is called to be an apostle. Now, does somebody here know this morning what the term, the title, the descriptive term apostle means? What does it mean? An apostle is a what? Sent one. I heard some people maybe quietly, but the term literally means sent one. Somebody given a message and sent with that message, an apostle. Do you understand that the Term apostle given to the apostle Paul was not a term of honor. It was a description of duty. It was not a title That raised him, it was a title that described him in what God wanted him to do. He was sent. As in the twelve apostles, were sent by Christ. In a broader sense, all Christians have been sent Strong says this, as in description of the term apostle, he says, a delegate, specifically an ambassador of the gospel. A commissioner of Christ. That is what this term apostle means. So when I give you the title this morning that we want to press on in this area of our life, and I have titled it pressed on in our call to service. There is a central theme of all of our service. Everything that we do for God should have at its core. The purpose of fulfilling this call of carrying forth the gospel message All of our service for God, whatever aspect it may take, whatever job you may fulfill, whatever task you may pick up. It should at its root, at its foundation, be in the fulfillment of carrying forth the message of the gospel. You understand it would be very helpful this morning for us to go downtown and pass out food to all those who are hungry. If we had the means and the wherewithal to do that, that would be wonderful But I want you to understand, as a church, if all that's what if that's all that we did this afternoon, we failed in fulfilling the calling of God. Oh yes, it would be good to provide food to the needy, but what we are called to is to give them the gospel. So we could provide food, but in so doing, we ought to at least also present them an opportunity to trust Christ. Give them the truth of the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ Ministries sometimes get very sideway focused in fulfilling other humanitarian aid, and they're not fulfilling what is the central focus of God's call on every Christian. to carry forth the gospel. The Apostle Paul and Romans are separated unto the gospel of Christ. We as believers are called to service, to carry forth the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have this responsibility. We are called to serve, and our service should be a fulfillment. of that call to carry the message of the gospel to the world. We have, as Paul did, a duty before us To carry, if we as believers have experienced the life-giving forgiveness of Jesus Christ, can I ask you this morning, has God done anything for you? Has has God saved you? Has God helped you in your life? Is is he is God worth your time? If God is As you have testified by your amen this morning, the Savior of your soul and the your helper in life, and the one you go to in your hour of need Wouldn't it be good for us to share him with somebody else that needs him? To give somebody else that message, to allow them to experience what we've experienced in God This is what missions is all about. I want you to understand this morning that missions is not Just a ministry for a select few that have surrendered to go to a foreign country and carry the message there. Missions is the call of every single Christian to carry forth the message of the gospel in our lives. I want to give you three things that are very practical this morning about this call to service Which is centrally rooted in carrying the message of the gospel. Whether it's vacuuming the floors, So the Church of God can be a good testimony to those that come in and they can be ministered to the gospel of Jesus Christ. But everything that we do, we need to evaluate and think about it from the aspect of is this furthering The gospel. Is this getting out the truth? That Jesus Christ came, lived a sinless life Died, was buried, and three days wrote three days later he rose from the dead. That is the good news. That's the message of the gospel If we're going to do that, first of all, I want you to understand, as Christians, it's our duty to do so daily. We have a daily responsibility to do this in Luke chapter 9, verse number 23. He says, And he said unto them. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily. And follow. Daily. Take up his cross daily. Daily, we have a responsibility to take up our cross and follow Jesus. To daily do what God wants us to do. Christians, it's not just a Sunday morning thing. It's not we just take up our cross and we're Christians on Sunday morning from 9:30 to noon. We're Christians all the time. I mean, if you die on Wednesday afternoon, are you still going to heaven But you weren't in church. How'd that happen? Well, because once saved, always saved. Amen Because God saved your soul. And I mean, if God saved our soul, He's never going to leave us, never going to forsake us. He's with us every hour of every day. We've got to daily pick up our cross and carry forth the message of the gospel into our world, our daily lives, what God called us to. In Acts chapter 5 and verse number 42, he says, And daily in the temple and every house they cease not to teach and preach. Jesus Christ. Daily. What are you doing on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday to further the gospel of Jesus Christ? I know you have to work a job. You've got to earn enough money to pay the bills and you've got to do what you've got to do to take care of the house and you've got to mow the grass and And you not yet, hallelujah. You maybe you got a shovel snow next week. Who knows what's going to happen with this weather? Uh but I mean I know you've got responsibilities. But what are you doing daily to further the cause of carrying the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world? Daily we've got to be doing this. Do you carry gospel tract? Do you do you miss opportunities to just share the love of Christ and just hand somebody a gospel and say, hey. Can I give you this tells you about Jesus? Can I tell you about the one that saved me? Could I share the love of Christ with you? Yes, you're going to have some people that rejected it, but you're not responsible for the rejection. You're responsible to be giving the gospel, carrying the message. We are called to be apostles. We're called to be servants of Jesus Christ, and that is centralized around carrying the message of the gospel to the world I think that they saw results based on their efforts. You see, daily in the temple and in every house they cease not to preach the gospel. You know that's biblical? The Bible says you reap what you sow. You know that? Right? Well, they saw results based upon their efforts. In Acts 16, verse number five, the Bible says, And so were the churches established in faith and increased in number. Daily. I think that they saw Fruit based on their rewing. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. If you sow to the flesh, you have the flesh going to reap corruption, but if you sow the spirit, you'll have the spirit reap life everlasting. What I'm saying, Christian, is it's no wonder that so many churches aren't growing today Because there's very few Christians that are daily invested in carrying the message of the gospel. For too long now Christians have relegated their Christian life to Sunday morning mentality. But that's not what God wants for us. The Savior of our soul, the one who's going to take us to heaven with God. The one that we can call to at every moment of every hour and any time of need He'll hear our cry and praise God, call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. Praise God, He'll answer. But this God that has done so much for us, ask of us to daily pick up our cross and follow him. Christian, we need to stop being ashamed of the gospel of Christ. They're gonna think I'm weird. You know, a couple weeks ago I took my kid's skiing. And we're out on the slopes skiing. There was a couple of young people on the slopes that had a backpack. And in the backpack, they had a radio And the radio was playing so loud that everybody could hear it so that they could hear it when they're skiing down. And then they get on the list. And everybody for you know, two lifts that way and two lifts that way can hear this kid's radio plate. And all the music that he's got blaring. And I wondered I wonder if I would carry a radio. Somebody playing, amazing grace, how sweet the sound. Let's save the rest like me. Victory in Jesus. Saved by the blood. Washed in the blood of the Lamb. Would would I be bold hey, he wasn't ashamed at all to be playing that music. But would I, as a Christian, be willing to to lift up the name of Christ. Carry a banner. Say I'm a Christian. I love Jesus. Can I tell you about it? You see, we're supposed to daily be sharing the message of the gospel with a lost and dying world. Not only are we supposed to do this daily, But we should do it diligently. Diligently. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes chapter 9 and verse number 10, he said, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. Whatever we're going to do, we're supposed to do with all of our might. Not half-heartedly, but energetically, diligently, consistently. God is not glorified by weak, anemic, powerless ministry. And the world is not transformed by weak, anemic, powerless ministry. And the world's not impressed by weak anemic powerless ministry. You know, uh many of you know that I'm uh that I majored in speech in college. And I've taught public speaking on both the high school and the college level. You wouldn't know it by how I speak, but you wouldn't you might know it as a matter of information. But you know, one of the things like when we have a uh play or uh cantata here I I try I get with the kids and I talk to them about what they're doing in the cantata and the part that they have. And I tell him, you gotta own it. You gotta own it. I mean whatever parts you you're supposed to play, if you're supposed to play that that that bum, don't, you know You just look dumb. And they're like, we feel dumb. And I said, that's because you're not owning it. You gotta own it. You gotta get after it. You gotta you gotta decide you're gonna be that person And when you take on that character How many of you saw Jacob the late great potentate at Christmas time? What a quack. But do you know what? You know what made that that production, that that play awesome? Is because Jacob owned it. He played that thing. He played it up. That's that he owned it. And then you don't feel stupid. I try and get the young people to understand that Beloved, as Christians, we've got too much half-hearted Christianity. We need to just own it This is who I am, and this is what God wants me to do. We need to diligently carry forth the gospel, the message of the gospel to a lost and dying world. Not just when it's easy. Not just when somebody comes up to you and says, What must I do to be saved? Have any of you ever had that happen? As a pastor, I have had the privilege of something very similar to that because I'm put into situations where people are looking for the gospel or looking for God. I happen to be there and it's not anything I've done, it's just I'm there in that hour and they say, How do I how do I go to heaven? How do I know God? I'm like, Well, let me show you. I mean that's awesome, but it doesn't happen very often We've got to be ready all the time, diligently, diligently, carrying the message of the gospel. Do you remember the story of the man that was sick of the palsy in Mark chapter 2? Do you remember they the Bible says there that he was born of four? Four men grabbed his bed and they wanted to get him to Jesus? And you remember they could not for the crowd, the press was too great, so they couldn't get them to him. And so they said, sorry, dude. Uh can't help you. And they left. These young people there they're cracking up at my slang. Yeah. I'm not going there. So what I'm saying is it was hard. But they said we've got to find a way. We gotta find a way. And they went in there. Can you imagine the crowd outside the house saying, What are those idiots doing on the roof? They're tearing the roof off of that house. Somebody go up there and stop them. I imagine some people were probably trying to come up there and say, hey, don't do this. You can't tear the roof off of this house. Why are you? I'm sure there was people complaining about it and they said, nope, we've got to. We've got to. And they continued and they got him to Jesus. Well there's a world out here that's dying and going to a Christless eternity, and somebody's got to get them to Jesus You and I are called of God to be an apostle, to serve our Lord and Savior, and we've got to daily do that, we've got to diligently do that, not just when it's easy, but when it's hard and keep on going. Lastly, this morning, I want you to know that we've got to do it delightfully. Delightfully. In Psalm chapter 40, verse number 8, the Bible says, I delight to do thy will, O my God. Yea, thy law is within my heart. I delight to do thy will. Yes, beloved, we have been given a command. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. To every creature, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, God has given us a command, a great commission, it's called, to carry the gospel. But it shouldn't just be a command for us It ought to be a delight. It ought to be a delight. Make doing God's will your thrill What does God want you to do? It ought to be a delight for us. There's joy in serving Jesus Listen, there's so many things of this world that you do, whether they're right or wrong, or I'm not even talking about maybe it being sin. I'm just saying there's things that you do that have no eternal value, they're of no eternal consequence And when you get done with them, there's no satisfaction. But man, when you serve Jesus, when you invest time in doing something for the cause of Christ, that effort Will last for eternity. It's not in vain to serve your business industry. It should be a delight to do whatever it is, not a duty. Yes, it's duty, and sometimes we need to do right because it's right to do, and bless God, it's right to do, so we do it. Amen? And it's a duty, and we do it out of duty. And praise God, sometimes it's duty that forces you just to do what you know you're supposed to do. You feel like going to work on Monday mornings? It's duty. No, I don't feel like going to work. But you say I gotta do it. Sometimes you not might not feel like being in church, but you know this is what God wants, and so you say, I'm gonna go, and it maybe duty got you here. But praise God, he does something in our heart, and he changes that duty to delights, where we enjoy serving God and we're thrilled about what God's doing in our life And I hope, Christian, that you can get to the point where the duty fades away and that there's true delight in being what God wants you to be. There's nothing like being used of God to carry the message of gospel to the world. To give somebody a gospel track and find out that they've read it And follow the Lord and believers back to our trust of Jesus Christ. To give somebody the message of the truth and see them come to a church and Publicly testify, I trusted Jesus and I want to follow the Lord and believe his baptism. To see them start to grow in their knowledge of God. Man, that's exciting It's something that lasts for eternity, not just for one day or one weekend. The problem is that although God loves us, How many times we do not love God. Many express their gratitude to God verbally for all that He's done for them, but their love doesn't run that deep. Their love actually runs about as deep as the guy who was in a department store. He was telling the clerk that he's been married for fifty years and next week was his him and his wife's wedding anniversary. And the department store clerk said, Wow, that's fantastic. He says, What are you gonna get your wife? And he says, Well, for her twentieth, I took her to see her parents. I think for her fiftieth, I'll go get her. I think many times that's our love for God. We love Him at a distance Beloved, it's our love for God that would cause us to get up in the morning and look at His Word. It's our love for God that would cause us to carry the message of the gospel to a lost world. It's our love for God that would cause us to give towards reaching the You know, before you love anyone you have to know them. Before any man ever fell in love with a lady, he got to know her. And vice versa. If you're gonna love God, you gotta know him You gotta know him personally. You're never gonna turn from serving your idols to serving God unless you love him. You may come to church, but you don't serve him. Maybe because you don't love him. And it's possible this morning that you don't love him. Because you don't know him personally. You see, it starts there. It starts with knowing him as your personal speaker. And then that love begins to grow. And then the desire to serve God. So I want to ask you this morning, do you love him enough? Do you love him enough to turn from idols to serving a living Savior? Do you know him personally