So we're in Hosea chapter number ten. We find here God's people are busy but barren. There's a whole lot of hubbub. You know what a hubbub is? That's Greek for noisy. Uh cantankerous lot of lot of activity They were very busy, but not very holy. Hosea comes on the scene, he gives them a message from the heart of God to a backsliding people. These people that were filled with activity, but they were also filled with apathy. And this, by human nature, is something that happens to Christians. Over time, that spirit begins to set in. Would you read Hosea chapter 10 and verse number 12 with me? He says, Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy, break up your foul ground, for it is time to seek the Lord, till he come and reign righteousness. Upon you. I want to preach to you this evening for just a moment on the title of the message: A Call to Cultivate. A call to cultivate. God understood the heart of the people. He burdens the heart of Hosea. And he puts a message for him to preach to the people to break up their foul ground. The Jews were a nation of farmers. They were herdsmen And God, in His way, uses the natural things, those things which we are most familiar with, to teach us a lesson that we need to learn. This is what he does here with his people as he gives the message to Hosea to tell the people they need to break up their foul ground. I don't think there was anybody listening to Hosea that assumed he was thinking about the fields. I think they understood the truth of what he was speaking about. That in order for them to experience renewal, in order for them to understand and and know the joy of revival. They were gonna have to break up their foul ground. Well foul ground is ground that was once tilled. Ground the ground that was once soft and Able to be planted, ground that was once rich with new nutrients, but now is neglected, packed, hardened, and as it sets, useless. That fallow ground. Beloved, there cannot be a harvest unless you plant. And you cannot plant unless you prepare. Those of you that have gardens of any size, it doesn't matter how small it is, from just a couple tomato plants to a couple of acres. uh there's some work involved. There is some preparation. You've got to work the soil and get it ready. So I would although we're not going to address The verse in order, we're going to address the process in order. So we see here, first of all, the preparation of hoeing. He says, break up your foul ground, for it is time to seek the Lord. Beloved hoeing is necessary in ground that's been neglected. It's hard pack soil. Obviously what God is speaking about here is the hearts of men. The heart that had been neglected, the heart that had turned hard, the heart that no longer uh was moved by the Spirit of God or with the with the work of God. There was a time that you sang a song like, Oh hail the power of Jesus' name, and man, it just it just moved you. You were just stirred and you just thought about who Jesus was and the power that he has to change your life and to change the lives of men and you couldn't sing that song without it moving your heart but now you sing it and sit down like it didn't even happen That's what happens to the neglected heart. The heart and mind of man is often in the pages of scripture referred to as ground, as soil. There are numerous places that it's found, but you know the Song of the Vineyard in Isaiah chapter number five, the parable of the sower in Matthew chapter 13. promise of God that he made to those in Ezekiel that he would take their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh. The idea that man's heart can and often does become hard ground. Do you know If you get out there and you do some work on that ground before it gets too bad, it's not that hard. It's not that bad. But sometimes you let it go too long and you may even break out the tiller and the tiller's just riding on top of it. It's just beating uh it's just Like wants to take off because it's not getting down into it. That ground is so hard. The longer it's neglected, the more uh it's allowed to set and harden in the sun, the harder it is to get through I can't say as I've had much experience gardening, praise the Lord. Uh no, I I think it's a great thing uh that that you guys do. Mary's dad is the like he just loves it. He spends time in a garden every day. And uh he's a blessing to a lot of people because he still gardens an acre or two, uh just gives it all you know you Two people can't eat what comes out of an acre garden. I mean there's no way. Now they do a bunch of canning and all that, but they give a lot of it away. But I can tell you I've done a lot of digging I earned my fine handle degree, sure enough. And uh, you know, I've I've dug in some ground that I mean you jump on the shovel and it just barely goes p tiny little bit, you know, it's just like what in the world And it just doesn't I mean you're just beating it down and you gotta get the pickaxe out and you gotta get through that top layer. Man, that's hard ground and sometimes, beloved man, don't don't let your heart get that hard The place where God's got to get a pickaxe to get any movement there. If you notice that it's starting the process and do something about it. Break up the foul ground. Beloved, if we're not seeing fruit, the problem is not with the seed. The problem is in the soil. The problem is always in the soil. If there's a lack of fruit, if there's a lack of of stirring of the of the soul for the things of God, then the problem is not the seed. The seed is the word of God and it's empowered by the Spirit of God. The problem is in the soil, and so the soil needs to be turned up. It needs to be broken up again. Our heart has become hard. Beloved heart hearts are hardened often through repeated ritual The ritual in itself is not bad. We observe the Lord's Supper as a church, and that is, by definition, a ritual. It is a command given to us by God, but one of the reasons that we don't do it every week is because we don't want it to become a meaningless ritual, an activity that we do without thought, something we do that no longer impacts us. But we have a lot of things in our life that might be ritualistic to us and they've lost their meaning. That's when they become rituals When they no longer impact your heart, when they no longer make a change in your mind, they no longer stir you in your soul, then it's just a ritual, just something that you're doing. And beloved church can be that. Just doing it because you should. I was teaching a class last Tuesday night and I was telling the students that listen, uh you've got to guard against that become things becoming ritual. It can happen without you even thinking about it, without you realizing it. But I told them, I said, but praise the Lord. For a Christian who sometimes is functioning out of duty. Because sometimes duty will get you there when your feelings won't And you need to understand duty and you need to say this is where I'm supposed to be and this is listen, a lot of you went to work this week except for Joe. A lot of you went to work this week and uh you you you didn't want to go to work But you said this is what I'm supposed to do, and sometimes that commitment to duty carries you through, and I'm glad that at times it is just a commitment That you just uh you know that this is where you're supposed to be and so you're gonna go to church because that's where you're supposed to be and and but hey, if it's not moving you need to pray and ask God to do something. To break up that foul ground. To bring about change in your life. It's hearts are hardened when Spiritual activity becomes just repeated rituals. Hearts are hardened when repentance is refused. Through refused repentance. We see that in Zechariah chapter seven, verse number eleven and twelve, he says, But they refused to hearken. And pulled away their shoulder, and stopped their ears that they should not hear. Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone. They turned their hearts to sown. They refused. When we refuse to repent, when we refuse to move, and I talked about this a little bit in Sunday school today, I think the idea that when when God moves on somebody and and uh conviction without conversion leads to a hard heart. It leads to a hard heart. And that's what I was talking about. That sometimes when when the Holy Spirit comes in and convicts us and we don't respond, when we resist, when we fight that, it hardens the heart. Oh, you can keep a soft heart if you would just respond to the Holy Spirit. We've all been there. Where we have seen somebody we know or even closer to home, somebody you love, and you wonder, man, how could they do this or do that? It's because their heart got hardened. Their heart got hardened. The heart gets hardened through repeated ritual or through refused repentance. It's hardened through resisted Truth. In Mark chapter 6, verse number 52, he says, For they considered not the miracle of the loaves, for their heart was hardened. Those that were around, they had just seen this. They had just seen the miracle of the loaves. There was no question who Jesus was and what he did. They had just watched him Turn five loaves and two fish into enough food to feed five thousand plus And yet they refused to acknowledge the truth. They refused to accept the truth. They resisted that and they said, no, uh, we're just not going to believe it. Their hearts were hardened because they were resistant to truth. Has God showed you truth that you've resisted? There'd been something that you simply refuse to look at or just say, I'm just not going to consider it. It's not what I want. And God realized the time had come, and he sends them a call to cultivate. Maybe the call goes out to you tonight. Is it time to cultivate? Is it time to break up the foul ground? Will you this evening break up the foul ground of the heart that has become hardened or calloused over time through these different methods? In Hebrews 3. 15 he says, Well it is said, Today if you will hear the voice, harden not your hearts. Harden not your hearts. If you would just hear the voice of God and allow Him to do a work in your heart and to know that that when conviction comes, when The Holy Spirit works if we would respond to that. That would turn that hard heart into a soft heart again. We need to prepare by getting out that old hoe and going to work. Turning the soil. I wonder this evening, maybe we might need to dig up some old feelings of bitterness that have settled down in that ground. We've got some hurt feelings, we've got some bitterness, we've got some things that we've allowed to settle in there and turn that heart hard. We might need to dig out some envy uh that has settled down in there. We might have some roots, some weeds. That we need to dig out. Maybe there's some weeds of ingratitude. You don't recognize the bountiful blessings of God and how good He's been to you. Maybe you've got some stones of neglect that need to be removed. You need to get back to moving that. Have you been neglecting the word? Have you been neglecting prayer? Have you been neglecting witnessing? Might need to dig out some rocks of worldliness. Love of money. Pride. These things that get in and make our hearts hard. Beloved, are you more concerned about how men see you than what God knows about you We see the preparation of hoeing that breaking up that foul ground. Secondly, in the verse here, I want you to see the principle of sowing. He says, sow to yourselves in righteousness. The question must be asked, what are you sowing? We're all sowing. We sow every day. There's poems that I can't think of right now, but you know, the poems about sowing kindness. Sowing a little kindness today. You know, so uh sow a good deed here and there. You know, every day we we are sowing, but what are you sowing? Are you sowing righteousness today? You know, you might not be sowing something that's that bad. Like you might say, well, it's not that bad, but is it that good? Are you sowing righteousness? Well, I'm not really sure, then probably not We sow righteousness by obeying God's word. Psalms 119, 9 says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto unto thy word. You know, as I pondered this and just thinking about the idea of sowing righteousness. There is in some aspect, I think, in the minds of many that that may be, okay, uh like how do I do that? Like how do I sow righteousness and is it this mysterious thing? You know, it's really not. It's really simple. Just obey God. Just be obedient. Take heed thereto according to thy word. Every act of obedience is a seed of righteousness planted. Every time I do something that I know God desires me to do, that is a seed of righteousness planted. And you are being obedient to God, and you are sowing seeds of righteousness, and uh, hey, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And if you will sow righteousness, you'll reap righteousness. But what are you sowing? We are to be doers of the word, not hearers only. Doing the word. That's what showing righteousness is. The problem for many is they want to live Christianity on their own terms. That really is the spirit of the book of Judges. Where every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And even in a church as solid or separated or whatever you want to say as this, the fact of the matter is, is We still are chopped full of people who are doing what's right in their own eyes. I think pretty rare is the Christian Who is truly submitted to God? Let's just get it down where the rubber meets the road. I'm talking about from the youngest kid in the nursery to the person standing on the platform tonight. That by and large we like to find where we're comfortable. And for the most part, we establish our own guidelines and we come to an understanding of what is okay and we do what we want to do. But are we really truly yielded and submitted to the Spirit of God where God says, you should do this, and we were willing to do it? Oh, I've heard it over and over again through the years pastoring and in ministry all these years, uh the the kind of statements like, well, that is your interpretation of the passage. That's how you view it. I view it like this. Well do you know there are people that stood in pulpits today that said that homosexuality was acceptable. They have churches that fully embrace that. And we say, oh, no way. But what are you looking at God and saying, yeah, that's not what I agree with? That's th is it any different that that we would draw a line in the sand before God and say, well, I I don't see it that way. I don't think it's required of men to tithe. I think that's Old Testament. I don't have to tithe. I agree. You don't have to tithe. You should give way above the tithe. Because now we're in grace. And grace goes way beyond the law Right. If you follow the principle, you want to argue New Testament principle over over Old Testament principle, the the matter of fact is any preacher that I've ever known has always said tithe was the beginning That was the first step. That's like just simple obedience like getting baptized. That's just the very first step. As you grow in a Christian, you you start to learn and you you understand and and and you'll go way beyond that But that's just a a simple example. What other things in in people's hearts and minds? Oh, I don't think you have to go to church three times a week. I don't think you have to. You fill in the blank. There's nothing wrong with my music. There's nothing wrong with We're just doing what we we're living Christianity on our terms. And as long as uh church lines up with our terms, we're happy. And when the preacher gets into something that we don't agree with, then we're no longer happy. Right? Because then then we say the preacher's meddling. Getting into stuff he doesn't belong in, right? The only reason is because he stepped on our toes. The only reason is because he said something we don't agree with. As long as we're preaching, you know, against Stephen, everybody's saying amen. Everybody's like, get 'em, preacher, let them know. I mean I've had people come to me after the service and say, man, that was good. So-and-so really needed that. No, like that is not why I preached this or or anything. I mean, get 'em. Let em let 'em. They need to hear that. But what about when there's something that you need to hear? Something that I need to hear. And we are resistant. Can I tell you that hardens the heart? But sowing righteousness is simply being obedient to God's word We show righteousness when we operate in faith. Faith pleases God. And sometimes we might not understand it. But if we just operate in faith, it's sowing righteousness. It's doing what God would want us to do. Become followers of God. Micah 6. 8 says, What doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God? Just following God in faith, doing what he wants you to do. And what's amazing is really not that hard to sell righteousness. Just be obedient. Are you planting seeds of sin, of selfishness? Or are you planting seeds of righteousness today? And we see the promise of reaping. He says, you will reap in mercy. So that's interesting. I'm going to sow righteousness. How is it I'm reaping in mercy? You know, beloved, even though we sow righteousness, can I remind you that the harvest is not earned? Because what does the Bible call our righteousness? Filthy rags. So here's the thing. When I reap righteousness, what I'm reaping is God's mercy. Because my righteousness is as filthy rags. On my best day, I'm just a sinner saved by grace. I'm just a pile of dirt. But God in His mercy rewards us with righteousness We need to remember always that God's blessing is because of his mercy, not our merit. I haven't earned a harvest of righteousness But God in his mercy gives us that. Lamentations 3. 22 says it is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. Because of his mercy, People don't like to talk about that today. They would rather stand and repeat. Goofy stuff like the Lakewood affirmation. You know where Lakewood is? It's Joel Oldstein's church. I'm not going to have you say it with me, but you know how he does. He's like, say it with me. I am blessed. I am strong. I am healthy. I am favored. Something good is going to happen to me today. Let's let's repeat that a bunch of times. You know you can stand there and say I'm hat uh I'm healthy tell you blue in the face. If you if you've got something going on inside, you standing there talking about it's not gonna change that. Now I understand the idea of of looking on the positive side and being positive and I'm thankful that God gave me Mary for that so that I could be the opposite. So that that way I can be uh uh I'm not negative, I'm just a realist, right That's what people s people like me say. Yeah, so pray for me. That's something I need to work on. Being being more positive. But listen, here's the thing, beloved, you will never see the need To break up your foul ground. As long as you're standing there saying, boy, I'm good, I'm blessed, I'm rich, I'm healthy. Something good's going to happen to me today. Boy, I am just excited about these things. There is nothing wrong here. No, we need to be confronted and face our true conditions so that God can do a work in our heart and draw us into his presence where we, like the prophet, would say, Woe is me, for I am undone. Those are truly the richest times. And the most spiritually strengthening is when we really get real with God. Will you break up your foul ground? The fact of the matter is, is that That affirmation reminds me of Roman or Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 17. He says, Because thou sayest I am rich, I am increased with goods, I have need of nothing. That's what the affirmation sounds like to me. But God says, and thou knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. We don't realize how much we need God to work. Reaping God's mercy means I'll be renewed instead of rejected. That I'll be restored instead of resented. That I can experience revival instead of ruin. What a privilege. If I would just break up that foul ground, if I'll just stir that heart and let God Do the work. In Joel chapter 2, verse number 25, he says, and I will restore unto you the years that the locust hath eaten. God is all about restoring, renewing, and reviving. But sometimes it takes us first, repenting. And stirring up that hardened heart to the place where God can do something again. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?