In Revelation chapter 19, verse number 9, our verse for this month, our theme that we've been preaching on and around, he says, and he saith unto me, write. Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. This verse here we've been looking at in a course it's a it's a study that I've enjoyed, I've been engaged, and it's been good for me, but there's a call here, a call as Christians We're pressing on. We're pressing on the upward way. New heights we're gaining every day. Our goal is to press to the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. So each month we're looking at one of the things that we're called to. This call here for the month of February was the call to a supper. This, of course, is dealing with and talking about the marriage supper. Now I don't have time this morning to get into and to teach all the eschatology, the doctrine behind what we're talking about. I preached a message in the beginning of the month. On this idea of the marriage supper of the Lamb, and that gives you some of that. And if you need to, please go back and listen to it. We're not going to deal with it this morning, but I'm taking for granted that the majority of you here at least have a working knowledge. With regards to this idea of the marriage supper of the Lamb and what it has to do with I hope it's not completely foreign to you that you have no idea what we're talking about. But you understand, just to kind of get put in perspective, when the New Testament is talking about the bride of Christ, it's talking about what The church. About three or four of you. The rest of you, it's the church. We were talking about the church. And if the church is the bride of Christ, then who is the groom? Jesus Christ, he is the groom, and this marriage supper of the Lamb is a time when the bride and the groom are finally reunited. Brought back together after a time of separation where they've longed for and looked for and anticipated their uniting. Hey, the groom went away to prepare a place for us. Amen. And the bride is looking for anticipation when he comes again to receive us unto himself. And I'll tell you what, that'll preach, but that's not the direction we're going this morning. Hey, listen, all you need listen the invitation has gone out. I want you to know everybody's been invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb God wants everybody to be there. The invitation's gone out. You've been invited. All you have to do to be at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb is to respond to the invitation. All you've got to do is respond. Hey, you can't earn your way in, you can't buy your way in. Admission to the marriage of the Lamb has already been paid for. It's already been done. It's already been paid for. You can't work your way in and you can't bribe your way in or trick your way in. It's all been done. All you've got to do is respond to the invitation And hallelujah, when you respond to the invitation, your name is put on the guest list. The guest list is the marriage, is the Lamb's book of life. Your name is added to the Lamb's book of life. I'll tell you what, I hope you respond. You don't respond by email? You don't respond by text? You don't respond by phone or snail mail or smoke signal. You respond by accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, His shed blood for your sins. That's what you do. That's how you get to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Now we're called to the Marriage Supper. That's the first application, interpretation of this passage, but I want to apply it to the idea that we're called to fellowship. The Marriage Supper of the Lamb is going to be a magnificent time of fellowship where we're all gathered together with the Savior. And what is a reception like that, except a time to fellowship? And beloved, I want to encourage you this morning, challenge you, give to you the idea that we are to be fellowshipping. with one another. Now our fellowship starts with the Father, and I dealt with that last Sunday night. We were called to fellowship and And listen, it's going to be a great time of fellowship at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, but can I remind you this morning that your Heavenly Father wants to fellowship with you right now? Your father wants you to come into his presence day by day, and he wants to walk with you and talk with you. He wants to know you personally. The God of heaven wants to know you. He desires fellowship with you. And any true Christian fellowship begins with a fellowship with the Father. So we dealt last Sunday night with a call to fellowship with Christ. This morning we want to deal with a call to fellowship with Christians. We are called as believers to fellowship with Christians. I hope this morning to motivate you. To endeavor to value and invest time and energy and effort in fellowshipping with fellow Christians I hope you understand the importance of it. So first of all, dealing with this matter of fellowship, let's look at the meaning of fellowship, the meaning of fellowship. What does it mean? Well the word of God when it uses in the New Testament that that Greek word uh that is talking about fellowship, canoni. Fellowship. It literally means to commune or to have in common. To commune or to have in common. Now I've been running. I I took off. I hit the ground running because I got a lot to cover this morning. I just want to make sure you're all caught up. We're ready to go now. I'm not overloading you yet. Okay, so that term kanoini means what? Commune. To have in common. To have something in common with somebody else. You know what? This morning you're gathered here in God's house, and God called us to fellowship even all the way back in Acts when the church first started, he said, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine. And in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread and prayers. And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles, and all that believed were together and had all things common. Now we're not talking about that where the the church here uh took the things that they had because of a matter of need and they made them available to other people in the church so that everybody's needs could be met. That's not what we're talking about in in light of this This interpretation of this word, what we're talking about is what you have in common with each other. You know what? There's some of you in here, you like guns. I came up this I came up the stairs this morning and there's three guys standing in the foyer talking about guns. I mean they're listing calibers and you know grain weight and bullet trajectory and speed. I don't know what all they're going into. But I'll tell you what, they were fellowshipping over guns, amen. They were enjoying that. There's some of you, it doesn't matter, big, small, long, short, if it's got gunpowder in it, you're all about it. And we could have some fellowship over that. But you know what, there's a bunch of you in here, you're like, Pastor Caleb, I just am not interested in that. You're not gonna be fellowshipping over guns. That's just not something that you like. There's some of you ladies in here, I've seen you, you you bring it into church, and hey, there's nothing wrong with that You're just you're just sitting here waiting for church to start and I'm glad you're here, but I see you you bring in your crocheting and you're just sitting and crocheting. Hey, you enjoy that and you can have good fellowship over somebody with somebody else that likes Crochet. You guys can talk about it, the different patterns you do and the stitches and whatever. I don't even know what I'm talking about. But you guys, I'll tell you what, you guys know what to use. And and how it works. And you guys could fellowship over that, but I'll tell you if we were going to fellowship over crocheting, I would be left out. You know some of you like McDonald's. But others of you are like, what? Who likes McDonald? I like McDonald's. It's cheap, amen. Hey If we were going to go to McDonald's, some of you were like, nah, that's not my thing, Pastor. Outback? Yeah, we'll go to Outback. Let's go. Let's go to Outback. Well, I enjoy that. Hey, I don't know. What I'm saying is Each of us might have a few things here and there that we have in common, but if we were to choose one thing in particular and say, hey, this is what we're doing, a bunch of people is going to be left out. But come on, you guys know where I'm going. What what do we have in common? We have Jesus Christ in common. This is what we've got in common together is Jesus. Our fellowship is established not in our feelings, but in our faith. Even though at times it feels good to come to church. Amen? But it's not just about how we feel, it's the faith in Jesus Christ that makes everything common with us. It brings us together. And and somebody in here that's worth uh A million or two dollars can fellowship and sit down across from and talk to somebody who ain't worth two cents. Or sh I should say who doesn't have two cents. Not worth two Hey, you talk as much as a preacher, you're gonna get in trouble. I'm not you know what I'm saying? I'm saying it doesn't matter how much money you've got in common or your status in society, it's the fact you've got Jesus Christ in your heart And you can fellowship together. Hey, it doesn't matter if if you if you're black this morning or you're white this morning, you can and yeah, I said them both in the same sentence I mean, oh my goodness. I'll tell you what, there's no place for any type of prejudice in the house of God or in God's family. And if you've got something in your heart against a white man or you've got something in your heart against a black man You need to beg the power of Jesus Christ over that and let go of that prejudice. There's no place for that. And this society is so full of it, it's tearing itself apart. But in God's house that shouldn't be. That shouldn't be because we've got Jesus Christ in common. And the praise and excitement is that it doesn't matter if you're culture is different or your cuisine choices are different. It doesn't matter if your calling is different or your citizenship is different or where your country is. We've got a citizenship in heaven, and Jesus Christ is our Lord and Savior, and we can come together in fellowship because of that. Amen. I mean the African can can sit down and fellowship with the Asian, and the Filipino can sit down and fellowship with the Indian. And the Indian can sit down and fellowship with the Korean. And the Korean can sit down and fellowship with the Haitian. And the Haitian can sit down and fellowship with the Jamaic Hey these are all people we got in our church folks. I praise God for the multicultural and divide diverse church that we have, and as a people, we've got to guard against this hatred that comes into the heart of people against another because we've got Jesus Christ in common. I hope this morning you've got that settled in your heart. We gather together and it's not about what food we're eating. It's not about what games we're playing. It's about Jesus, and that's what brings us together in a common bond and a unified goal to reach this world with that message of Jesus Christ. We have a fellowship in that gospel. Philippians 1 verse number 5 says, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Hey, if you're saved, you've got a fellowship in the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Hey, old things are passed away and all things are become new. You've got a new nature in Jesus. If you're blood-washed, born-again, Bible-believing, Holy Spirit-filled Christian. You can fellowship with another believer. We may not be able to get together over barbecue. You know I like barbecue. But we ought to be able to get together over the Bible any single day. God calls us to fellowship What's amazing is the power of the gospel and how the gospel can come in and break down those barriers that have long stood in the heart of man. It can bridge the gap between one culture or another. It can cause a heart that was filled with hatred and anger to be a heart of forgiveness and love. Like Jacob. What's his last name, hon? DeShazer. De Shazer, like Jacob DeShazer. Jacob DeShazer was a pilot in World War II, one of Doolittle's pilots. He was shot down. Captured by the enemy, put into an enemy prison camp, treated unmercifully, beat often. Fed with water with a little bit of rice in it and more worms than rice. was locked for over a year in solitary confinement, which was a five by five by five square box After he had been in pr in prison there for months and months, maybe maybe years total, it was over three years he was in that prison camp. But America heard about the conditions. In America, through diplomacy, tried to fight for the conditions that our POWs were in and tried to intervene on their behalf. The Japanese allowed Americans to send in Bibles and to send in some other things for them. They actually gave the Bibles to the POWs, most of the other stuff the POWs never got. Well, Jacob DeShazer got a Bible and he began to read it. And another man there in the camp who was a Christian began to share with Jacob the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Jacob, through that testimony and having the Word of God in his hand, trusted Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior. They were living in that prison camp, and this gentleman that had won him to Christ, the Japanese saw his effect on the other soldiers, and so they began to starve him. And they literally starved him to death. Because of a lack of food, he died, and uh a thing of anger began to grow into the heart of Jacob de Shazer for his extreme abuse he was enduring and being locked into this prison camp and into this cell of Solitary confinement. One night, as they were putting them in the cell, they one soldier slammed the cell door on purpose up against Jacob's foot and busted it. In there he was so filled with anger and hatred of these men And he was laying there on the ground, writhing in pain, and he couldn't sleep, and this hatred was growing in his heart, and the whole time Jesus Christ was saying to him, Love your enemies. Do good to them that hate you. And he said, no, Lord, no, that's not, look at what they're doing to me, but all night The message of the love of Jesus Christ began to burn into his soul. And by morning he had victory over that hatred, and it had turned into a message of love. And when he came out of his lock cell in the morning, he looked That soldier in the eye, he says, How are you doing today? He said, How is your family doing? And every day from thereafter, as he was imprisoned, he shared the love of Christ by an expression of love to those men. And the soldiers couldn't understand it. As soon as he was released because of the diplomacy of America, he came back to the United States and he got better. But do you know what he did? He packed his bags and he went back to Japan. For thirty years he was a missionary to the people of Japan who had put him in that cell. That's the power of the gospel. That's what the barriers that get broken down. Why we can come together and it doesn't matter where you're from or what your status is or what you're doing in life, but because of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we have fellowship. This morning. What do you have in common? Let me just give you a couple of biblical things. I'll tell you what, if you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, praise God, we We are all part of the same family. We're part of the same family. Listen, brothers and sisters ought not be bickering. They ought to be uh supporting and helping and loving each other. Now I know it's a tendency because I have five kids. And I know it's a constant message that I gotta say. You guys ought to love each other one day. That might be the only friend you have Church family, you guys ought to love each other. You might be the only friends you have one day. Well that fellowship of the gospel brings us a common bond because we're all part of one family doesn't matter where you're from or what your color is red and yellow, black and white, they're all precious in his sight. Amen. Hey, we we come from the same family. We're soldiers in the same army. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. I'll tell you what, the soldiers fight together, not against each other. We're soldiers and we're athletes on the same team. All the time in Paul's writing, you see Paul writing, he's talking about running a race. Going on, pushing forward, pressing on. He talks about being boxing in an arena. Continually this idea of being an athlete. Well we're athletes on the same team, amen. We're members of the same body. Hey. First Corinthians chapter twelve. Verses 12 through 14 says, For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. For by one Spirit All were baptized into one body. Whether we be Jew or Gentile, it doesn't make a difference. We're all together. Whether you come from America or Africa or Asia or India or Jamaica or Haiti Or Korea or China? Doesn't matter. We're all one body Whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit, for the body is not one member, but many. Hey, we're all we're all members of this body. Do you value it this morning? Every member is important. You may in your mind's eye you may think, well, I'm not very important I mean I don't do much here at church and I just come in and I don't really uh I'm not that important. Listen, let me tell you something. To God you're important. To this pastor, you're important. To any member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that has his head screwed on straight, you're important. It doesn't matter who you are Harry's not here this morning. He fell this week and he's in rehab. He's he's o he's okay, but he's not here this morning. Listen, Harry's important. On the other side of that you might think that you're God's gift to man. This morning you might think you're you're all that in a bag of chips. I mean Hunt Valley Baptist Church just wouldn't exist if it weren't for you. I mean we we just wouldn't go on. We couldn't exist if it wasn't for what you bring to the table. Why don't you understand? The foot of the cross we're all equal. From the pastor down to the smallest child, the nursery. You better not be lifted up and think more highly of yourself than you ought to think. And that goes from me all the way down. We're all members of the one body. And every member is important. I'll tell you what, you try and make a cake and leave and leave out the sugar. You try and make a cake and just leave out the flour. Oh, I'm not that important. Just leave one part out. No, it's all the parts put together that make that cake so delicious, as long as it's not chocolate Now I know I just about split the church, right? Oh you talk to lovers are like, that's heresy. Kick him out of the church. Hey, traditions, traditions, you gotta watch those. It's all the things working together and listen, b brethren. Sister in Christ, every single one of us are part of this body, and it's all of us to coming together that make up what Hunt Valley Baptist Church is. We've got to get out of our mind that Hunt Valley Baptist Church is this building, this ephemus that's that's here, that's set up, that we come in and gather in. This building is not Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You are Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And every one of you and those who are sick or can't be here this morning, or those who are watching this online because they can't get here this morning are part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'll tell you what. Every member is important. That is the beauty of it. When every member sees themselves as a minister of Jesus Christ on a vital mission to function and fulfill God's will for their life, and they're committed to serve Christ by reaching out in love. To those nearest, to their neighbors, and to all nations. That is the power Of the fellowship of the gospel. We're called to fellowship, beloved. How do we maintain that fellowship How do we maintain that? It's something that has to be worked at. We need to value it as Christians. It should be important to you. You should take time and energy and effort to maintain fellowship with your brothers and sisters in Christ. We need to work at Christian fellowship. Church ought not be like when you get into an elevator with a bunch of strangers. And there's that awkward silence. You're standing in the elevator and nobody wants to talk, but everybody wants to talk and you're just waiting to ding so you can get out of there Church shouldn't be like that. Church shouldn't be like when you go to a dinner theater with 250 other people that you've never seen before and you're never going to see again and You get set down right next to somebody you don't even know who they are or where they're from, and you sit down there and you know you you eat your little meal and you watch the show, and then when they dismiss you get up and and walk out. You still don't know anybody that you was there. That's what church church shouldn't be like that. Church should be about fellowshipping with one another. About coming together Can I ask you this morning, do you enjoy the fellowship of the saints? Do you value it? Now, whether you answered in your mind or you answered out loud, let me ask you this: if you do enjoy it and you do value it Can I ask you when was the last time you had somebody to your house for dinner? When was the last time you invited somebody over for ice cream? Listen, it's not about the ice cream. It's about fellowship. When was the last time you took somebody to lunch on Sunday afternoon? And I don't I don't mean Your kids. I'm talking about a brother and sister of Jesus Christ here, a a member, a friend, somebody that's attending Hunt Valley Baptist Church. It's not about where you go to lunch, it's about fellowship. I'm saying, do you value it? Then you ought to be endeavoring and investing energy and time in pursuing that You say, Yeah, Pastor, I I I value it. Are you doing it? I'm gonna I don't have time to preach it for you this morning. The method of fellowship. The method of fellowship. Let me let me just give this to you. Every one of these things could be A message in themselves. The method of fellowship. What is the method? When we fulfill biblical fellowship when we fulfill the one-anothers that are given to us in the Word of God. Now I'm just gonna give you these one another's. You ready to write fast? We're supposed to love one another. Christ set the example for us in that. And a new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another as I have loved you. That ye also love one another. This is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved you. Christ set the example. We're to love one another. True love must give. Give of yourself. For your family. We're to edify one another. We're to greet one another It's okay if you leave off the holy kiss, okay? You're to greet one another. You're to serve one another. You're to comfort one another. You're to forgive one another. You're to be of the same mind one toward another. You're to be kindly affectionate to one another. You're to admonish one another. You're to forbear one another. You know Wouldn't hurt for us to get some good old-fashioned forbearance. You know, it's not pe people are a little different than you. Everybody has their own personality quirks. I mean take Brother Sasser for instance. He's from the south. Pastor Daris could be disappointed. He had he had to miss the you know, somebody from his part of the country this morning. He's downstairs with young people. You can hear it all these years later, you still hear that south in him, can't you? But hey, we can still love him. He's saved We need some forbearance. Everybody's a little everybody has habits that are maybe different than yours. Maybe somebody likes McDonald's and somebody doesn't like McDonald's or they like steak and you don't like steak or or maybe you don't eat meat. You want to just be a vegetarian. That mis That's fine? Okay. That's alright. We still love you. Listen, I'm just saying forbear one another. Put up with one another. Why are you getting so bent out of shape? Because somebody's different than you There's only two people two perfect people in the world, and that's me and you, and I'm starting to wonder about you. I mean, every one of us got issues. Why are we looking at other people's issues like they're a big deal? We need to forbear one another. With lowliness of mind, meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love. We're to be kind and tender-hearted one to another. We're to submit yourselves one to another. We're to exhort one another. We're to exhort one another. You know what's a lot easier to warn than it is to rescue? You know, in our in our uh uh church property in Lawrence, Kansas, we had a pond. And that pond would freeze over in the winter time. But very rarely was it freezed over enough that somebody could actually get out on the ice. So we constantly warned the kids, do not go on the ice. Do not go on you know because it's a lot easier to warn than to rescue. Well you know what happened one of these teenage boys who think they know better because they know everything, right Went out on the ice and he's like, it's hard, see? Right through he went. Now, praise God, there was adults around, and we were able to rescue him. But he didn't have a very good day. It's kind of cold, a little scary. Listen, Christian, it's a lot easier to warn than to rescue. And I know it's the job of the pastor to get up here and to preach and to warn. The Bible says, exhort one another. Sometimes we we we look and we say, Well, I saw him going that way for a long time. Now look at him. See, I knew that was gonna happen to him. Did you say anything? I saw them, you know, they told me they were making that dumb decision. Did you speak up? Now listen, Christian, if somebody speaks up to you the the the hey, some of you would rather be kissed by an enemy than than warned by a friend. You need to take a warning. You need to take a warning. When somebody comes to you and says, hey brother, are you heading the right direction? Who do you think you are? Telling me. Just a brother that loves you. Trying to help. Don't get mad at him, Christian. We're to exhort one another. We're to consider one another, we're to provoke one another to love and good works, we're to confess your faults one to another. Oh, I'm gonna skip that one. We should pray for one another We should have compassion for one another, use hospitality to one another, minister your gift to one another, be subject one to another, have fellowship one with another Have the same care one for another, prefer one another, and receive one another in Christ. I'm almost done. I'm going to try and wrap it up. Listen, there's some things that mar our fellowship There's some things that mar our fellowship. They get in the way. They make it hard for us to maintain the fellowship that we're supposed to have. Can I give those to you real quick? First of all, things that mar our fellowship is walking in darkness. Walking In darkness. 1 John 1, verse number 6 says: if we say that we have fellowship with Him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. If we say we're fellowshipping with him, but we're walking in darkness, something's not adding up. In Romans chapter 13 and verse number 12, he says, Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness. and let us put on the armor of light. Listen, fellows, listen, light does not have any fellowship with darkness. We're not supposed to be fellowshipping with darkness, Christian. Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship That same word, canoni, the Greek word, what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath light with darkness? One of the reasons why you don't enjoy fellowship with your brothers and sisters in Christ so much is because for too long you've been engaged in fellowship with darkness. Listen, Christian, you should not feel more comfortable with the lost world. You should not feel more at home with somebody that never goes to church. You should not feel, oh well, I'm just comfortable with them. I'm just at ease with them. Listen, light doesn't fellowship with darkness. And when you spend your days and hours and your time that you have fellowshipping with people over here that are out in the world, and listen, we are kind to them and we minister to them and we talk to them and we we we are a friend to them. for a purpose. The purpose is that we could share the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ with them and that we could bring them into the light Then we can have fellowship with them. But we cannot have good, true fellowship with them until we get them out of darkness and into light. I think there would be a lot more people in God's house if every Christian found somebody in darkness and said, Hey, let me bring you to the light. Come over here to come over here to church. Let me show you where the light is. As believers, your closest friends should be the family of God. Let me ask you this. When something happens, who do you call? Outside of your immediate family, your relatives, who is it that you think of first to call It ought to be a brother or sister in Christ. It ought to be somebody that's who you have fellowship with. That's who you are bonded with. I asked you if you've invited anybody from the church over. I wonder have you invited anybody from the neighborhood over? Have you spent time fellowshipping with people from work? Have you sat down and engaged in fellowship with the Bowling League Listen, there's nothing wrong with those things. I mean, you've got things in common with somebody at work. That's fine. I mean you work in the same department and such, but your greatest bond ought to be with those who have Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. If it's not that way, there's a problem. You see, a Christian should never feel more comfortable with the devil Walking in darkness hurts our fellowship with believers, and walking with devils hurts our fellowship. fellowship. First Corinthians chapter ten and verse number twenty says, But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils and not to God. And I would not that you should have fellowship with devils. Now I've given you a lot of Bible this morning. As Christians, we shouldn't be fellowshipping with devils. That shouldn't be our heart's desire. My motivation this morning is that you Would value, appreciate, and want to fellowship with your fellow believers of Jesus Christ. That you would look forward to opportunities. Listen, that's why we have a chili cook-off and a and a bait cook-off and a fall activity and a and a and a Roundup Sunday and and uh Mother's Day activity and and uh ladies luncheon and all these other things. It's not about the pies. It's not about the chili. It's about Jesus. And you should look forward to those opportunities to come together and fellowship with your fellow Christians. I hope you got it this morning. I hope you got it. Let me give you one quick story and I'll be done. As a young man who heard a radio broadcast, he lived in a northern African city area. And there was it was all Muslim where he was at. He heard this radio broadcast and he sent, he he replied to it, and he sent for some some gospel literature. He was hungry, just like what Brother Sasser was talking about, where people are looking for the truth. And Muhammad looked at this gospel literature when he received it, and he trusted Jesus Christ and his Lord and Savior, and he responded to that. He sent back to the people that sent him the stuff and said, I have received Jesus as my Lord and Savior. Thank you so much. Muhammad here in this northern African tribe there were all Muslims. I mean he he he had no Christian fellowship. And his heart longed and desired Christian fellowship so much. He wanted just to have another Christian. He could just talk To about Jesus Christ and the love that God sent and the message of the gospel and the Bible that they were reading together, but he was all alone. He had nobody And he began to pray day after day after day, and for three years he prayed that God would send him one person, just one Christian that he could fellowship with. And after three years, he received a note in the mail from the place that sent him the gospel literature. The person said, I'm going to be coming through your area of Africa You said you trusted Christ. Would you be interested in having me stop by? And oh, he replied and said, yes, of course, most definitely. And Muhammad for three days could not sleep because of the excitement and the anticipation in his heart. Of having one Christian that he could sit down with and have true fellowship And he said when the Christian finally got there, the Bible says your spirit beareth witness. And he said the joy and the excitement and the thrill that was in his soul because he was able to Sit down in fellowship with the brother of Christ was so much, it was almost more than he could take. And Christian, you and I come into the house of God week after week, filled with pews of people that are saved, bloodwashed, born-again, Bible-believing Christians, and we've got this book under our arm, and we've got people that we can fellowship with, and we go Sorry, I don't have time. I gotta get to lunch. Oh no, I uh uh sorry, I'm busy this week. No, I can't come over and talk to you. Uh I I've got to go over to do this. I'm saying, do you value the fellowship problem is fold this leads to forgetfulness? And we've got so much of it that we're neglecting it. We need to value and invest time. In fellowshipping with one another. That's what God calls us to. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed