For going to deal with this idea, you know, as our church we have on the banner up here, we have the theme for the year is to press on. press on. And this year at the beginning of each month we've we've set forth a new verse for us as a church. And That month is an area in which we as a church are to press on, an area which we're to focus some energy, give a little bit of effort, and we're to press on as Christians. We're to push forward and We've looked at the places in the Word of God where we as God's people are called to do something specific, where we are called to press on, where we are called to do or to be a particular thing. And this morning we're going to deal with this idea that we're called to press on to holiness. To press on in the holiness that we have. If there's any area in the Christian life that God's people could press on a little further without any fear of going too far. It's holiness. We could take that and endeavor to do it and have no apprehension or no question that we maybe went a little too far. It's an area that God's people should press on today. Now you could tell me if I'm wrong, but I don't think the idea of holiness of peer living is something that's valued in society today. I don't think that Society really uh upholds that. Society really looks at holiness and fear living as something that should be done or that is uh should be uh pushed for, that an area that should be pressed on. I don't know. I think you can kind of see what's valuable in it to a society when a pandemic hits You know, when the pandemic hits and the cannabis uh dispensaries are allowed to stay open, but the churches are told to shut down. You see what's valuable to a society when uh you know the bars are allowed to continue to function, but God's house is not. Are you guys ready for some meat today? This this I I'm just gonna let you know up front. We're talking about holy living. This has been scheduled since probably October of last year for this morning. This is not I have no agenda and I'm not knocking on anybody or or or hit stepping on any toes on purpose We just we're gonna preach the word of God this morning, but I'm letting you know up front there's gonna be some meat. There's gonna be some meat. Our text today is found here, of course, in First Thessalonians. If you have a study Bible of any kind. You typically at the top there there's some kind of description. There's a passage heading. There's a kind of it tells you what's coming. What is the topic that's going to be discussed discussed. Anybody tell me do you if you have a study bible, what does your heading say here for this chapter number four? Living to please God. A call to holiness. Appeal for purity. These are all along the same theme. My Bible does say that same thing: the living to please God. That is what holy living is. Living to please God. Now, for the sake of time, I'm not going to read the entire text and we're going to come back because we're going to kind of systematically walk through these verses, but look at verse number one. He says, furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us, ye ought to walk and to what? Please God. You ought to walk and to please God. Our goal as Christians ought to be to please God. Amen? Uh uh uh we are n ought not necessarily to strive to please men, but to please God. And If in pleasing God we're able to please men, then great. But the goal, our desire, our heart's ambition ought to be ple to please our Heavenly Father. Now, beloved, before we get too hard on the world for what they allowed to stay open, And what they shut down during COVID, we might ought to look in our look in the mirror at ourselves We might ought to consider how many of us took opportunity to stay home from church instead of really desiring to be in church. For we are just like the Christians of Thessalonica, who they they knew what it was to please God and how to please God, but all too often Our heart's desire is to please self. Our goal is to do what we want to do. Our goal is to make us happy. And if God's happy, then great. All the more. I mean, that's wonderful. Instead of it being the other way around. And I'm talking about saved, independent, fundamental, Baptist, Bible-believing, separated Christians. Okay, maybe I'm just preaching it myself. But I but I saw I saw myself in this text. That that I too many times try and live to please self instead of please God. And our goal for our life ought to be, ought to desire to be to please God. I'm gonna give you three points this morning because I like three points. Because every good message has three points and a poem in it, right? I don't think I have a poem this morning, so I'm a little bit shy. short. Are you guys doing okay? This is gonna be a it's gonna be a heavier message, but uh listen, it's the word of God. It's good for us. First of all, I want you to see God's plan. For holiness. God's plan for holiness. We saw that in our text verse in verse number seven. For God hath not called us unto uncleanliness. But unto holiness. I think that ought to be something that we as a church commit to memory and we ought to put it there in the forefront of our mind and this world that triangs tries to promote uncleanliness, this uh society today and even a lot of church groups today that try and promote uncleanliness, we ought to right in the front of our mind, God has not called us to uncleanliness. But unto holiness. God's called us to live holy and pure lives. I want you to understand in God's plan for holiness, there's two types of holiness that we ought to have. First of all, there's positional holiness. Positional holiness is given to us at salvation That's something that God grants to us at the moment that we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We studied this way back in, I think it was February, when we talked about the fact that we are called to be saints. You understand at the moment of salvation you became a saint. Now you might not live and act like a saint sometimes But our sainthood is something the righteousness of God was imputed unto us, given to us by God as a gift. When we got Jesus Christ, His holiness came to us And that's the positional holiness that we are given, granted by God, we didn't work for it, we didn't earn it, we couldn't ever earn it on our own, but God gave it to us. Because I'm saved. In that capacity, that positional holiness given to me by God, I'm a saint Philippians 1, verse number 1, says Paul and Timotheus, the servant of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus. All the saints, he's writing this letter to them, and he's saying, Hey, to all the saints, that is those that are in Jesus Christ. If you're saved today, that is, you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you've confessed your sin and asked Him to forgive you of that sin, beloved, you've been given the position of sainthood. You have positional holiness. The problem comes in, beloved, is when we Leave it at that. And we say that's good enough. Because there ought to there is also supposed to be practical holiness. There's a level of practical holiness that's supposed to be part of our lives. The holiness of God is. Something we are an attribute as we learned about in Sunday school with regards to humility. It's an attribute of God that we can emulate, that we can copy, that we ought to try and have as part of our life. Well, holiness as well is an attribute that we ought to try and emulate. God says, be holy for what? I am holy. Be holy for I am holy. We are to be holy like God is holy God calls us all to practical holiness. That is holy living, that is clean living. Beloved, I want you to understand this morning that you are called to be holy before you're ever called to do anything else. Pastor Caleb Batrell was called to be holy before he was ever called to be a pastor. You were called to be holy before you were called to be a husband. Or a wife. You were called of God to be holy before you were ever called to be an usher. Before you ever called to serve in the music ministry of the church, to sing in the choir. You have a call to holiness before you're ever asked to work in the media ministry or to teach a Sunday school class or to hol Serve as a greeter. You see, the call to holiness goes out to everyone. Before you were ever called to do anything else, God called you to holiness. And we don't need just more singers, we need more holy singers. We don't need just more ushers in the church serving as ushers, but we need holy ushers. People that are living holy, separated lives unto God. We don't just need more volunteers just for the sake of having a volunteer or somebody to pick something up, but we need people that are living holy lives, that are fulfilling first the call that God has put on us to be holy And then they can serve. You see, holiness is a prerequisite for service. I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God that ye present your bodies a what? Holy. Holy Sacrifice unto God. This we've got to be holy, serving God Acceptable. And the Bible says this is your reasonable service. But that holiness comes before any other level of service. My mind went blank for a second because I misquoted that. Greg said it right, that you present your body as a living sacrifice. Then holy. That's what see my mind gets messed up. Y'all are been inflicted with a with a handicapped pastor. Uh so it's a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable. That's I knew something wasn't right. I'm like, there's something wrong here, so I had to back up. God wants us to first we have this call to be holy. But I want you to see that God calls us to be holy, but He also is His plan. But God never leaves us on our own. He also has a provision. For holiness. He has a provision for holiness. He says there in verse number one, he says, Furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus. What's the next five words? He says, as ye have received of us, how ye ought to walk and to please God. You see, God has provided for us the what? He says, as ye have received, he says, I have, we have given you, we have told you what God's expectation is. Beloved, God didn't leave us with uh, oh, I want you to be holy And then no explanation as to what that was, no laid-out plan as to what the expectation was. God has given to us a more sure word of prophecy. He has given us this plan, this direction, this is the place where he's laid out what holiness is. He's given us all that we need to know to live a holy life. We can't just say, oh, I didn't know. I didn't know what was holy. In verse number two, he says, For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. You know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus through through because Jesus, the inspiration of the scriptures, he's given us these commandments. Now, beloved, I know that there may be one or two areas. There may be three, we could even say five areas. That in your mind you might say, I'm not positive that the Word of God really definitely tells me what I'm supposed to do in this area. Okay, there's two things about that. One is like I said, there's only a couple of areas like that. 95% of our life we pretty much know, or we can know without question what God wants. And on the areas that there is a question, if you err on the side of holiness, I think you'll be all right. The problem is is we want to err on the side the other side, right? The problem is too many times we want to say, well, what's wrong with this Instead of, well, what's right with it? We want to try and justify sin or go a particular way instead of just erring on the side of holiness. But most of it, God has given us very clear direction in the Word of God that ye have received the commandments that they gave you by the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, God not only is provided the what, but he's provided the how. Look in verse number 8. He says, He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God. Who hath also given unto us his Holy Spirit. God has given us the Holy Spirit Now the Holy Spirit does many things, and I don't have time to teach on the Holy Spirit to do it any justice. But you know the Holy Spirit guides us into all truth. If you're wondering or want understanding of the Word of God, the Holy Spirit does that for you. us. The Holy Spirit tells us when we're going wrong or doing something we shouldn't do, and if you're saved, that's one sign that you know you're saved, that you're been uh Jesus Christ, that the Holy Spirit's come to dwell in your heart because when you you're sinning and doing wrong, the Holy Spirit's there knocking on your heart's door saying you shouldn't be doing that. You shouldn't be doing that. You know this isn't right. You need You need to stop this. The Holy Spirit's there convicting you of sin. And beloved, the Holy Spirit empowers us to have victory over sin. So God has provided for us the what and He's also provided for us the how. He's given to us the means by which we can have the life and have it more abundantly. We can have victory over sin. We can live a holy life. By the way, let me just encourage you, don't get mad at the preacher. What does he say there in verse number 8? He therefore that despiseth, he's saying, whoever despises these things Despise not man, but God. He's telling them, he's saying, hey, if you don't like what's being said, That's what that verse is saying So just encouraging you, because now we're going to get to the meat here, and this is man's practice of holiness. Man's practice of This is practical living, holy living for us. And there's a lot of directions we could go with regards to the the practical aspects of l of holy living, but I want to just stay in the text here. I just want to stay right here with the Word of God and and And see what we can learn about holy living. What does he tell us here? First of all, I want you to see, as we saw already in verse number one, that holy living is pleasing to God. We ought to desire to be holy because it's pleasing to God. As a parent, aren't you glad when your children want to please you? They desire to please you. They know it's going to make you happy, and so they do it. Yesterday I was up, uh yesterday afternoon, evening I was up working on the chimneys. We're trying to get those chimneys done before we get to do the roof this next week. And I was out there working on the chimney and I heard the lawnmower start up. One of my boys went out and began starting mowing the lawn. I'll just tell you, it's Timothy. Timothy went out. I didn't have to ask him. I know you guys are all shocked. Wow, Timothy. I didn't have to ask him, I didn't have to tell him, hey, go get out there and get the lawn mowed and we need to we need to stay on top of this. Come on, let's go get you've got some free time, let's get some mowing done He just went out there and got on the mower and I I was proud of him. I was glad. I thought, wow, he knows that I value that, that I would appreciate him doing that, and he went and did that without me even asking him or saying anything, and I do appreciate it You know, as children of God, we ought to desire to make God happy. Well I just want to please our Lord. How can I please you, God? What can I do that would make you happy? God, you've done so much for me. You've given me eternal life. You've forgiven this old wretched sinner of all of his sin. And one day I'm going to spend an eternity in heaven. So, Lord, is there anything I could do that would please you? Live holy. No, no, no. Is there anything else, Lord, that I can do to please you? We ought to live holy because it's a pleasing to God. We ought to live holy. And what it means, it means we have a pure life. Look in verse number 3. We have a pure life. He says, For this is the will of God, even your sanctification. That you should abstain from fornication. That word sanctification literally means purity Holy, sanctified, set apart. You are living a pure life. This is hard to do in today's world. We live in a wicked society. He says here that you should abstain from fornication. Fornication, of course, is sexual sin, immorality. Living a life that is not clean and pure, participating in sex outside of marriage Do you know the culture with which he was writing to, the Greek culture, was a culture that was very immoral. It was a culture that Magnified and exalted the human physique. They praised the physical attributes of both men and women alike. That's very evident in the art that we still have around the world today from that culture. It's very evident in the writings that are written from that time period. It was even, sadly, part of the religion from that time period. A very immoral society. The apostle Paul was writing to the church and saying, You shouldn't have any part of that. You shouldn't be involved in that. This was written long before television or the internet I don't know that if God was writing the scriptures today, he wouldn't have thrown something in there about that for us. It's not just a matter of abstaining from participating yourself Do you understand in the under the New Testament we're under a higher law? In the Old Testament, if you killed somebody, it was murder. In the New Testament, if you think about killing them. In the Old Testament, if you committed adultery, it it's fornication, adultery. But in the New Testament, uh, if you think about it, if you've committed adultery with her already in their heart I'm saying, beloved, as is Christians, we've we've drawn a line in, oh, I don't participate in that activity. But you don't have a problem watching it take place on the screen. You don't have a problem participating from a distance. We are to have no part of that Do you know free sex steals from marriage that sacred act that is supposed to be the ultimate expression of love and makes it just a This world today who wants to say it's just physical. And when you when you s when you say we're just all biological, that we're just from From an amoeba that there is no God, there is no right and wrong, you take all of that out of it, then we as humans are no different than any any other animal. Just like a dog. But that's not how it is. We are created with a soul in the image of God. Right. A trichotomy of man. And there is moral absolutes, and there is right and wrong. And God says we're to live holy, to be holy We gotta stay away from that stuff. It's a pure life Instead of free and open sex, a holy life is one that's marked by self-control. Look in verse number four. I'm going to call this the possessed life, that you possess it. He says here in verse number 4 that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification. Sanctification and honor. Every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. It's a possessed life. It's one where instead of you just go with the flow, instead of you just do what feels good, instead of uh you know just uh following along with whatever society happens to say is acceptable today you have self-control. You find out what's acceptable and in line with the Word of God and our Heavenly Father, and you control your life You control what you see, you control what you hear, you control what you participate in, you control what you do. That's what holy living is. It's holy living, a possessed life. You are in control. That goes against society today. That goes against what most people want to do today. Most people want to live free. They don't want any control. They want to do what they want to do, and that's it. But God wants us to be in control. A possessed life. We are to know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. Can I ask Are you doing that? Are you possessing your vessel in sanctification? That is purity, holiness, separated, and honor unto God Verse number 5 says, not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God. This concupiscence is inordinate or inappropriate desires, a desire for that which has been forbidden. Isn't that society today? That is just lays it out. That's what the world is today, a desire to participate in and be involved in that which is forbidden. The more forbidden it is, the more they desire it. But as God's people, if we're going to be holy, that we we don't do that. Not in the lust of concupiscence, but in as the Gentiles which know not God. Listen, they don't know God. They haven't been called to holiness as the Christian has. We're to live holy lives Pure and clean. Verse number six says, That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter, because that the Lord is the avenger of all such. As we also have forewarned you and testified. He says here, you're not to defraud your brother. Now this can apply, he says here in any matter. This can apply to any area of our life, to business, to our relationships Dealing with family and friends, you're not to defraud, you're not to cheat, you're not to be dishonest. That's holy living. That's holy living In context, though, he's dealing here with a purity of mind, with a purity of body. I think in context context here he's dealing with the fact that you're not to be involved in or participate in. Adultery. You're supposed to stay pure. You're not to defraud another brother. And listen, I want you to understand, Christian. That a long time before some woman meets some man down at a hotel And commits adultery a long time before that ever happened. She began to ponder and think about it in her mind. He began to ponder and think about it in his mind. That is not keeping your body sanctified, your vessel, possessing your vessel. You say, man, I want to adultery-proof my marriage. That means you need to possess your body. You need to be under self-control. And when the devil brings thoughts like that to your mind and thinks, boy, I wonder what it would be like to be with him. Wonder what it would be like to be with her You immediately stop that and say, get thee behind me, Satan, and Lord, forgive me for allowing that thought to enter my mind, and and you you block it out and you you set up some guards and some safeties to make sure you don't open that door again. You'll never end up at a hotel committing adultery with somebody and destroying your marriage and hurting your kids and destroying your testimony if when it starts to enter your mind you stop there, you possess your your your vessel In honor and in sanctification. You hold that self-control. By the way, this is talking about the husband-and-wife relationship with kids. Goes for you as well. The devil puts it in your mind before marriage. Boy, I wonder what it would be like to touch her. I wonder what it would be like to touch him. I wonder what it'd be like to experience that. If you allow that thought to continue in your mind, you're opening the door to go down that road. You have got to stop it at the first moment, the the the the moment of temptation. You say, oh right, I'm just thinking about it right now You're entertaining that thought, and pretty soon those thoughts are going to take possession in your mind. Pretty soon they're going to be rooted down in your heart, and you're going to be looking for an opportunity. Then you thought about how you could possibly do it and the devil will provide an opportunity. The devil wants you to fall. The devil wants to destroy your life. The devil wants you to end up in sin like that. But you're going to possess your body in honor. You've got to, at the moment of temptation, you've got to block it out. Say, Lord, forgive me. Get that out of my heart. Get that out of my mind. In First Corinthians nine twenty-five he says, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate. In all things. You have self-control. You possess your body, not the other way around. Today's mentality is if it feels good, do it. Just Just do it. It's not a matter of being in control and possessing your body. It's whatever your body wants, you do it. Last Sunday morning and Sunday I think it was that we had a lesson on gluttony. Yeah. Uh-huh. That's the the the the Baptist sin, right? The one we can get away with and not feel too wicked. We can we can, oh, hey, you possessed your body. You say, no, you've had enough. You've had enough. Let's go on. Verse number nine. It's a passionate life. It's a passionate life. Verse number nine, he says, But as touching brotherly love, ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love He said, this is something that's so straightforward and so basic, I don't even have to mention it, but by the way, I'm mentioning it. He says, you know, I I don't even need to write this because God has showed you this, God has told you this, that you're to love one another It's to be a passionate life. The Christian's life is to be a life filled with love. And beloved, we had in Sunday school lesson on humility, and only by pride cometh contention And when we allowed pride to supersede the love that should be in our heart, there comes a problem between a brothers or sisters in Christ. We're to have love for one another. It's not right for a Christian to have any bitterness, any strivings, any envyings, any jealousies. That's not supposed to be between us. Our character is supposed to be one that is a one of love, one another. I want you to understand everybody in here is just a sinner saved by grace. Everybody in here, every person in here is just just one lump of dirt saying hi or goodbye to another lump of dirt. I know we think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think many times But what I want you to understand is not everybody's perfect, and sometimes people have bad days. And we got to give grace and allow those those those times to happen. Allow for imperfections because other people are allowing for our imperfections. Right? But the way of the Christian is to be one of love Personal holiness includes loving your brother. You can walk around as sanctimonious as you want to But if you have aught in your heart against a brother in Christ, you're not right with God. It's supposed to be a life Of brotherly love. We're supposed to be increasing in this as well. In verse number 10, he says, And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia. But we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more. That ye increase more and more. So you can't just say, okay, well I love Brother Anthony. I I love him enough to say hi and and to talk to him when I have to. You know, I l I Now you're supposed to increase more and more. Do you know how you increase love for your brethren? Pray for them. Pray for them. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Love one another. Pray for one another. It's also a peaceful life The holy life is a peaceful life. In verse number 10. He says, and that ye study to be quiet and to do your own business. And to work with your own hands, as we commanded. This study to be quiet, that quiet there literally means peaceful. You study to be peaceful. You know, it would do us some good to stop stirring up so much trouble. He says their study to be peaceful. That means put some effort into it. Learn how to live peaceably with all men I have preached an entire message on just that fact that as God's people we are to live peaceably with all men. As God's people, we're to pursue peace. I believe that's the title of it. You can look at it up on sermon audio. Pursue peace. As God's people, we're supposed to pursue peace. That means study. Put a little effort into it. Learn how to live peaceably. I'm doing marriage counseling right now pre-marriage Marital counseling for uh John and Stephanie getting married in October. And I says, hey, told him, listen, if you wanted to learn how to be a mechanic, You wouldn't just show up in the garage one day and the head mechanic would stand up and say, Now I pronounce you a mechanic. But the fact of the matter is, is in October, the man of God, a pastor somewhere, is going to stand up and say, Now I pronounce you man and wife, and you guys are married, but you don't know how to be man and wife. Don't think just because somebody stood up and said, now you I pronounce you man and wife that you got it figured out. You need to study You need to learn. You need to get some books on the home. You need to get a book on how to be a good husband. She needs to get books on how to be a good wife. You need to learn. It's not just, doesn't just happen. You've got to learn how to be a good husband and a good wife. Do you know there's a lot of husbands and wives that can't live peaceably with one another? They're married and they're not living in peace. That's one of the reasons that I didn't want to get married. I saw all the turmoil and the stress in people's homes and I said, why would I want that? I even told Mary when we were dating, I said, I ain't getting married. I don't want all these people they're living together and they're miserable. It doesn't have to be that way. You can study, you can learn How to be a good husband, how to be a good wife, put some work into it. You can learn how to live peaceably with all men. To be at peace. He gives you a little bit of insight here. He says, and do your own business. That's a good way, good place to start. You want to be a piece of people, start minding your own business. Start minding your own business. Do your own business. Start minding yourself. Stop worrying about everybody else and trying to solve all these other problems. One of the biggest problems in in families is the is the outlaws. You know, they they want to come in and and mother-in-law, father-in-law, m either direction, and they got all those jokes for some reason. Do your own business. That would help a lot. You need to mind your own business. Stop worrying about everybody else. You know, a lot of times you've got a beam in your own eye and you're still worrying about that twig in somebody else's If we would just take care of ourselves, God will take care of them. We can still be out of shape about what somebody else is doing, and we're not worried about ourselves. He says here, work with your own hands. So don't be a busybody, but be a body that's busy. Be active. You know, one of the biggest problems why sin is so rampant is because we are a leisure society. We are a society built around leisure. Free time. Time when I don't have any commitments. Time when I don't have to work. And I can do whatever I want to do. How many of you know that's when we get in trouble? Idleness is the devil's workshop. And and the more and more this society goes towards idle time, more days off, shorter work days, you're just gonna end up with more trouble. I mean you take a farmer that got up at four in the morning and started marking the cows and worked all day out in the field. I can guarantee you he doesn't feel like going to protest ten o'clock at night. I'm just telling you. He wants to go to bed. See you gotta get up in the morning and mark the milk cows again. Parents, this is one thing I'll tell you that you ought to be careful with your children, is you ought to not give them too much free time. My kids ask me all the time, Dad, how come we've got to work all the time And I tell them, I says, I'm failing you as a father. I said, I give you way too much free time. Don't I tell you that? I'll let you guys play way too much I'm convicted by the Holy Spirit for how poor of a father I am. Letting them play too much. Listen, you need to be busy We'd get in a lot less trouble if we were just busy doing what we're supposed to do. But we we we get all this free time and Get online and start blogging with Yeah. Alright, so let me give you the last one. It's a life of probity. I know I use another uncommon word. This literally means upright, honest. It's a life of probity. Verse number twelve. He says that ye may walk honestly toward them that are without, and that you may have lack of nothing. Beloved Christians should be known for their honesty. That's what pure living is. Christians should be known for their integrity, for doing What is right. To this day, I remember the testimony of my dad's father, who owned a muffler shop in Crossett, Arkansas, population 6,000. You know in a small town like that, everybody knows everybody. He had a muffler shop in Crossett, Arkansas for 30 five years or something like that. Died of a heart attack at 58. Pretty young. I had no idea how young that was when I was five years old and we went to his funeral But I remember person after person in Crossett, Arkansas, said, man, he was an honest man. He was an honest man. He owned a muffler shop working on cars, and the one thing that people took away from that is he was honest. Whatever he said was what it was. And a lot of times, Christians, if you're going to live that kind of honesty, you are going to have to bite the bullet. You are going to have to take the loss. You are going to have to deal with it. We have to be less concerned about our rights and more concerned about our reputation. Sometimes we say, well, I don't care what people think. I deserve this. A Christian ought to be known. for his integrity, known for being honest, that you walk upright. That's what purity is. Why would uh you know I was talking about the husband and wife relationship And as a young man I saw all these couples that were just miserable. They didn't they didn't like being around each other and I said, Why do I want to do why do I want to live like that? I don't want that for my life. The world looks at Christians and what is it about our life that would make them want it? What is it about the life of a Christian that would make somebody in the world say, I need that Are we living that way, Christian? Are we living that way? The practical side, man's practice of holiness. We're called as God's people to holy living. There's a misconception to that. Even in a lot of churches, that I've been given my positional holiness, therefore I don't have to worry about the practical holiness. But that's not the case. God calls us to be holy. Don't despise it, accept it. Embrace it and live pleasing to God