You can turn to our verse of the month, or you can look at the screens in front of you. Our verse of the month here is Galatians chapter one and verse number six. I marvel that ye are so soon removed From him that called you unto grace of Christ, unto another gospel. Well, this year we've had this theme, this idea, which is on the placard, which is above my head here, to press on. To press on. We've looked every month at a different area in the Word of God where we're to press on, an area that as God's people we're called to. And these areas are areas that are supposed to be important to us. They're areas that are valued to us, that we appreciate, that we look at and believe to be you know, express our gratitude to God and press on in these areas. Thus far this year, we've had the privilege of looking at a call to sainthood. A call to a supper, which is Christian fellowship. A call to service, to serve and do what God wants us to do. A call to a station. The place that God has called you to stand there and do what God wants you to do. We were able to look at a call to serenity. Man, we had no idea at the beginning of this year all of the fear that we would be dealing with. All of the problems that we would be facing as a nation. But what an amazing thing that uh I guess that would have been January February, March, April. It would have been May that we did a call to serenity. That God has called us and given unto us peace. And he's not given us a spirit of fear, but of love and of a sound mind. And in the face of all this heartache, you can trust God, rely on Him. You don't have to walk around in fear. He's called us to serenity. He's called us to strength and he's called us to submission, to submit to him. Well, this morning I want you to see that we are called to salvation. The Apostle Paul said, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto another gospel. Would you pray with me and ask God to lead and give us a good time around His Word this morning? Well, we thank you for your love and your goodness to us. I praise you for the privilege this month. I pray, Lord, that you would give me clarity of thought, that you would allow the heart of the message to come through clear. That you would be with each and every soul present, that you would draw us into your presence. Lord, I pray that those that are here this morning that are unsure of their salvation Unsure of their relationship with you, that God, maybe this message would bring clarity and they would see their need of a Savior today. They would trust you before it's eternally too late I pray, Lord, you would help us as God's people to value, appreciate, and to just be reminded of the truth. Of the call of God that called us to this marvelous salvation. We ask this in Jesus' blessed name. Amen Beloved, this morning I know that many of you understand or that you already know that Galatians was written to the churches of Galatia. This book was written not to one church, but to the churches of Galatia, the churches that were in a region which is included in modern-day Turkey It would include Iconium and Antioch and Perga and Lystra, these churches. This was written to them. These churches were reached through the ministry of Paul as he was on his first missionary journey He went out and he preached the gospel to them. And men came to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. They realized they were a sinner and they needed a Savior and they trusted him and they began to follow Christ. But Paul had gotten word that a false gospel was being preached. So he writes to them this letter. It kind of bothered Paul. It stirred him up that there you were so soon turned away Notice if you're in Galatians there, notice Paul writes a typical greeting. He lets them know who he is. He says in verse number one, Paul, an apostle. And he makes it clear, he says, not of men, neither by man, but of Jesus Christ, God, the Father, who raised him from the dead. And he says, I'm an apostle Not assigned by man, not recognized by men, not sent by men, but by God. He says in verse number two, and all the brethren which are with me unto the churches of Galatia. So he's writing to all the churches of Galatia. From him and those men that were with him. He says in verse number 3: Grace be to you and peace from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ. In verse number four, he reminds them of the true gospel. He states it very clearly. He says, of Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins. That he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God, our Father, to whom be glory forever. Amen. He tells them right there, hey, it was the will of God that he sent unto you the gospel, the message that Jesus Christ came and died for our sins. And then he says, man, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him. I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that calls you. So I'm going to give you three simple points this morning as we walk through this and try and expound this passage of scripture to you. I want you to see, first of all, the confusion. about grace, then we're going to be reminded of the call of God, and then we're going to look at the counterfeit gospel. So this morning, the confusion about grace. You see, Paul sends the message to them and says, I had told you. It wasn't that long ago that I was with you. Man, God, and his miraculous love and mercy has sent you the message of salvation. He's delivered unto you the grace of Jesus Christ. Don't you remember? Don't you remember that message? He was shocked at how quickly and how easily deceived they were to believe another gospel Paul was dumbfounded at their doubt of God. He was bewildered at their present behavior. He was shocked at the lack of stand that these Christians had, he was marveling at the message of a false gospel that they were believing. He said, Wow, how could you be so quickly turned away? He said, I was just with you. The truth of the word of God was just presented unto you. You just believed it. How can you turn away so fast? That word removed there in the Greek. Literally means to exchange or to change sides. To exchange or change sides. He says you Believed on Jesus Christ, and now so quickly you've changed sides. Somehow you have believed a false gospel. You're starting to teach and preach the wrong gospel. I want you to know, beloved, that although there are many false gospels out there, there are many false gospels, I I thought about teaching or preaching an entire message just on that. The false gospels that are there and who's teaching them and the messages that are being preached. There's so many false gospels that are out. But I want you to understand that there's really only there's not even two. There's really only one gospel. There's one gospel and then there's a lot of other ways that people are saying you get to heaven, but there's only one gospel. There's only one truth of the message of the Word of God given to us by Jesus Christ. There are a lot of other religions and there's a lot of other practices and And there's a lot of other philosophies and ideas, but you know what? My idea is just as good as your idea. And your idea is just as good as the next guy's idea But we can't all be right, can we? That's why you have to go to the Word of God. Because God is right. And it's not about what I think or what I feel, it's about what God said. He taught them the gospel. Now, many of you know and understand, but maybe there's some that don't. You say, This gospel, what is it? Of course we know it's the good news, but it's summarized for us in First Corinthians chapter fifteen, and I'll read it for you, verses three and four. He says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. That, beloved, is the gospel in a nutshell. It is the good news. The good news that Jesus Christ came, lived here on earth, that He came to die for our sins. to cover our sin, to pay sin's debt for us. That's good news. But he didn't just die for us, he. won victory over sin and death and the grave. And on the third day he rose again. Amen. He rose from the dead. And he is now presently at the right hand of the Father, interceding for us, praying for us, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And everywhere Paul went, he preached the gospel. He said, moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you. Paul preached the gospel everywhere he went, and Christian, we need to be actively preaching the gospel. We need to be Everywhere we go preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus, he came that men might be saved by believing on his death as covering for their sin. Preaching the gospel of Jesus everywhere we go. Paul did it. He said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Paul wasn't ashamed of that, and everywhere he went, he preached the gospel. And he was shocked that these churches of Galatia were so quickly removed. So quickly turned away from the truth of the gospel. Beloved, could I remind you this morning of the call of God? Could I remind you of that, the call of God which is sent unto us? What a privilege it is to know that He has called us. You see, he says here, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you. From him that called you You see, there was a day when God the Father, through the power of the Holy Spirit, called you into Himself. Jesus said, No man can come to me except the Father which hath sent me, draw him. Are you thankful this morning for the day when God called you? When God began to speak to your heart? I want you to understand, beloved, that the gospel was conceived in the heart of God. This was a plan of God for the salvation of the world. That God would find a way to restore men unto himself. That he would provide a way that men could be saved. In Galatians chapter 4, just uh a little bit over if you want to look at that, Galatians chapter 4 and verses 4 and 5, he says, but when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive The adoption of sons. In the heart of God, God made a way for you to have your sins forgiven. For you to have be saved from your sin, from the penalty of sin, to be able to go and spend an eternity in a place called heaven and not have to spend eternity in a place called hell. Beloved, there are some people today that get very irritated and they get very upset and they're actually mad at God and they say, I don't want to serve a God that would send somebody to hell. You guys preach that he sends people to hell and and I don't want to serve a God like that Well I want you to understand, beloved, that God didn't send anybody to hell. God loved the world and he gave his son, his only son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life God loves you and He wants you to be saved and He's provided a way for you to be saved. This morning if I said to you, let's say you had uh an intention of as soon as the service was over here, you need to go to BWI Airport. And I said to you, well, I'll tell you what, uh, my car's right out here. It's a silver Honda. Uh after the service, all you got to do is jump in that Honda and I'll drive you to the airport. And you thought, wow, that's amazing that you would do that, but you know what, I really don't want to go to the airport that way. I don't like silver cars. I don't think silver cars are are as reliable as red cars. Or maybe you're a Ford person, you say, you know what, I I'm gonna ride in a Ford. I I I'm not gonna ride in a in a Honda And after church, I I pull up and I swing open the door and I say, Hey, hey, look, look, here's the car. It's ready to go. All you gotta do is get in, and I'll take you to BWI. And you say, Nope. And you walk out here and and turn right on Worthington Heights and Walk down the road to Cuba and turn left and the whole time you're like, man that stinking church, everybody's so mean. Make me walk all the way to the airport. You could grumble and complain and be mad, but the the means for you to get to the airport was provided, was it not? It's your fault for rejecting what was provided. And there's a lot of people in the world that they talk about God and And say, oh, God is a mean God or God is a judge judging God because he would send people to hell. He's a loving God and He provides a way of salvation. All you have to do is accept it. But beloved, if you reject it, don't think God's going to just change his mind. If you rejected his method of forgiveness for your sin, then you have to answer for your sin At some way your sin has to be paid for, and you could choose to pay for it yourself by spending an eternity in hell. Pay for it one year after year after year in hell. Or you could trust Jesus Christ who paid it for you. If you owed a you know, we're talking about winning the lottery this morning. In Sunday school, let's say let's say you owe you owed a million dollars to somebody. And I came to you and said, hey, I've got a million dollars here. You can use this to pay your debt. You said I I don't want it I don't want to do that. That seems too easy. You're just gonna give it to me free, I don't have to do anything for it. I I I don't trust that. And you could work your entire life to try and pay it that Million dollars. Or you could have just accepted what God provided. That's the same thing with salvation. God has provided salvation. It may sound too It may seem too easy. But do you have faith to believe that this message of the gospel that was conceived by God was completed by Christ? Jesus came and he followed God's plan. The Bible says that he was obedient, obedient even unto God It was completed by Christ. It was God's plan that He would be uh Jesus would come and would live a sinless life and would be rejected of men and hung on a cross and would die to be sacrificed for our sin. But no man took his life. The Bible says he gave it up. He sacrificed himself to pay for us. It was completed by Christ. And beloved, it's carried out or continued by the message of the Holy Spirit. In our lives today. Here's what I know. And if you this morning are not 100% Hundred percent sure that you've accepted the gospel, that there's been a day in your life where you realized you were a sinner and you felt that weight of sin on your shoulder. And you knew you had no way of paying that sin debt yourself, but you you certainly couldn't be if you stopped being a sinner today and were able to live perfect every single day of your life from here on out, who's gonna pay for the sins yesterday and and the past. You realize that and you realize the message of the gospel that Jesus died for you and wants to save you. If there hasn't been a day like that, here's what I know. The Holy Spirit right now is poking you in your heart and saying that's you. The Holy Spirit is saying that's that's what that crazy Preacher is saying is true. You see, the message of the gospel goes forth in the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not just A neat story. It is the message of God sent to the heart of man through the power of the Holy Spirit. It's carried by the Holy Spirit to your heart and to your life. He's saying, you need to trust Jesus before it's too late. The gospel is confessed by the believer. The Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe Believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, that God the Father has raised him, Jesus Christ, from the dead, thou shalt be saved. If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that you're a sinner. You have no means or way of taking care of or covering or solving that problem of sin on your own. But you believe that Jesus came. You believe that he was born and that he lived a life here and that he was sinless and that he died to pay your sin sacrifice and that God the Father raised him from the dead. The Bible says when you do that, you shall be saved. Whosoever. Whosoever. That's anyway. You can put your name. You shall be saved. I don't know every single person here in your heart and your condition and if there's been a time in your life where you confess belief in the message of the gospel. It was conceived in the heart of God so that you could be saved. It was completed by Jesus Christ, and right now the message of the gospel is being carried to your heart by the Holy Spirit, saying, You need to trust me before it's too late. I want you to understand one thing though, beloved The message of the gospel is contested by Satan. Satan doesn't want the message of the gospel to go. forward. And that's why Satan will come and he'll stand on your other shoulder and say, oh, that that preacher, he's just, you know, blowing hot air. Oh, that preacher. Don't believe that. You have, I guarantee you right now, the Holy Spirit telling you you need to believe before it's too late, and at the same time in your mind, there's something trying to To reason it away. That's because Satan, since the beginning of time, has contested the message of the gospel. He doesn't want people to be saved. He doesn't want you to trust the Lord Jesus as your Lord and Savior. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse number 4, he says, In whom the God of this world Hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is in the image of God, should shine Unto them. You see, God is sending the message of the gospel to your heart, and it's there for you, but Satan's trying to blind you. So you don't see that light. So you don't see that truth. So you don't see that message. And in his goal, in his effort. To try and blind the hearts of people of this world, he has designed and developed a counterfeit gospel You see, God has a gospel, a means, a way in which you can be saved. You can be forgiven of your sin and taken to heaven when you die. And it's simple, it's easy. But Satan's designed a counterfeit gospel that he could convince men of and get them to turn to. instead of the true gospel. Look back in Galatians chapter one, if you have your Bible there in verse number six. And I'm going to read a couple of more verses to show you here. He says, I marvel that you are so soon removed from him that called you unto the grace of Christ, unto Another gospel. Then look at verse number 7. He says, which is not another. He's saying there's not another gospel. It's actually not a gospel at all, right? He says it's not. But There be some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ. And then he says here, it's amazing, he says, but though we He says, even if it was me, Paul, he says, but though we, or an angel from heaven, He says, if it was me, Paul, or an angel from heaven that preached another gospel unto you, then that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. Paul says, even after a few years, let's say I get old, I get tired, I get a little weak, and I come back and I say, hey, I'm not sure about all that anymore. What about this? And he says, even if it's me. If I'm preaching another gospel, don't listen to me. Even if it's an angel from heaven, or somebody that claims to be an angel, or somebody that claims to be a prophet. Somebody that's got a word from God for you. People like to say that today. I got a word from God for you. If it's another gospel, Paul, or the inspiration of God, said, let him be accursed. Because it's not this gospel. You see, in Paul's day there were false teachers that they were adding to the gospel. They said, Jesus, yes, but you also must be circumcised. Jesus, yes, but you also must uh abstain from eating meat. You must observe the Mosaic law. You see, they were adding to the gospel. You know, if you add anything to the gospel, you no longer have the gospel? Because the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Him and him alone. Nothing else. No more. Have you have any of you ladies ever baked with vanilla extract? Man, it smells so good. When I was a young man, and I mean like Caleb and Melissa's age, I used this was a long time before the smoothie craze. But I used to make banana smoothies. And my mom showed me how to make them. Frozen bananas. You grind them. them up and she said she showed me the vanilla. She said, you just put a drop of this in there. I thought, man, that's good. I thought, well, if it drops good Eight or ten? It's gonna be awesome. You know, she said put a little bit of sugar. She ain't looking. Sugar She ain't looking, vanilla. Well, you know what happened. That was not edible. It was not edible. See, you can't add to it. It's no longer what it was. People trying to add to the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know, for some reason, so many men, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ is not enough. Even though it's enough for God, for some reason man says that's not enough. You also need to be baptized. There's a theological term, it's baptismal regeneration that many churches teach. That means that if you get in this baptismal pool, that your sins are washed away and salvation is made complete by getting into the baptistry. But that is not part of salvation. Baptism is just a picture. Just like my ring on my hand is just a picture that I'm married. I could have put this ring on when I was five years old. Did that make me married? No. No. I can take it off. Am I no longer married? No. I'm still married. married, right? This is just a picture of what I am. Baptism is just a picture of what you did when you trusted Jesus Jesus Christ. It's just a step of obedience, but there are many churches that teach baptismal regeneration. They add to salvation They say you have to do this or you have to do that. It's based on some level of works and it's another gospel. There's some that add to the gospel. There's some that dilute the gospel. They want to take away the fact that you've got to recognize you're a sinner. What are you being saved from? It's not you're being saved from your problems. You're still going to have some problems. That's life. You're being saved from the penalty of your sin. Right. Because we're all sinners. You're being saved from the penalty of your sin. And you've got to recognize that. And ask Jesus Christ to forgive you of that sin. You can't dilute the gospel. Some distort the gospel. They want to say, hey, if you get saved, if you follow God, you're going to be rich. You're you're gonna you're all your problems are gonna go away. You're gonna you're gonna have all kinds of money. If you just have enough faith, you can drive a Bentley. That's distortion. That's not in the gospel. That's not what the gospel is The gospel is the good news, the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Beloved Satan wants to delay the gospel. Oh, men have their means of distorting it and diluting it and Adding to it, but beloved, Satan's won a victory if all he can do is get you to delay. If he could just get you to delay. But the fact is, as you're lost right now, you need salvation right now. Don't put it off. 2 Corinthians 6 verse 2 says, Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day. Of salvation. Don't delay. Don't let Satan take you to a devil's hell Because you delayed accepting the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Oh, there's an old legend Talks about somebody reviewing Satan's tools, in which he tempts and distracts mankind. And the legend goes that he this person was perusing the racks full of Satan tools and he saw their pride. And while pride had a great price on it, it was very valuable and a very expensive tool because that's a tool that he uses a lot. And he he went further down the rack and he saw he saw another one there, jealousy and And he thought, wow, that's very expensive. And then he saw this one sticker and it was like, Whoa, that's e wow. And he turned it around and he saw that that tool was procrastination. And he asked Satan, why is this tool so expensive? And Satan said, because it's the most effective. Some say, well I believe, but I'm just not going to accept right now. I hear you preacher and I I I I I I tend to want to think that's important and my heart tells me I need to accept Christ, but I don't want to do it right now. I don't want to do it today. I'll do it sometime in the future. But beloved, the Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth You don't know, beloved, if you'll be on earth tomorrow, your opportunity to accept the love of Jesus Christ, his payment for your sin and the sacrifice that He paid for you, to accept that, it's only before you die. On the way home today, if you were involved in a car wreck and you haven't accepted Jesus Christ, even though you were in church this morning, you would wake up Because heaven is not gained by going to church. Heaven is gained by accepting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Satan wants to delay. If all he can do is get you to delay another day, delay another day, delay another day. But you must accept Christ's payment. We're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone For God's glory alone.