But the theme or the idea for this month is that we have a press on and that we have a call to suffer. We have a call to suffer. Look in 1 Peter 2 Verse number 21, he says, For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. that ye should follow his steps. Would you read that together with me? 1 Peter 221. For even hereunto were ye called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. Lord, we come to you this morning. We're grateful for the opportunity to preach your word. Dear God, I come humbly. Submitting myself to you, that you might use this unworthy vessel this morning to preach the word of God to these your people. You would take the thoughts that have been compiled and put together on a piece of paper here to know Lord what each and every heart needs is beyond my ability, but it's within And I ask you, God, that you would speak to the hearts of your people today, that you would strengthen those who maybe are currently suffering. Lord, that you'd prepare those who are maybe on their way to suffering, that they would be ready when that suffering would come. Suffering comes and Lord, you might help us all to understand and see the purpose in the suffering. We ask you to speak to us this morning. Bless our time together, Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now you all know we've got Jacob here who's just right around the corner from getting married, and John, uh, who just got married, and got these young couples in the church and uh you guys have heard about the three three rings of marriage. You have the engagement ring, right? You have the engagement ring and you give that to your To be, your love or your life. And then that union is completed with the wedding ring on the wedding day when you come together. And then your fate is doomed to the suffering. No, no, no. Marriage can be an amazing thing. The sad thing is for many it's not. But it can be. It can be. If you do it the way God planned, it's a it's a miraculous and wonderful Wonderful thing. In Peter here, 1 Peter, where we are, Peter deals with this topic of suffering. Continually. The aspect of this, the Christian life, that we are going to deal with or face suffering. In fact, 16 times He declares to declares to us, just in 1 Peter That there will be suffering for the believer. And let me remind you this morning, lest someone think or say Well, Pastor Caleb, if it's just a life of suffering, then I'm not signing up. I mean, why would anybody want to be a Christian if if what you're saying is that to be a Christian is to suffer? Well, let me just remind you that all men suffer. Job tells us, yea, man is born of trouble as the sparks fly upward. That's all men. It's not just talking about the Christians there. He says man is born of trouble. Just as the sparks, as many sparks as there are coming off of a fire, that's the troubles we have. He says also that man is born of a woman a few days and full of trouble. Everybody suffers. Someone said everyone suffers, you only get to determine what it is that you're suffering for. Everyone's going to suffer, but you have the privilege to determine what it is that you're going to suffer for. So as a believer, as a child of God that's called to endure some suffering. What could we learn about this principle or truth this morning that might challenge us or help us or encourage us today? First of all, I would like you to see the fiat of suffering. And no, I'm not talking about the Italian carmaker who joined Chrysler in hopes of staying off their inevitable demise. The fiat, uh that's not what I'm talking about. A fiat is a command. A fiat is an order. And this morning we are called, according to our text, we are called to suffer. I would like to read a few more verses before this and after this so we might have kind of a context of what it is we're dealing with. So if you look back at the Word of God, and let's back up to verse number 19, and you follow along with me as we read through our text verse of 21 and on through verse number 24. He says in verse number 19, For this is thankworthy if a man for conscience toward God endured grief, suffering wrongfully For what glory is it, if when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? But if, when ye do well and suffer for it, Ye take it patiently. This is acceptable with God. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow his steps. Who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not But committed himself to him that judges righteously, who his own self bear our sins and his body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness But whose strip by whose stripes you were healed. You see, beloved, in the context, we didn't just jump into verse number 21 and see that He says, Oh, you're called to suffering, but in the context it is all dealing with suffering. He declares unto us several truths in this idea of suffering. First of all, he shows us that some are going to suffer because of their willful sin because of their willful sin. You know, beloved, many times we like to blame it on God, don't we? When in fact it's really we're suffering because of our own stupidity. We're suffering because of the decisions that we made that put us into the predicament that we're in. He says there When ye be buffeted for your faults. He's saying when you're going through something And you handle it acceptably because it's something that you did. It's your own fault. It's situation that you brought upon yourself. Well, let me remind you this morning that all suffering is brought on because of original sin. All suffering that we ever go through is because Adam Committed sin. Wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world, and so death by sin, so death passed upon all men for all have sinned. If Adam had not yielded to Eve and E had not been swayed by the temptations of Lucifer Had they not given in to their selfish desires and remained true to what God wanted, we wouldn't be going through the suffering. So it's all all suffering is because of sin. But many times our own suffering is because of our own sin. Because of what we've done. It's not good, friend, to declare that you're suffering for Christ when it's your own stupidity that puts you in that mess I recall one time when I was a teenager. We lived out in the desert in El Paso, Texas, and there's a lot of rattles. snakes out there. There's a lot of jackrabbits. Big rabbits, not like the little rabbits you have around here. I mean big rabbits. And we would quite often go out and go hunting. And I remember one day when I shot myself with a Browning lever action 22 rifle. I mean that was $600 a finely machined firearm, beautiful Browning Labor Action rifle. But I shot myself with it. You know, I can't blame that on the manufacturer of the gun. Now today I might be able to. But thirty-five years ago they wouldn't have let me do that. I can't blame it on the bullet. I can't say, oh, I'm going through all this pain because of I gotta look in a mirror and say, you're the idiot that did this. It's your fault that you have a bullet hole in your hand. This this was dumb. And I know that we've all done some dumb things. You know, sometimes you may stay up late Looking at your device, right? Answering text or reading Facebook posts and reposting things. And you think, oh, just one more thing I'll do, or just one more game I'll play, or just one more thing I'll watch, and before you know it, it's one, two o'clock in the morning. And in the morning, when you're supposed to get out of bed and go to work, oh man, I don't feel like getting up. Oh, I'm so tired. I mean, my I don't feel good today. And you may even call work and tell them I can't come to work today because I don't feel good. When you know in your heart the reason you don't feel good is because you didn't go to bed. Yeah. You went against common sense, you went against the advice of others, and you did what you wanted. I remember one time when I was thirty-five years old, I went to a skate park, and in the skate park they had a half pipe. How many know what a half pipe is? About half of you. Half pipe is a pipe that they cut in half that you write a skateboard in. Not literally a pipe, but uh it's that shape. Very large structure that they build for you to write a skateboard in. So I was actually quite proficient as a young man riding a skateboard. So I went into the skate park and I was witnessing to these kids talking to them. them about the Lord. And I took one of these kids to skateboards. And I went to the top of the sappipe. I figured it was like riding a bike. Well it's not I got on the top of the half pipe there and I struck the skateboard out over the hole the the crevass below me. And actually all the kids stopped writing. To watch this old fat guy drop in on a half pipe. And I I put my I I didn't think anything of it. I dropped in a half pipe thousands of times Many years earlier, and I dropped in. And I dropped all the way to the floor. Which is what happens when you jump off something high. There's only one direction you can go. I went all the way to the ground, and I hit the ground so hard I can still feel it. The only thing broken was the skin on my chin. It had split the skin all the way across. And when I stood up, I held it like this to slow down the bleeding, right? But when I went home to see how bad it was, I just wanted to see how bad it was. So I opened it And my chin bone was sticking out of the bottom of my face here. Um That was my own fault. That was stupid. And you know what? I'm not going to tell you what I did to take care of it, but I was so embarrassed to tell people that I fell trying to write a skateboard at 35 years old, but I shouldn't have been I had no business getting on a skateboard in a skate park. I mean I should have had more common sense than that, right? But many times, beloved, we do things ourselves that are stupid. We're buffeted because of our own faults, and we want to blame Christ for it. We want to feel like God's forsaken me or God doesn't love me. Oh, I'm going through all of this. But if we were really honest, we would have to admit the reason that we're having these problems is because we made bad choices. Right? Yeah. I know everybody here's done some dumb thing at some point or another and I just shared a couple of them for my life, we could certainly go on and I know we could go around the room and and talk about uh yours as well. That's why I don't mind c telling you mine, because I know we've all got the stories. But in reality it's not Christ's fault, it's our fault. You know, you failed to go to work when you were supposed to be there You had a deadline for a project that was supposed to get done and you procrastinated and didn't do it and didn't do it and finally you did it and you maybe but you didn't do a very good job. And now all of a sudden you're like, my boss just doesn't like me. No, you did a sorry job on a responsibility that you had a long time to prepare for, and you didn't prepare because you procrastinated. Maybe you even end up losing your job because you haven't been able to be there or be on time or work hard. And oh I'm just suffering for God. No. You're buffeted because of your own faults. Now, that point nobody really likes. We don't like talking about But you see, not only do we suffer maybe because of willful sin, but we see in the text here that we suffer wrongfully. The Bible says, if a man for conscience sake toward God endured grief suffering wrongfully. There are times that you suffer wrongfully, and what that's talking about is when You're at work and your boss tells you, listen, I know that 10,000 of those last 50,000 things that came off of the assembly line, I know that 10,000 of them are faulty. And our margin for error is only 1,000 per 50. But listen, we've got to keep production up, so I want you to sign off on this that only 1,000 of them We're we're faulty, even though we were over that. And you look at your boss and say I can't lie about that. And then your boss starts to give you a hard time or gives you dirty jobs or ultimately maybe doesn't want you in his department and moves you somewhere else or or you lose your job. Why? You're suffering wrongfully at that point. You're suffering wrongfully because you did, because your conscience wouldn't let you defile that. Your conscience wouldn't let you do that sin, and so you're suffering wrongfully. There are some also who suffer for doing well. But if when ye do well and suffer for it, he says, sometimes you suffer just because you're doing a good job. You know, sometimes that happens when you're at work and you're a really hard worker. And other people are not necessarily really hard workers. Two things happen. One is you get taken advantage of, because you're a hard worker. I told my children that, tried to explain to them that that's what's going to happen. Because your boss would rather tell you to do it because you'll do it without complaining. And let the bum who's sitting over here doing nothing continue to sit over here and do nothing. Because when he gets asked to do something, he's going to complain But I can tell you that when it comes time to let somebody to lay somebody off, you know who's going to get laid off? This guy So you just work hard and it doesn't matter what you've been given to do or if you feel like you're being taken advantage of because you work hard, that's just the nature of it. But then sometimes also the your co-workers don't like it because you're making them look bad. And you're getting so you're getting persecuted just because you're doing well. So he says that happens, but that's acceptable unto God You know, beloved, much of what we've looked at with regards to this call of the Christian life, that is something we enjoy. I mean, we think about we're called to salvation. Hallelujah, we're called to be saved and be forgiven of our sin. We're called to service and we can serve our Lord and Savior. We're called to serenity, to have peace. Praise God for that peace that we have from Jesus Christ. We're called to strength. Man, to have strength as a Christian, that's great. But the last one and this one, Pastor, we're called to struggle, we're called to suffer. Oh, Pastor, I'm not sure about those I don't really want those, preacher. But beloved, it's part of the Christian life. Paul was told from the start That he would be c that he would have to suffer. In Acts chapter 9, verse 15 and 16, just after he was knocked off his his horse, just after he saw the light and recognized Jesus as Lord. He was told, But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and children of Israel, for I will show him how great things He must suffer for my namesake. Paul knew it from the start. Beloved, the early Christians, the early believers. They knew and endured such suffering as we can't even imagine. As you read the pages of scripture or walk down the history books and you read about what they endured. It is so heart-wrenching and sometimes even hard to read as we think about the suffering that they went through. In the book of Philippians, he says, For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his Sink. There's going to be some suffering that we go through. The word of God tells us about these saints, and the history books tell us about these saints who were Literally thrown to the lions. As onlookers watched them being torn asunder and cheered They watched as Christians were brutally murdered in the arenas. Men and women alike were used as human torches by Nero, hung on stakes and lit on fire to light his gardens. The torture of these things is hard to even read about How can this torture be something that God would want a Christian to go through? How could suffering be something that God would look for us? How can it be a gift? He says, for unto you is given. On behalf of Christ, not only to believe, but to suffer. We talk about the free gift of salvation, to believe on Jesus Christ, and praise God for that gift, to believe on Him. But it's also a gift to suffer. How is that possible? Well, I want you to see, secondly, the function. The function of suffering, beloved, your suffering is not arbitrary, it's not meaningless, it's not just gonna happen. This fact of the matter is, is God has a plan. There's a purpose. There's a reason for each thing that goes on in your life. And Romans 8. 28 is still in the book. Romans 8. 28 is still true for you and I today. We see a great biblical example of suffering in the life of Joseph And all that Joseph endured. In Genesis chapter 50 and verse number 20, he says, But as for you, ye thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now you know the story of Joseph. You know what Joseph went through and how he was sold into slavery and then imprisoned and over and over again beaten down and locked up and taken advantage of and every opportunity he got it seemed like it was the the carpet was just ripped out from under him You know the story, you know he's standing here before his brothers. And he has perfect peace in his heart and harmony with God. And he says, Listen, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. You see, he recognized and understood that God had a plan That there was a reason, that there was a purpose for what he was going through. And I want you to see this morning a couple of things re regarding the function of Suffering in our life. First of all, I want you to know that suffering prompts you to stop doing that which is not good for you Suffering prompts you to stop doing that which is not good for you. Romans Revelation 3. 19 says, As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten Hebrews 12, verse number 6, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. Beloved, sometimes our suffering is because God's trying to get our attention. To get us to stop doing something that we shouldn't be doing. Does that make sense? That's the fact. Many times we're headed down the wrong road, and God's trying to get our attention. You should be glad this morning that your Heavenly Father loves you enough to chasten you. That He loves you enough to bring some suffering in your life. That you might stop heading down that road and look up and say, Yes, Lord. Turn back to Him. For friend, what is it a child says who's given free reign? He gets to go and do whatever he wants to do. Gets to go wherever he wants to go. Gets to act a fool all over town. Maybe he's picked up the police and he's asked by the police. Where are your parents? He says, I don't know He says, why don't your parents why do your parents let you run all over like this? What do they say? Mom and dad, what? Don't care What they're saying is my mom and dad don't love me enough to give me some guidelines, to give me some boundaries To keep me in check. They don't care what I do. They don't care about me. Beloved, your heavenly Father cares about you. And when he sees us heading down the wrong road, he's going to bring some suffering into our life that we might pause and turn and come back to him before it's too late. Every one of us should be glad we have the ability to feel pain. You know one of the biggest problems with leprosy is that it dulls the senses. It removes from them the ability to feel pain. They can, from what I've read, they can smash their foot and wouldn't know it. They can cut themselves and not even realize it. Many times they end up dying long before the leprosy would kill them because of other injuries that happened to their body because they couldn't feel any pain. Beloved, thank God for the suffering that He brings to bring us back to Him. It stops us. The psalmist said, Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now have I kept thy word. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. I mean, I'm a parent and I've got young kids, so that that verse just so vivid for me. Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now have I kept thy word. Is that not what happens? We're out running around, being children, kids, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. You're like, what were you thinking? I don't know But after they're afflicted, they remember. They say, oh, now I will keep thy word. Yes. And that's what Jesus, God, does for us because He loves us. Suffering, beloved, prompts us to stop doing that which we shouldn't do. Suffering prepares us for that which God wants us to do. God brings things into our lives to prepare us for tomorrow. The psalmist also says: it is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. It is good for me that I've been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. God brings things into our lives to prepare us for tomorrow, for what we need to do. Understand, Joseph was a slave before he ever became a statesman. Joseph was a slave. He says in 50, verse number 19 to his brothers, he says, Fear not, I'm in the place of God. He said, I'm right where God wanted me to be. And I believe you could talk to Joseph and oh, maybe not every single day down in the dungeon, he would be saying, I'm in the place of God. But I believe it's the heart truth that he understood. And as God took him through these things, he understood God was preparing him for what was to come. What is God preparing you for, Christian? What are you going through today that God is preparing you for for tomorrow? You say, I don't know yet, Pastor. Well, can you have faith and trust that God is preparing you? Can you just trust Him to know that there is a plan, there is a purpose? You see, if Joseph had remained in the comfort of his father's home, he and his family And millions of others would have died. Say, oh, it would have been much nicer if Joseph could have just stayed at home with his dad. You realize they would have died? But God was preparing them for what he needed. David was a malefactor before he became a monarch. Elisha was a pupil before he became a prophet. I think about Mary, who had to be a reproach before she She could carry the sun. Moses who walked forty years in the back of the wilderness before he could leave God's People. You see, God has preparing ground for us. And sometimes that includes some suffering. It prepares us for what God has for us for tomorrow, not only your suffering Prepares you and prompts you to stop, but it also promotes God. Look in 1 Peter chapter 4, if you would, another passage that deals with suffering in 1 Peter 1 Peter chapter 4, look down at verse number 15 and 16. I would encourage you this month to look through 1 Peter and just read the passages that deal with that suffering or suffering. But he says here in verse number 15, he says, but let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody. in other men's matters. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. have. Beloved, one of the most amazing things that we can do is in our suffering, glorify God. Glouc You know it's easy for anybody to say God is good when the sun is shining. It's easy to say, Man, God has been so good to me when things are going good and when the bills are paid and When the heat's on in the house and the children are happy and and everybody's smiling, it's easy to say God is good But, beloved, when we have the power to have a testimony before a lost and dying world about the gracious goodness of our God, is when we're going through a struggle, when we're going through suffering. I myself don't even feel like I should be preaching this message. Because I don't feel that I've had to endure such suffering that would make the weight of this message very effective. I feel like God's been so good to me. I mean what w where have I suffered? I'm not just talking about going without a meal. Or not getting as many hours as you were wanted, or maybe having to find a new job. I'm talking about real suffering. Getting a phone call that you or somebody you love has been diagnosed with cancer. I remember Sitting with Doug Griffin in the hospital as he was going through chemo treatments. Where the cure is worse than the illness Where they they're hoping that the cure kills the cancer before it kills you. Where that chemo just destroys your body. And I sat there with him and I taught him how to play phase 10 there as he's getting his chemo treatments or talking. In the middle of that, Doug had a smile on his face, and he said, I just praise God. That he allowed me to have this time with my family. If God takes me home, it's okay because God has given me this time to prepare. God has given me these months to say goodbye to my children and to my wife. He's given me this ability to prepare for the future. He's allowed me. I didn't go just like that. Oh, I've had some sickness, but man, God has been good. You see, and when you're going through real suffering, is when you have the ability to truly glorify God. It promotes God. Mary and Mother had to endure the suffering of the loss of Lazarus, their loved one. Why? The Bible tells us very clearly in John 11, verse number 4, he says, when Jesus Heard this, he said, Thy sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, the Son of God might be glorified thereby. Lazarus had to die that God would be glorified. And there's things in our life that we go through that we could But by the grace of God be used in a magnificent and powerful way to impact our loved ones, those nearest, our neighbors, and even all nations with the glory of God. If we would just view it from his eyes and see it and be able to trust him in it. Wow. Beloved, let me give you lastly this morning the fulfillment of suffering. How do you go through suffering and actually succeed Succeed in getting what God wants you to get, in being the kind of testimony God wants you to be, in coming out the other side victorious instead of a failure How is that possible? Well, there's a way to do it, and we have here in our text an example given to us by Jesus Christ. He says in verse 21, he says, For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. That you should follow his steps. Beloved, if we're going to fulfill the suffering of our life and be successful, we've got to do it as Christ did. You see, beloved, the same sun that melts butter hardens clay. And it's not the sun, it's the condition of the element the sun is shining on. And it's not the suffering that you're going through, it's not the particular trial that you're facing, it's not that particular burden that you're carrying. It's the condition of your heart as you're carrying it, of how you're going to handle it. Christ gave us an example. Of great suffering. Is not the very symbol of Christianity the cross? And is not the cross actually a symbol of suffering? But when Christ was crucified unjustly Weirsby said this: Every life has its Gethsemane. You remember Gethsemane for Christ? That garden where he swept as though it were drops of Blood. He was in such agony. He says, every life has its Gethsemane, but praise God, every life has its glory It's glory. We can come through suffering and glorify God if we handle it the way God handled it. I want you to see in verse number 22, we first see that He sent Sin not in word or in deed. In verse number twenty-two, he says, this example that he left us, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. He went through suffering and he sinned. Listen, beloved, I can't tell you how many Christians have used their suffering as an excuse to get out of church. They use some burden, some trial that they're going through, and say, oh Pastor, I just can't go to church right now because I'm going through this, or I'm just gonna not I I'm done with it, I'm giving up on God, and I'm quitting because it's not fair that I had to endure this. And instead of coming through their suffering victoriously and honoring God, they came through as a failure and defiled the testimony of God. Don't use your suffering as a purpose or a cause or a motivation or a license to sin. He Christ went through this suffering and he said did no sin. Man beloved, if we're going to be that kind of and follow his example, we've got to keep from sinning in our suffering. How many times does suffering come and we just throw it all to the wind and say, oh, forget it. Now I'm going to stop trying and give up. Neither was there guile found in his mouth Isaiah 53, verse number 7 says, He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was brought before the lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shears is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. You know, sometimes the sin we do is it with our mouths when we're going through suffering. Many times we take it out on our loved ones. The one we love most in the world gets the brunt of our abuse because of something they had nothing to do with. Because some bill came or or something, you know, some unexpected tragedy, a flat tire, or the car broke, or whatever, and so you're upset So the people close to you are are keeping their distance because right now the hurricane's going. You know, you're out of control We sin with our mouths in the middle of suffering, declaring all of these things, but Christ did not. He didn't strike back either. In verse number 23, he says, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. You know, he didn't he didn't threaten. This is so contrary to our our world today where we want the last word, right? You know, somebody said, Do you want the last word or do you want to be married? You know. Which which which which do you prefer? because you can't have both. But we want the last word. We want to say well say our peace. Yeah. He threatened not. Look at the last part of verse number twenty-three. I want you to see this. I think this is the heart for you and I, what we need to do, he says, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously. Jesus, who was God in the flesh, committed himself to the Father. All of this unjustice was taking place upon him And he didn't fight back, he didn't declare his innocence, he didn't pronounce cursings upon all of them. He committed himself, he said, God the Father, I trust you. You. Whatever I'm going through, there's a purpose, there's a plan, there's a reason, and I believe that. And I I'm just going to not try and defend myself. I'm not going to try and raise up these, I'm not going to try and get even. I'm just going to trust you, God. I'm going to commit myself to you, the one that judges righteously, the one that knows it all. He knows what you're going through. He knows how unfair the situation is You don't have to try and explain it to everybody because your Heavenly Father knows exactly what it is. Listen, beloved, can you trust the Father? We just looked at this this morning, the last saying from the cross in Sunday school. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, unto thy hands I commend my spirit. And he gave up the ghost. He said, I'm going to trust you, God. I'm giving my life to you. Whatever you want to do. Can you trust him this morning? 1 Peter 4, verse number 19, wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God Commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator. That's a powerful verse. You ought to look at it later 1 Peter 4. 19. If you're going to suffer, can you commit your soul to the faithful Creator? Could you just trust him? Could you do that? Say, God, I'm just going to trust you. This is hard. I'm not sure why. I don't understand it. I don't see light at the end of the tunnel. I sure don't under don't see a purpose. But I'm going to trust you, God, that there is a purpose and that you're preparing me for something I pray you would help me to get it so that I can come through this victorious. You can rejoice. As a partaker of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding Joy. So beloved, suffering. We're called to suffer. Not very exciting. Maybe a little disheartening. But we have in our suffering the ability to To bring glory to God in a way that is not available any other place of our lives to bring honor and glory to Him. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed this morning? How are you handling your suffering, Christian? How are you dealing with the test or the trial or the burden that you're going through? Are you bitter? Are you mad at God? Are you full of self-pity? Are you looking for revenge? Are you willing to just trust God so that you can make it from a slave to a statement? So you can realize the full potential that God has for you in your life, to be all that God wants you to be