Uh let's read this together aloud uh on the screen or in your own text there, Romans eight twenty-eight. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for today and the opportunity of in your house. We thank you for the privilege that is mine to preach the Word of God this morning. I ask you, Lord, that you'd be with each and every person present. That Lord you would allow us to put the burdens and cares of the world, the heaviness that's on our hearts and minds. Aside for a moment and allow us to concentrate on the message from your word as we contemplate the topic, Lord, hear that all things work together for good. Lord, and it's an area of our life where we are indeed to press on in our faith and belief in you as an all-good God. And we praise you for it, Lord. We ask you to guide through the service in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You can be seated. This is the theme of our year is press on, press on. Each month we're looking at a new area that we're to press on in. And this morning with our text verse, this idea contained in this verse for our theme is the idea that we're to press on in the area of submission. Pressing on in the area of submission, and we're going to get into that and explain it with regards to this verse and an understanding of it here this morning. But I want you to see first We're just going to walk through the verse, give you some things. First of all, I want you to see the confidence of the saint. The confidence that the saint should have. We are to be confident in our God. He says, and we know. And we know. I'm glad that we have a no-so salvation, aren't you? I'm glad that we know God is there. There's not a question, and we know that God is in control, and we know that we can trust Him. It's not a maybe or a suppose so. Somebody told me that in Darwin's Origin of the Species, over 800 times he says, and we suppose At least he was honest. That they really don't know. It's just an idea. And I'll tell you what, when you're trying to explain the world without God, one idea is as good as another. It's just an idea. It's just a theory. And he says over and over and over again, we suppose. But I'm glad this morning that we can know God. Amen? That word is the same word used over there in 1 John 5. 13, where he says, My mind just went blow Yeah, these things have been written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know that ye have eternal life. You can know it. You don't have to wonder or question You can know it beyond a shadow of doubt, 100%. Not way I hope I make it to heaven one day. I'm trying real hard. No, you can know it You don't have to wonder. We have confidence as a saint. We know that God is in control. Hey, Paul was confident. He said in 2 Timothy 1 in verse number 12, he says, For that which cause I also suffered these things. Nevertheless, I'm not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed. And I am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. I know not why God's wondrous grace to me He hath made known Nor why unworthy Christ in love redeem me for his own But I know I have believed in and am persuaded that he is able to To keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. I'm glad there's a lot of things we might not know, we might not understand, we might not see. But we can know God's in control. He said that that song goes on and says, I know not how this saving faith to me he did impart, nor how believing in his word wrought peace within my heart. I know not how the Spirit moves, convincing men of sin, revealing Jesus through the Word, creating faith in Him. I know not what of good or ill may be reserved for me, of weary ways or golden days, before his face I see. See, I know not when my Lord may come at night or noonday fair, nor if I walk the veil with him, or I'm gonna meet him in the air. There's a lot of things we don't know, but we know in whom we believed. And I hope today as a saint you have that kind of confidence. One night there was a fire in the home of a man, a individual in his family, and he was able to get his wife and A couple of his younger children out and down the stairs and out the front of the house, but his a little bit older son uh was in the room all the way upstairs by himself and he had climbed out his window. The house was engulfed in flames and He climbed out his window onto the roof. And his dad saw his son up there on the roof and he was calling to him and saying, Jump! Jump! And the boy looked down, the flames and the smoke was so thick the boy could not see the ground. He says, Daddy, I can't see the ground. Daddy, I can't see you And Dad said, It's okay, son. I see you, and that's what matters. Beloved, you might not see, but God sees you. God sees you and that is what matters. You can be confident. Why? Because we have a commitment from the Savior. We have a commitment from the Savior. I know, what does he know? That all things work together for God I know that all things work together for good. Now it would be foolish, and I think anybody here with a half brain understands that not all things are good. Not all things are good. It's not good that a little boy named David would have leukemia and would have to go through this pain and this suffering. It's not good that he would have to have a spinal tap. But that spinal attack would work for his good. And all things work together for good. Oh, not just advantage But also adversity. Not just the blessings, but also the burdens. Not just the comforts, but also the controversy. Not just the friends But also our foes, not just the pleasures, but also our pain. Not just sweetness, but also the sour All things work together for good. As saints were to have a confidence in our God and trust and believe and know that all things work together for good. Hey, people a lot smarter than me said that this is written in the active voice. You know, in the original languages. They said it's in the active voice in the present tense, which I had to keep reading to find out what that meant. Oh okay. What does that mean? Well that means that it's something that is continually happening. It is continually taking place. It's that all things Works, continually working together for good. That God is currently, presently, right now, working out all things for your good. Much like an anesthesiologist who watches over a patient when they're put under for a surgery The anesthesiologist is watching, monitoring the patient. All of his vital signs to make sure everything is correct. His blood pressure is at the right place. His oxygen intake is correct. That that everything is just right. Does he need more oxygen? Does he does he need more anesthesia? Does he and through the whole process the anesthesiologist is monitoring and making minute adjustments. adjustments to make sure that that patient gets through that surgery safely. God is presently Monitoring you, presently working things out in your life for your good. During a San Francisco earthquake, one saint of God whose house was just damaged greatly was standing out in front of the house and she had a big smile on her face Her neighbor walked over and says, How can you be smiling in with this mess in front of you? And she says, I just was sitting here thinking about how glad I am. I've got a God that can shake the world Hey, has God shaken your world recently? Has God shaken some things up in your world recently? Listen. You can know that he's in control. Do you see his hand in it? Like Joseph. You remember that story of Joseph? When his brothers sold him into slavery? Remember many, many years later when his brothers came back and they were there before him? And he looked down at them and he says, You meant to for evil. But God meant it for good. I don't know what in your life you look at and say this has got to be evil. You can Can know that God can work it out for good. Whatever it is. Do you see the hand of God? I want you to understand that not only do we as Christians Saints, the we have confidence. Not only is our confidence in the fact that we have a commitment from our Savior, but beloved, we need to understand that there's a condition To this statute. There's a condition to the statute. He says, to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose, there's a twofold condition. Uh condition here, a two-fold condition to them that love God and to them that are called according to his statute. You know, we like to quote the first part of that. All things work together for good. But many times we forget the condition. You know, the Word of God is full of promises for us. But the majority of those promises. Are they contained in one verse? And I learned all the way back in Bible school they're called condition promise verses. Because you have a promise that thy days may be long upon the earth. But the condition is what? Honor you. your mother and father. Yeah, you can have a long life, but you've got to honor your mother and father. There's a promise. He will keep thee in perfect peace. Ah, but what's the condition? He whose mind is stayed upon thee. So there's condition promises, and here this morning we have a promise, we've got a commitment from the Savior that things in our life are going to work out for good. And hey, how many of you here want to want that promise to apply to your life? Amen. Amen. I want that promise to apply to my life. Then we must meet the condition. So I ask you this morning, are you part of the community that says here to them that love God? To them that love God. This is the first and greatest commandment. Jesus saith unto him: that thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. I'm not saying, do you know that God exists? I'm not saying, are you glad to go to church on Sunday when it's convenient? I'm saying, do you have a passionate love for your Savior? Do you love God? All things work together for good to them that love God Do you love him? Hey, do you remember when you first got married? We had some newlyweds here on Thursday night for our service. They were all over each other. They are like he's getting nothing out of this message, man. He is too into her right now. No, he was taking notes. When the message started, he was he was taking his notes. And he was focusing on the word. But through the song service, he was in another place. Newlyweds, man, they were in love. Do you remember when you were in love? Do you remember when when when it when you wanted to be there with her? You kids don't even know what love is. What are you What are you guys laughing at All down here laughing. Some of their hearts are I mean when you wanted to be with her, you guys could be sitting down eating dinner somewhere and the restaurant could be burning down and it It wouldn't matter because you guys were just into each other. I mean when you you you were just you're like, man, I missed it already. And you just hung up the phone? I mean you just hung up. How can you possibly miss her already? But you just you you missed her already. Why you wanted to be with her or you wanted to be with him. You had a love for them. Do you love God like that? Do you miss it when you don't get to get into the Word? Do you just go through the day saying, man, something's missing? Man, I just haven't, I didn't get to get with God this morning. I didn't get to spend any time with Jesus today. Well, I can't wait till this evening when I can get back to the house and open the love letter from Jesus and spend a little time reading his word. Do you miss him? Do you love him like that? Do you love have that kind of passionate relationship with your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Oh, there's numerous jokes about what happens to a relationship after a few years We had the couple here on on sun on Thursday night and we got another four-year and I looked at him and I said, So how long have you been married? There was no question in my mind they hadn't been married long. But why is it after a number of years we can be like, well, they've been married a while? Oh sadly, you hear it more and more today. People say Oh, I just don't love him anymore. Oh, I fell out of love. That's a whole nother message for another time dealing with your relationship. This morning, what discourages me is Christians that fall out of love with God. God said in Revelation, I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast Has left thy first love. Do you remember when your love for God was passionate and strong? When you just longed to get into the house of God and you just looked for the Fellowship of God's people, and you just wanted to hear the singing, the praises to Him, and how it just lifted your heart. But now that's all old hat. Oh. Yeah, I know. I've been doing this for years. Have you lost that love for God? Listen, all things don't work together just because you come to church. All things don't work together for good just because you're a Christian. The conditions are given to us here very clearly. First of all, all things work together for good to them that love God. Well, I want things to work out in my life. How about you? Amen. I think it behooved me to make sure that my love for God is fresh and passionate and strong and upfront, that I love the Lord my God with all my heart, with all my soul, and with all my mind. A The second condition is the call that we see here. He says To them who are the called according to his purpose. Here's where we get to the idea of submission. You see, God has a plan for your life God has a purpose for your life. He has something he wants to make you into. Something he wants you to do. So are you Are you willing to submit to His will for your life? To His plan. God, I'll do whatever you want. Oh, I didn't mean that, Lord. Lord, my whole life is yours. But then you lose your car and you're. God, I don't know why this is happening to me. Life is not fair. Was it God's car or your car? Are you willing whatever whatever God whatever God has? Whatever, Lord. My life, Lord, is yours to control. We can sing the song, but are we living it? Are we really truly willing to submit to God and say whatever you want, Lord? You say, well God, I didn't I didn't know I was gonna have to say goodbye to my loved one. God, I didn't know I was going to have to endure this pain. But can you trust Him? Can you know that God's work Things for good in your life. You have that no-so, you have that I know, that confidence of the Saint, that what God is doing to you, He is doing For you. You've got to submit to that. Just like a physical therapist who would take you And you subject yourself to his brutal torture. How many of you have been through any type of physical therapy? They they they they they take you and they're like uh Miss Leanne you gotta bend that knee. You gotta bend it, you gotta oh look, nope, that's not far enough, you gotta bend it more than that, and you're sitting there with tears coming out of your eyes and It hurts, it hurts, and they keep telling you to push harder and to work harder. That physical therapist is working you and you may be even mad at them But there's something in your mind that you understand and you know that what they're doing is for your good. And why is it, Christian, that we can, on a practical level, understand that? But then we question what God brings into our life. As though God would bring something into our life that was not for our good. Does that make sense? We are called to fulfill God's plan for our lives, and beloved, God has a plan for each and every one of us. We are called to submit to that plan. Whatever God wants, whatever His will is, God is working His plan in you. In Philippians 3. twenty-one he says, Who shall change our vile body that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the work whereby he is able to subdue all things? unto himself. Listen, God's molding a masterpiece in you. We say, Oh God, I don't like that pressure But can you submit with the understanding that what God's doing is for your good? As Christians, we're called to press On in our level of submission. Oh, we like the first part of the verse. All things work together. Whatever comes, all things work together for good. It's going to be okay. Forget the condition to them that love God, and to them that are called according to His purpose, not our own, but God's purpose for us. I work to uh, as any parent does, I work to try and shape and mold my kids into respectable human beings. And I'm failing miserably. No, I'm just kidding. I'm trying to help them be all that they can be for God, be responsible, productive citizens, and good Christians. You know, I don't always get it right as a parent. I remember one time when Melissa was a baby. How many of you have been in church here for a long time? You remember that pink blanket Melissa had she went everywhere with? She was like Linus, man. She had that blanket everywhere. She went everywhere with that blanket. Now you have to understand in our in our in our home none of my kids had any type of security blanket. They never had anything that they had to have. And I just decided one day, like if they were on a sa pacifier, I would say, okay, today you're done. We're taking the pacifier, we throw it away, they never got it back. That's just the way it was. Well Melissa was Born uh basically two weeks before we moved. And we were living with a two-week-old baby for six months. Obviously, the baby got older. older, but we lived on the road in a U-Haul. We were in different hotels. We were at grandma's house, we were at her uncle's house, we were all over. So the only thing that she had was a blanket That went with her everywhere she went. Well, one day we were visiting a church family and we loaded up the car. It was late. We got in the car and we're driving home. And Mary says to me, she says, hone, we left Melissa's blanket there. And I'm like, So she'll be all right. She'll live. It's just a blanket Well that night, not only did Melissa not sleep, but neither mom or I slept. When I got up in the morning I told m I told Mary, I says, I'll pick up the blanket on the way back from work. She'll have the blanket tomorrow, for sure. You know, I don't I don't always get it right As a parent, there's some times when my my kids need encouragement that I criticize them. There's some times when they need help and I tell them, figure it out by yourself. It'll build character. Amen. There's sometimes that that that I get it wrong, but beloved, what I'm saying to you this morning is that God never gets it wrong. God knows what we need and he knows exactly when we need it and we can trust him even though we can't see him when he says jump We say, okay, God, and we jump through the fire and the smoke to endure whatever's there because we know that Jesus will catch us. We can trust Him. Him. He gets it right every time. Beloved, can you submit to God? To his will? It's a condition. Dr. Morris Hunzucker wrote this about this passage. He says all things work together for good Not always as we hoped they would, but in his purpose as they should. All things work together for good. This truth the saints have understood. For those who love God as they should, who in his strength through trials have stood. They know all things work together for good. On the mission field and in the neighborhood, on sunny plains and in the darkest of wood, he works for us. He said he would, that all things would be Work together for good. Can you submit to God's plan, to his all things? I'm gonna ask the piano to make our way this way for a moment of invitation. And as we conclude, let me just remind you that we I I I gave you that stipulation about how the first condition is to them that love God. Do you love God this morning? Do you have a relationship with God? You see, God loves you. God loves you enough that He sent His Son To die for you. God extended his love to you and he calls you to love him. But you have to respond. It's up to you. God's love has been extended, but you've got to respond to his love. In April 1988, there was a TV reporter who was also an accomplished skydiver, and he combined his two loves And they were doing a report live on television of a nationally known, maybe U. S. team, I don't remember exactly, but a team Team of skydivers. And this reporter jumped out of the plane with the rest of the skydivers and had his camera rolling, and he's filming them live on television. This this person pulled his chute and pfft he his descent slowed by the capture of all that air. He's going through and giving these guys its names and watching each of them pull their shoot, each of them pull their shoot, pff, pff, pff, pfft, they're all and then all of a sudden And the news reporter at the station let everybody know live on television That the cameraman jumped out of the plane without his airport, without his parachute That he died. You see, he jumped out of that plane with without hesitation. He had complete faith in that parachute. He had faith in the parachute He probably didn't even give it a second thought because he had jumped out of so many planes and he was there to film and he jumped out and he was filming he probably was flying down thinking this is awesome, look at these shots and he's going down, the last guy pulled his chute and then he reached For his cord and realized he forgot to put his chute on. But I'm saying, beloved, is There are so many people that know God has the power to save their soul, but they have never put the shoot on. God loves them and they know that and they know about God. But beloved, after we pass away you'll be reaching for the That ripcord, you'll be reaching for that, that, and you say, I know God loves me, but you've never put on his love. Romans 13:14 says, put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not about how much you know about God, but have you put your faith and trust in Him. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to His purpose.