Uh I have told you my text verse. It's uh first Timothy chapter six and verse number twelve. Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also Called. As you know, we've been looking this year, every single month, at a different area. The Christian is called to press on. A Christian is called to continue on and to do more and to accomplish more. more for the cause of Christ. And this is an area where we see uh we're called to to fight the good fight of faith. In fact, this is a theme Not just for us today or for this month, but this kind of idea was a theme for the Apostle Paul. This idea that as Christians We were going to need to struggle. As Christians, we would have to put up a fight. We would have to be strong in character. For us to accomplish our duty as Christians, for us to do that which God wants us to do, it's going to take some intestinal fortitude. It's going to take a level of personal commitment. To follow Christ, to take up our cross, to do what he wants us to do. The Apostle Paul, as I said, this was a theme of his, he said in 1 Corinthians 9:27 twenty six, I therefore so run, not as uncertainty, so fight I, not as one that beateth the air He says, boy, I'm fighting this. Of course, in our text, he says, fight the good fight of faith. In 2 Timothy. Chapter 4 and verse number 7, that familiar verse where he says, I have fought a good fight. I finished my chorus. I've kept the faith. And dearly beloved, I hope that each and every one of us desire in our heart to one day be able to stand there with Paul and say, I fought a good fight. I've kept the faith. Yes, things were hard. Yes, there was a struggle. Yes, there were some challenges, but I kept going for God. I'll tell you what, according to the dictionary, dictionary. com, the word fight means a battle or combat. Any contest Or struggle. A struggle. So this morning, I'm bringing to you a message where I want to encourage you to press on As Christians, we are called to struggle. Called to this fight What I'm saying is that the Apostle Paul, that great servant of Christ, he's telling us right up front. He's telling us from the get-go It's going to be a battle. It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. Run if you want to, run if you will, but I came here to stay It's a fight. The Apostle Paul warns the Christian that it's not a cakewalk, the Christian life. It's a challenge. There are struggles that we have to deal with. And we're called to stand in the power of his might on this journey that we are each and everyone on. A journey that will include some hardship. We will have to endure some struggle. We will have to have a level of commitment to be faithful. To our Lord. Would you ask God to speak to your heart as I pray to preach this message this morning? Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to gather in your house. We thank you for the privilege that's my name. Lord, I stand once again before your people, an unworthy vessel. Lord, incapable of adequately communicating. the the powerful message of your word. But dear Lord, we know that the Holy Spirit can do what I cannot. And I pray God that the Holy Spirit would come and Meet each and every person here, where they're at, in their hour of need, whatever their heart is struggling with. And dear Lord, I pray that you would use this time together in your for your honor and glory. Amen. I think you understand and know this morning that we're not talking about physical altercation. As we're talking about fighting as Christians, we are not talking about fighting one another. We're not talking about getting into into a fist fight with somebody over a shopping cart at the shopping center. I mean that that's not what we're talking about. The Apostle Paul even says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness. What we're talking about is the fact that we as Christians we are in a spiritual battle. We are in a spiritual fight. And this is something that we uh you know have to understand, be aware of. And be committed if we're going to be victorious. Paul stands as an amazing example. Of one who struggled but remained faithful. And he regards for us in the Word of God his innermost thoughts. We get to see this great saint of God, and we get to see him when he's fulfilling God's call on his life, and when he's struggling in his own heart and mind about where he's at and what's going on. Sometimes we think in our mind we're the only one dealing with this. We're the only one that feels this way. But beloved, I praise God for the fact that for us, even Paul tells us exactly the battle that raged in his heart. And that he fought with. So this morning, first of all, I want to give to you the reality of the struggle. I certainly don't need to spend too much I mean there's the the reality of it is that there is a struggle, but first of all I I just want to talk to you about some of the things that we struggle in and maybe bring them back to your mind. Remind you of them and encourage you to either surrender or to continue to to fight the fight. And one of the areas that that that the struggle in the Christian life begins, it it literally begins at the very beginning. It literally begins at the start of the Christian life, and that is with salvation, with making a choice for Christ, because Satan stands against against any who would want to come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and there is a struggle that takes place in the heart and mind of one who God is calling, God is wooing, God is saying, put your faith and trust in me And yet in the heart of man there begins a battle, doesn't there? There begins to be a battle, like, oh no, I don't want to do that. I'm not ready to do that. I have known so many people over the years who know the truth. They know all they need to do is put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in Him alone. They need to ask him for forgiveness of their sins and they realize Jesus paid to pay sin's debt for them. And yet they'll say, I'm not ready. Not yet. Not now. In our text, the phrase comes there, lay hold on eternal life. There's a couple things, but that mindset is first of all, there has to be a time when you grabbed it. You don't just have eternal life. Because you happen to be in a Christian home, or because you happen to go to church on a regular basis, there has to be a day or an hour where you lay hold on eternal life. And I'll tell you what, this world, there's so many people that are trying to lay hold on eternal life in all kinds of ways. They try and lay hold on eternal life by practicing religion in all sincerity, in all consistency, they they practice their religion in an effort to lay hold on eternal life. Well, in Chico, California, there was a man arrested, suspected of stealing and eating the cremated remains of four people. In hopes of attaining everlasting life. Rodney Hines, of 36 years of age, told the police that he snorted some of the ashes And sprinkled the remains on his food because he wanted to live forever. There is people in this world that are doing every type of extreme thing you can think of to lay hold on eternal life. You see, there is that struggle, there's that battle in the heart of man to just surrender and give up to God and trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior who has paid sin debt for you. It seems so simple, yet isn't it a struggle for so many? Because Satan is is blinded their eyes, or Satan is blind It's pulling them back. They don't want to give up. Even this morning, as we talked about the thief on the cross, there was one there who believed. And the other, who literally was facing death, I mean it was imminent. It was right there. He knew he was going to die, yet he still rejected Christ. And sadly, there are so many in that situation today. We even know about the Apostle Paul. Who God was trying to get a hold of. And I don't know it the Bibles don't tell us exactly what God was doing in Paul's life to try and get a hold of him. to the place of making a decision for Christ, what kind of challenges he went through, what struggles he faced. But you know the story there in Acts chapter 9 when he finally was knocked down to the ground. And was blinded by a light from heaven where God finally got a hold of him and God looked at him and says, hey, isn't it hard for you to kick against the pricks? He says, I've been trying to get your attention for all this time. Aren't you tired of fighting me? Are you hearing what I'm saying? There's a battle that rages in the heart of men for their soul, and the difference is between an eternity in heaven and an eternity in hell. And you've just got to come to Jesus Christ and accept him as your Lord and Savior. That's when the struggle starts. And that struggle continues. I ask you this morning, does God have to blind you? Does he have to knock you down? What struggle does God have to bring into your life? What challenge would God have to bring into your life to get you to accept Him How far down will you have to go before you'll stop and look up to Jesus? You know, contrary to the prosperity preachers that are out there, salvation is not the end of all your problems. You know, everybody in the world faces problems. Christians have this woe is me. I'm a Christian. I shouldn't have to deal with this I love Jesus so I shouldn't have any problems. Everybody has problems. But you've got God's presence to help you You know, the only problem, and this is a big one, the only problem that goes away at salvation is that you're no longer an enemy of God. How old are you? See before salvation you were at enity an enemy of God. When you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you've been made a child of God. There's one big problem that's out of the way. Praise God for that. You know, there's another big difference. As I pondered this, I thought about how could I illustrate this for you guys? And I've asked these two young men to come up and help me illustrate this for you. Yes. Right now. To help to help me illustrate the struggle that's in the Christian life. It's just small areas, so don't get too carried away. So I've asked these two guys to spend a moment, not too aggressively, but I want them to wrestle for a second. So you guys go ahead and show us who's mad. Okay. Hold them down there. Don't get up. Hold them down there. Let me illustrate this. Don't dump them up. Okay, here's here's the situation. Both these guys are struggling right now, right? No, I'm the only one. Yeah. But here's the difference. He's struggling not to lose. And he's struggling to win. You and I are on the winning side. We're on the winning side. I'm not. Thank you. You guys can be you guys can go be seated. You see, that's where we're at as Christians. When you trust Jesus Christ, you get on the winning side. You you don't it's not that you're not ever going to have any more struggles, it's not that you're ever not ever going to be back in the battle. But you're on top. You're on the winning side, and it's just a matter of time Till we see the victory provided for us by God. Beloved, we struggle in this life. We struggle against sin. We struggle against the flesh We struggle against the world. We struggle against discouragement. We struggle against oppression. We struggle against anxieties. We struggle against fear We struggle in our life in so many areas. Paul said in Romans chapter 7, verse number 14. 18 He says, For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. For that which I do, I allow not For that which I would, that do I not. But what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that is good. Now then, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing For to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. You hear the Apostle Paul struggle there? He says, I'm saved. I love Jesus. I'm on my way to heaven and boy, I want to serve Him with all my heart. I want to never sin Again, I don't want to ever do anything wrong. I want to please God and I want to be, I just, oh, I'm on the winning side. Hallelujah. He says, but for some reason, this dirty old rotten flesh of mine keeps me I keep ending up over here. And I don't want to be over here. This is not what I want to do. I want to be serving God. I want to love Jesus. I want to praise his name. Why am I over here complaining? And depressed and discouraged. I'm on the winning side. I should be over here loving Jesus because God is good all the time, and all the time God is good. Why am I over here discouraged again? You guys hear Paul's struggle? The Apostle Paul, this great saint of God, tells us there's a struggle. We struggle in this life. We've got to struggle against this old flesh, against sin. We struggle against Satan. Satan is the tempter, the accuser of the brethren. He's going to do all he can. He walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And it's a struggle. Just just kick old Slew Foot in the mouth. It's a struggle to not let him have any victory in your life. We struggle against this world system. It just seems like we're challenged on every hand. If you love God at all and want to believe this book in any way and try and please God, boy, it seems as though the world system is just against you. I mean, what's wrong with wanting to tell the truth? Why is it so bad that I want to honor my mom and dad? Why is it so bad that I want to look like a lady instead of a whore? Why is it so bad? Why am I hated for that? Why am I hated because I just want to praise God? It doesn't make sense, but the world system is against you, and it's a struggle for you to please God because of that. Hey, it's a struggle, the suffering that comes into our lives. It's a struggle. Paul, that saint of God, you know he had a thorn in the flesh I tell people my thorn in the flesh is my memory. It never lets me go. I mean, man, if I could just remember stuff That would help a lot, you know. Well, I don't know what thorn in the flesh you have, I don't know what suffering you're enduring, I don't know what challenge you have in your life. But we We struggle. There's this reality. But even in the face of this struggle, beloved, we're on the winning side. And it's just a matter of time. We've got to press on. Because victory is ours. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. What is the reason for this struggle? The struggle that we face I mean, after all, I'm human, and I'm sure that all of you, like me, have just thought, Lord, okay, you're God. You could do anything. Why can't you just make it easier? Makes sense to me. I mean, why does it have to be so hard? I was talking to uh somebody this last week that was away from God and hadn't been in church in years, and a couple of Christians and I were trying to encourage him At Benita's funeral. Trying to encourage him and one of the other saints that was still in the church, he says, how is it that somebody Who was in church, who loved God, who wanted to please him. How can they get to this place? And I looked at him and I said, Because it's hard. It's hard to serve God. It's hard to continue to read your Bible. It's hard to continue to fight. It's a struggle. And sometimes we think, boy, it would just be easier. Just get up give up and go the way of the world. Just give up and go with the flow. It seems like it would be easier, but I want you to understand this morning that that's a lie of the devil. That's a deception that Satan has brought So what is the reason for this struggle? James chapter 1 and verse number 3 says, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience You know, the struggle's for your good. The struggle is for your good Now, some people in the world they struggle over perverse things. In your text there, are you in 1 Timothy chapter number 6? Look down at verse number 4. If you're still there in 1 Timothy chapter number 6, look at verse number 4 and verse number 5. We see he is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strife of words, whereof cometh envy Strife, railings, evil surmising. What's the next two words? Perverse disputings of men Of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness from such, withdraw thyself. Don't you see some people struggle over perverse things You see, you're not struggling just because you you love God and you want to do right. There's a struggle here too. With these that are doing perverse things. There's strife and envyings and all of these struggles and battles here for those that are trying to pursue these perverse things. There are some that struggle over gain, over profits. Look at verse number 10. He says in verse number 10, this most familiar verse here, for the love of money is the root of all evil, which, while some coveted after, they've erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with I mean we we we forget that part. You think about somebody who is dedicating their life and in and working so hard to gain and gain and gain and gain to get as much as they can What does the Bible say? They pierced themselves through with many sorrows. You see, they have a struggle too. But Christian, our struggles for our good. Every struggle that you are enduring brings new power. Just as every push-up builds strength and every mile run builds endurance. So the struggle against sin Builds strength as a Christian. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. That word patience actually Endurance. Beloved, with every successful victory, you'll find it easier to have more victory. But conversely, with every failure, you'll find it harder and harder So let me implore you to struggle for the victory because it does get easier To bring honor and glory to God. You know, with regards to the question about why doesn't God just make it easier, as I pondered that thought, I thought of this. You know, how many of you sent your kids to school? You made you made made your kids go to school and struggle to learn English? To learn science? chemistry and math. Every day was a struggle for them. Every test caused them to work. It was such a struggle. You are such mean parents You are so you are heartless. And then they finally see light at the end of the tunnel. They're 17, they're 18, and graduation is in view, they're looking at it and they're like, finally I get to stop this struggle. And you say, uh where are you going to college? Ah Uh I gotta enroll again? More struggle? It was for their good. Right? Beloved But it's for your good. The struggle we face in life is for our good. And sometimes we might not understand it, and sometimes it doesn't make sense. And we can say, How can this possibly be for my My good. I am never going to use algebra. Why should I bother studying this? And s you know, people a lot smarter than me say somehow there's benefit in it. I don't know. It doesn't make sense to me. But it expands the brain and it prepares You for further study to be able to do what's coming next. Every struggle we face is for our good, beloved. You know, there's a misconception in the world today. That those who give in to sin are happier than those who don't There's a misconception. There is the idea that the person who lives a life where he fulfills his appetites, where he gives in to his desires, where he just gets To do whatever he wants and just fulfills all of his own desires that somehow he's happier than the life of discipline and self-control. But you know when we think about it, that's 100% false. It is exactly the opposite. I mean, you go down to Skid Row And ask those who are living there if they wish five, ten, fifteen years ago they could have stopped Giving in to their appetite. Before they lost their family. Before they lost their home. Before they ended up where they're at today. If they could have stopped giving in to their appetites. You ask the drug addict, who's continued to satisfy that appetite and has lost everything Everything, including his own health. He's the most miserable person. Oh, there is a moment of pleasure when he gets that next shot, right? When he gets that next Fix. But then he hates himself. He's promised his family how many times he would quit You talk to the guy who's addicted to pornography, who experiences a moment of pleasure as he looks and partakes of that. But then Afterwards, his mouth is filled with gravel. The Bible says. Afterwards, he hates himself. He's kicking himself. He's so mad. He's like, why do I do this? Why do I do this? I don't want to do this. You see, there's so much more joy So much more satisfaction in having victory. Isn't there? Isn't there? Every struggle, beloved, brings new power Every struggle brings more purity. It is the plan of God that He would take away the dross. You're going through a trial of fire. It's God's plan to take away the dross. It's God's plan to remove those impurities, those things that don't need to be part of our lives, that we might, as Job said, come forth. as gold. So it's for our good. Every struggle we go through is for our good, but it's also for God's glory It's God's plan, and this is the duty of man. This is the the goal. This is our ambition as Christians to bring honor and glory to God. In 1 Corinthians 6, verse number 20, he says, For ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your your spirit which are God's. That's our that's God's plan for us. That's what we're supposed to do to glorify God. And every struggle gives us a new opportunity to glorify God. You're going to have to forgive me for the next couple of services. This is so fresh on my mind and such a part of my heart. For the Gene Sharp, he glorified God. As he said goodbye to his mate, who died unexpectedly in a tragic accident a little way over the house. week ago. In every opportunity, everywhere we were at, he said, this is an opportunity. He said, I'm going to keep using it as long as I can. I'm he he got on the phone. Listen, his sales rep You know, he buys a lot of equipment for these radio stations and he has sales reps from from all over the country from different states from different uh distributors of this equipment, this tech equipment. And his sales rep heard that Benita died. His sales rep called him and said, Hey I want you to come to Wisconsin. I'm going to put you up. I'm going to take care of you. I'm going to I'm going to uh I I wanna you know give you a break. You can come here, relax, you can stay at this place, whatever. Uh just I'm sleeping Sorry for your loss. And he took a few minutes on the phone with him right there, and he says the joy of it is Banita knew Jesus. And that's what our ministry is all about. is tell people about Jesus. He said, Eric, do you know Jesus? Benita would want me to tell you about Jesus He loves you and he died for you. But I'm saying is he went through, he's gone through this terrible, hard struggle, but in it, he's handling it in a way that brings honor and glory to God. That's our goal. That's our our job. In First Peter chapter four, verse number sixteen He says, yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on his behalf. We have. He said, if you're going through some suffering, don't be ashamed, but glorify God through it. Glorify God. Listen Even in our death we're to glorify God. In John chapter 21, Jesus was talking to Peter and he had that familiar discussion with him. about do you love me? And Peter says, yes, Lord, I love thee. He said, no, no, no, do you Peter, do you love me? And he said, yes, Lord, I love thee. And of course Jesus said, feed my sheep. And he said the third time unto him, Peter, lovest thou me more than these? And he said, Yes, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. And then he said Then Jesus tells Peter, this spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. He says, Peter, I'm just telling you right now, when you follow me, you're going to be killed for your faith in me. But I want you to know that it is with the goal that you would glorify God. He says, you're going to go through this, Peter. But it's to bring glory to me. And when he had spoken thus, he said unto him, Follow me. He said, Peter. You're going to die. Your death's going to bring glory to me. Now that you understand that, follow me. And Peter did follow the Lord That's the reason, beloved, that we have to struggle. I know it would be a lot easier if we didn't have to go to school I'm all for it. If we could avoid it, let's avoid it. But we gotta do it, don't we? We gotta do it. And that's what God does. He sends us to school for our good and for his glory. But beloved, ultimately there's a reward. There's a reward for us. For those who do endure the struggle. Look back in the text there in 1 Timothy chapter 6. Look down at verse number 3 13. He says, I give thee charge in the sight of God. Beloved, Jesus is watching. I give thee charge in the sight of God. Don't ever think that he's left you or he's forsaken you because he promised he would never leave you or forsake you. Don't ever think that you're all alone and that God isn't there and that He doesn't know what you're going through. God knows what you're going through. God knows what it is you're facing. God knows what struggle you're in and how hard it is and what kind of a battle it is for you Jesus is watching. He says they are in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontus Pilate witnessed a good Confession. Beloved, this should be a motivator for us. That Jesus is watching. He sees us. He knows what we're going through. Another thing, look at verse Verse number 14. We see here he says that thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebuked, until what? Jesus is coming again until the appearing of our Lord Jesus. Jesus is coming back. And listen, we're on the winning side. It's only a little bit of time. We've just got to struggle for a little longer. We've just got to keep in the fight for a little bit more. And we're going to see experience and know the victory given to us by God through Jesus Christ. Whether that's victory here or victory because Jesus has finally come again. You can have the victory if we just struggle. Stay in the battle. The reward, the victory, is ours. Jesus also is going to reward you. First Corinthians. Corinthians 9, 24 through 25. He says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain, and every man striveth for the mastery And is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I hope that in those verses I just read there you hear The Apostle Paul talking about how listen they're running too. They're struggling too. They're they're working hard too. But all that they've done is for nothing. It's empty. There's no meaning in it But what the Christian struggles for is for eternity. And we struggle to gain an incorruptible crown. What an amazing truth that Pastor Derrick brought out when he talked about the thief on the cross and had Jesus at that moment answered the thief's prayer and taken him down from the cross. He would have met every one of his needs right now here on earth. And maybe he would have lived for another day or maybe another ten years, but ultimately when he died, he would have died without a means of salvation. Would have died without Christ. And all that He did for him here on earth would have meant nothing. But by Jesus dying on the cross, he provided salvation for him. And gave a mate a way that he could go to heaven. Beloved, some people in the world, they look like they have a It all is just for today. If every single pain and every struggle we ever faced in life was removed. But without Jesus Christ, we went off into eternity without Christ. We haven't gained anything. I'd much rather have Jesus. I would much be struggling from the winning side. I would much rather be on top And struggle for the honor and glory of God and for our good instead of meaningless, endless, wasteful pursuits. That the world would have us struggle in. Beloved, could I implore you this morning to press on? As Christians were called to this struggle. Would you stand Everyone here is real familiar with the reality of the struggle. Every one of you are facing different things in your life. I can't Even begin to try and address or talk about every situation that you might be facing, what battle you might be enduring. But listen, there's a reason There's a reason for the struggle you're going through. It's for your good. Can you trust God in it? It's for God's glory. Can you magnify him in it? Can you remember that one day there's a a reward and just ask God for the strength and then commit to press on in the struggle.