Yeah, I'm going to change gears and uh get into this morning's message. It's been fun being in God's house this morning. I've enjoyed fellowshiping with many of you already. Uh we had a good Sunday school hour and God challenged us from Matthew chapter number 13. one of the kingdom parables. And for the next few weeks in Sunday school, we'll be looking at the parables, but this morning I want to talk to you about a city in crisis. a city in crisis. I'm sure that many of you are just like my wife and I, who uh for the last week and a half have really kind of been uh in awe or or in shock as we see the news reports come in. from uh Florida and beyond this Hurricane Michael that hit shore and uh just the destructive path the that it took, how you you see the aerial shots and and you look and you see these people's homes where they they once lived and and you you're able to to behold how just sometimes an entire block is is gone or this person's home is is destroyed completely all the things that they valued. And I'm sure as you look at that, you you're hit with several things. First of all, the awesome power of wind and water and how when it comes in, even the strongest of man made structures really uh could be just like a twig. I mean the wind was taking entire railroad cars full of stuff and just throwing them. Just tossing the r the the right off the tracks. Uh and this wind destroying these houses and and y I'm sure you see that and you're hit with the power of that and How uh uh uh awesome and and magnificent that is. But then at the same time your heart is broken and and you feel uh compassion for those that have had to endure this, those that left their homes. Those that uh had to get up and leave and and not having any kind of uh idea of what would be, what would happen, uh is there is it gonna my house gonna be here when I come back And even though they took measures to try and save maybe some of their most valuable possessions, you your heart can't help but be stirred when you see the news reports and You hear about a lady who came home and where her house was, there's nothing. It's literally it's just gone. It's it's just is a concrete slab. Everything else is is history. And you just hear about the stories of those that endured and went through this. There's some that tried to wait out the storm One man who was a Vietnam veteran talked about how he was in Vietnam. And Nam was pretty scary. They said it was it was unbelievable. He said, being in his house during that storm was worse than being in Vietnam. He said he'll never do anything like that again. It's the worst thing he ever went through. Sitting in his home. Well, his house the house next door was literally blown away, not knowing if he was going to survive or live through the day. As this hurricane, Class IV, Category IV hurricane. The first to hit the shores of Florida at Class IV since 1851 when they started reading keeping records. Came in. Winds in excess of 155 miles an hour. Over a million people. From Florida, Georgia, Alabama, and South Carolina without electric, without power. The insurance companies are estimating that the damages are in excess of eight billion dollars done. I know you can't look at those images and see those news reports without it touching your heart. Without you feeling for them. And as I considered that and thought about that, the Lord stirred my heart to preach on that this morning, a city in crisis. Our choir song that we sang this morning was very fitting. When the storms of life surround me And I seem to lose my way when I'm burdened down with sorrow, and the days are cold and gray. Then I call upon my Savior, who can all my burdens bear. And I leave the throne rejoicing, for I leave my burdens there. You see, this city in crisis. We see the pictures and we're able to Feel for those that experienced this extreme loss and hardship. The death toll now at, I believe, 19 people who lost their life in this tragedy. The question I have for them, if I could both ask it and then attempt to answer it this morning, is what do you do in the face of a crisis? What should you do when crisis comes and hits your life? Now you and I here all the way up in Maryland might not have to endure a category or class for hurricane. But crisis comes in our lives as well. Crisis hits us and faces us in many different facets or many different ways The crisis that arise in your life might be one of a financial thing, might be one of a loss of job, a loss of security, a loss of your personal health There might be a crisis that comes and that you face in your life, a loss of a loved one. What should you do and what should these people that are down in still in chaos because of the crisis that struck them? How should we respond? What should we do when we lose our security? We find here in our text the prophet Elijah in a moment of crisis. Let's read together our text. You follow along as I read aloud this passage of Scripture in 1 Kings chapter number 17. And we'll read verses one through seven together. He says, and Elijah the Tishbite. Who was of the inhabitants of Gilead said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years. But according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and thou hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there So he went and did according unto the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherit, that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening. And he did drink of the brook. And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. The brook dried up. Elijah here is facing a dried-up brook. His supply is gone. His security is gone. He doesn't know where he's going to get water tomorrow. There's a drought in the land This place where God told him to go, where he thought he was going to be taken care of, where he thought everything was going to be fine, he's looking now at this brook and it's dried up. Now I know that most of you here are familiar with this story, and you're familiar with the following chapters, and you and I get the benefit of knowing the rest of the story. But think with me, if you would, about Elijah at this time in his life. He did not know the rest of the story He did not know what was coming next. He did not know what would happen. He was facing a shortage. Not knowing where his next meal would come from, not knowing how he would live on. His brook had dried up. He was, as you would say, between a rock and a hard place. You know, up the creek without a paddle, in a boat that don't float. You know, he was in a rough place. Have you ever been there? If you haven't, you will be someday. What are you going to do when the brook dries up? Elijah sitting here watching this supply winter wither and dry Or think about this. Let me give you some lessons. I only have two points this morning. Some lessons that Elijah learned in the crisis. You know, there's some things that you'll learn in the crisis that you'll never learn anywhere else. There is some things that our Heavenly Father is able to teach us when we're going through a crisis that we will never learn, get a hold of, or glean in any other place. So let me give you some of the lessons that maybe Elijah learned as he went through this time of crisis. You see, his supply had dried up, but his supplier had. not. His supply had dried up, yes. But his supplier had not. It is true that he was standing for a brook that could no longer provide for him. But what you have to realize is what Elijah realized is that the brook is not what was providing for him. The brook is just the means, the method, the tool of which God, his heavenly father, was supplying his need. His supplier, his heavenly father, God had not passed away. God was still on the throne, and God could still meet his need Men today put their trust in so many things like a steady income. Oh, I'm doing okay. We feel strong and we feel successful and we have an income and we're doing all right and We kind of put God in the back of our mind and we we think, okay, I'm fine, or or they put their uh their security in the fact that they're capable, that they have health, and that they have vitality and they have strength and They're going to go and be able to go and earn what they need to earn and do what they need to do. But what happens when that's taken away? What happens when next week you find yourself on your back, unable to go to work, unable to meet the needs of your family? Your book dried up. But your book, what you've been relying on for your supply, you gotta realize is not where it came from. It came from God. You know it's amazing, people like these families down in Florida who've just endured this. And Georgia and North Carolina that have just endured it. It's amazing. People that would stand on their porch and say, I don't believe in God. I don't think there's a God. God's not in control. When they're faced with something like the magnitude of the storm It's amazing how many of them come to themselves and realize how weak and feeble we are outside of God. All the things that we have and all that we can do in our strength and all the ability that we have and all the money that we can earn and all the structures that we can build might as well be like spitting in the wind. When faced with the destructive force of a hurricane. Because it means One man on the news said he was in his home and the winds were so strong and he literally watched uh as uh trees were Were just ripped out of the ground. Trees were just snapped off like twigs, just broken right off. And there's just just standing up twigs standing there. And he said, I was in my house and I cried out to God. We gotta realize that our supplier is still there. The supplier is still there. When we realize that our supply, and therefore our hope, is not in this or that, is not in the job or the health or the position or the home. Our hope is not in those things. Our hope is in God. When we understand that, and we understand that our hope is in Him and His divine purpose for our life, then we can endure. Yea, not just endure, but maybe even thrive in the face of crisis. Because we know that it's God that's in control. He learned that his supplier was still there. He learned that God still loved him. You understand that God was not mad at Elijah. God was not judging Elijah. This did not come into his life because he was judging him. Now, God does judge sin. When we do wrong and go our own way, God judges us, and I think as individuals, as people, we pretty much know when God's judging us We know when we're going through something and we say, you know what? That was God as sure as the day is long. One time when I was late teen, or early twenties, somewhere around there, I had a car wreck. And I got out of that car and I said, God, I know that was you. I know as sure as the day is long, and Lord forgive me I mean God was trying to wake me up. He was ringing my bell. So I think we know if God's trying to ring our bell. But just because something, some type of crisis comes into your life doesn't mean God's judging you. And listen, sometimes when a storm comes in like this and wipes out a town or whatever, I think back of when Katrina uh hit down in New Orleans, there's a lot of people stood up in their pulpits and talked about how God was judging this city. Listen, I don't see anywhere in the scriptures where we determine what God's judgment is not. Is or is Now God might be judging somebody, but that's between God and them. It's not our place to look at that and try and point it out. I don't see it in the scriptures. As a matter of fact, I see the opposite. Of what we're supposed to do. So we can't point the fingers like Job's three friends came to him when he was in crisis and he said, Oh man, you did this and wrong, or you or this wouldn't be happening. That's not the way we're supposed to be. We're supposed to give people the benefit of the doubt. Let that be between them and God. Understand that God still loves you. Even if you are being judged, you know God still loves you? He's doing that to bring you back to him. God was setting the stage For Elijah to take the next step in his life. Our theme this year has been the next step. And we've tried to encourage you as a church to take the next step. And we looked at different areas specifically in our life. We talked about the family. and taking a step in our family, and we talked about finances and we talked about soul winning and reaching the world and and we talked uh this month is about separation and and different areas that we focused on as a church, and we tried to encourage you to take the next step in your life. Sometimes God brings things in our life to prepare us for the next step. For what he wants us to do next. Do you understand that Elijah, after this, that he had to go and he had to raise a widow woman's son from the dead? He went after this and he met the 450 prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel He had to have the kind of faith in God that he knew that he could trust him when he was standing before those prophets of Baal and they were mocking his God. They were trying to show that Baal was God and Elijah needed to have the kind of faith in his God that he would gain by going through some crisis. By seeing God lead him one step at a time, and hey, go to the brook, and you'll be fed there. And then the Bible says that the Lord told him to go to Zarephath. And there would be a widow woman there that would feed him there. And he is taking these steps and following God. Sometimes when you're going through crisis in your life, God's preparing you for what's next. Preparing you for what you need to do. You don't know what's coming down the road, but you understand each crisis endured strengthens us for the next thing we need. Even in the middle of a crisis, he was reminded that God was in control. He might have got a little sidetracked in thinking that Man, I'm glad that I have this brook. And started really liking the brook and looking to the brook and thinking the brook was the supply when the brook was just a means Which God, his supplier, was providing for him. But God said, hey, the brook's going to dry up. Now you need to go over here. And that gets his attention back where it should be, on God and not on the brook. God is still in control even in the crisis. We may not see, we may not understand, but we know that God is in control. Just this last week I answered an email to uh Brother Jason Muller, our missionary to Mongolia. You see, he had found some land in Mongolia, which was right next to uh their land that they already owned. They owned a small parcel of land. land and they had some land next to that and if they acquired that they would have enough land to uh meet all the requirements to build a building to be able to have a church. Right now they've been paying an exorbitant amount of money uh to rent facilities and man to be able to get some land to build a church and this land I think it was only fifteen thousand dollars to buy the land. I mean it's not that much and Our church gave some money to try and help him buy that, and many other churches gave some money, and he went to to buy this land. And They they got everything together. Finally the day came and and they went with the guy that was going to sell the land. The guy says, well, we want two thousand dollars more And he had already raised all this money. He says, we don't have $2,000 more. So he finally got the guy to come down to $400 more. Say, okay, we can do that. So they went to buy the land. They went to the place to sign the papers and get it all notarized and whatever, and they found out legally, because he's a foreigner, they can't put the land in his name. And because he's the pastor of the church, they can't put it in the church's name. So they they said, well, can we put it in there's we have many church members that could we put it in one of the church members' names? And they said, yeah, we can do that. So he called one of the church members, and the church member said, no problem, I'll be glad to do that. We can put it in my name and uh help help the church that way. But the guy was working. And he said, When I get off work, I'll come and do that. When he got off work, he went to meet the guy and the guy that was selling the property said, Ah, I changed my mind, I don't want to sell it. So now he doesn't get n all of this work and he raised all this money to try and buy this land, he doesn't get to buy the land. So, rightfully, Brother Jason uh reached out to me and said, Hey, you gave this money to buy this land. The land's no longer available. What would you like me to do with it? We could send it back to you. We could there's other needs that we could use it for. Right now we could build some kind of like uh I don't know what they call the little huts that they have in Mongolia that they live in Does you do you do you know? A girth? Gir? A girth. That's what they call it. Little little round structure that they built build there. Anyways, he said we could do that and kind of have those to meet in until we could acquire the land. He said, What do you want me to do? So I answered him back and I I said, Listen, we gave that money to you to bless the Lord's work there however you think the Lord would have you use it. Use it, we're we're happy about that. We we gave it to God first, and then we gave it to you, and God will God knows this did not take God by surprise. And I reminded him that Although our plans were thwarted, although we are shocked and disappointed and say, Man, what in the world? We had this all set. This should this is gonna work. I I reminded him, God's still in control. Even in the crisis, God knows. And even in your crisis, God knows what you're going through. God knows, and He's still in control. Think about if Elijah would have just gone to find his own food. Look at verse number eight. Look at verse number eight. He says here God talking to him says, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. You see, God was in control. He had a solution to provide for him. The brook dried up, but his supply wasn't coming from the book. His supply was coming from God. And he just waited on God and God said, Okay, go to Zarephath. What if Elijah would have said, oh man, I got to go look for food, and he would have gone out trying to find and sustain himself in the middle of that famine, he very likely would have perished. But he certainly wouldn't have got the supply that God had for him waiting at Zarephat. He just had to trust God. You just got to trust God. You're going through it, trust God, because God has the solution. To sustain you. Don't panic. Tomorrow God will send the rain. It will rain again. It will, there will be water in the brook. In our day of adversity. Turn to Proverbs chapter twenty-four, verse number ten. This is a Proverbs chapter twenty-four, verse number ten. This is free. I'm going to give you some notes out of the side of my Bible. Um so in Proverbs chapter twenty-four, verse number ten. Read it out loud with me if you've got it. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. So let me give you three things that I see in this verse that I've got noted in the margin of my Bible here. You see my notes here? So, three things. First of all, you see the time. There's a time of adversity that comes. A time of adversity is a set amount of time. You only have to endure it for now. This too shall pass. There's only a time of adversity. That time of adversity, most of the time for us, is when things don't go as we planned. When we had our plans laid out and that didn't happen, and now, oh man, what are we going to do now? Most of the time it's when things are unexpected come up in our lives. These things of adversity, but it's just a time of adversity. This adversity comes in many ways, and physically, or financially, or situationally, or emotionally. Adversity comes in a lot of different aspects relationally with the relationships we have. Sometimes adversity faces in a lot of different ways So you have a time of adversity. Adversity is going to come, but it's only going to be here for a time. Don't forget that. And then you see here the tendency of man. He says, if thou faint, the tendency of man is to faint The tendency of man is to quit, to give up, to faint. And that's our likely, likely what we're going to do, but we don't have to, because we have God on our side. Because we know that He is still in control, and because we know that our supply comes from Him, not from whatever we were looking at. Not from that job or from that relationship or from that situation, but it comes from God. and him alone. Because that we don't have to we don't have to faint. He says, if thou faint, that's the tendency of man. You know it's not wrong. to feel discouraged. It's not wrong to feel the pressure of unfulfilled plans of the of the crisis. It's not wrong to feel that. I think about David in the Bible, where often David found himself very discouraged and downhearted because of the hardship he was enduring. But the Bible says David encouraged himself in the Lord. It's not wrong. It's natural. You're just human. You're going to feel some hardship and some trial when you're going through a crisis in your life. But you don't have to faint. To faint is to quit, to give up, to compromise, to give in, to stop doing what you know is right to do, to let the devil win. You don't want to faint And the truth is what we see last in this verse. If you faint, what is the truth? The truth is, thy strength is small. That's the truth. Thy strength is small. Say, well, that's not very kind, Pastor. I didn't say it. The word of God did. If thou faint in the day of adversity, what does it say? Thy strength is small. Here, listen, brethren. God is equal to thy to the task. Whatever crisis you're facing, God is equal to the task. This last week I was listening to the mayor of one of the cities on the coast of Florida. It was one of them that started with the name Beach, but there's several several of them. Mexico Beach. The mayor of Mexico Beach. And he was talking about how his family helped found that city. And he came from a long line of people. He said, we've always lived here. We've never been through anything like this. And he closed out his interview and he said, you know what, we we don't think we'll be okay, but we'll be all right. So it looks bad right now, but we'll be alright. God is equal to the task. Are you? Are you equal to the task? Because if you faint, if you give up and you quit, thy strength is small. You have the time. There you have our tendency and you have the truth that God wants you to learn from that Let me give you the last last point here first, secondly and lastly, life after the crisis. Life after the crisis. You watch the news reports and you see people making their way back to their homes. You see them walking up and and their house is destroyed and the kids picking through the rubble and finding their the remains of their toys. I saw one video clip where a little boy was collecting his toys all on a rock. He's kind of looking through the stuff and collecting his toys. those things that are valuable to him. You know, there's life after the crisis. You'll make it through. This too will pass. There is life after the crisis There is going to be, God has a widow of Zarephath down there somewhere to meet your needs, to provide for you, to sustain you. God has a plan to sustain you. There is life after the crisis. The FEMA sent two million ready-to-eat meals down to help those people. You watch the news reports and you see about how that uh the neighbors helping neighbors. Probably before this tragedy, they didn't even talk to their neighbor. They might have even been obstinate with their neighbor and you know cut their grass and threw it all in the neighbor's yard, or who knows what kind of conflict there was between neighbors because I know you know what I'm talking about. But in the face of this great adversity, you see reports of neighbors feeding neighbors, of neighbors opening up what's left of their home for their neighbors to live in. With them, because their home was ruined and destroyed. They're allowing them to move in. What I'm saying is that there is life after the crisis. This too will pass. You will be okay. God has a little lad with five loaves and two fish somewhere that you look at and say, well, it's not much, But when you put God in it, you'll end up with twelve basketfuls left over. Somehow God will meet your need and he'll supply, and many times you'll end up coming out better off than you were before the crisis. You'll leave the crisis and you look at it and you say, There's no tomorrow. What am I going to do? But if you trust God Wait on God when you come out over here and you look back, you say, Man, ain't God good to give us so many blessings, undeserving. That's what I am God's good. And He'll help you through the crisis. There's life after the crisis. Now I know some of you whose mind is engaged. And you're thinking, and you're too kind to say it. But you're saying, Pastor Caleb You're talking about life after the crisis in the death toll is nineteen. There's nineteen people Who didn't have life after the crisis. I'm glad you brought it up. Because that's not true. There is life after the crisis. Even the crisis of death Matthew 25, 46 says, And these shall go away into everlasting punishment, but the righteous into life eternal John 5, 24 and 25. Verily, verily I say unto you: he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Verily, verily I say unto you, the hour is come, and is now is when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God. And they that hear shall live. There's life after the crisis. Even that crisis which we look at as so final, let me remind you that the Word of God tells us it's not the end. That there is life after the crisis. And listen, look how this ties together. Are you ready? God has prepared a way. To sustain you. That's rich. God has prepared a way. Over 2,000 years ago, before you were ever even thought of, God sent his son. Jesus Christ to come to live and to die to prepare a way so that you could have life after the crisis. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. God's prepared a way to sustain you. You're facing that day of death with fear and trepidation. God's prepared a way to sustain you He has given us life eternal. All we need to do is believe on him. There is life after the crisis. And it's a joyous life. Revelation 21, verse number 4, it says, And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Listen, life after the crisis is better than this one. God's prepared a way. Are you prepared? I hope these lessons help you get ready for the crisis That you might face here on earth. But you've got to prepare for the crisis of death that will come to all of us one day. Are you prepared? Have you trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? Taking advantage of what God prepared. You know many people. when they think of the storm coming, they prepare, right? They get things together and they get water and food. You know all the shelves are all empty, all the stores are all I mean even around here, you got you got Newton. It's not a hurricane. I mean there's snow coming, right? And all the c everybody Gets ready. Are you ready for that day? All you got to do is believe on the name of the Son of God to be ready. Stand with me if you would with your heads bowed and your eyes closed Beloved, when the storms of life surround me, and I seem to lose my way. When I'm burdened down with sorrow and the days are cold and gray, then I call upon my Savior, who can all my burdens bear And I leave the throne rejoicing, for I left my burdens there. Are you going through a crisis today? There's life after the crisis. God's prepared a way. Wait and trust him.