Turn your Bibles to Psalms chapter thirty-eight. Psalms chapter thirty-eight I'm going to deal this morning with the subject of a clear conscience. A clear conscience. This is truly a matter of vital importance for every believer. Uh a few weeks ago I was doing a Bible study with somebody uh and uh by brother uh Greg um Berg and this Bible study was very challenging to me. Uh kind of dealt with much of what I'm gonna be giving you today. Uh the the the thoughts were very stirring. And then last Thursday night we were talking with or dealing with the idea of holding forth the mysteries of the faith with a clear conscience And that was uh the idea of a conscience was not the study of Thursday night, nor did I have the time to really get into it, but again I was stirred towards the idea of our conscience and what it the the job that it does and how God has given us that. And so I was moved to speak on this Subjects. In Psalms chapter 38, follow with me as we read our text. This is verses 1 through verse number 8. And what I want you to hear is the conscience of the psalmist here. Speaking to him, burdening him, stirring him up, challenging him. This is a Psalm of David. Psalms 38, verse 1 through 8. He says, A Psalm of David to bring to remembrance, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand press me sore. You see his conscience there? His arrows are sticking fast in him, they're poking him, and the hand of God is pressing him sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. You hear his conscience? There's no rest. There's no rest in my bones because of my sin. This conscience is ever there. Verse number 4, he says, for my iniquities are gone over mine head as a heavy burden. They're too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. I'm troubled. I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. For my loins are filled with loathsome disease, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I feel feeble and sore, broken. I've roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart This passage of scripture here, the psalmist David, is talking about how his conscience just won't leave him alone. It just won't quit. It's just there, and it's a burden on his heart, and it just continually is he can feel, literally feel the weight of it, and it's almost more than he can bear. His conscience If you and I are going to have peace in our life, if we're going to have peace as Christians, as children of God, You have got to have a clear conscience. You've got to have a clean conscience because without it That conscience is going to be weighing you down. That conscience is going to be sticking you. That conscience is going to be prodding you. It is going to not give you any peace. So we're going to talk about the conscience this morning and hopefully challenge us, stir us to have a clear conscience. We are one day away from the start of a new year. And you know what? There's nothing stopping you from starting this new year with a clear conscience. You can have a conscience void of offense before God and man. I hope that God stirs your heart to do so this morning. morning. Would you pray with me as we ask God to speak to our hearts? Lord, thank you for the privilege and opportunity to preach your word. Dear God, I pray you'd be with every person here. May you reach down into their soul and speak to them through your word. In such a powerful and real way that it'll be beyond understanding. Certainly not the words of the man standing here, but from God Almighty that you've moved them and motivated them in this matter Of having a conscience void of offense. Well, we pray that you would use this service in a very real way. And we ask it in Jesus' blessed name. Amen. So first of all, as we are looking at the idea of a conscience, I want to speak to you about the charge of the conscience. What is the job? What is it charged with? What is its duties? The conscience that is given to us by God, its function. First of all, the conscience given to us by God is a God given Alarm system. It's an alarm system. You have an alarm system at home. And that alarm system is set. And whether you have a sensor on the doors, sometimes you might have a motion sensor in a room And if somebody moves in that room when you're away from home, that sensor trips And it activates the alarm, the warning bells, the horn goes off. And that horn lets you know that something needs to be done. Maybe it's the middle of the night And you're sweet. And the alarm goes off. And you tell your wife, quick, hon, go look and see what it is. No, no, I mean you say, hun, stay here. Hide and be safe. I'm gonna go find out what it is And you go to like the man you should be, creep into the night and find out what it is that's tripped the alarm. The alarm's gone off. It's the warning sign. Our conscience is the same. Our conscience is a discerner. It is the sensor that activates. Sin comes into the life and it trips The censor trips and the alarm goes off. You heard the alarm as we read our text. The psalmist of David said, the alarm is going off. Quit, quit. It's almost too much for me. The warning bell is ringing, and that is supposed to move us into action. You know when the alarm's going off you can't get any peace at all. Have you ever been in a house When the alarm's going off and you're like, Would you please shut the alarm off? There's nothing going on. Or or what about this one? Have you been in a car? This happens to me all the time. I'm confessing my sin. And the seatbelt alarm is going off and you're driving the first mile or two, you're like, I can ignore it. And you just keep driving. I can ignore it. Oh man, that's really getting on my nerves. And ultimately, fine. And you grab the seatbelt and you stick it on and shut the alarm off. You just can't get any peace It's just you're like if I ignore it long enough it'll go away. That is what the alarm is supposed to do, the sensor in our body that God has given us. It's an internal alarm that when sin comes in, when something comes in that's not supposed to go be there, the alarm goes off. But we've gotten good at ignoring it. And we're like, ah, it's okay. And the Holy Spirit and God uses that and continues the alarm bells are ringing and they're going off and we're like, oh, I'm okay. I can ignore it. And then pretty soon we're getting heavy under the weight of that sin. And you know what? We like to blame that weight on a lot of other things. We like to talk about the trials we're facing in life and how hard those things are. But a lot of what we're bearing, a lot of what we're carrying is the alarm, the censor that God has given us in our conscience because we know we're not right with God. That's what the job is. Do you understand when the alarm goes off that it's doing its job? You know when you're away from home and the alarm goes off at home, you don't go, stink, man, that alarm went off again. You look, if the alarm went off, something ain't right. Somebody's there, somebody broke in, it's doing its job. When your alarm goes off inside, your conscience, what God has given you, it's doing its job. Don't get frustrated and angry and mad about the alarm that God's given us to warn us. It's an alarm given to us by God. The conscience given to us by God is a discerner of our actions Romans chapter 2 and verse number 15 says, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness. You see, the conscience bears witness to the law that is written in your heart. You see, your conscience is not just whatever As this world would like to us to believe that we all came from a tadpole or a big bang or however far you want to go back and it's all by chance and nothing really matters. Every single person ever born has an innate law written upon their heart by God. That law, we're going to talk more about the conscience and how it is cultivated here in a little bit. But listen, the law that's written on our heart is what determines our conscience. You see that seatbelt alarm? It does not go off when I leave my blinker on. It doesn't. That seatbelt alarm does not work. I left my blinker on and it did not. No. The C part alarm goes off by the law, the code that was written into its data. So it knows when the seat belts clicked or not. Are you hearing me? The law that is written upon our hearts is what determines when the alarm goes off. Every single man, woman, boy and girl are born with an innate law written upon their hearts. We know that there is a creator, we might not know the story, we might not know God Himself. But on the heart of every single person, you go to the backest, deepest jungle in the world, and they might not know God and who He is, but they're worshiping something because there's an innate And they're trying to find that. And there's a law written on their heart that tells you certain things like it's not right to kill. You just don't do that. There's something wrong with that. Who said there's something wrong with that? God said, and God wrote it upon the heart of man. And our conscience, by the law that God has written upon our heart, is controlled by that. And our conscience bears witness. To whether the seatbelt's plugged in or not. To whether we're doing what is written upon our heart or not. God has written the law upon our heart, our conscience. The psalmist says in Psalms 51, verse number 3. Our conscience puts our sin before us. For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me. You know how it is. You did something five years ago and you haven't thought about it in a long time, but then you get into church or you get into the Bible or you and then all of a sudden Your conscience comes up and it's like, you know you took them cookies without asking, without permission. You know that you saw that guy drop that $5 bill and you picked it up and you could have given it back but you kept it. Your conscience just and you're like, man, that was five years ago. The psalmist said, My sin is ever before me. What we've done, the sins that we have committed That's what the alarm bells are for. That's what it's supposed to do. It's supposed to go off. It's supposed to warn us when things are not right. It condemns our actions. 1 John 3, verse number 21 says, Beloved, if our hearts condemn us not, then we have confidence with God. You see, this is looked at from the other perspective. But if our hearts condemn us not, we have confidence with God. But when our heart condemns us, we know It's just like a child, my son. Let's say I told him that he's supposed to clean his room. And naturally, he always does what I say. But this particular time, let's say it's just for illustration's sake, he didn't do what I said. And I came home and I saw the room wasn't cleaned up. And he comes around the corner and I'm looking in the bedroom. Immediately his conscience is going to bear witness. His conscience is going to bring that sin before him. And his conscience is going to condemn him. Now, at that moment, does he have confidence with me? Does he say, Dad, could you take me to McDonald's so we could get some ice cream? No, what does he do? He goes Maybe Dad didn't see me. I'm gonna run I'm gonna go outside and play. I didn't do what I was supposed to do. And we do the same thing with God. Because we don't have any confidence with God because our conscience is def defiled. This is what God has given us. Our alarm is supposed to go off. David's alarm went off. You remember the story when he cut Saul's garment? Just that small little thing. He cut the garment of Saul. And if you don't know the story, Saul was the king. He was God's anointed. David was supposed to be king. God had told him someday you're going to be king, but he wasn't king yet. And Saul was trying to kill him. And one night Dave snuck into Saul's camp, and Saul was asleep, and David could have killed him, but he didn't kill him. He just cut his garment off so that he could walk away and say, hey Saul, look, I could have killed you and I didn't. But as soon as he cut that garment, the Bible says that his heart smote him. And he knew what he had did was wrong. That's what the conscience does. It goes off. As soon as we commit something that goes against the law that's written upon our heart, the conscience goes off. It testifies, the conscience testifies of our behavior. Second Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 12 says, For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience. That in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in this world and more abundantly to you. The conscience bears testimony. It bears testimony to what we do. Joy, because we have a conscience void of offense This alarm system ultimately is supposed to be the motivator. You see, just like the alarm goes off at home and you know something's wrong, I gotta go check it out And so you get out of bed. You say, something's wrong. You look. Maybe you have zones in your in your house and you're like, whoa, somebody's in zone number one. That's in the basement. I'm going to go downstairs. And you might find out the cat tripped the alarm, but you're going to go check it out. It motivates you to action. When your alarm system, your internal alarm system, your conscience goes off, it should motivate you to action, to do something about Your life. Proverbs 28, verse number 1 said, The wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are bold as a lion. You know, it was a story it was a detective story. There was a great Indian prince who found that someone had stolen treasure from his house during the night. And he called all his wise men and he said, somebody has come into the house and stolen this treasure. I want to find out who it was. How can we find out? I mean they didn't have cameras back then. They didn't have the alarms like we have now. And their wise man said, I have some magic sticks. Here's what you do. You take each of those that you suspect to have stolen, and we put this stick in their room. And I'll tell you that whoever stole that through the night, this stick will grow at least two inches. It's a magic stick. And so the king the prince said, okay, we'll do it. So they brought everybody in that had access to the palace, and they told them what they were doing, and they sent them to bed, and they put a stick in every room. In the morning, they brought everybody together, every person carrying their stick. And they looked. And wouldn't you know it? Every stick was exactly the same. Except for one. It was two inches shorter. And they looked and said, There's your thief. And the prince said, What? And he said, see the sticks aren't actually magic. I knew that whoever stole that, his conscience. And the man said, through the night, I could swear that stick was growing. He says, every time I looked over there, that stick looked to be a quarter inch longer. Every time I look back, it was longer and longer. When I got up this morning, I thought I'd better, just to be safe, I'd better cut two inches off and make it the same as everybody else's His conscience. They said, There's your thief. You see the wicked flee when no man pursueth. Nobody has to be chasing after you. Your own conscience is doing it. When we've done something that violates our conscience. So, the conscience, God's given alarm, God's given motivator. When our trouble we have a troubled conscience, we're supposed to do something about it. It brings shame. John chapter 8, verse number 9. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one. Beginning at the eldest, even unto the last, and Jesus was left alone, the woman standing in the midst. You guys remember that story? Hell they wanted to accuse this woman. Jesus sat down and he wrote something in the in the sand. Maybe he was writing their sins. Maybe he was, you know, who knows what he was writing. We don't know. But he was writing something in his hand. He says, Hey, uh, if any of you are without sin, and and one away one at a time. They began walking away, right? Because their own conscience shamed them. No one would accuse them because of their own shame. This is the reason why a lot of pastors Don't preach against sin today. Because their own conscience is so defiled. They cannot, in a clear conscience, stand up and preach the truth of the Word of God because their own conscience won't let them do it. But we need men of God that have a conscience void of offense that'll stand in the pulpit and say, Thus saith the Lord, and challenge us. To live lives that are clean, that are pure, that are honorable unto God. But our churches today are filled with people, do you know why our country doesn't mind having a whoremonger in office? Do you know why our country doesn't mind having a politician that's a thief and a liar? Because every one of them that are voting for him are the same. And they say, well, what do I well hey, and if he's doing it, then it's okay if I'm doing it. It's alright. That's the problem, we've all agreed just to be wicked sinners, and we're all patting each other on the back. Lord help us. That's not what we want. We are morally bankrupt as a country. If you see our text there this morning, you can hear the pain in the psalmist's voice. Do you understand a conscience that's been defiled actually bothers you physically? It can bring about physical turmoil, problems, because you don't have a conscience clear before God. So how do we cultivate this conscience? Yeah, I talked to you about how the law that's written upon our heart is what determines when the conscience goes off. You know, you have your alarm system, let's say you have a sensor. Do you know you can take that sensor and you can turn the sensitivity up? Right? You turn it up and then when when uh when uh any kind of Animal runs through the yard, the thing's going off. You're like, man, that's way too sensitive. I need to turn that down. Some of you, your conscience is so sensitive, you're like, I need to turn that down. And you've been turning it down for thirty years and never turned it back up. Every time it goes off, you're like, oh, let's turn that down. We don't want to be bothered with that. Let's turn that down. Let's turn that down. You see? We can adjust, we can cultivate our conscience. We can silence it. Well we can make it sensitive. The Bible talks about Christians, people that have a seared conscience Seared conscience. Speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron I don't know how many of you can bear witness to this. Maybe you are like this. Maybe you're used to handling really hot stuff with your hands. And uh you can pick up stuff that's really hot and other people that would just burn them. You know, the other day my wife and kids were at a restaurant in the The the lady was like she had a hot pad and she was handing down this stuff and she's like, this is super hot, super hot, don't touch it. And Mary's like, it'll be okay. And she grabs it and hands it down. And the lady's like, wait, wait, no, no, don't touch it. That's gonna burn you. And Mary's like, it's all right, it'll be fine. And she she hands it down because she's so used to, you know, washing things in really hot water. My grandmother used to drink coffee. That was so hot it would literally have just scalded. I mean, I would have been blistered up if I tried to drink her coffee. But she drank her coffee so hot all the time that she's just used to it She could just sip away. And I'm like, how can you drink that? You see, her mouth had been seared by years of drinking that super hot liquid And people's conscience gets seared. We continue in sin. We continue A conscience is seared by repeated sin, by repeated sin, by continuing in sin. We continue until you were defiled. Titus chapter 1, verse number 15. Unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are filed and unbelieving is nothing pure, but even their mind and conscience. is defiled. Having a conscience is defiled. We continue in sin and and we turn the sensitivity down and we allow this things to come into our life where we can do things. And it doesn't bother us. You see, we've overwritten the law that's in our heart. Some people can steal I mean, literally, they would, if you left your phone sitting on the pew here in God's house, they would pick it up and walk out and not think anything of it. And you say, how in the world can your conscience not bother them? Now I don't think you should steal at any time, but some people will be like, even in God's house they would steal. How could they do that? Their conscience is seared. And you say, Well, Pastor, I would never steal, but what would you do? What has God poked your heart about and you say, Oh, that doesn't make sense. matter. Let's turn that down. That's oh that's being too sensitive, Lord. That's too much. I can't I can't do that. And we continue till we're past all feeling. Ephesians 4. 19 says, who being past feeling, having given themselves over unto license, To work all the uncleanliness with gridiness. A seared conscience becomes inactive, silent, rarely accusing, completely insensitive You know we're in you you're in a world you think about the world today? You think about how wicked this world is. Come on, are you guys awake? Is it we live in a wicked we look at it and you think how can they possibly think that that's okay. Where in the world is their conscience? Where in the world is their mind? What is going on that they could think that that is acceptable? There I mean we're in such a place that the conscience has stopped functioning and people can continue down the world the the world's way, the devil's way, in a life of sin that is Just leaves us flabbergasted. We think, what in the world? That's what the Bible says. Who being past, feeling Have given themselves over. It doesn't even register. You see, that's how we lose sensitivity to the conscience that God's given us. But as Christians, you should be asking yourself right now, Well, okay. How do I cultivate a right conscience then? You understand we're talking you could have a conscience that is falsely trained. So we need a conscience that's not trained by the world, that's not trained by what I think is right or wrong. I I I had a friend in college loosely use the term friend. I knew him. He was in college, we were together, and he felt it was a sin to eat tomatoes. He just couldn't bring himself to eat a tomato. Now he had a falsely trained conscience. Some of you are like, amen. I like that guy. I don't know. I mean I like tomatoes, but there's nothing wrong with tomatoes. I mean you like tomatoes, you don't like tomatoes. It's okay either way. There's nothing in God's word directing our conscience towards that one way or the other. But see, we don't get to just do what's right in our own eyes. We need a conscience that's trained by God. Correct? So how do we get our conscience trained by God? And that is through consistent obedience to God. Our conscience is cultivated, it is set, our conscience is seared by sin, but our conscience is set by obedience. When we are obedient to God, we could use another S here, steered. Our conscience is steered by God, by obedience to Him. Hebrews 5, verses 13 and 14. For every one that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use Have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. By reason of use You have your senses exercised to discern both good and evil. When we are obedient to God and do what God wants us to do by reason of use, we begin to get exercised and begin to have a discerner that is controlled by God, led by His Word, that writes the correct law upon our heart where our conscience is able to discern between right and wrong. But it's not just what we want. It's by reason of use, it's by obedience to what this book says. The more obedient we are, the more consistently we are in line with the Word of God, the more clearly our conscience. is guided by this. Some young Christians just get into church, they hear something, they're like, wow, Pastor, I never heard that. I'm not sure. They obediently follow this, and they're like, this is true, this is what God says, this is what I need to do. And by reason of use, they grow in the maturity in the Lord, they follow God, they take steps for God. And they get to the place where they can discern between right and wrong so quickly. And other young young Christians or people that haven't been following the Word of God, they're like, what why is that wrong? Why why what's wrong with this? What's wrong with that? It's by reason of use, it's by consistent obedience that our conscience, the correct law, is written upon our heart. Does that make sense? You've got to follow divinely revealed truth. Truth is innately known. Given to us by the character of God to know between good and evil, between right and wrong. You've got to forget your own feelings. That's not what the world wants to say. They want to say if it feels right. Come on, you guys awake. If it feels right, do it. No. You know? This thing of let your conscience be your guide? You can only do that if the correct law has been written upon your heart. If I let my conscience be my guide, There's a lot of things I might do. A lot of stuff's going through my head right now, but I don't want to confess any more sins, so we're gonna go on. Let's let's go to the last point because we need to move on. Clearing the conscience. How do we clear that conscience? So we've got a law written upon our hearts by God. We know it's right. Our the alarm bells are going off. It's told us we need to do something. Come on, the seatbelt's not plugged in. You need to plug it in, you need to plug it in. And we've ignored it long enough and we say, okay, God That $5 you took from the stranger, you know, five years ago that we were talking about, that alarm still going off in your head? What do you do to clear that? How do you make that right? Let me give that to you this morning. We need first to recognize the consequence of sin. You've got to recognize the consequence of sin. Be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap If you sow to the flesh, you'll sell of the flesh reap corruption, but if you sow to the spirit, you'll sell of the spirit reap life everlasting. We have got to know the consequences of sin. Nobody yet called for a life preserver that wasn't drowning. They're not drowning, they don't need it. We need to realize the wickedness of our condition and the inability to save ourselves. When we become fully acknowledged and aware of the fact that it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment And our conscience is going off, as alarm bells are ringing, and we're aware of the fact that we cannot cover our own sin. We cannot save ourselves. You know the gospel of today. He's just gonna run to the bathroom. This is important. The gospel of today They want to talk about how God will save you. Jesus will save you from your pain. Jesus will save you from your loneliness. Jesus will save you from the suffering that you're going through in this life. Jesus will save you from the hardship that you're enduring And do you know what? As a saved believer, these are things that God does for you. But Jesus came to save you from your sin. He came to seek and to save that which was lost, lost in their sin. Jesus came to save from sin, and we need to understand that we're sinners and we need a savior. We've got to acknowledge and realize the consequences of sin. You know, one time I here I go confess it again. One time I got caught driving without insurance. I didn't have now this was years and years ago. You know it used to not be a law. You used to have a right to decide for yourself, but not anymore. I'm not going to talk about it, but I didn't have any insurance. And I got caught. And the sheriff wrote me a ticket. And I had to go appear before the judge. And I stood before the judge. And you know, I'm standing there in this courtroom. They had a prosecuting attorney for me not having insurance Prosecuting attorney stood up and said, judge, this young man deserves to have the book thrown at him. He drove his car without insurance. The law states that he can receive six months life suspension. Life suspension But he license suspension. He can do five days in jail. He can spay $600 in fines and have to do 30 hours community service. It is the desire of the state that he be fined with all of these. When I stood there, I didn't have a lawyer. I was by myself. But you know what? I was guilty. And I didn't offer any explanations. I didn't offer any excuses. I just said Judge I'm guilty. I'm guilty. But please, I plead the mercy of the court. No, you know what? My pleas fell on deaf ears. The judge threw the book at me Except I didn't have to go to jail for five days, but all the rest of them I did. Thirty hours of community service. Another story, another time. Here's the truth that I'm trying to drive home to you. When you realize you're guilty before an almighty Almighty God, it brings you to the place where you just say, Lord, I need it. I need forgiveness. There's nothing that I can do. I'm guilty. God, I'm sorry. We recognize that we are guilty and the consequences for that sin. And the exciting thing is that God is a loving God, and your pleas for mercy to an Almighty God are not going to fall onto deaf ears. When you call out to him, he's not going to ignore your cry. He says that he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins if you confess them. Bring them before God and just say, I'm guilty. I recognize that I've done this wrong. And Lord, I'm begging. And the Bible says that thereby are ye reconciled to God. Our relationship is restored. Our friendship is brought back. We're reconciled, brought back into the presence of God because we recognized our sin and we acknowledged it before God. We confessed it. And forsook it, and God hears your cry for mercy. You can be brought back into the presence of God. You want to have a clear conscience The alarm bell's been going off. There's no reason you have to start 2019 with that weight on your shoulders. You can just come before God and say, God. Sorry. And God will hear your cry. Stand with me if you would, with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. Dear God, I ask you to be with every man, woman, and boy and girl present here today. Lord, I know there are people in this room right now whose conscience and alarm bells are going off because we're human. Because we go our own way because we do our own thing. God, I know that there's people here whose alarms are ringing and Lord that you've spoke into their heart and I pray God that they would yield to you, that they would come and get that right. They would confess it and start the year fresh with a clear conscience, void of offense, between God and man. Lord, we just praise you and are so thankful that our cries for mercy don't fall on deaf ears. But that you hear and that you answer every prayer. Ask you to work in this invitation in a mighty way. In Jesus' name, amen.