Turn your Bibles to First Samuel. Last Sunday we talked about faith and we Talked about the fact that your faith is going to have the opportunity to be proven, that you're going to be able to see Your faith tested. In using the biblical character or the example given to us in the scriptures of Abraham, we looked at this patriarch of the faith. one who is called the friend of God. And I guess if you're going to have anybody as a friend That would be a pretty good one, right? Have God as your friend or be known as a friend of God. I mean if you got God, uh you know the old saying, uh you uh plus God is a majority. You got God on your side, uh you're on the winning side. We this morning are going to look to one of my favorite books of the Bible, this book of 1st and 2 Samuel. Uh the stories here are uh so uh applicable to our lives. They're motivational, they're stirring, they're challenging. If you turn to chapter number 18, chapter number 18, if you this morning have a study Bible or you have a Bible with any type of helpful notes, At the start of your chapter, it probably has a heading. It has some type of a description of what you might find in this chapter. You tell me what is this chapter dealing with? What is the story that we find here? David and Jonathan. Jonathan and David's friendship. Read a little further and you'll see the jealousy of Saul. over the prosperity and uh the power of David that he had because that God's hand was on him. But you know, the Word of God has a lot to say about friendship. Abraham was a friend of God. The word of God tells us how to make friends. Tells us how to make friends. You say, well, I sure would like to have some friends. The Bible tells us how you can make friends. The Bible tells us how to maintain friends. If people would just follow biblical principle, a lot of life wouldn't be near as hard as we make it. The Bible tells us how to maintain your friends. The Bible tells us how to minister to your friends, how to be a help to them. The Bible tells us about the Master who is the greatest friend of all. Jesus Christ. This morning I want to look at this friendship held by Jonathan and David and see what God might teach us, what we might apply to our lives regarding this matter of friendship. Would you pray with me as we ask God to speak to our hearts as I bring a message entitled A Faithful Friend? Lord, we come to you this morning and I ask you, dear God, that you'd give me liberty to preach, that you would wipe from my memory those things which you would not have said, that you would bring to remembrance. And the things that the people need this morning. I pray God you would open up the pages of Scripture, give us understanding. Give us eyes to see and ears to hear, hearts that are willing to not just be hearers of the word, but to be doers. I pray God you would bless this time now around your word that you would speak to us and challenge us in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Jonathan and David's friendship was not that of a fleeting friendship, like much of what you see in the world today. It was not just a fair weather friendship. There is a old story about an old TV show called The Lone Ranger. Lone Ranger and his friend Tonto, his sidekick. There is an old story. It may have actually been an episode or something. I I don't know, but uh There was one day in which the Lone Ranger and Tonto had no uh damsels in distress which they needed to save. There was no runaway stagecoaches, there was no robberies to stop, everything was pretty quiet and Oh, the old ranger and Tonto were sitting on a hillside probably somewhere out in Montana. Out there, they were sitting there talking and the Lone Ranger, he looks over at Tonto and he says, Tonto We've been riding these ranges for a long time. Boy, we've seen a lot of wins. We've experienced a few losses together. We've just won some great battles, and we've just had just the greatest of times, Tonto. Boy, we've stopped a lot of bad men. We've done it together. I guess Ton, you're probably the closest friend I have in this whole world. Tonto says, that right, Kimosabe. We've been together a long time. We closest friend in the world. The Lone Ranger said, Tonto, I reckon that if I had to, I would lay down my life for you. Tanto said, hmm, that good Kimizabe. Suddenly they looked up on the ridge. They saw there an Apache band of war warriors all in their war paint and tomahawks uh waving in the air and whooping and hollering. The Lone Ranger panicked. He looked over at Tonto and he said, Friend, we're surrounded. There's uh people on every side. They're gonna come down. What are we gonna do? Tonto looked at his friend and calmly said What do you mean we tell face? That's not the kind of friends you want. Just a fair weather friend. Understand friendship is to be more than just something that is born in popularity or out of prosperity. But friendship is something that's supposed to be able to be maintained even through pain. Let me give you a few things. Look in if you would in the Word of God this morning. Let's read this first verse, 1 Samuel chapter number 18. We see this friendship that Jonathan and David had. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul that the soul of Jonathan was knit. With the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. Now you're going to have to keep your notes this morning without the screens because Pastor Gus is not here and he didn't get to put the screens up, so you're going to have to just put it down without that. But first of all, I want you to see that a friend is compassionate A friend is compassionate, born out of love. You see, I'm also gonna this morning, and I want you to listen for it. I want you to watch for it, but we have here a picture of Jesus Christ. In this friend Jonathan. And we're going to talk a little bit about that. But Jonathan means Jehovah has given. Jehovah has given. How many of you understand that real love must give? That's right. Real love must give. And that every true friend that we have is truly a gift from God. You see, God knew what David was going to need. God knew what he was going to be facing with the jealousy of Saul and the attack on his life. And he knew that David was going to need Jonathan as a friend. So he gave him Jonathan, whose name means Jehovah has given. We need to thank God and value the true friends that we have in our lives. Those that are a gift from God unto us. Let me just remind you and encourage you, challenge you. Don't take them for granted. Don't just think, oh, they'll always be there, and boy, they're just my best friend, or they're the friend that I've had for all these years. Just let your heart feel the appreciation that you should have. For those gifts from God, the true friends that we have in our life. And let me encourage you to be a true friend To those that we call you friend. To be a true friend. Jonathan was a gift from God. You know, he's a picture of Jesus Christ. Whom Jehovah gave to us. Jesus was a gift that God gave to the world. Ephesians 4, verse number 7 says, But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift. Oh, that familiar verse that we've read. Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. That gift that God gave us in Jesus Christ, His Son, He is the friend that sticketh closer than a brother. You see a friend is compassionate. Also, we see that a friend is committed. A friend is committed. Look down in verse number three. He says, then Jonathan and David made a, what does it say? Covenant because he loved him as his own soul. They made a covenant one with uh with one with another. I don't mean that you have your friend committed. I mean that you are committed to your friend. Although you might have some friends you want to have committed, I don't know. But uh you're committed. They made a covenant one with another. A promise to each other. I want to remind you that God, Jesus Christ, this friend, has made some promises to you. He has committed to you some things. Hebrews 10. 25 says, Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he hath, for he is faithful That promised. He's faithful. He's not going to fail. He's made some promises to you. He said that he would never leave you nor forsake you. You understand that's a that's both of those things there, first of never leave you, that's physically. He'll never leave you. He's always going to be with you. In the darkest of nights, in the brightest of days, he's always with you. That's physically. He'll never leave you. But he went a step beyond that, and he said he would never forsake you That's emotionally. That's mentally. That means he's loyal to you I know that you've all, if you've lived a number of years, you've had a friend. And maybe they didn't leave, but they forsook you. The loyalty was gone. You found out they said this or that. You found out something that they did that y you think, how could they do that? To me, I thought I was their friend Isn't it such a painful thing when you hear about somebody that you loved and you find that they've said this about you or said that about you or they did this? You say, boy, how is that possible? You know, God said he would never leave you, nor forsake you. Let me just throw this out there, husbands and wives. That's a commitment that you make to each other. Some of you you're still with your mate, you haven't left yet. But emotionally you've forsaken your mate Emotionally, you've allowed yourself to be removed. You don't have that level of commitment and that loyalty in your heart that you once did. Maybe it's just starting. Let me just say, hey, she's supposed to be your best friend in the world. He's supposed to be your best friend in the world. You need to you know it it's possible to get it back. No matter where you're at, it's possible to rebuild that relationship and have that that love and that harmonious relationship back. You say, well, I'm still with them, I haven't left them yet. But you've forsaken them. Listen, you don't want to live that way. Your your mate doesn't want to live that way. You just start turning your heart back towards your mate. Emotionally get bonded again with them. A friend is committed. A friend is there. He's with you. Jesus Christ is committed to you. The promises that God has given to us in the Word of God, many of them have a precept with them. When we're dealing with the kids, we talk about the verses in the scripture and they have um I'm giving you here precept, but it's a condition promise. When you're teaching the kids, you teach them about condition promises. And kids understand that. If you do this, you get ice cream. If you obey, you get this. If you do this, the condition promised. A lot of verses in the scriptures are are precepts or principles that God has given us. And he said, if you do this I will. And as long as we fulfill our part, God will fulfill his. Somebody has said there's thirty thousand promises of God in his word No, I started counting them but I lost track. So no. Uh I I don't listen, God has never failed on one of 'em. No. If we fulfill our part of the principle or the precept that God is asking of us, He will fulfill His. You can hold tight to those commitment from God. A commitment goes beyond the seasons of life. You know that we go through seasons in life? That brings change in our life. Sometimes uh a friend is a friend for right now because the season of life you're in it's it's conducive to him or them or whatever, and and that friendship is there, but sometimes The season of life carries you over into a different type of of life. Things are different. Maybe the kids aren't at home anymore. Maybe y you used to have a friendship that was built around going to the gym and working out And you don't go to the gym anymore because you have brains. And I mean, you know, it wouldn't hurt some of us to do a little working out. Uh but I don't have time to tell you that story. We y you you know, you had that maybe you life's changed a little bit and you you're not going to the gym anymore and all of a sudden Where's that friendship? I thought we were friends, and there's like no connection. There's no that that thing that was that was a common bond there is gone. But a friend, a true friend, is a friend beyond the seasons of life Beyond the changes that come about from one step or one place of life, some seasons are seasons of prosperity, some seasons are seasons of hardship, some seasons are seasons of joy And sometimes there are seasons of sadness. And a true friend is there through them all. You know, sometimes people know how to be with you in the good times. But they don't know how to do it in the bad times. They don't know how to just sit with you. How to just be with you. I want to encourage you. If you have a friend going through something, you don't have to have all the answers. You just have to be there. You just have to be there. I know in our heart, because we love them, we want to do something. We want to somehow fix it, we want to solve it, we want to somehow meet that That's beyond your means, just be there. And that'll speak volumes. You say, I'm not sure what to say, I don't know how to act, and so I didn't do anything. I can tell you you'll regret that later. But you need to be there for them. A friend is a friend beyond the seasons of life. Both in the good times and the bad. The Bible tells us, rejoice with them that do rejoice and weep with them that weep. The friend is the friend beyond the struggles. You know, prosperity begets friends, but adversity proves them. Adversity proves whether they are a friend or not. A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born For adversity, the scripture says. Don't be a selective friend only in the good times. Thomas Edison said this about his friends. He said, I have friends and overalls whose friendship I would not swap for the favor of the greatest king of the world. Are you a selective friend? Jonathan gave his garment to his friend. Look at verse number four. He says, And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him and gave it to David and his garment, even to his sword, and to his bow and to his girdle. Have you ever had a friend that you said, Boy, they would give you the shirt off your back? They they would give you the shirt off their back. Whatever it is, they they would give it to you. I mean they're just that kind of a friend. I've had that kind of a friend and what a friend to have. A friend like that, that if there was a need, boy, they they would do whatever. Well here you see Jonathan, he gave him the robe. I mean he didn't call a uh servant over and say, hey, give David your coat. He didn't uh you know just say send some servants out to a store. I mean, he had the means and the ability. He could have done any of that. He could have said, hey, uh, go over there and get some of that and bring it here and provide for David. No He gave him the coat off his own back. Jonathan strips himself of his own robe. You know, I wonder if that phrase He would give you the shirt off his back came from this passage of scripture. You see here we have the son of a king. The son of a king. That gave his garment to clothe the poor shepherd boy. You know, I know another son of a king That gave his garment to clothe the poor and needy. The poor lost sinner, like you and me. That friend that sticketh closer than a brother, the son of the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation and took upon him the form of a servant. And being made in likeness of a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know, the Bible tells us that he took his robe off and gave it to us. In Isaiah 61, verse number 10, he says, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in my God, for he hath clothed me. With the garments of salvation. He hath covered me with the robe of righteousness. And many times I've used and given the illustration about how when God the Father looks down at us, he doesn't see us, but he sees the clothes of us We are made righteous because Jesus Himself took the righteousness that he had and he gave it to us and he took the sin that we had and he took it upon himself. Now that is a friend. Amen. He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God. in him. What a friend we have in Jesus. You know, a friend is also challenging. So we see a friend is compassionate, we see he's committed, and he's also challenging. Proverbs 27, verse 5 and 6 says, open rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. Oscar Wilde said this: A true friend stabs you in the front. He tells you the truth. A true friend is not going to let you walk around all day with egg on your face. And that description, that state that statement of walking around with egg on your face kind of covers not just the actual literal egg on your face, but something you're doing That makes you look bad or something you're doing that you shouldn't be doing. A true friend is going to be honest with you and tell you what you're doing One commentator on these two verses of scripture said this: An enemy, one who hates you, may seem to be a friend by his many kisses But a true friend, one who loves, may seem to be an enemy by his many wounds. Probably the inner hurt that comes from the open rebuke. Yet ironically, the rebuke may actually be more of a genuine expression of love. And I know when I say that you understand it. I know when I read that you say, that's correct. But when a true friend comes to us and talks to us about something in our life, how do we respond? Who do you think you are? Oh yeah, well you y oh what made you so great? You you think you can come and tell me, I mean, just because you happened to one time get it right? So now you're gonna tell me how to do it right all the time? I mean we get so bent out of shape today and wear our feelings on our sleeves and can't take anything from anybody Let me just encourage you to get over yourself. You don't you don't have it all figured out. We all need a little help now and again. And praise God for a true friend who'll be honest with us. Direct correction. Verse number five, we see that in in in We'll get back to the text in a minute. In Proverbs 27, 5. You don't have to turn there because we're going back to the text you're in in a second. But open rebuke is better than secret love. Direct correction. A friend is going to correct an erring friend. One man said this, I don't need a friend who changes when I change and who nods when I nod. My shadow does that pretty well. Don't need somebody else to do that. You need a friend to be honest with you. He's gonna correct directly. Let me say he'll correct you, not somebody else. Not talk to somebody else about it. Not tell somebody else about the problem that you have. But a true friend will come to you personally and say, hey, what about this? I know that it's painful. For you to criticize your friends. Here's the test. You say, should I go tell my friend about this problem that he has? Here's the test. If it hurts you to tell him, then you can. But if you get the least bit of joyment out of it, then you need to keep Keep your mouth shut. Because that's the difference in the spirit of a friend If you get the least bit of satisfaction out of it and coming to them with an I told you so attitude and and that kind of a thing, then I don't know that it's your place to be the one telling them. But if it truly hurts you to be able to criticize your friend, but in the spirit of love to try and help them, then direct confrontation, direct connection Correction is right. You see in verse number six in Proverbs there, direct combat, he says, faithful are the wounds of a friend. Are you willing to fight for a friend? The Bible says iron sharpeneth iron. Iron sharpeneth iron. You know, let me just throw this out. You need to pick your friends wisely. Iron sharpeneth iron. That means you gotta get around some sharp friends. You gotta be around the right kind of people. You don't just have a friend just because uh that they happen to be around. You need to pick the right kind of friend to invest your time and energy and effort in. Proverbs 13, verse number 20 says, He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. You say, boy, but they're good friends, but they're fools. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. They don't have anything to do with God. They don't have anything to do with church. Oh, but they're my friends. But they're not the people you should be spending your life with. You should be spending your life with the companions that you have, the people that are encouraging you and challenging you and helping you. are the people that are going to encourage and challenge and help you to go towards God, not away from Him. That's what you need. That kind of a friend. Right? That kind of a friend. Jonathan told David about the wrath of his father. Look in chapter nineteen. Verse 1 and 2. Chapter 19, verse number 1 and 2. He says, and Saul spake to Jonathan his son And to all his servants, that they should kill David. Verse number two But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul, my father, seeketh to kill thee. Now therefore I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself. You know, again here we have a picture of Jesus Christ, who came to seek and to save that which was lost. And he gave us the message of the wrath of the Father. The wrath of the Father. This world does not know that they're condemned already. They don't know that they're dead and their trespasses and sins. They don't know that a soul that sinneth it shall die, the Bible says. And they don't know, so Jesus came to warn men of the wrath of the Father. John 3. 36 says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Jesus came to warn us of the wrath of his Father and to provide for us safe passage Because of his righteousness and because of his blood that he shed for us. What an amazing picture given to us here in the Old Testament of Jesus. Who would one day come to provide a safe passage for us to his Father. A friend also communicates. A friend communicates. This Is to me this story and the picture that's being drawn here is amazing. I hope it's registering with you. I hope it's resonating in your heart. The friend that we have in Jesus Christ, what he's done for us. How we should be that kind of friend for other people, how we should look for those kind of friends. I feel like you might be a little tired today. I know there's many of you that are that are connected. There's only a few people asleep. I'm trying to decide if I should wrap it up right here. Um why don't you guys stand with me? Let's stand together, let's wake up those people that are sleeping. I have a couple more points, but I'm just gonna give you the last one. All right, everybody awake? All right, stay standard just a second. Let me let me read this last point for you. See, a friend communicates. Samuel in verse chapter 19, verse number four and five. He says, And Jonathan spake of David unto Saul. his father. And he said unto him, Let not the kings sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee word very good. For he did put his life in his hand. And slew the Philistines, and the Lord wrought a great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause? In verse 4, there he says, and Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul, his father. You can be saved. Be seated. Jonathan spake good of David unto his father. He communicates, a good friend communicates good to his friends. He communicates good to others about his friend. Jonathan spoke good of David to his father. Listen, our Savior Jesus Christ is right now. Saying good things about you to his father. He is right now before the throne of God saying good things to his father. Sometimes the Father's wrath might be ready to fall, but Jesus Christ, the Bible says, is our intercessor. He's there and he's looking and he says, Oh, I know he messed up right here. But hey, he trusted me as his Savior. He's been washed in the blood of the Lamb. He's on his way to heaven. He's been forgiven of his sin. And although he messed up right there, did you see how he did here? Did you see that he's in church here? Did you see what he did right here, God? He's saying good things about you before God, his Father. Amen. David testified to his father about the good things that David had done. Hebrews 7. 25 says, Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth. to make intercession for them. He communicates good. Look at verse number six. I want you to see the success of the intercession. Verse number 6, 1 Samuel chapter 19, verse number 6, he says, And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan. And Saul swear also, I'm sorry, as the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. Hey, the the the the intercession was successful. The intercession of our intercessor before God is successful. He also communicates with you. He communicates with you. A good friend communicates with you. We see continually here Jonathan and David. uh communicating one with another. The Bible says a man that hath friends must show himself friendly. Right. There is a friend that's closer than a brother. You know, we're living in a text and Twitter and Facebook age. And those things have their place. But let me just encourage you to get back to some old-fashioned communication. with some of your friends. Maybe even with your wife. You could talk to her once in a while. Or to him or your kids. Get back to some old fashioned. Just sit down and share your heart with one another. You know we live today's world is so superficial. We're just right on the surface. All of our communications with people that we would even call good friends is like right on the surface. Just when are we going to really share our heart with each other? I'm not going to get into there's a whole level of communication here that this is a whole message in itself. We need to learn how to communicate. Communicate with one another. One of the biggest things that people say uh with regards to husband and wife relationship is we just don't know how to communicate. He cu he communicates with you. Somebody said this. People make enemies because it's a whole lot less trouble. It takes some work to keep a friend. It takes some work to be a friend. It takes some time and some energy and some effort. I'm glad that Jesus is a friend that's always there. He communicates with you. He was made flesh and dwelt among us. He was made sin for us. He sent the Comforter unto us. He's there all the time. He's a friend. Friendship. Greater love hath no man than this than a man lay down his life for his friends. There is that aspect of it that Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you don't know that friend. It's a friend that's closer than a brother. You can know that today. But I think for us, I don't think God is asking us to every weekend to die for our friend. But what about this? Could we lay aside our life for a friend? You see, we've got our life. We've got all that we want to accomplish. We've got all we need to do. We've got our own plans. And here's a friend that has a need. I think that could be dying to yourself. That could be a friend if you lay aside your life for a little bit. And be the right kind of friend. And that's what Jesus did for us. You see, he was up in heaven. He was God. And he laid aside his throne and came down to earth for you and I. He laid aside all of his glory and all of his majesty and came to earth. He laid it aside for a while that he might minister unto us. They might seek and to save that which lost. Could we lay aside our life for a little bit to reach this lost world? Could we lay aside our life for a little bit to minister to somebody? Could we lay aside our life for a little bit? You know, there's nothing greater you could do for any friend you have than to tell them about Jesus Christ. To share the love of Jesus. Could you lay aside your pride? Say, man, we've been friends a long time, and I've never talked to them about God. If I do that, I'm not sure what's going to happen. Could you lay aside that fear and be a true friend and share the love of Jesus Christ with them? You say, Pastor Caleb, I'm not sure I can. Well, how about you invite him out to Anniversary Sunday? There you go. You get them into church, and we'll have Brother Townsley preach a message about the love of Christ. And they can be challenged with the truth of their eternal soul. That's what a true friend would do. Friend, a faithful friend. Are you a faithful friend? Praise God for the friend that we have in Jesus. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Do you have the mind of Christ? Are you willing to lay aside your life for a little bit? Lay aside your goals and ambitions to be a friend to someone else Dear God, I pray that you would be with this moment of invitation. I pray every heart that's been touched by you would yield to you and do that which you would ask them to do. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.