Well, it's that time. You ready to get into the Word of God? Amen. Well, grab your Bibles, turn to James, chapter number two. James, chapter number two. Put your finger there and then go over to the book of Genesis and chapter number twelve. Put a piece of paper there. We're going to be to Genesis here in just a minute, but our text verse for this morning is found in James. But we're going to need those two passages of scripture. There is in our text this morning a telling description given concerning Abraham. Of all that we know about Abraham in all of the Bible, one of the most powerful and telling statements concerning his character and what God thought of this man named Abraham Is found in our text this morning. In James chapter 2 and verse number 23, the Bible reads, And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. He was called The friend of God. This morning I would like to bring a message entitled A Friend of God. Would you pray with me and ask God to lead in the message and speak Lord, we come to you. We're grateful for this opportunity to once again open the pages of Scripture to bring forth a message this morning to your people. God, there's people present here and people listening and watching via the live stream. Each and every person is dealing with something different in their life. Everyone is at a different place. I could not hope to, on my best day, minister to even half of the people that are Listening to the Word of God this morning, but Lord, I know that the Holy Spirit knows where every single person is is, exactly what their needs are, what their burdens are, where they need encouraged and where they need challenged. And I pray, God, that in the power of your might, this morning, you might give liberty To preach the word of God, that you might use the power of the Holy Spirit and challenge hearts. Stir us today. As was prayed as we opened the service, Lord, I pray that we would leave different than we came. That there would be something in our lives, some decision that we've made, we've rededicated or repurposed our heart to follow after you. And I pray God you would do that in our midst this hour. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Abraham was called a friend of God. This is not the only place in the Word of God that this special relationship Between Abraham and God was mentioned in Exodus chapter 33 and verse number 11, he says, And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh to his friend. Moses was able to get into the presence of God, able to talk to him as a man talks to a friend. When you talk to God, do you just is he your friend? Are you able to communicate with him like a friend that's close, like a friend that you have a relationship with that you know intimately? Or is he still so distant from you that you find him hard to approach? Well, in all the pages of Scripture, with the thousands of men and women that are mentioned Only this one man, Abraham, is this telling statement given regarding how God felt about him. Only Abraham was called a friend of God. I don't know about you, beloved, but I would love to be called a friend of God. Now I know that he's my father. There is no question in my heart, in my mind, because there was a day where I realized I was a sinner. That I was bound for hell because of that sin, and there was nothing that I could do that would cover it or take care of it, or no way I could pay for it. But because Jesus Christ came and gave himself on the cross and died so that I could be saved I at that moment realized that and I did what the Bible says, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I at that moment bowed my head, confessed my the fact that I was a sinner and I was guilty and on my way to hell and ask Jesus Christ to forgive me of that sin. And at that moment I became a child of God. So I know that he's my father, but am I his friend? Am I his friend? You see, I wish for that type of relationship, where God would consider me His friend. The Bible, there's a lot of things about friendship, such as greater love hath no man than this, and a man laid down his life for his friend. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you, henceforth I call you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth, but I have called you friends. For all things that I have heard of my Father, I have made known unto you. Christ looked at these men and he says, Hey, there's no greater expression of love than a man lay down his life for his friend. And this is what I did for you. He looked at him and said, I gave myself for you. And we don't have the kind of relationship of slave and master. I have shared with you everything that my father shared with me. What I want you to understand here this morning is that Jesus, God, is a friend to you and I. He is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. He is always there in that position of friend. Jesus referred to Moses and said that he talked to him as a friend face to face. But only of Abraham is it said that Abraham was a friend of God. You see, what I'm saying is I believe that it's possible To be a child of God, and have Him be my friend, but me not reciprocate. I believe it's possible to be saved and on my way to heaven and have no question about my eternity and my relationship with God in that regard. And because he is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother, I believe it, I have faith, I have no question that he is always there. In the moment or hour of our need, no matter how far we've gone from God, He is present. He is a friend. He is there every single time. But how much of a friend am I to him? Have you ever had a friend that you just were just you just went above and beyond for you were just a friend to them But they didn't reciprocate. I mean it's just you just continued to be a friend, you continued to be there, you continued, and and that's what friendship is But you look at it and they are haven't been much of a friend to you. Have you have you ever felt that Like, man, I've sacrificed, I've gone out of my way to serve, I've tried to help him, I've given him so much, I've been available at a moment's notice, I've been a friend. And I don't sense that from them. I wonder how many times Jesus, our Heavenly Father, looks down at us It says, I've been a friend. A friend closer than a brother. And I don't feel that from you. I don't feel that from you. This morning I want to talk just about how Abraham was recognized as a friend of God. And if we desire to be recognized as that, if we desire to not just know that God is a friend to us And my, how much comfort have we drawn through our lives relying upon that fact that God is a friend to us? Amen. He is a friend to us, and he is always there. But this morning, are we, are you, a friend to God? I want to give you three simple points. There's lots of things that we could look at with regards to this, but first of all, turn now to the book of Genesis, Genesis chapter number twelve, and we don't have time this morning to read all of Abraham's life and all of the story that we know of him. So we're gonna kind of jump through the story here and pick some spots of Abraham's life where we see some defining moments where he made some decisions and did some things with that I believe uh showed how he was a friend to God and what we need to do. In Genesis chapter number 12 and verses 1 through 4, he says, now the Lord had said unto Abram Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house into a land that I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and I will make thy name great. And thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him. And Lot went with him. And Abraham was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Well, God said unto him, Abraham, it's time to get up, and it's time to go. Okay, Lord, where do you want me to go? Well, you just start out and I'll let you know. What? Yeah, just pack it all up, Abraham. Get all the camels ready. Get everything ready. You're gonna leave all of your family. You're gonna leave all of your friends, you're gonna leave everything that you know here that's all comfortable to you Everything that you are now in, you're going to pack it all up and just hit the road. And I'll let you know when you get there. Well, wait a minute, Lord. That that doesn't make a lot of sense. I don't really understand what what it is you want me to do. No, Abraham didn't do that. Abraham didn't do that. I want you to see, first of all, that he submitted to God's plan. For his life. He submitted to God's plan. What God wanted him to do, Abraham said, okay, I'm willing, Lord. And this request that was given to him, I think, is very similar to many people that have surrendered to the mission field. A lot of times, God has come and spoken to the heart of a young man or young lady. Or an older man or older lady. You know, age is is your call of God. He was 75 here. When God said, hey, Abraham, time to get up and time to go. So age is not a defining characteristic for whether you have a call of God or not. Wherever you are in your life, God could call and say, Hey, I want you to do this. You y you can't say, oh well, I'm no longer 18. You know, I I'm no longer twenty-two, I don't have that kind of energy anymore. I don't think no. When God calls, are you submitted to His plan for your life? A missionary gets called, and many, many times they say, Hey, I'm willing to go. I'm ready to go, Lord. And so they'll take a mission trip to the Philippines or to South Africa or To Papua New Guinea, and they take a mission strip and they're just saying, Lord, where do you want me to go? They might be on a missions trip in Papua New Guinea and they'll meet somebody from Egypt. And God will say, Egypt's where I want you to go. I mean God works in mysterious ways, in miraculous ways, and and we don't know uh the hand of God sometimes, we don't know exactly where he wants, but many missionaries have surrendered and said, I'm willing and ready to go. Wherever you want me to go, Lord, and then God shows them, okay, this is where I want you to go. This is exactly what I want you to do. This is how it's going to work. But they had to surrender and say, okay, Lord, I'm ready. I'm willing. And I ask you, are you ready to do whatever God wants? You see, the friend of God is somebody that is going to be submitted to God's plan for their life He says in those verses that I read you in the book of John, John chapter 15, he said, henceforth, he says in verse 14, he says, Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you. You want to be a friend of God, we've got to be submitted to His will. To be willing to do whatever God wants us to do. Would you Hand attract to somebody? Oh, I don't know. This is the middle of COVID. They can always refuse it. But were you obedient to God in doing it? What does God want you to do Are you willing to submit to his plan for your life? Abraham began his pilgrimage in verse number four. He says he departed. God said go he said I'm okay. He packed it up and hit the road. He didn't even know In Hebrews 11, verse number eight, he says, By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed. And he went out, not knowing whither he went. This was not Abraham's plan. It's not typically how we do things. Just start driving around. Where are you headed? I don't know. Just driving. Just heading out. God has a plan though, and God wants to direct you in your life, but you've got to be submitted to His plan. God's call oftentimes doesn't make sense to us. It oftentimes doesn't make sense on a practical level. Abraham, that doesn't make sense. You're going to head out to a land that you know not of to go where you don't know? That doesn't make sense. Why would you leave a job earning six figures to go into the ministry to work for five dollars an hour? Why would you do that? That doesn't make sense God's plan sometimes doesn't make sense, but are you willing to just follow His plan for your life? I remember When I was in college, I was working a job at Walmart. I was making the well I think at that time it was $7. 25 an hour. I was cranking it in, man. Doing good. Living high on the hog, right? Well, I was working at Walmart. And it was in Valperso, Indiana, which there's Valpo University there. And uh I was a college kid. I was a young man. And And all day long there were these hot looking college girls coming into Walmart. I mean distracting me from my job. You say, Pastor I was a young man. These girls were looking good. And I I I was like, man, this is hard to keep a pure mind. I'm training for the ministry. I wanted to serve God and these girls are coming in dressed in less dressed than than more dressed. You know what I mean? They were coming in. And and not only that, at Walmart there was this rock music was playing all day. And I found myself singing along to these songs that I didn't want to have in my heart. So here I am in the morning having devotions and reading my Bible, and here I am studying to go into the ministry to serve God with my life, and then I go to work for six, seven, eight hours a day And all that time there's this worldly music being pumped into my mind and there's this uh uh these girls coming into the store all the time. It seems like every you know what? The devil will put it in front of you Whatever he's gonna has power to distract you by, he'll put it in front of you. He'll make sure it comes across your path I'll bet you half those girls stopped shop shopping at Walmart whenever I whenever I wasn't working there. Not because they wanted to see me, but because they they the devil's like, oh I don't need to send them there anymore, okay. It's not there But I was so distracted and burned about this. I was praying and saying, Lord, what do I need to do? This is so hard for me to keep a pure mind, and this environment is a struggle for me to stay on track, and Lord, I don't want to be Pumping this into my heart and the Lord gave me direction. He says, I I want you to turn in your two weeks. I said, Man, it was about a month and a half before the end of school. I thought while it's why don't I just finish working the year out? That makes makes sense, right? Just just finish the year. And then I'll turn in my weeks. I'll move home for the summer and work there somewhere doing something. And and I decided, well God just kept saying you need to turn it in, you need to be done, your last week needs to be the week before preaching conference. So that you can be in the preaching all week, so you can serve me and be part of the the ministry that week and not be distracted by that. So I did it. The problem was if I would have stayed until the week after preaching conference I was going to get a $500 bonus because they had profit sharing in our store had done really, really well. And every employee of the store was going to get a $500 bonus for that year's profit sharing. I said, Lord, just one more week. 500 bucks. I mean, I gotta pay my school bill, right? God said, no, now's the time. And I said, okay, Lord. I turned in my time, told my boss there, I said, I appreciate the job. I think that the Lord has something else for me. I don't know what. Don't know where I'm going to work. Not sure how it's going to work, but I think this is This is what the Lord wants me to do. And he was very gracious and said, I understand. Thank you so much, Caleb. If you ever need a job, please come back. We'll hire you back in a heartbeat. So during preaching conference, somebody walked up to me, had no idea. They walked up to me and said, God told me to give this to you and handed me $500. God said to me, You did what I told you to do. I'll meet the need. From there I got a job working $5 an hour. I said, Lord, $5 an hour? I was making $7. 25 an hour. This is not how this is supposed to work. This doesn't make sense. But in less than a year, I was making twenty-five dollars an hour. And within a few months of that, I had several guys working working for me and I was paying each of them fifteen dollars an hour. And for the rest of my college career I had liberty to set my schedule whenever I wanted. I never missed uh never missed an hour activity I wanted to be at. Amen. Where's Mary? Sh you know, we were dating. I had to be at those activities. Amen. Uh I never missed an activity I wanted to be at. I never missed a service. Never missed any ministry. I was able to go be God work that out, but I didn't know why. I just said, Lord, this is not, I know this is not what you want for me. Are you willing to just follow God and let God meet the need? When you submit, God brings blessing. Look at verse number 2 of our in Genesis there. He says, And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. When you submit to God's plan for your life, He blesses you. He blesses you abundantly and above anything that you could ask or think. Sometimes you wonder, man, Lord, you're too good to me. Because God is so good to those that submit to his plan for their life. I want you to see, secondly, that he stood on godly principles. Look down now Genesis chapter number fourteen. We're gonna skip a little bit of reading, but we'll jump ahead in his life here. In Genesis chapter 14, verse 22 through 20, verse 22 and 23, I think. He says, And Abram said unto the king of Sodom I have lift up my hand unto the Lord, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth, that I will not take. From a thread, even a shoelash, and that I will not take anything that is thine, lest thou sayest, I have made Abraham rich. So the story here, if you read the last two chapters, what happens, you remember Abraham and Lot had a little bit of disagreement, and he said, Lot, go where you want to go, right? Lot went to Sodom. You remember that? Well, then these kings had a dispute, and five kings attacked a group of four kings, and they ended up taking all of the goods and the riches and the wealth and all of the people out of Sodom. Along with Lot. And God and his blessing on Abraham, somebody came and told Abraham, hey, these kings attacked Sodom, and they took Lot. And all of the possessions out of Sodom, they're gone. And Abraham said, what? And Abraham got his servants together and went after them. If you read the story, you find out that God gave Abraham the victory, and he was able to recover all of the possessions for the city of Sodom and Gomorrah. And was able to bring Lot and his family back safe. Because of God's blessing on his life. You've no no idea how far-reaching the blessing of God is on our lives. Sometimes we don't even understand what it is that if you read the story, four kings and all of their people could not defeat these five kings. But Abraham and his servants did. Because of God's blessing. And they went and they got Lot back and the king of Sodom Came to him and said, Man, thank you so much. Boy, I appreciate you doing this. He says, I'll tell you what, if you allow the people of Sodom to come back, you can have all of the loot. You can have the things. And Abraham says, nope, I'm not even going to take one shoelace. from you. Lest you say you made me rich. Because my blessing comes from God. And Abraham understood that for him to take that money, those gifts, would do two things. One is it would take from God the glory that was his. And two, it would build an affinity, a relationship with the world that we as God's people are not supposed to have. Now, how many of us today would stand on biblical principle and turn away a whole bunch of money I can tell you right now, most Christians today would find a way to bend biblical principle. They would say, Oh, look, look how got God did this. God provided this somehow. Oh, yeah, look at what look at where this is coming from. And look, we would find a way to manipulate the situation To benefit us, instead of standing on biblical principle and trusting God, he was going to do what was right, even though it was hard. Even though it was going to cost him, if you and I want to be a friend to God We've got to stand on biblical principle. Let the chips fall where they may. Do what's right, even though the stars fall. Whatever happens, you do right, and let God Be the judge. Let God bring the blessing. Let God deal with the outcome. But we just do right. Amen? That's what we should do. Look In Genesis chapter 15 and verse number one, it's amazing to me that we see Abraham's reward. After these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward. Abraham said, No, I'm not going to take all this possession from you. And I imagine on the way home, if he was human, if he was like any of us, he's like man Man, I can't believe I turned all that money down. I can't believe I said no. What was I thinking? I mean, he's looking at that saying, what in the world? You know what I could have done with all that? I mean, my goodness I mean, if I would have just done this and this, I would have had the money to increase my herds, and he would have been thinking through all that. If you're like me, that's what I do. I evaluate the situation, I overthink it, and he's on his way back home thinking these things probably, and God says to him, Abram, hey, fear not. I'm thy exceeding great reward. You are rewarded. No, you didn't take a reward from the world, but I am thy reward. I will meet thy needs. I will bless thee exceedingly and abundantly above that you can ask or think. God did it for him. And what a miraculous thing to do when you see God bring that blessing. I want you to see that He was supported by God's promises. Genesis chapter 15 there, starting. Verse number two, he says, and Abram said, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? And the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed. And lo, one born in my house is my heir. And behold, the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, This shall not be thy heir, but he that shall come forth unto thy of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. And he brought him forth abroad and said, Look now to heaven. And tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. And he believed the Lord, and it is counted unto him. For righteousness. God had promised Abraham that if he went to a country that he knew not of, that he was going to make of him a great nation. You remember reading that? Anybody remember reading that? So he had this promise that he was going to be made a great nation. And so he looks at God and says, wait, Lord, just wondering. I don't have an heir. Am I supposed maybe maybe you're gonna give me maybe this one born in my house? Maybe I could kind of call him an heir because he was born in my home, maybe that would work. And God says, no, I told you I was going to make of thee a great nation. He says, I'm going to bless thee. Of thine own bowels, you're going to have a child. And he took them outside and he said, look at the stars. Said, you see those, Abram? So shall thy children be He expanded on the blessing that he had already given him and re-established it in his heart and his mind. And Abraham believed God. God had given him that promise. He believed the promises of God. In Hebrews chapter 11, a correlating passage where we hear the faith of Abraham, he says, Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive. seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful, who had promised. Therefore, sprang thee every one of him as God is dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the seashore Innumerable. God brought forth just as he promised, a nation greater than the number of the stars. Can I ask you this morning, do you have faith in God? Do you stand on the promises of God? He had faith and he believed and trusted God. Do you have faith that God will supply your needs? My God shall supply all thy needs according to his riches and glory. You say, well, Pastor Caleb, I know that's a verse, but that's good for you, or that's good for so-and-so, but no, are you a child of God? Can you believe God that He'll supply your needs? Can you believe God that He'll protect you and keep you safe? Or are you relying on your PPE to do that? Where's Miss Amy? I just saw her. Miss Amy. Her mother got COVID. You know her mother never left her home? Her mother never went never went anywhere. She's been at home since this began. Nobody else in her family got it But her mom got it. I'm not telling you to be careless or foolish, but I'm saying are you relying on your PPE to protect you or are you relying on God to protect you? You still you still d don't don't be dumb, you know. Wash your hands, don't touch your face, right? But you can lock yourself in a hole and still get COVID The difference is this. Here's the difference. Do you have peace in your heart because you're wearing PPE? Or because you know God's in control. That's the difference. You wear PPE, you for go ahead and protect yourself, you go ahead and put and implement whatever uh You know, you can do to be wise and not be foolish, but what brings the peace in your heart should not be that it should be the fact that you know God's in control, God's protecting you, and what's going to be done will be done. And you live your life, you do what you need to do, don't let it shut you down, don't let it lock you up. You just trust God and be faithful. Amen? Do you can you believe God? Can you believe the promises of God? That He said He would never leave thee nor forsake Thee This book is full of promises given to just the believer. Can you claim those and believe them by faith Stand on those. Be supported by the promises of God. Abraham was tested greatly. Turn to Genesis chapter number 22. We're going to move way way up in the story here. Here. Genesis 22, a familiar story. Verse number 1 through 6. And it came to pass after these things that God tempted Abraham. That word tempted literally means to test. God tested Abraham. And said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here am I. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac. Whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon the mountain, which I shall tell thee. Do you know faith that isn't tested? Can't be trusted. God is going to test your faith. That's the very definition of faith It's very easy to say, oh yeah, I I believe in that or I trust that, but not to get on it, not to actually do it. My kids and I were talking about bungee jumping and whether that would be fun or not. There was some differences of opinion in in the group. And so we pulled up some videos on YouTube about some people could follow off these clips. And I mean you're just watching the video makes your stomach go, whoa You know, like, oh my goodness, wow. And we were talking about the stories about some people that jumped off on a bungee jump and and there's the other end wasn't hooked on. They they the people managing the thing forgot to hook the other end and and the people jumped off and the rope just went right with them. We're like, man, could you imagine? Melissa said, I think I would get up there, but I would not. They would have to push me off. She's like, I don't think I would jump. And that's the thing, like, oh yeah, I've I believe this bungee could hold me. Yeah, look, it just held him and he's twice my size. Okay, would you get up and do it? Nope. Faith that isn't tested can't be trusted. And we can say, oh yeah, I believe God. I believe his promises. And then when God brings a test into your life, Wait a minute, Lord, that's not what I meant. Wait a minute, Lord, that's too hard for me. Oh, I I can't trust you in that. That doesn't seem to make sense to me in my carnal mind. Faith that isn't tested can't be trusted. Abraham had a promise from God that he would have a nation. And here was his only son. And God said, Would you take that which is most dear to you and sacrifice him for me? And Abraham said, No, Lord. Abraham said, well, how am I going to have a nation after me if you take what's my only son, the only heir I have? No, he didn't do that, did he? He said, okay, God, because I trust you. Because you gave this son to me And you will raise this son from the dead, or you'll give me another one. You are in control, God. Ultimately, this life I have is yours, and whatever you want, I'm willing to do. God's going to test you if you say, oh, I'm standing on the promises of God. And he says, okay. You say, well, why does he have to test me? Isn't my confession of standing good enough? Apparently not. Apparently he wants to know how serious we are Are you going to pass the test? Are you going to say, okay, Lord? I'm with you. Wherever the road leads, whatever you want to do, I believe I believe you. I trust you. I'm reliant on the promises. Abraham trusted God. Some of you have yet to trust God for salvation. What are you holding back? God has sent his only son, and he said, hey. All you have to do is confess the fact that you're a sinner. Believe that Jesus Christ came and died to forgive you of your sin. Ask with your mouth and believe in your heart. That's all you've got to do. And you say, well, I believe in God, but you've yet to trust him. Take his son as covering for your salvation. Tell me if you've done that, but maybe you've yet to trust God for baptism. I was talking to one of the pastors that came to the Min and Boys camp out. And at the Min and Boys camp out for the each of the services, I thought, you know, I just think the Lord wants us to have a testimony. Would two of you men stand up and give a testimony? The first night I said, Give me a testimony give me your salvation testimony. I want to hear your salvation when you got saved. And two two men got up. The next night I said, I want to hear a testimony about how God challenged you in your life. Something spiritually that you've overcome that God. Gave you victory in. And a couple men stood up and gave testimony. And one of the ones that stood up said that God was telling him he needed to get baptized. But He didn't want to do it. And he was putting it off and putting it off. And he went through the story about how God worked in his life and God brought him to the place where he finally said, Okay, Lord. I'll get baptized. We went on with the service, didn't think anything about it, but last week I had a pastor call me and he says, Hey, I just want you to know that one of my men that were in that meeting Came to me and says, Pastor, ever since that testimony, the Holy Spirit has been poking me. You aren't baptized. You aren't baptized. You aren't baptized. And he says, I've been putting it off for years. He says, I've For Bins scripturally baptized and I want to do it now. Can you trust God? You say, oh, I'm afraid of water. I'm not going to drown you. I'll hold you up. It it'll be o we'll we'll get some help in there if we need to make sure. It'll be okay. I know there's some that are deathly afraid of water, but can you trust God? That first step of obedience Can you trust God for your security, your safety in the midst of COVID and the economic collapse that everybody's saying is coming and all of this Listen, you don't have to be afraid of those things. Because you're a child of God. And God is your friend. The question this morning is Are you a friend of God's? Would God look down at you and say, He's my friend? She's my friend. I hope that God would say that about me. As I've seen these couple things in Abraham's life, I know there's some areas that I can do better to be sure that I am a friend. to God and not just take for granted the friendship that He's extended to me. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I'm going to ask the pianist to come. God wants you to be willing to sacrifice what you hold dear and precious to Him. He has already done that for you and I. He sacrificed his only son for you and I, on a cruel cross, so that we may have eternal Are you willing to sacrifice what's most dearest to you to do what God wants you to do, to follow His will for your life, to be obedient to Him Abraham is a friend of God. Are you a friend of God?