It's good to see you all tonight. Uh we're gonna do something a little bit different, uh unannounced and unplanned, but um we have a pastor with us. I asked him to come in and be with us tonight, uh Pastor James Koblitz. Uh him and his wife are here and he pastored forty four years in Thermont, Maryland, and uh started the church there and pastored forty four years there. And in I guess it's within the last year that you turned the church over to About two years ago? Well, uh about six or eight months ago, uh Brother Randy Starr sent me Pastor Koblett's information. And just let me know that because he had turned the church over to somebody that he was available to to be a blessing to other churches, especially in the area that weren't too far away, and if we had opportunity to have him in that he came recommended from him. I called Pastor Kovalitz and got to know him a little bit, just talked briefly, and then I asked him if he would come so we could spend some time together today. I have a lot of respect for somebody that stays faithful forty-four years in the same place, serving the Lord. uh just serving God's people and doing what God has called them to do. And uh I can tell you there was at least once in that forty-four years that he felt like Quinton. that he wanted to call it quits, but he decided not to. Uh that's because his wife wouldn't let him quit. He was he was ready, he was going to, but uh she wasn't having it. Uh I d just get to know him a little bit today, but to have two kids and five grandchildren, is that right? Two kids and five grandchildren. And today is their fifty ninth wedding anniversary. Fifty-nine years. And uh he's sixty two years old. And uh Uh he's got a few more years than that, but uh just been faithful serving the Lord and uh I wanted to hear him preach Uh, I wanted to get to know him a little bit, uh, be a blessing to him, but also I believe that God could use him to be a blessing to our church. And uh so Um I don't know if I should tell you this, depending upon tonight, I don't know, but I uh I I actually want him to fill the pulpit. I'm going to be gone for vacation in the middle of August, and I want him to come and fill the pulpit during that time while I'm gone. But I didn't want the first time he ever came here to be while I'm gone. And so I wanted to meet him. I wanted to get to know him and I asked if he would come down tonight really just so I could uh spend some time with him and his wife, get to know them a little and hear him preach tonight and bring the word. But forty-four years and of course comes highly recommended from uh Brother Randy Starr and we obviously as a church have a lot of respect for him But uh I appreciate it, brother. You can come and preach for us what the Lord has laid on your heart. Uh let us know what God's given you to share with the church tonight. We're looking forward to it. Alright, go ahead and turn your Bibles to the book of Philippians, chapter 1. My favorite hymn is, I'm only a sinner saved by Greece. That's uh they pretty much all came from the same place. Hopefully all of us are going to the same place. Some say it don't matter where you came from, but it does matter where you're going. And all of us know we came from Adam. And uh, you know, somebody said, Who's your daddy, Adam? But I got a new father now. Amen. Well we're glad to see you and thank you, Pastor. Thank you for your trust. And we just getting acquainted, but I've been a person who always wants to help people. I don't want to hurt anybody. And uh sometimes you get hurt though through the preaching the word of God. It does happen. But if God hurts us, it's to help us. You know, when the Holy Spirit gets that scalpel out to take something out of our life that don't belong there, it's only to make us better. And so I never got mad with the preacher if he preached truth. And tell it like it is, to us like we are, get some help. We go home and have a better life. And that's what we want. I've got a favorite verse of scripture. This is one of them. And I want to preach from that text. But let's go back here to verse number one first of all, and let's do some reading. Philippians chapter 1, verse 1, Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ. You can't get a better title than that, can you? A servant of the Lord. When Moses died, it says Moses, the servant of the Lord, died. When Joshua died, it was the same thing. Joshua, the servant of the Lord. That is the greatest epitaph that any of us could ever have in this life. And that's all we want to be, is just servants Paul that way, with the greatest man of God, New Testament, he said, I'm a servant. And uh he can be one, I believe we can be one also. Well, let me get to my message here. To all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi. And I put the emphasis here to all the saints in Christ Jesus because we may not be in Philippi Tonight we might take a little trip there, look into the scriptures, but uh we are all the to all the saints that are in Christ Jesus. That's the only way you become a saint. is in Christ Jesus. No church can declare you a saint. No particular religion can make you a saint But uh the Lord makes us saint. We may not always be saintly, but thank God we can be saints, can't we? Amen Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about that greeting. That's a wonderful greeting If there's anything we need in this life is more grace, more grace and more peace. We live in a world of trouble. We live in a world of a lot of trouble, a lot of fears, a lot of going on, but thank God for his grace that'll get you through anything that you face in life. And we get the peace that goes along with that. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. And that should be the words from your own pastor. Every time that he thinks about you, remembers you, that he would thank God for you. That's the way it ought to be We ought to be that kind of a servant of the Lord. We ought to be that kind of a church member that our pastor would thank God You know? And uh as I said, uh the years of experience I've had, there's some that was hard to thank God for. Pastor, I'm just being honest Uh you know, we're here to be a blessing. We know God, we want to live for God, serve God, fellowship with one another, encourage and help one another. We certainly don't want to uh to be the other kind and I Looking at you tonight, I don't believe any of you here are that way. But I want to thank you tonight that you would come out in the midweek service. That says a lot about you. That you have a hunger and desire for the things of God. Amen. Verse 4. Always in every prayer of mine for you all, make him request with joy. For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now, being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you Will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart Inasmuch as both in my bonds and in the defense and in the confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace. I'll stop uh reading there. And uh I want to give you something to help you tonight. I don't know. Honestly, uh I see you, you look like good, I mean I you look good. How do you like that for a way to start You look good. And uh you know, but life is not always easy. I wish it would be. One day it will be. We know that. And it's not easy for us in the flesh. So we get older, things happen. I got glasses. Yeah, I had cataract procedure, and I got these on and off. These are for reading. But you know, uh our eyes, our ears, our walk. They told me it would happen to me when I was young, and I didn't believe them, but I'm a believer now. So serve the Lord while you're able That's what I want to encourage you to do. But life is not always easy. Now, the man of God, the Apostle Paul, it wasn't always easy for him either. If anybody could have quit, he could have quit. And I'm glad he didn't. And you read about it in 2 Timothy chapter 4. I mean he did everything like the Lord wanted him to do according to the scriptures there. He kept the faith, he finished his course. And that's what I want. And I'd like that for you. Your pastor would like that for you. But it wasn't always that way. Let's look at some words here in this chapter before we get to our message. Alright? In verse 1. We see the word, pardon me, verse 7. Verse 7, we see the word bonds. Know what that means? He's bound. He's in prison. Not for robbing banks, not for uh uh drag racing, I'll put that in there because of what day we live in. He wasn't getting himself into trouble uh for doing uh breaking the law. He was in prison for doing right. And let me say something to you about that. Some people say it's just not fair. It's just not fair. Something happens to you. You say, well, I've been in church and I've served God and I've lived for God. And it just isn't fair. These things are happening to me. Just remember this. Was it fair what Jesus went through? Was that fair? Was it fair what Joseph went through in the Old Testament? What did he do wrong Was it fair for Daniel? You know there's nothing wrong that's been recorded against Daniel. Was it fair what happened to him? Was it fair what happened to our Savior? We ought it not be considered a surprise if something happens to us from time to time. And I want to say this, we're all leaving this world. Hopefully we're going by the upward taker. Hopefully. But we don't know that for sure. We don't know when he's coming. He's coming. He said, I will come again. And if he said it, it's true, and it'll happen. But we're not sure if it's going to happen today. So we don't know. So Paul is in jail here. We see the word bonds. Look at verse number 12. But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather into the furtherance of the gospel. Things have happened to him. Things happened to me Things happen to you. If it hadn't happened yet, hang on, it will. Verse number 13, we find the word bonds again, or bond, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace. Verse 14, bonds, and many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident by my bonds. He keeps making mention of these things that's happened to him Look at verse 15 and 16. Bible says some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife. And some also good will, one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely supposing to add affliction to my bonds, strife, condition uh cont uh contention Adding affliction. In other words, when you add affliction, he's already being afflicted and he's getting more on top of it. You know the old saying, when it rains it pours. He was getting it. Verse number twenty According to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness as always shown now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. Now people don't want to talk about dying. But it's a fact of life. Unless our Savior comes for us before time. But it's a fact of life. And everybody here needs to think about that so that you're ready. You gotta be ready. You have to be ready. There's nothing to play with. Your soul is nothing to gamble with. What does the Bible say? What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his soul? A verse twenty-eight. Turn the page here And in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation and that of God. He's speaking about being terrified Terrified Adversaries. Verse 29. For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to what? Suffer. I'll be honest with you, I don't like to suffer. Many of us here no doubt. I said us, I can clean myself a whiner. As soon as I suffer a little bit, I gotta whine a little bit Yeah, I don't like suffering. Yeah, we'll grab take another pill, another uh, you know, a little longer pill. We just want don't want to suffer We want to be comfortable. I like air conditioning, don't you? I like indoor plumbing. I like electricity. You know why? I don't like to suffer. You don't either But suffering was part of the Christian life for the Apostle Paul and for the saints in that day. Verse 30, having the same conflict which he saw in me and now here to be in me. He says, you're having the same conflict which I have. You're dealing with the same thing. Now It brings us back to a verse, verse number six. Verse number six, and that's where we're going to part for a few moments. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. I'm going to ask you to, if you don't have that verse memorized, memorize it. It'll get you through some tough times. Because one of the things, or some of the things that go along with suffering, bonds, afflictions Is you get into a place of discouragement, despair, depression, doubt, No, John the Baptist said, is he the one that should come or should do we look for another? Now that's uh and listen, if John can get to that place, so can we. Because Jesus said that men born of women, none were greater than John. That is quite a compliment. It is. But Paul, Paul, when he got into that place, it was not discouragement, despair, depression, or doubt. It was dependence. He was dependent on the Lord. He's the only one that's going to get you out. As pastor of those years, I think of the many people. Got bitter, who ran away from God instead of to God. The time that you need help, there's a time you need help, is a time you need God. Don't run from Him. It don't matter. You get down. And let me say this. Yeah. There's other people that have been down. There are other people that's been down. Don't run away from them. They're right here. That's why your church is important. This thing about coming together and your fellowship with one another and somebody that can pray for you. Your pastor cares about you. I've been with you on a A little while now, but I can tell he really cares about you. Don't run from God but run to him. But I've seen people leave God, leave church, leave the, and from there on, they're like the prodigal son. Down, down, down. You know the prodigal son, he left, and I could preach a message on that. He left the father's house, the father's will, the father's provision, the father's protection. You want to run away from God? That's the wrong thing to do. Wrong thing. No, Paul was going through a lot, but you know what? He was faithful, and we can be faithful too. One of the way the things that will get us faithful through those times are some of the promises of the Word of God. Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. That's full of promises. Now it speaks about a work. You'll notice that. He which hath begun a good work. You know God's working. When I was past your pastor made statement about some difficult times. And Pastor loves his people and go astray. Some things are just not right. And you lay in bed sometimes, Pastor, and you have trouble sleeping. You know, just sometimes that's why? And you have trouble sleeping. I had spell, I couldn't sleep very well. And the Lord said, go ahead and go to sleep, son. He said, I neither slumber nor sleep. He's 24-7. You want to trust the Lord when you have trouble and difficulties. Amen. Because he's working. He's working. I saw in the tow truck. 23 and a half hours towing. One and a half hour sleep. God's not that way. I wouldn't want to be that tough truck driver because they'll call him all hours of the night Well let's consider some things about the work here very quickly. Oh, I'm gonna have to move now. Number one, it's a present work. Look what the first word says. Now I'm going to help you with something. What we're going to do is we look at this verse. When you read your Bible, pay attention to every word. There's something that goes along with every word. Every word God has given to us is important. That's why I won't tamper with my good old King James Bible. You'll never go wrong if you stick with that. Don't matter what anybody else tells you. You want the old book. Number one is the present word. It says being. And if you look that word up and study it a little bit, it's a time word. And being confident means now, now, not tomorrow, not next week, not when things get better. Now Being confident means now. Now I don't hope to be. I am. You and I can have confidence in God because God does not lie. Now there'll be some the devil, he's a liar, remember that, and he will come to you in some of those weak times, down times, and he'll start whispering in your ear or he'll scream in your face. You know that's not true. Let me tell you something. The devil's a liar. You can believe the word of God. God won't lie to you. Being confident, being that is a time word, which means uh even means now. Existing in a certain state, if you look it up in the dictionary, existing in a certain state. He said, What kind of state am I in? I am confident. So we see it is a present work. It is a present work. You know, every moment, every day, no matter what, we can have confidence in him. It's a present work. I want to also say that it is a promised work. Being confident, if you can't be confident if If it's not a promise and a promise that's not kept, you can have confidence. Now let me ask you, let me say this. You ever have somebody lie to you You know, once they lie to you, you can't have confidence in them anymore. And people don't realize how serious lying is. Do you know that? Of all the things that's mentioned in the book of Revelation, it seems to be an emphasis on this. All liars shall take their part in the lake of fire. Lying's a bad thing. That's identification with the liar of himself, the devil. Now If you have they lie to you, they say, I'll be there at six o'clock in the morning. And they don't show up. Next time they tell you, I'll be there six in the morning. You gonna believe it? No. But if they promised you something and kept it and kept it and kept it and kept it, you say, you know what? If they say they're going to be there at six o'clock in the morning, I'd better show up. I'd better show up by a quarter of. I don't like people waiting on me. I'd rather I'd rather I mean, yeah, I'd rather wait on them But that's the way it's been with God. God has a proven record. Listen, my wife and I got saved November 16, 1972. It's interesting now I can say that's before a lot of people were born. But 1972, and I can honestly say I've never found God to lie to me one time. Have I been discouraged? Yeah. But that's not God's fault. Have I been disappointed? Yes, but that's not God's fault. We can't accuse God. You'll never be able to accuse God of being dishonest or lying to you. Hey, confident. I tell you something. Let's move a little bit, keep you awake. Let's go to 2 Corinthians 5. When I see that word confidence, I have to go here almost every time. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Would you turn there please? I'm going to give you a moment to turn there. The word confident means full belief. Full belief, trusting, relying, fully assured. And I ran to this in the dictionary. Have an excess. Of assurance. I mean, that's being assured that you're assured. Having a wonderful assurance integrate that God. Hey, we can have assurance from God. Let's quit questioning God. That's a quick question. Now I know there's some things in the Bible that was written to us, but maybe not for us at that time. Some things in the Old Testament. We can spend some time on that. And I'm not going to get that I can't go there tonight in the time we have. But I'm going to say this. You can have assurance of what God says. He'll do, he will do. Fifty-five times that word that's used confidence here in the Bible, being confident. is is used in the Bible. In some places it was trained that same word was translated assurance. Remember that blessed assurance, the blessed song hymn, Blessed Assurance, Jesus is mine. How can you say Jesus is mine if you don't have assurance? You can't. You can't. All right, 2 Corinthians 5. That's why went on there to give you time to find your places. And we're going to look down here and verse number six. Let's back up verse number five. Now he that hath walked us for the self-saint self-saint Self-same thing is God who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit. He's given you the if you're saved, you have the Holy Spirit. You're sealed with the Holy Spirit That means God's put his mark on you, giving you his person and the spirit of God, showing you you are his. You know, earnest is a what you call a down payment when you buy something. It's as good as yours. The only thing is, Jesus is the one that made the payment. So you don't have to worry about default. How about that one? All right, that's good, isn't it? Verse number six. Therefore we are What's the next word? Always. Always what? Confident. Knowing that whilst we're at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord, for we walk by faith and not by sight. Verse 8. Let's read it together. We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be from the body and to be present with the Lord. It's confidence. Know what that means here? One day you're leaving Spotty where you're going to be. You can be with him. If you're not saved, you won't be Just plain and simple. We'll see that in a moment. It's a present work, it's a promised work. Let me say it is a primary work. This verse, being confident of this very thing, he says, this very thing, he's putting his finger on it This thing is, if it when when you put your finger on something, it means something. It has priority. It has emphasis. Uh better sit up and pay attention. This very thing, you know Sad thing is some people don't know that thing, which is the next point. They don't know And I didn't know. Somebody told me. You know, the preacher that led me to the Lord, Arnold Cooper, he's now with the Lord. Somebody told him. And he gave that testimony, the one that told him. And then somebody told that man, you know, without telling it. They're not going to hear it. And if they don't hear it, they'll not know it. And it says this very thing, it is important. It cannot be the last thing on the list. This is going to get you through. If he says this very thing, it's something that's very important here that we may need to pay attention to Alright? It's a primary work. You know, think about it once again. For what shall the prophet a man gain the whole world for and lose his own soul? Or what shall the man give in exchange for his soul? Do you know of anything that's more important than that? That's a powerful work. Being confident of this very thing that He which hath begun a good work in you. This thing is my work and your work. This thing about salvation is his work. You know, we got the work of the president. We may have the work of our pastor. We may have the work of our father and mother looking after us and tend to us. Now think about those dear little girls down in It's just a hard thing. Well, think about it. And parents are so helpless they can't do one thing for them. I know as a father, things I couldn't do for my own children. I knew as a pastor some things I couldn't do for dear sheep that we loved and tried to help. All can do is pray. But I tell you what, God can. I mean, go through the Bible and look at all the miracles You know, God can still storm, but speak it to it. You know Amazing. The general rails are walking across the hey, the Jordan River, the Red Sea. Where can we stop I still believe this. The greatest miracle of all is when he saves your soul. Because what good is all that other if you don't believe that and die and go to hell? This is the greatest miracle. You know, I hear people testify, and it's good to hear testimonies. You hear people testify of of uh The Lord saved them and they start mentioning their past sins. I did this and the Lord saved me. I did that and the Lord saved me. I tell you what He saved all of us out of it. If you never got involved in those sins, he saved you from doing it. It's the greatest thing in the world to be saved from it instead of out of it. But to be saved, it's a wonderful thing. That's his work. It's a powerful work. He's called the Almighty God. You know what Santa Claus? Okay, and well I'm on that subject. Let me chase a rabbit. I seen running. What's Santa Claus done for you? What has it done for you? Must step down on the land to teach children the truth. Teach them the truth. I know it's a fun thing, but still be be honest. When they find out that he's not real, then they'll think God's not real. I'm serious. It's important. Oh, listen. The Bible tells us the flesh is weak. Watch and pray that you enter not in temptation of the spirit. Deed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Romans 8. 3 says that the flesh, it says weak through the flesh. Listen, we can't save ourselves. We can't pick up ourselves bone bootstraps. Hey, Paul's in bond in bonds and he couldn't get himself out of jail. Huh? Peter couldn't get himself out of jail. Church couldn't get him out of jail, but they went to praying. And next you know, Peter's out there knocking on the door of the church. Don't underestimate what God can do. It says that he which hath begun a good work in you Then I want to say, looking at the scriptures, there is a preceding work. He which hath begun. There's another time word He which hath begun a good work in you, and I'm going to ask you a question. I gave you a testimony a while ago, uh November 16, 1972. I can go back to the place. I can go back to the time. I know when it began. You say no, it began when I was physically born. No, it didn't. Because we're born sinners. We're not born Christians. Jesus told Nicodemus, one of the most religious people his day, you must be born again. What's that mean? You need a new beginning. A new start. How many of you can go there? How can you can you give your pastor testimony telling when you got saved? You say, well he wasn't there. Well, if you got saved, you were there. If you weren't there when you got saved, I don't know where you were. I didn't tell you. Oh my. How do we get there? You know there has to be a start. Ephesians chapter 1. Listen to this. That we should be the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. First. Now we're speaking of priority, that's part of it. The thing didn't begin when you joined the church. Didn't begin when you got baptized. It didn't begin when you took your first communion. I went through all that before I got saved. If it matters to you, it don't matter to me, but I'm I grew up in a Protestant church. My parents did the best they knew how. At that time, that was just part of the family. But I sure am glad that someone cared enough about me to tell me about Jesus and there was a first in my life. There has to be a first. The last is not going to be good. You must be born again. There has to be a beginning. Let me ask you again, do you know of a time and a place where it all started? Now that sounds good, but I left something out. You say, preacher, I got a time and a place. Do you have a person? Without the person, you don't, you don't, they're not there. You're not there. Make sure. Well, my parents told me I got saved. That's not good enough. That's not good enough. You better know yourself. You can't depend on somebody else to tell you If God, hey, if you're saved, God will tell you. You'll know it. How can so big as God come in, live inside you, and you not know it? Right? That's a Bible truth. That is a perfect work. What do you mean, preacher? Being confident of this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you. There's a lot of bad work out there. And a lot of young people, sad to say, even with some aged people today, are messing with things that they shouldn't mess with, and it turns out bad. But a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, it'll turn out good and it'll get gooder and it'll get better And I'm looking forward to that day. I told the church, I said, you know what, as I get older Heaven's looking better all the time. And it is. After a while, you young people will too get your feel of what's going on in this world. You know that prodigal son, he got enough of it. He said, I'm going back to the father's house. It's a good work. It's a perfect work. But therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's what a new creature. Not a rehab, re rebuilt uh uh uh you know, not remodeled. New. I like that, don't you? I like new things, I just don't like to pay for You know, a new house? Who wouldn't like a new house? Some of you ladies, wouldn't you like to have new furniture? Huh? Ben, do you like to have a new automobile? Some of you might already have it, that's okay, but you'll get one, and you know, after about a month you want another one But you know what? When you get what's real, you don't have to want another one because he's satisfied Sunday. Amen. Ephesians 2. 10. You know everybody knows Ephesians. 28 and 9, right? For by grace you saved through faith, not ourselves, gift for God, not of works. Amen should boast. But few people know verse number 10. It says, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works. We're talking about how God works on us. It's a placed work. Where does he do this work? Where does God do his work? According to verse number six. We had a quiz a while ago. We'll have another one. Where does God do his work according to verse number six? In you. In you. That's getting pretty close, isn't it? He does that work in us. I believe this, if you're lost, he does his work on you. If you're saved, he'll do his work in you. And if you're saved and you won't let him do the work in you, he might do some work on you. But he's gonna work. What do you mean by that, preacher? Hebrews says, if you be without chastisement, then are your bastards not sons. That's not a curse word And I'm careful how I use that word, but that means you're illegitimate. Means you're illegitimate. You're not really his. He'll work on you. He'll work in you. And I'll tell you what, it is a good work. It is a perfect work. It is a powerful work. Man, there's nothing we can't stop. That's what it's all about. Right? The place. It's personal. And you have to be quickened. You know, take the Bible personal. I mean, especially the church letters. You really take them personal. You know, some people don't like that. They like to get in a crowd. I'm not against crowds, because we got them in Acts. But someone getting places where they can hide and nobody knows them and they don't know anybody and they don't care and they come and go and all that. But I'm gonna tell you what, his work is personal. And you can't run from him. He'll follow you everywhere you go. He's there. It's a personal work. It's a progressive work. It says he will perform it. Perform. Will perform. Will is another time word. And speaks about From then on, when you get saved, he starts a work, and then he's a working on you now, as the Bible says, but growing grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He don't save you and kick you to the curb and say you're on your own. Isn't it wonderful that he would you know as the song said, he walks with me and talks with me. It's a progressive work. It's a perpetual work. What do you mean by that, preacher? Until the day of Jesus Christ. How long is that? That means he's not going to stop. He's not going to stop. He's not going to stop. He neither slumbers nor sleeps. I know Jesus slept in the bomb boat during the storm. I know that. But he was in a body of flesh like yours and mine. Those bodies need rest. But I guarantee you Almighty God in heaven knew what was going on. And Jesus even knew what was going on when he was asleep But it's a perpetual work until the day of Jesus Christ. From the time you get saved to the time Jesus comes. He'll be working on you and me. He says, what? What's that verse again? Being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. The work of salvation is wonderful. As I said, he don't save us and just kick us to the curb. He's given us promises. He's given us his presence. He's given us preachers. Man, he's given us a place, the house of God. He's given us so much. And three things you might notice, and I'm going to close The beginning work is the work of justification. And that's when he saves us from the penalty of sin. Boy, not great. Have that load of sin lifted. Forgiveness of sins. Then he said he's going to perform it. That's the work of sanctification. That's God working in our hearts every day, setting us apart for his service, chipping away at the old man. instructing us and helping us to be more and more like his dear son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the being saved from the power of sin. We can have victory in Jesus. Then we see in here the work of glorification, the third part of salvation, which we earnestly wait for. groan for the new bodies, the redemption of the body. And that's being saved. From the very presence of sin. Can you ever imagine living without any sin at all? We can't, because we've not been there yet. That's something we see. Really, the full work of salvation here in this one verse. Past, present, and future. Thank you for your respect. Thank you for listening. Has the Lord worked in your heart? Has that first work been done? Do you know if you're saved? Have you been born again? Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for this time you've given us together. to worship, to fellowship, to open the Word of God and have you speak to our hearts once again. Lord, to give us some sweet assurance in the midst of a troubled world. We think of the Apostle Paul and the things he suffered. But at the same time, he had this confidence. He had confidence that the That the Lord that saved them would take care of them until the day of Christ. He had the same confidence for himself. Now I pray, Lord, you bless these dear people. If they don't have that confidence, they'll have it when they leave here this evening. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen, Pastor.