Verbs 31, a very uh likely text on uh Mother's Day. I have preached from this text in the past and looked at it. Uh it's one that is used very commonly because of the truths that are presented here. Abraham Lincoln once said, the behind every great man is a great mother. Napoleon said, Let France have great mothers, and France will have great sons. The fact of the matter is, is the influence that our mothers have on our lives uh cannot be overstated. The impact uh that a mother has is reaches For the remainder of our days, there's so many characteristics and uh things that I do today that are very uh uh very much a picture or reflection really of my mom. Uh very much like her. Now I Was talking to somebody this week and said, well, of course, with my kids graduating from college and we had a great trip down and got to watch them graduate and We were just sad we came home without them. All three of them stayed there. We didn't come home with any of them. They didn't couldn't even get them here for Mother's Day. You have to give them a hard time about that when they get home. But uh they had some responsibilities they needed to fulfill this this coming week and and so throughout this week at different times hopefully they'll all make it back. be here by next Sunday, but we were talking about our kids and you know our our goal is that they would get the good things from her. And the good things for me. And they would leave the bad stuff off, right, you know. Uh because there's certain things in our lives we certainly hope our ki our kids don't get and that they'll be able to uh live above and beyond those things, but we want them to grab and hold grab a hold of those good characteristics and man the impact that a mother has. We have here in Proverbs 31 in verse number one it says the words of King Lemuel the prophecy that his mother taught him. His mother taught him. Now we don't know this king, some believe this is just another another name or a reference for for Solomon. We can't be a hundred percent sure about that. It would it would make sense because we know Solomon is the author of of of Proverbs, but uh we do know that this uh section of t uh the text here, this portion of Proverbs is more than just beautiful poetry. It is the Word of God. And it's something that we can learn from. Some this morning will be able to look at the text and the thoughts that are presented here and Your heart will be filled with gratitude for the privilege that you had of knowing such a mother, of having a mother that literally this could be a description of her life, a description of who she was and The picture of what she did and the impact that she had in your life and your heart is just filled with gratitude as it should be for such a mother. But we can all look at this and aspire to be like this Proverbs thirty-one woman. The character and the strength that is seen here in a godly mother. D. Al-Mudi, one of the greatest evangelists who ever lived, said, All that I have ever accomplished. I owe to my mother. What an amazing statement. All that he's ever accomplished he owes to his mother Because he looks back and thinks upon the days when he would have quit, except mom encouraged him. He looks back and he remembers the times when he doubted the the the ability of God and then he remembered the faith. that his mother had and it gave him strength to continue on. Moms, you have such a important role and such a strong and and impactful life that you live. Everything that you say and do day in and day out impacts the heart and minds of your children. I myself don't know anyone to whom I owe more than I owe to my own mother. Yet of all that I am grateful for, That my mother has taught me, and there's many things that she's given me I could describe and talk to you of those things, but of most I am grateful that I had a godly mother. You see, there are mothers All it takes to be a mother is to give birth to a child, and you are a mother. But there are also good mothers. That maybe goes a little step further. It's not just good mothers, there is some really, really great mothers. But I believe there's one one step further than that, and that is a godly mother. And I praise the Lord that it was my privilege to have a godly mother. We see here in this text the characteristics of a godly mother. And I hope that you today, your hearts filled with gratitude for the godly mothers you had And you can aspire to have or to be this kind of mother. As we look into the text this morning, first of all, we're going to go down to verse number 10. We want I want you to see her worth. Her worth. A godly mother. What is that worth? The book of Proverbs here, 31 and verse number 10 says, Who can find a virtuous woman For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that He shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. We see first of all that she's a lady of virtue Who can find a virtuous woman? Virtue means strong moral character. The question is asked here by implication that it is something that is rare. Who can find a virtuous woman? This is not a normal thing. This is not something that's prevalent. It's not just every mother that's out there is a virtuous mother, but there are some who are virtuous mothers. There are some who aspire to be virtuous mothers, and we should all, all of you should aspire to be a virtuous mother. A lady of virtue, a virtue of a lady who is driven and guided by strong moral character. She is one who lives her life by what is right and not what is convenient. But does what is right because it's right to do. It's a whole nother thing to be a godly mother. It takes determining. That you're going to live a life of virtue, a virtuous life. We see that she was a lady of value. Her worth is far above even the rarest of gems, for her price is far above rubies. The time that this was written, rubies were very rare indeed. They were considered to be almost priceless. Could not affix a value to them. Could I encourage you today to value the mother God has given you? Her price is far above Ruby's. Value the mother that God has given you. Abraham Lincoln expressed it well when he said, No one is poor who has a godly mother. No one is poor who has a godly mother. You've been given something that's far more valuable than even the most rarest of stones. the preciousness, the value of a godly mother. Do you value your mother today? I hope so. I hope so. We've got a few young people in here, those teenage years. Sometimes during the teen years kids drift a little bit. They start to think about mom and dad as the old fuddy-duddies, you know, the old uh they they don't know anything. They're not in touch with society Don't know, they they they're they're they're just they're just lost in their old world and and and the kids start to feel like they know everything. They can use modern technology in a way that mom and dad can't. They feel like, oh mom and dad, they just don't know anything. Mom and dad have already forgot more than you know. And they forgot it because it wasn't worth remembering. There's a lot of things that you learn as you go through life. And usually it takes till you get to about twenty-five or twenty-seven. for a young person to start to realize and to again be thankful for all that mom and dad did. To realize the influence and the impact that mom had and all that mom gave up every day to be a godly mother for you. Well, could I encourage you, don't wait all those years to express and show how much you value your mother. We see here that this lady is one whom her husband trusts in. You know, if there's anybody that I trust, it's Mary. You know, there's a modern movement, a modern idea that the man in the home is a big idiot. The man can't dress himself. The man can't match his clothes. The man can't do his own laundry. The man couldn't prepare a meal. The man would get lost on the way to the closet if it wasn't for his wife. Okay, a am I lying or is that the modern implications? They they try and put all that out there and and Listen, I don't care what they say out there, you as a lady, you should be proud of your husband You shouldn't buy into that, you shouldn't promote that, and you uh definitely never in front of your kids Spread that kind of foolishness. Oh your dad, he can't do anything right. I told him he shouldn't have gone there, and he went there anyway, and now look at what happened. Here you see the scripture says, Her husband doth safely trust in her. Do you know, man, when you tear down your husband, you're tearing yourself down? They shall leave and cleave to one another, and they too shall be one flesh. You are one flesh I don't understand, and I just want to encourage you, ladies. You want your husband to trust in you and praise him. Is he gonna do everything exactly right? No. Is he gonna make a mistake? Yes But praise him for what he does right. Be thankful for what he does right. Don't buy into this philosophy and don't be part of this mindset today that seems to be very prevalent where the woman wants to tear down the man. Tear down her own husband. It doesn't make sense. I have got my wife so fooled. She thinks I am the greatest husband in the world. I mean she just thinks I am all that and a bag of chips. I can fix anything. I I you know I I I am just an amazing man Now I know that's not true, but I'm working real hard to live up to it. Why? Because those are the things that she tells me. Just today I was sitting right here on the platform. She walked up in the choir, she tapped me on the shoulder. She said, I'm proud of you. I love you. You know, ladies, you help yourself a whole lot When you make him feel like that. Because it's reciprocal. I want to try and live up to that. I don't want to let her down. We see her husband safely trusteth in her. That worth, that's something that cannot be overvalued. Look for opportunities to make him look good. And it'll come back to you many times over. I want you to see not just her val her worth, but I want you to see her work. We see her work in verses 13 through 19. She seeks wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant ships that bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also well it is yet night. giveth meat to her household and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field and buyeth it with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good, her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold to the staff. We see here her work. It's a work that's unmatched, because it's a desired work. It says here, she seeketh, she seeketh after. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. That word willingly literally means with pleasure or with desire. Last week I stayed a few days with my mom and dad when we went down to the kids' graduation. We had the privilege of staying with my parents for a little bit and Mary and I commented on how my mother has an affliction. She has to be doing something. She has to be working on a project. There just has to be something she has to be accomplishing because if there isn't some goal or some agenda, she can't just sit down and relax, you know Uh how many of you husbands are are guilty like me when you're sitting down and and your wife's up working? She's doing the dishes or she's cleaning or she's putting away the food and and you're like, oh, oh honey, you've done enough. Why don't you come and sit down? And it's because we don't want to get up and help But we feel bad about them still working while we're sitting down and we're like listen you've worked so hard please just come and sit down but what we really want is want them to sit down so we don't have to feel bad about them continuing to work Well ladies, they're like kennergizer bunnies. They just keep on going and going and going. They've always got some more work work to accomplish. They got something else that they want they want to get done They seek out more work. They find something else that needs done and somebody else they're looking for. You've heard the statement of mothers, work is never done. Somebody said the most creative job in the world involves fashion and decorating and recreation, education, and transportation. psychology, romance, cuisine, literature, art, economics, pediatrics, geriatrics, uh religion, uh, entertainment, energy Time management and anyone can handle all those things must be somebody special indeed. Yes, she's a mother. She's a mother. There's always something that needs to be done, and mom's always about it. Oh, a lazy mother will just leave it for another day. A lazy mother will see all the work staring her in the face and She'll just disregard it. She'll walk by it. She won't accomplish it even though she knows to. There are some that way, but by and large mothers work themselves ragged for the ones that they love. I know you all have special mothers in your lives like this. The characteristics of a godly mother, somebody that is seeking out work, willingly, desiring, takes pleasure in the work. It's a desired work, it's a devoted work. Verse number fifteen, She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household and a portion to her maids. She gets up while it's still dark out, gets up while it's still early, gets at the day and accomplishes what needs done. We see her planning ahead in this text as we see her looking and using the use of wool to stay warm in the winter, the use of flax, which was used uh to stay cool in the summer. The addressing of these different times we see in verse number 14 that she's like a merchant ship that bringeth her food from afar and and just planning and organizing and and looking, uh, bringing us food from afar, merchant ship, being able to to to wheel and deal and to find the right kind of bargains. How many of your mothers are are uh they seem to find the deals, don't they? Moms are out, they find the bargains I remember hearing the story of one lady who went to the store and they signed their said uh banana sale. The more you buy, the cheaper it is And so she pulled the car right up to the front door. She told the worker, she says, well it says the more you buy, the cheaper it is. So I want you to load the car until it's free. Just keep going till it's free, amen. Just bring kids, mom's always looking for some kind of a deal, looking for a bargain, a way to to meet the needs of the family. It is a desired work, it's a devoted work, it's a dedicated work. She layeth her hand to the spindle in verse 19, and her hand holdeth to the staff. She's she's uh that word layeth means earnestly. That word uh that hold to the staff means to to sustain or continue. Uh she continues to work. She doesn't give up. She just continually, day after day, and week after week. I mean, never stopping. It's amazing the work ethic of our mothers. We're so grateful for all that they do for our lives in and out each and every day. I think of a story I read one day of two small boys who desired to give their mom a gift and they went to the store and there was one particular gift that looked really, really beautiful, but they didn't have quite enough money. So they found this potted plant for their mom and they bought it and presented it to her on Mother's Day. They were so excited about it as kids are, the gifts that they give their their mother, and but they had to tell her about the gift that they had to pass up because they didn't have sufficient fund The eldest boy said, the bouquet was so beautiful. It was the prettiest we had seen, and my it would have been perfect for you because it had a ribbon on it that said, Rest in peace. Oh, we wanted to get it to you for you so much because you're always saying to us, can you give me just a little piece? Give me just a little peace for you thought it would be perfect for you, Mama. It's not very often mom gets peace. Peace and quiet. But they do so willingly, gladly, because of the ones that they love. We see here that it her worth and her work, but also I want you to see in the text here her wisdom. Characteristics of a godly mother Lady whose worth is beyond measure. The value which we cannot Put a numerical number on a value which should be something in our hearts that's ever present and we should be expressing and showing our gratitude and our thankfulness and how much they mean to us The work ethic that never stops and just continues to do what needs done and day in and day out is there faithfully fulfilling Out of love, the work that needs accomplished, but we see also as a characteristic of a godly mother her wisdom. This is the most beautiful and wonderful of all traits. She has a work that's unequaled and a work that's unmatched, but she has wisdom that's unrivaled. It's a pure and secere wisdom that cometh from above. I'm so thankful for the wisdom that was evident in my mother. And I'm thankful today For the wisdom that God has given Mary to help me with the raising and training of our kids. So often I'm lacking in what I need to be to help my kids make a right decision or a right choice. And God has given Mary the wisdom to just say something the right way that reaches the heart of our kid And I think, man, where would I be without her? Value and appreciate that wisdom so much. Here are some things that because moms are wise, you will never hear them say. Let me smell that shirt. Yeah, it's good for another week. I don't have a tissue with me, just use your sleeve. Oh yeah, if Timmy's mom says it's okay, then sure, it's good enough for me. Just leave the lights on. It makes the house look more cheery. The wisdom mom has. She might not say a whole lot, but what she says is full of wisdom. G. Campbell Morgan. They had four sons who were all preachers. A friend of the family came to visit the home one evening. They were sitting in a den there. I don't know how many of you know G. Campbell Morgan. He was a great Bible scholar, a preacher, one of the best, if not the best, expositor of the scriptures. uh in many, many generations, uh really gifted man of God and this Friend came to visit the family and asked one of the sons, their son whose name was Howard. He said, Howard, who is the greatest preacher in your family? Howard looked at his father, this great expositor, and he said without hesitation, Sir, the greatest preacher in our family is my mother. Is my mother. The wisdom that God had given her and the influence on G. Campbell Morgan's sons Mom, you're teaching those young ones every time you open your mouth. Every time you lift your voice, every time you sing songs, every time you uh scold every time you reprove and you rebuke, every time you're just chatting and talking the little things. It's you're you're influencing them, you're teaching them, you're instructing them, you're shaping and molding them. with your instruction. Do so with the wisdom of God. Understand how important and how How powerful that is each and every day. I know the days roll into weeks and the weeks roll into months and months into years. And before you know it, that little infant child, like like there was uh brother Armando and Sue who stood up here just a couple weeks ago dedicating little Emma, just it it it is only gonna be a blink. And we'll be standing up here and, Brother Amanda, you'll be standing down here, and I'll say, who giveth this woman? To this man. And you guys will be crying. It happens quick. I I'm afraid that I'm not too far from that. I'm afraid it's a little it's it's not too far away. And I can tell you it just seems like just yesterday I was Sitting in my living room in Lawrence, Kansas, and little Alicia came up and could barely reach my leg here. And she would come up to me all the time and she would say, Daddy, can I sit on your lap? Daddy, can I sit on your lap? You know, a lot of times I was in a suit and I didn't want to wrinkle my suit And I would say wait wait till after lunch, honey, I'm gonna I'm gonna change my clothes. You know now I care less about a suit. Have my little girl sit on my lap again. The fast is quick. What I'm saying is if you aren't careful, you'll miss the opportunities to give that instruction and that guidance You'll think, oh, life's just happening. It is happening. And you're shaping them. So do so with a plan and on purpose. It is said that after one of the most awful battles of the Civil War there was a soldier dying. The soldier called that the chaplain might come to his side and they thought to pray with him. They thought that he came to try and comfort him, and yet when the chaplain arrived he was surprised that the soldier asked for him, Sir, would you cut from my head a lock of my hair? And would you do your best to present it back to my mother? The chaplain said he would. And then he asked the chaplain to kneel, and he said, Sir, would you thank God? The chaplain said, What am I thanking God for? This wounded soldier replied, Thank him for giving me such a godly mother. That so influenced my life that as I lay here dying right now, I am ready to meet my God. Why? Because of the mother that was godly that prepared me for this hour. Are you that kind of a mother? We see her wisdom is evident by her conversation. In the things that she says each and every day, we see her wisdom is evident by her conviction. Verse number 27, she looketh well to the ways of her house, and eateth not the bread of idleness. There's some things that she's just not going to do. She lives her life by conviction, by a high moral standard. There's just some things she's not going to participate in. Oh, you know, mom used to say an idle mind is the devil's workshop. It's not just something that she said, she practiced it. Even now, you know, Mary and I were staying at mom and dad's house. We're staying down in the basement. 5. 30 in the morning. They're upstairs walking around. I'm like, what are they doing at 5. 30 in the morning? They've got no place to be, they got nowhere to go and nobody to see What in the world? The whole house has been cleaned already. What are they possibly doing at 5 30 in the morning? I don't know. There's something that needs done, right? Always busy. That's the way uh mom and dad always were. In the mid-1700s, there lived an old saintly woman whom everybody called Mama Newton. She lived in such a way that all the children of the neighborhood desired that she was their mom She had this silver hail, silver hair that was like a halo over her head. Her hands were worn with calluses. From hours at the wash basin, her cheeks were stained by the tears that she shed. Every day and every night, you would find Mama Newton crying over her wash cup for her son, John. John had run away from home as a young, rebellious teenager. He became a sailor, and John had grown into an ungodly and a wicked man. He was disowned by his father and everyone who knew him because his wicked lifestyle Yet day and night Mama Newton believed in the power of prayer. And she prayed, and she kept praying that God would save her wayward son, John. God one day answered Mama Newton's prayer and brought forth a great miracle in the heart of her son. And John Newton trusted Christ as his Lord and Savior. John Newton, who was the drunken sailor, became John Newton, the sailor preacher. And who at the age of 54 pinned the words, Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound had saved a wretch like me. I can't help but think about the story of Dr. Yoon. Dr. Yoon's wife was Getting groceries over its hands. My brother was a pastor of the time Was it Sam shopping and he got in his car and was backing out to leave, and God said, give that lady a John of Romans And he was backing out to leave and he said, oh well I'm leaving already and he's like, oh okay, so he stopped, put back and drive, pulled in and parked, got out of the car, walked over. and gave Mrs. Euner John and Romans and says, hey, I just wanted to give you this book of John and Romans. Went and got in his car and left. Mrs. Hune and Brother Yoon, a few weeks later, came to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And they both got saved. And their boys got saved. And then two years later, on an anniversary Sunday at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, Dr. Ewan stood up and he said, You know, I used to think it was an amazing coincidence. That one day, David Vetrell gave my wife a John of Romans in the parking lot at Sam's. But now I know it was amazing grace. That Is what God does through the prayers of a faithful mother, the wisdom that is evident in her conviction She believed in the power of prayer and wouldn't quit. Could I encourage your mama? Keep praying. Keep praying. It's evident by the commendation of her family. We see this in verses 28 through 31. We see in verse number 28, her children arise up and call her blessed, and her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Given of her fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. You know, Proverbs tells us, let another man praise thee, not thine own lips. Well, you know, this kind of a woman doesn't need to praise herself. Those who love and care for her are praising her. Her children rise up and call her blessed. The commendation of her family. What a privilege it is ours to give gratitude and thankfulness and praise. To the mother who was a godly mother, who we saw day in and day out, her work ethic. Her continual sacrifice for us as a family and her care and concern. We saw her wisdom on display and the way that she lived and the things that she said. And we understand that her worth is something that cannot be put a value on. Let me say in conclusion this morning, I hope that it has been your privilege and joy to have known a mother like this. But I understand and I know some have not. But can I encourage you all? You can all strive to be an individual like this. One who lives this way