To uh give honor and uh recognize and praise uh the lady in your life that has had a great impact and we just praise God for uh The differences that the ladies have made, mothers have made in our lives. The title of today's message is A Great Woman. I'd like you to turn to 2 Kings chapter number 4. 2 Kings chapter number 4. We're going to be looking this morning at a passage of Scripture which is familiar to you. Uh it should be very recognizable to you and uh as we get into it I think some of you will very quickly uh recall Whence you heard this, uh where you heard it in recent days. It's going to come back to you when we begin to read it, if you don't recognize it just by the text. But uh this of course is Mother's Day, and we honor Mothers Today. We take the time and want to try and be an encouragement to them. We want to remember uh the impact that they've had We've got a great church, and it's my privilege and and really a thrill to serve the Lord in a great church and to be part of this great group of people. And uh to have the privilege of bringing and preaching the Word of God on a on a weekly basis. And in our church we've got some great kids. On occasion, visitors, guests will come to the church and they'll say, Man, you've got some great kids in your church. And we of course say thank you so much. It's it's uh a tremendous compliment to see what God's doing in the life of the young people here. We've got great ministries in our church. We're excited about the opportunity to serve and many people uh going out week by week and in outreach and touching our community and uh the bus goes out every Sunday and picks people up and brings them into church and and gives them a ride here and then carries them home, people dedicating time and energy and effort into the music program, the music ministry of the church. And right now, people downstairs teaching and training the young people, the uh commandments of God and the love of Jesus Christ Many people and our ministries are great. But I want you to understand this morning that what we are grateful for, what we want to take time to remember, is the great women that are in our church. There are uh the the church that we're at today would not be where it is if it weren't for the great ladies that are part of this church. The ladies that are serving in the background many times unrecognized and unmentioned, but they're serving They're making a difference. They're week in and week out performing and fulfilling a duty, a requirement, something that needs to get accomplished. Somebody has to do it. And so many times it is a willing, servant-hearted lady who Ka steps up to the plate and does it. We're grateful for that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church today. We pick up our story here In verse number 8, if you would look in 2 Kings chapter number 4 in verse number 8, you'll see in this verse the title of the message, which is A Great Woman. We're going to read down through verse number 17 and stop for right now, although the entire context of the story and the entire context of the message today goes all the way to verse number 38. But we'll read right now just down to verse 17, beginning in verse number eight. And it fell on a day that Elisha Pashunim, where was a great woman. And she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was that oft as she passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread And she said unto her husband, Behold now I perceive that this is an holy man of God, which passeth by us continually Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall, and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and a candlestick, and it shall be when he cometh to us, that he shall turn in thither. And it fell on a day that he came thither, and he turned into the chamber, and lay there, and he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite And when he had called her, she stood before him. And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care. What is to be done for thee? Wouldest thou be spoken of for to the king or to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among my own people And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old. And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the door. And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace the sun. And she said, Nay, my lord Thou man of God, do not lie unto thy handmaid. And the woman conceived and bare a son at the season that Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life Now, we haven't read down to the portion of the scripture which was so eloquently expounded upon during our anniversary Sunday. But if you recall, uh what was the title of the message that Dr. Brown brought from this same passage? Shut the door. Shut the door. I don't know that you'll ever forget that. But We are not going that direction this morning, but maybe this passage of scripture was in my heart and mind uh because of that, but been pondering and thinking about this title of this woman here. It's amazing to me, I mean when you think about Uh going down to Shunam. It's amazing that God, you know, when you describe a place You might describe a place and you have something there of value. You would say, hey, while you're there, you know, you think about the Bible and you think about Bethesda and you say, well, what do we know about Bethesda? Well the pools of Bethesda. You want to stop and see the pools of Bethesda. You know, you you walk through different places, somebody comes to visit your town, you say, hey, while you're in town, you've got to try this barbecue restaurant. This restaurant is it's amazing. It's the best. You gotta have it You know, or you've got to try this place, or stop by this store. You won't believe the deals you can get at this store. You have something that is of note worthy that you point somebody to and say, hey, go do that Last week the uh um Glovers were on vacation and they were in Branson, Missouri. So I sent Brother Glover a text and I've been to Branson a number of times and I said, hey Uh while you're there, you and your wife gotta try the hundred-foot swing. You get on a swing, it pulls you a hundred feet in the air, and then you pull the cord and it drops you. I said, you gotta do it. It's awesome. He couldn't talk his wife into doing that. I don't know why. You know, uh she just was not ready to die with him. She she wanted to live with him but not die with him, so she was not interested But you know, you point out something. What's amazing to me is that all of that God could have said about this place, he said, in Shunam, there's a great woman there. There's a great woman there. God doesn't throw out compliments or adjectives without purpose. He described for us this great woman. As we look into the story this morning, I want you to see this great woman, what we can know about her. I want you to know that she was not great because of what kind of car she drove. She was not great because of who she was wearing into church on Sunday. She was not great because of the amount of money she had in her pocketbook or what restaurant she could afford to eat at on Mother's Day. That's not the purpose or reason she was great. She was a great woman, the Bible tells us, and we can look at this passage of Scripture and see some things about her life that are notable, that are recognizable and maybe applicable to us, and recognize some of the ladies in our lives that are great women. And we want to recognize them today and we praise God for them. First of all, I want you to see that she had a servant's heart. She had a servant's heart. Now, it's obviously notable that this woman had been given some substance. She had substance because she had the means, the capacity, the wherewithal, to give some away. She said, here's somebody in need. We need to try and meet that need, and we have the means and the ability to do it. You know, she used her substance. She gave her substance away. I can recognize or think about the scenario which probably has happened in your home where, you know, that great woman in your life made your favorite pie. And I could see this husband of the Shunammite woman there baking up some food, and he comes in and has a fork and he's ready to take some, and she's like, wait, what are you doing? And she he's like, uh I'm hungry. And he and she's like, no, no, that that that's for the man of God. I baked that pie for him. What? That's my favorite pie. You're giving it away? You guys ever been there? You're giving away you made that meal for somebody else? I I thought you know he comes in hungry and smells all that food being cooked and he's like, boy, I'm ready for a meal And you get into the kitchen and find out it's for somebody else. I can imagine he was a little a little disappointed. You're giving this food to uh the man of God? Man, I wanted that. That's my favorite meal I can imagine as he she was seeing him coming by that way. Now, where he lived was about 20 miles north of Shunam. And Carmel was about twenty-five miles south of Shunam. So roughly about halfway down the trip, and I don't know what his purpose for going to Carmel so often was or why he necessarily would be passing by there on a regular basis, but the Bible's clear that he passed by often. And and so she said, hey, this man of God's coming by here. We ought to provide him a place to stay. And and you know what, I I could see that man saying, you know, you're right. The uh Sheraton is a great place to stay. You know, down there, the Shunum Sheraton, yeah, it's a great place. Uh look I'll I'll even pay for it. Let's put them up. And she says, no, no, I was thinking it would be good if we put 'em in That room upstairs. Wait a minute. That's my shop. That's my that's my man cave. That's my my workplace. Well, we can move your workplace to the basement What? Move my workplace to the basement? And she's like, no, we want to take care of him. We want to put him put him up there in the nice place. Your tools can go downstairs. And somehow it happened. His tools got put in the basement. No, that's not in the story. I'm just reading in between the lines, you know. But I can see, you know, that's kind of the heart of a great woman is she has that servant's heart. She wants to serve and meet the needs that she can see. Boy, her life was not about what she had. Her life was about what she could give. Listen, there's nothing wrong with having stuff. The Lord has blessed you. That's wonderful. It's never about what we have, but it's about what we can do for others She blessed others with her service. She took her substance and served others with it. Praise God, beloved, for the servant-hearted ladies that are in our church You could go to any church in the country, and if you find any church that's doing something for God, you're going to find a group of ladies that are in the background that many times aren't recognized but that are doing the work of the ministry. that are that are there uh for every activity and they're there early and they're setting up and they're putting things out and they're preparing food and they're putting things down and after the services they're They're counting and and they're cleaning up and they're investing time and energy and effort into the music program week in and week out of the church There's not a church in America that's doing anything for God that doesn't have a whole group of great ladies that are serving God in that church. It takes ladies with a servant's heart. You know what, you might be here this morning and you might not have substance. You might not have two coins to rub together, but you have a servant's heart. And we praise God for that. And we praise you today for the servant's heart that you have and the time that you invest to use what means you have to serve others and make a difference in their life. You love people and you know how to show it. How many of you have been here can say with a hearty amen that you know a great woman? Now either the other half of you are asleep or you're in trouble this afternoon. Listen, there's people that serve in our churches and they don't they don't come and they don't do it for pay. They don't do it for praise. They don't do it for a pat on the back. They do it because they love God and they love people and they do it, they just have they just get joy out of serving others. That's a great woman We see this Shunammite woman was a great woman. She just had that heart about her. She just wanted to serve and always wanted to do something, and she saw that. I want you to see, beloved, she also had spiritual discernment. She had spiritual discernment. In verse number nine, the Bible says, And she said unto her husband, Behold now I perceive that this is an holy man of God. Which passes by us continually. That word perceive literally means to ascertain or to discern She had spiritual discernment. She saw that this was a holy man of God. She understood that about this man. She saw his spirituality. Recognized it, and we learned in Sunday school, spirituality is a result of spiritual-mindedness, of having a spiritual heart, of seeking after spiritual things. You've got to be spiritual in your heart. Spirituality is not just a performance of some duty. It's a heart condition And we see this lady had spiritual discernment. Now listen. I feel this is this is very important. Just seems like there's a uh like I'm not really connecting. Like we put all our minds in neutral or something today. I d I don't know. You know what, I believe that men should be the spiritual leader in a home. Right, right. I believe that's what it ought to be. I believe really by God's plan and by God's design, the man in the home ought to be the one that's saying, Hey honey, uh hey kids, come on, let's get the Bible, let's read the Word of God today. I believe the man ought to be the one that says, Oh, this is important. Let's pause. We have a need as a family, and we're going to stop and we're going to pray and ask God to meet this need. I believe it ought to be the man in the home that stands up and says, Listen, uh, hey, it's Saturday night, you guys get to bed because tomorrow morning we're going to church. It ought to be the man, but you know what, in many, many homes across America, it's not the man. And I praise God for spiritual women who step up to the plate, who stand up and say that, listen, this is important. And if nobody else is gonna do it, I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna get on my knees and talk to God for my family. I'm gonna get on my knees and pray for the heart of my children I'm gonna seek God and I'm gonna open the Bible and pray and read God's word. I'm gonna kids come on. Come on, kids, it's time to go to church. Oh, I don't know what daddy's doing. Daddy's maybe not going to church today, but we're going to church I can tell you that over and over and over again, I don't know why it is, but many times the lady is the one that is a spiritually minded person. Us men are too carnally minded. But I praise God for the great women who are spiritually minded, who have spiritual discernment, who are seeking after God and looking to see God do something in their family and in their home. This woman had some spiritual discernment about her. She saw what was important. She saw this holy man of God. She also saw his shortage. She saw the need that he had Isn't that just like a great woman? You know, uh a guy and standing there in a group With his wife and everybody's talking and fellowshipping and they all leave and and they're leaving and the wife will look over to the husband and say, you know, did you notice that uh Sam's shoes were all tore up and like he really needs some shoes. And the guy's like, nope. I didn't notice. Why doesn't he get some shoes? Do you know I mean And of course she's she's saying it because she wants to, you know, get some shoes. She sees the need. You know many times you'll you'll you'll be in a group and and You get in the car and you're heading home afterward and your wife will look at you and say, hey, did you notice that so-and-so was just really discouraged today? And guys like, um No. Seemed fine to me. Uh and she's like, no, they they were just real discouraged. Like they didn't didn't have the same spirit about them. I I don't I think we oughta write them a note or we oughta send them a card or we oughta do something for them. How many of you have a great woman that does stuff like that? I know you do. I see it. I see it in the church. They see the need. Many times we're we're oblivious to it as men. We just don't see the need We don't recognize it, but these great women, they see the need. She saw the shortage. She saw that this man needed some food. She saw that this man, this prophet of God, needed a place to stay. And she said, let's build him a prophet's chamber. The first prophet's chamber. That's where we get the idea. We have one here at the church. It's right here through this door. We actually, Brian Pratt is going to be here, and he's going to be staying in our prophet's chamber tonight. He's passing through. He's going from here to Richmond to spend some time with Neatine to talk to him about going to the mission field and to try and help him in the steps that he's taken. And he's passing from Delaware to Richmond and on his way. He's going to be here for service tonight, and then tonight he's going to sleep in our prophet's chamber. We can provide a place for him to stay. Well, this is what she did. She provided this. You know, this this this next one's exciting. You might not be excited this morning, but it's alright if I get excited? She saw his supplier. She saw his supplier What I want you to understand, beloved, is that she was not looking for a man. She was looking for his supplier She was looking for the God of heaven in the Old Testament with the way that you would get a hold of God as you went to the man of God. Now I praise God that today we can go directly to God ourselves There's nobody in between us, but in the Old Testament, if she wanted to get a hold of God and meet with God, she had to find God's man and she, like the psalmist She wasn't looking to the man of God. She was looking to the hills from whence cometh my help. The psalmist says, Oh, I lift up my eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. She saw his supplier. She saw the God of heaven who was making a difference. And she knew it was God, and she was looking for God. Boy, you know the story. We we we talked about it just a couple of weeks ago that her boy uh was was w out in the field working with her dad her husband and his dad and out there working in the field and we don't know what happened to the boy. It's surmise that possibly he had heat stroke, a very painful way to die. But he was out working in the field, something happened, and he cried out, My head, my head. And just like a father, he said, Go see your mother He you know that this is the way a father is. He's like, hey, we've got to get these crops in. We've got to get this stuff planted, whatever it is. He just said we got to do this. So he told the servant, take the boy, take the lad to his mother. And she sat with him, held him until he died. And the Bible says, look in verse number 21, and she went up and laid him on the bed of the man of God. and shut the door upon him and went out. And she called unto her husband and said, Send me, I pray thee, one of the young men And one of the answers that I may run to the man of God and come again. She was going to run to the man of God, understanding that's how she got a hold of God. She was going to run to God and I praise the Lord. For great women who when there's a need in the family, when there's a problem in the home, when there's a heartbreak about there, that they run to God They run to God. They see the supplier, the person that can meet the need, that can make a difference, and they get on their knees before God and they pray she was going to run to the man of God She s she said, hey, or he said to her, verse number 23, wherefore wilt thou go to him today? It is not neither new moon nor Sabbath. And she said, It shall be well. She was going to run to the man of God to meet God because she knew that with God all things were well. Now her son was laying dead up there in the prophet's room. She had just laid the body of her dead son down on the bed, and she he says, Why are you going to the man of God? She says, so it will be well Because she knew if she could get a hold of God, all things would be well. Then she saddled an ass and she said to a servant, Drive and go forward. She said to him, Drive like the wind. She said, you read it in the text there, she says, slack not, slack not thy writing for me, except I bid thee. She says, listen, I know you think I'm a genteel lady. And if you want to be real kind. But listen, my son's lying dead upstairs, and I need you to ride like you've never ridden before. Then you recall the distance from Shun to Karma, where the man of God was, was roughly twenty-five miles So they had a little bit of ways to go. And she says, get this thing moving. Let's ride. Let's get it. Let's get down the road. Let's get to God because I need to be with God. So she went and came to the man of God to Mount Carmel. And it came to pass when the man of God saw her afar off That he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunamite. Run now, I pray thee, to meet her, and say unto her, It is well with thee. Is it well with thee? Is it well with thy husband? Is it well with thy child? Now he couldn't have hit the nail more directly on the head. I mean he could have just said, is it well like we say, how's it going? How you doing today? The younger people say, what's up? How are you feeling? How are things going? He says, is it well with you? Is it well with your husband? Is it well with your child? He probably You know how you can see the concern? You know, you get a you get a call from somebody that's kind of a weird time and you're thinking, uh-oh Wonder what's going on because they don't usually call right now. There must be something important happening. He must have known there might have been an issue, so he asked. And listen, Christian, she could have responded. She could have said, No, it's not well. I just laid the body of my son on your bed in the room that you stay in. It's not well because He's dead, I left him there, and and he's gone and and I didn't even ask for this child and and and you through God you you blessed Me with this child, and I fell in love with him, and I've raised him, and I've given my heart and life to him, and now he lays dead up there. No, it's not well. But she didn't say that She looks back at the man of God, you see, and she answered, It is well. It is well. Well, I thank God for the great women in our lives who run to God with their prayers, with their needs, for the spiritual discernment that they have, and they know how to get a hold of God. Men, where would we be today without praying mothers? Where would we be without a mom who got on her knees and sought after our heart in life? What you see, the stability that she had. The stability that she had, her son had died. She laid him on the bed of the man of God, and yet she said, It is well. It is well. Why I think so thankful for her testimony here. You see, she didn't let her situation dictate her spirit. Her spirituality dictated her spirit. Praise God for ladies that are like that. Who have that stability that comes from God and knowing Him personally. No matter what's happening right now in life, You can be stable because you have God. Because God is with you. And so it is well. You know, we tend to think, beloved, that when we see somebody that's prospering, when we see somebody that's successful, When we see somebody that's a good, strong Christian and you see them in their environment here, we tend to think that it's always been that way for them. We tend to think we look at them and we think, well, yeah, they can serve God because I mean look at them. They've had life handed to them. Oh, they can be spiritual because life has been easy for them. We tend to look at them in their their current state and we we we tend to Maybe give ourselves an excuse because we wanna we want we want an excuse but we look and w we don't know their story. What I'm saying is If you didn't know the story of this lady, people would look and say, well, obviously everything's well because everything's going good for her. But they weren't, were they? Just just last week, well a little over a week ago now, when I was Indiana, in Indiana, somebody came up to me and listen, I I believe I have a great mom. She's been used over the years to impact and influence thousands and thousands of people for Jesus Christ. But somebody came up to me just over a week ago and they said, you know, I've known your mom for 35 years, and I've always thought That her life was a picture perfect life. I've always thought about her as growing up in a Christian home and always surrounded by love and and always being in church and but she recently heard my mom's testimony And she said, I was shocked to find out that your mom grew up in a home where her dad was a drunkard. He was both physically And verbally abusive continually. Dinner was on the table, every all this effort to try and make him happy, and he would lose control and throw the food all over the house and yell and scream at everybody for no reason at all As a little girl, she would get a cough. He didn't want to hear her cough, so he would open her mouth and pour hard liquor down her throat to keep her from coughing. She held a knife. He held a knife to her throat as a little girl and threatened to kill her. As she started getting older, she began to pray for the death of her father. She hated him. She prayed for God to kill him. Because of all the turmoil and trouble that she brought into their home. As life progressed, God did a work in my mother's heart And she stopped praying for the death of her child, for her father, and she started praying for the salvation of her father. Not long before he died, he was in a hospital and My mom was able to go into the hospital and at his bedside lead him to Jesus Christ. I don't know the exact time frames, but I know that some point after that decision. She said, here's the confirmation that God gave me that He trusted Christ. Because there's only one time in my life I ever heard my father say, I'm sorry. And she said, he looked at me and said, I'm sorry for what I did to you girls and your mom But you see, people looked at my mom and they thought, oh, she always had this perfect life. Yes, she can be spiritual because look at look at how good things are for her. You don't know what they've been through. You don't know what they had to lay on the prophet's bed and shut the door. To be able to be the Christian God wants them to be. I praise God for the great women Who are able to do that, even in the face of hardship. You know, many times, beloved, it is the very struggle, it is the very heartbreak The very carrying of that burden that allows you to see God. And many times you think somebody has a great relationship with God because they haven't been through the fire when the exact opposite is true. It was the fire that brought them to that relationship with God. And we see lastly this morning that she had a special blessing. She had a special blessing. We read the beginning of the story where she was given a son, a miraculous gift from God at a time when she was past childbearing age. She didn't even believe it. She said, nay, nay, uh don't lie to me. Don't make fun like that. It's obviously the implication, the idea there that she had the desire She had she she wanted may maybe they had you know been to doctors and worked and tried to find a way to have kids and it just never would would happen for them. But she the prop man of God said, God's God spoke, God's going to give you a son. You see, God sees what you're doing. You know, she got to reap because she was doing some sowing. If you want to get in on the blessing, get in on the sowing. Get in on the sowing. I want you to see this great satisfaction that she had. Back in verse number 13, he says, And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us. With all this care, what is to be done for thee? Wouldest thou be spoken of for to the king and to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people. What I want you to see is she was content. She was just content with where she was. Oh, certainly she had had this, I think the implications there that the desire for a child was in her heart, but she was content. With where she was, with what God had brought her to and through, and this was, she was greatly satisfied, and great women are content She wasn't looking for anything, not even looking for recognition, not even looking for a thank you from the man of God, and yet God wanted to bless her because God is a debtor to no man, and when you put God first in your life and honor God and do what God wants you to do, God will bless you. She experienced great blessing It's neat to see how God takes care of his servants. Like any mother, she loved her son. She cared for her son. She brought her son up. We see in the story where the father says You know, the father's out in the field working, and the son says, oh, my head, my head, and and he says, Well, I've got work to do Take him to his mother. Well that's pretty typical. But what's also typical is the heart of a mother, you don't see that response from mom. Mom doesn't say to the servant, Oh, my son doesn't feel good. Listen, I'm doing the laundry right now, so just put him in his room. No, she doesn't do that. You see, the children were the priority. And she stopped everything she was doing. She may have had a whole list of stuff on her project and to-do list for the day, but none of that really mattered anymore She dropped all of that because her child was sick. And I praise God for mothers who have that kind of a spirit, who have that kind of a heart. Where they the children they put that emphasis and that focus on what the priority is. She goes to get to the man of God and she rides like the wind. Just don't worry about me. Don't worry. Don't worry about making me comfortable. What's important is I gotta get there And she gets to the man of God. What I want you to see is not only did she have great satisfaction, but she had great surety. She had great surety. She knew the God who had given her the Son could make it better. She had faith in God. She was sure of God's ability to meet the need. What's amazing, friend, is when she laid the baby, laid her baby boy down on the bed there of the man of God, she didn't prepare for a time of mourning She prepared for a time of miracles because she knew that God could do it. She got ready to see God come through because of the faith that she had And my goodness, we've all seen it and experienced mothers who have that just amazing faith in God and the ability that God has to turn the heart of a child or to change a situation or to Heal someone that's sick, and they earnestly and fervently pray for God to do so. She went to the man of God, knowing full well what God could do. Look down in verse number 36. We see, and he called Gehazi, and he said, Call the Shunammite. So he called her, and when she was come unto him, he said, Take up thy son. Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground, and took up her son, and went out. We didn't read all the verses in between there, where the man of God came in up into the upper room and laid himself upon the boy and begged God to bring life back into this child. But God answered. Faith is rewarded. Faith is rewarded. You've never put faith in God where you were let down Faith is rewarded. And I praise God for the great women in our lives who have faith in God to just follow through, to just keep going. To keep doing what they know they're supposed to do because they know that God can and will come through. As we bring the message to a conclusion here, I'm going to ask you to stand to your feet. That's the pianist to come, but Min, would you say that today, at least in part Maybe by a great amount, your life is today what it is because of a great woman in your life. Praise God for that. I'm thankful for the impact and influence of the great mother that I had and the great mother of my children. We have known great ladies here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and I'm thankful for that. As we close today, And we thank God for the great women that are in our life. Could I maybe extend this challenge just a little bit by this example of this Shunammite woman And the example in which we see that God took note to say she was a great woman. And maybe all of us could be challenged by that. Oh, we praise and recognize the women in our lives that fit this template. But maybe even the men here, even the kids, all of us would say, you know what? I need to have the heart of this servant lady. I need to serve like that. I need to have spiritual discernment. I need to have great surety, great faith. in God, so I can experience these great blessings that come from just following Him