Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 2, verse number 52. My mom and dad are snowed in in Tennessee. Uh they're stuck wherever they're at. You know, they don't have the capacity there to do too much with the snow and ice, so they just get stuck. So they were watching the service this morning. They said they really enjoyed it, although my mom said I mixed up a couple of stories. I I it you know my brain, so I'm just gonna cry Try and clarify here, uh although her dad did drink and I remember oftentimes stories of as she grew up she has illustrations of time that because she coughed her dad made her drink liquor, uh to stop her from coughing because he didn't want to hear it. Uh it was my cousin Earl on her side that was the addicted to drugs and alcohol that lost his security clearance at NASA and could no longer stay there. So I put those two stories together uh with one person. And it wasn't even in my notes. It just m that's what happens when you go from the top of your head, you end up saying the the wrong thing. Sometimes when I'm studying and something like that comes to me, I'll call mom and dad or I'll say, Hey, what happened with this or who was that? you know, to clarify but it just came to me as I was uh talking to this morning and threw that out and so she corrected me uh on that. I put those two things together. So it was Cousin Earl that lost his position at NASA and could no longer work there because of drugs and alcohol. Uh so I wanted to clarify that. Uh hopefully my mom's not too offended uh that I messed up the uh she's gonna disown me. Uh see they may still be snowed in, they may be watching tonight. But um for the short time we have together this evening I'm going to uh speak to you uh about uh give you a guide to growth. A guide to growth. Back in November I spoke at the prison And uh I shared these thoughts with the prisoners in in uh a much lighter way or whatever. I just kind of hit the highlights with them uh but kind of talking about the aspect of growth. And uh Jesus Christ sets the example for us. If you're in Luke chapter two, is that where we are? Luke chapter two, verse number fifty-two, we see here that Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God in man. He increased here. We see this development, this growth, this pattern that God sets for us, that we as God's people should be growing. I pray, beloved, that the ministry of the Word here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church uh cultivates an atmosphere of growth. I I hope that there is that desire and maybe through the different lessons or Sunday school or uh certainly the discipleship is a is definitely a an aspect of growth and anybody involved in that without without question. But I hope that there's something here that kind of stirs that and creates that desire in you to to want to grow. But can I tell you that just uh one service or a couple of services a week is not going to be sufficient for a Christian to grow by any means at all. It might keep you from dying. You know, if you were to apply this physically, you know y if you didn't get out of a chair but once a week, I mean i you know, i you're not going to develop any strength that way. Brother Don Wilson was just talking to me about how the the physical therapists, you know, are are working him to death and making there we're doing so much his muscles are sore. And I said, well that's part right, you gotta do the work, right? In order to build the muscle in order to be able to be able to improve and increase. And that's really what spiritual growth is as well. It's not sometimes we might look at it or think about it as something that's out in the spiritual ethos and it's just out there and and s growth is happening in the background behind it. We don't really anything that we're aware of Can I tell you that there is an aspect of growth that takes place in and through God that we're not in control of, but It's not going to happen without our effort. It's not going to happen without us putting our foot forward, without us trying to take the steps. It's not going to You know, y it's just like taking a test. You can't put the the the the notes underneath your pillow and go to sleep and and you know try and get it through osmosis through the night, you know. It doesn't happen that way. There has to be some effort put forth. You've got to work at it. It's something that takes consistent effort and determination in the heart of the believer to see any aspect of growth. Just over a week ago, I picked up a sax for the very first time. And I put the reed in the sacks. I mounted the uh neck on the sacks, I hooked up the the support uh and I put the support around my head and I I Grabbed it and I was expecting to play How Great Thou Art. Like in my head I had it ready. How great thou art, here we come. You know, and and I just blew and got a headache uh from all the blowing and I could not get any sound out of it. It was terrible. I mean I just worked at it and worked at it and worked at it. Finally got a little bit of a s squeak out of it the first day and then a little bit of I I actually could get a little bit of a tone and I thought awesome I figured out what I gotta do now you know like where I gotta be and so I thought I'm good. So I figured I've you know I'm lightheaded enough. I'm gonna put it away for today. Tomorrow I picked it up again and I thought, well, I get to pick up where I left off yesterday. Nope. In the first ten minutes I was blowing air again. I'm like, what in the world? Why? I mean I I I had this down yesterday I mean I thought somebody broke my sacks because I I I mean I like this thing must uh Stephen bought me a piece of junk. Like this thing does not work, you know. This thing doesn't work I mean obviously I knew the problem was with me, uh, but you know, I'm like, surely this can't be this difficult and and I'm working at it again and finally was able to get some and each day throughout the week, uh, you know, got a little bit better, a little bit better, and uh really just at making some noise. And then I I opened this app And uh the app was a tuner that would tell me and I'm supposed to be playing a B. And I found out what I've been playing is not anything like a B Uh-huh. I'm like, okay, so what I g I gotta you know, um w watching videos on YouTube university, you know, like okay, how to make a bee and you gotta have the armature right and you gotta have the spacing right and you gotta you know, it's not just I was just telling Miss Kim that brother Ives lied to me. He told me you push the button and the right sound comes out. That is not true. I'm pushing the button and a beat is not coming out. I mean not at all and I'm working at it and working at it What I'm saying, it's taken a lot of effort for me just this whole week, fi about fifteen minutes a day at least I've been practicing every day. And uh I feel like I don't know anything yet. Like I haven't even I mean basically all I've done is discouraged myself, you know. I mean, just from that. Anything you want to learn or develop or grow in takes effort. It takes consistent time, not just, you know, a minute here or a minute there or or once a week. So I want to talk about this aspect of growth and we're going to try and uh not keep you too long because we do have a lot going on tonight, but we see first of all the purpose of growth. The purpose of growth. Beloved, it is how we obey God's command. The fact of the matter is God has commanded us to grow, so If we're going to obey the command, we're going to be growing. He says in 2 Peter 3. 18. But grow in grace And then in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to Him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. You see, beloved, we've been commanded to grow. And so that's how we obey the command is by taking the steps to grow, to grow in grace and in the knowledge of God and our Lord and Savior, doing what is necessary that we can be on a path to growth. It's not something that's just going to happen again. It's something that we have to pursue. And it's not something that's optional. It's not something that you could take it or leave it. You see, beloved God has given us the command to grow in grace. The command to get closer to him, the command to understand and to know him better and to know his word better. We are commanded from the time that we accept Christ until the time he calls us home to continue to grow. Nowhere in our Christian life are we ever reached this point where, well, I've grown enough. I know enough. I understand enough. I understand just like as a child in the beginning there's a lot of growth very quickly. I mean you you gone for a month and some of the babies change drastically. They they grow so much. And and you know, you family members they come back in town after a year and you're like, wow, it looks like you grew a foot. Well, I haven't grown a foot since I was sixteen. You know, I mean I I I haven't grown at all in that aspect. I've been growing the other way a little bit, but But not up, not taller. And so growth maybe slows down a little bit and and so you look at it and think, well, you know, uh I've reached whatever I'm gonna reach, but we never reach that spiritually. We should continue to grow. I have known people that have been saved many, many years and in their senior years have told me they have experienced the greatest years of spiritual growth that they've ever had. in their life. Even though they've been saved for maybe forty, fifty, sixty years, it is during this stage of life that their pursuit of God has taken on a new fervency and they have felt a a spiritual growth take place in their life like they've never had before. It's a different stage of life. So it's not just a matter of how old you are or how long you've been saved, it's a matter of how fervently you're pursuing Christ. The purpose of our growth is that we obey God's command. The purpose is that it is how we are conformed into the image of God's Son. He says in Romans 8, 28 and 29, and we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestine to be conformed to the image of his son. That he might be the firstborn among many brothers. How we're conformed into the image of God's Son. Sixty, seventy years. I mean you've seen people married for a long time. They start to look like each other. They start to answer each other's questions. They really start to take on each other's mannerisms. They've been together so long and they know each other so well that there's no question. Well, I wonder if after a lifetime of walking with Jesus, am I taking on any of his character traits? Am I any more conformed into his image? Am I getting any closer to what he is? Or am I still myself uninfluenced by Christ? How we are conformed to the image of God's Sun is through growth. As we spend time with Him, as we grow in our knowledge of Him We slowly allow him to change us from the inside out and we are conformed into his image. Begin to take on his character traits. Hopefully there's less and less of us and more and more of him visible to this whole world The Bible tells us it's how we are made complete. You know, the goal of the Christian is to be complete, to be mature. To the Bible says in Ephesians 4, 11 through 16, and he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come in unity of faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man. We see this aspect of a perfect man, that complete man, a man who is mature in Christ, who God is conforming into his image. But notice how that perfect man is described. There are verses that at one time you had committed to memory. That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about by every wind of doctrine and slight of men and cutting craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love, may grow up They grow up. That's what the aspect the the difference is either we're growing and we're being made mature, we're being made a perfect man in Christ, or we're not growing up Or we're staying like a child. And we're tossed in f to and fro with every wind of doctrine. We're we're we're we kind of just going with whatever flow happens to be the strongest at the time, but The strong believer learns God and knows God's word, and they begin to stand strong there. And they grow up unto him in all things which is ahead, even Christ. As we are matured, we become more like Christ. He says in these verses that I just want to point out here that till we all come into the unity of the faith. And in the knowledge of the Son of God. Now, the unity of faith The faith that he's talking about there is what you believe. It would be a body of doctrine. We have in our Constitution and we tell people that would like to join the church, you have to state that you're in agreement with our statement of faith. That body of doctrine that we say the Bible teaches on set principles. So he says there comes a unity of faith. And with your brothers and sisters in Christ, there's a unity there that you are joined together with them and of the knowledge of the Son of God. Jude tells us to contend for our faith, the faith that we have. Jude, verse number three. He says, Beloved, when I give all diligence to write unto you the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith. That faith. That faith is the body of doctrine for what we believe. The church needs to it must have a unity of faith. People that don't have a unity of faith are confused. You'll see that in a lot of churches that haven't decided what Bible to use. There's not a unity of faith. Everybody's reading whatever they want. And and they don't have a consistent word of God. You know, there there's everybody, you know, there's not a a a a set belief system. There's not a firm adherence to the Word of God, and that causes confusion. It causes spiritual immaturity. Because they can't continue to grow, because there's not a stable foundation. A church must have a unity of faith and a unity of the knowledge that is growing in their understanding of Christ in his will. This growing in knowledge goes beyond, I think, education. I think it takes it to a level of personal experience. When we have knowledge, it's one thing to have some education, it's another thing to have personal experience. You see, when I the first couple days there blowing on the saxophone I had watched probably 15 videos at least on uh was it amateur armature? Aperture? That's a camera. Armature? See you guys know. Um I've watched all these like how to f put your mouth right around this thing. And most of them, almost all of them, said this. Don't swallow it. You just want to put it in. You just want the your teeth to touch the tip of it here. And and the I mean that kind of phrase was thrown out a bunch So the implication was don't put it in too far. And here I am blowing on it and blowing on it and I'm trying for several days to get sound out of this and I cannot get sound. I'm blowing on it like crazy Until I watched one video of a guy who showed a diagram of a guy's mouth with the mouthpiece inserted in there and shows where your lips are supposed to be. And the fact of the matter is, is the mouthpiece curves up And the reed sits flat, your tongue, your lips have to be past where the reed and the mouthpiece touch. Otherwise you're ad you're you're stopping the vibration. Does that make sense? Makes perfect sense to me. And I thought, oh, so I put it in a little bit farther, and wouldn't you know, bam, sound came out. I mean it was so easy I mean like half the pressure and all of a sudden I'm blowing and and it's just it's so much easier and the whole time I had watched all these things, I had all this knowledge, but I had no personal experience yet. And then now I know, and it's so much easier to make that sound. You know, it's one thing, beloved, to know that you can get on your knees and pray and talk to God. It's another thing to have spent some time on your knees and to have God answer your prayer. To know that when you pray that you've got a God in heaven that hears you and that he can in fact give you peace in your heart to know you're making the right decision. There's a big difference between standing up and knowing that you're You're doing what God wants you to do right now and just wondering because you don't have any personal experience. It's one thing to know that when you read the Word of God you see truth there and you say, okay I suppose that that works or you hear it preached, but it's another thing to live it and to know that it works and say, I can trust God, I can follow God because I know that's the unity of faith that's rooted in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ that only comes through experience of having lived by the Word of God and seeing God do something in your life. That's where real growth begins to take place. It's not just head knowledge. It's not just I learned it on paper, and that's where it starts. I had to watch a whole bunch of videos, instructional things, until I found somebody that put it in a way that I understand, right? That put it in a way that makes sense to me. Let's draw me a diagram. I'm a visual learner. Amen And they they had the diagram, and I'm like, that makes perfect sense. And I was able to experience and now I understand. And you need to experience God in your life And it only takes place when you begin to learn of him, when you begin to grow, and then you apply the things that you know, put them into practice, and then you stand back and you say, Wow, look at what God did. This is amazing. Man, just I don't know why everybody doesn't do this. You kind of sit back and you wonder, why isn't Christianity so much more of people's life? How can they be such casual Christians? Don't they know what God has for them? And you just wonder, like, how is it they can sit by the sidelines and it not mean anything? It's because they haven't experienced it yet. That's the knowledge that we need. That's, beloved, how we come to the place where we're made mature when we've experienced the things of God and we grow to that point. What a privilege. I just want to remind you about some characteristics of growth. First of all, we need to remember that growth is something that's slow. Christians, baby Christians, are just like baby children. They want to be 20 even though they're two. It's just the nature of being young, right? It's just like, oh, I I wanna I wanna know it all. I wanna understand everything that's in here. I wanna have a complete grasp of the uh the doctrines that are found and I I want to be a strong Christian. And they get so discouraged when they see Christians that are over there. They're already driving their cars. They're already riding bicycles. They're already playing instruments. They're already in the workforce and they're over here. Boy, I wish I can't wait till I get old enough to do that. I can't tell you the number of Christians that I've seen that were baby Christians that look at Christians that are way down here And they say, I'll never be like that. I could never be that strong. I could never be that faithful. I could never live up to that standard. And they get discouraged and they quit way back here. The thing is is they're just babies. You you don't put a two-year-old in the driver's seat. You don't send a five-year-old to work in the workforce. There's stages of growth. And we need to remember that, especially you that are involved in discipleship. Encourage people where they're at. And and we've said it often here: God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with Where are you going? Encourage them that listen you're headed in the right direction. Don't worry about down there. Don't worry about all you got to do is worry about today. Let's honor God today. Let's please God today. And if we do that Man, five years from now, you'll be amazed what God will do with you. Don't worry about that. You just do it. It's a slow process. Don't just don't get discouraged with the process. Just be faithful at it. These young men over here go to the gym. And I know they would love to be able to bench press 350 pounds I mean that would be awesome. But boy, if they want to get there, it's going to be a long, slow process. It's gonna be a while. I mean it could take place, but it's gonna take work, it's gonna take time. It's not something that's gonna happen like that. So we need to remember that growth oftentimes is a struggle. It's a struggle. When I was a child, my mom sent me a reproving text today, not really she wasn't reproving me, but you know, reminded me when I was a kid, I had l growing pains, leg aches. I mean a lot. And they were so painful that I would lie in bed weeping. I mean I was in I was just in tears. And when I couldn't take it anymore, I remember all the time like in apprehension, you know, making my way downstairs at mom and dad's door like just hoping mom would wake up She would come out and many, many nights mom came and she put Ben Gay on my legs because I was in so much pain and uh it just to help me be able to go to sleep. That's part of growth. Sometimes it's a struggle Sometimes it's it's painful, sometimes it it hurts a little bit. You know the j God the Father he says it like this. He talks about uh the fact that some bear fruit uh some bear more fruit and it's possible to bear much fruit. But in order for that process to take place, he said he's gotta do something and it's called purging. He's got to purge. He's got to cut off the useless things. Those things that maybe we would like to see growth in our lives, but in order for that growth to take place, maybe there's something in our life that's got to go. Maybe obviously I'm speaking to the Sunday night crowd, so I'm not uh stepping on anybody's toes right now, not anybody here. somebody watching but I don't know who you are, so um but you know maybe the idea somebody they don't come to Sunday night church because that's when they watch whatever. I I don't know what it is that you would have to watch it Sunday night, you know, but that's you know, I I I would love to do Sunday night church, but I'm not going to because this is when my show is. Maybe we need to cut the show out. So that growth can take place. Sometimes God has got to purge some things, some things that, you know, they might not be sin, but they're useless things. They're things that are hindering our growth in our lives. And there's things maybe we don't want to give up. They it hurts a little bit to let those things go, but is it hindering your growth? I think about a uh brake line. You have a brake line and you know if that line has even the smallest bubble of air in it It will not function correctly. It's so goofy. Like you would think, well that why won't the bubble of air just move with the with the liquid? You know, I mean it's not that big a deal. But you have a little bit of air in there and it will not move the brake line, the brake like it's supposed to. So what do you have to do? You have to purge it. You gotta get somebody inside the cart and you open the brake valve and you have them push the brake all the way down then And you close the valve and and then you let it draw in more fluid. And then you know what you're doing during that time? The guy down there, he's getting brake fluid all over the place. He opens that and the brake fluid goes. And a little bit of air and it and then, you know, you wait till it starts coming out. When they're pushing that breakdown line down, when it's going down, it's pshh. Shhh. It's a clean line, then you know there's no more air in it, and you seal it up, and then they draw it in, then you fill it up. You're wasting a little brake fluid. It's a process of purging, and sometimes we've got to get some things out of our life so they'll function correctly. So he can he can purge those things so that we can do what he wants us to do I want you to see uh uh lastly this this evening that it uh there needs to be a commitment to growth. It's something that we have to make individually, personally. We have to decide, I want to do it I asked Brother Anthony this more than once, because him and his wife came to church for a while, and they were backslidden reprobates. No, just kidding. They were come they were coming to church and they were attending, but uh, you know, of course, way back when they weren't even married yet and so on, but uh for them There was like one day that he all of a sudden decided, you know what, we're gonna go to Sunday night. We're gonna go to Thursday night We're gonna be at work party. And and they they made this step of growth in their life. They said this is what we're gonna do. And I've asked them Because I want wisdom to know how to encourage other people to take that step of growth, you know. How how do you how what caused you to do that? He said, well we just decided if we were gonna do it, we're gonna do it right. We're gonna we're gonna honor the Lord. We w i if it was real, if if this is all real and we believe it is Then we want to do everything we can to honor God and He made that decision and as a family they have continued to do that and been faithful all this time. But you have to make that commitment. It's a it's a commitment you have to decide, okay, we're gonna do that. We're gonna decide to take that step. It's something that he decided And they decided as a family to follow the Lord wholly and say, you know what, this is what we want for our life, because why? Because the fact of the matter is, is there's nothing else in this world more important than the pursuit of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ Jobs come and go. The house is going to come and go. You know, the place that you put all that effort into is going to burn up one day. Hopefully after we're gone. But at some point You know, it it's gonna it's just wood, hay, and stubble. There's so many things in this world that they really don't mean anything at all. And we when we have our priorities right, we're gonna commit to follow God. It's an internal decision That has external implications. It affects what we do, how we live, the decisions we make. It's an individual decision that each and every person has to make. You can't make it for anybody else. Even your children. They have to make that decision. And our desire and our prayer is that they would follow God wholly and completely. That every individual has got to make that decision before God, that they're going to pursue Him. And that that's what's most important. If it's going to be effective, it's an intense decision 1 Timothy 4, 7 and 8 says, But refusing profane in old wives' tables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Beloved, it takes exercise. Spiritual exercise. What are spiritual exercises? Reading your Bible and praying every day. Spiritual exercise is being a witness. Giving out gospel tracts. Spiritual exercises. Pausing for prayer over matters in your life that are of importance. And you say, you know what, I need God's wisdom on this. Lord, help me. Do you think about that, Lord? I need to know. In in uh I got the book of Nehemiah in my mind so much right now. But uh Nehemiah was very good at this And several times in the book of Nehemiah, you see Nehemiah respond that way. When opportunity came, the first thing he did is, God, I need you. Lord, would you guide me? Help me answer this correctly. Lord, give me the right words. And over and over again. Now I want you to know that those fast, quick prayers were backed up by a life of prayer in quiet in the quiet space. But I wonder, do we exercise ourselves that way? Do we pray and talk to the Lord? He says, refusing profane and old wives' tables, rejecting those things that are false, and grabbing a hold of those things that are true. Exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Proper exercise Spiritual exercise would be taking time to clean out some things that we know don't go there. You know If you were interested in bodybuilding physical strength or stamina for running, let's say you wanted to run, you know, a lot of people that are runners, they don't drink any carbonated drinks. You know why? Because that carbonation gets in your joints and it it hinders your ability to run. If I keep it up I won't even be able to walk Carbonation, they say it's bad for you. But what do they do? They they cleanse, they get that out of their diet. Well, 'cause they want to be effective runners. You know, these people that are involved in that, we've had several in our church over the years, uh, the exercise that are really strong into physical fitness and Do you know that whole aspect is not just, boy, I work out a bunch every week. You know what happens when they're taking care of their body like that? They also stop eating the junk They start taking care of their by what they're putting into their body too. Because you feel like man I'm doing all this work. Why am I going to destroy it by what I put putting in it? And and so they they get the junk out, you know Corinthians 7. 1 says, Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and the spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. I wonder sometimes people would spend uh far greater time and more effort in cleansing physically doing a cleanse. Getting something out of their system, you know, I want to do a colon cleanser, I want to do a cleanse and get, you know, the coffee out. I'm thankful I don't have to do that. Don't have any coffee in this system. Amen Just Mountain Dew. But they'll they'll work hard to get that kind of a cleanse out, right? But what about spiritually? I wonder if we shouldn't respond like the psalmist and say, oh God, search me and try me. See if there be any wicked way. Or is there something that I need to get out? There's something that I need to let go. We've got to be intentional about our growth, Christians. It's not something that's just going to happen abstractly and just because I wonder what book are you reading right now to help you grow spiritually? What lessons on prayer are you pursuing? What are you learning about Christ right now that might help your spiritual growth? Hebrews 5, verses 12-14 says, For when for the time you ought to be teachers, you have need that one teach you again. which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use Have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. That passage is quite literally a description of growth. And some who decided to just stay babes. And others who by reason of use intentionally exercise themselves to spiritual growth. I wonder this year, we're just kicking out in January of February now. It's amazing, January's already gone. But I wonder this year, what spiritual growth will you and I experience? The opportunities are there for all of us, but will we seize them? You stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.