The message this evening I was stirred to bring to you because I would hate to think that we go through all of this trouble Have these missionaries come in and spend week after week and none of it touches you. Look with me if you would in First Samuel chapter number ten. Follow along as I begin to read in uh verse number seventeen so that we have the context and the story you're familiar with this is the time when God called Saul to be the king because His people were not content. They didn't want to continue to let God rule over them. They wanted to be a king, wanted to have a king like other nations. And this is the story that we pick up here. Begin reading in verse number 17, follow along. He says, And Samuel called the people together unto the Lord to Mizpah, and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you. And ye have this day rejected your God. What a sad statement. Who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your tribulations. And ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore, present yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken. And when he had caused the tribe of Bijman to come near by their families, the family of Matrai was taken. And Saul, the son of Kish, was taken. And when they sought him, he could not be found. Therefore, they inquired of the Lord further. You know, parents, when you can't find your kids, just ask God. If the man should yet come thither, and the Lord answered, and the Lord said to him, Hey, he's over here hiding. The Lord said to them that he hideth in the stuff. And I lost my himself among the stuff. Verse number 23. And they ran and fetched him thence, and when he stood among the people, he was higher than all of the people from his shoulders and upward. And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people And all the people shouted and said, God save the king. And Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom and wrote it in a book and laid it upon before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house. And Saul also went home to Gibeah. Note this next phrase. And there went with him a band of men whose hearts God had touched. In verse number 27, he says, but the children of Lyle said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him and brought him no presence, but held his peace. Beloved, this is a time of transition for the Israelites Mind you, that just as it is for you and I, many times the problems that we endure are brought on by our own actions. The children of Israel were in a great time of transition because they would not submit to God and let God rule over them. He had delivered them from all of their enemies, brought them out of Egypt. He had cared for them and watched for them in every way, and they said, No, we don't want you. Give us a king. They were in a great time of transition. They continually petitioned God for this king that he would not have necessarily wanted them to have. But he allowed them to do it. Now God did not just throw them to the wolves. He didn't say, oh, fine He searched through the land and said, okay, if you're going to have a king, let's find somebody that will lead you right. Let's find a good man. He searched through the land. We see in this text here, he says, there was not found one person like him. God had found a man that stood head and shoulders above all the rest. A man that he was going to put his hand on and appoint him to be king, and he set him over the people. Now, although we know the rest of the story, we know that at the end of Saul's life that he Messed up. But at the beginning here, where we find him coming on the scene, we see that he was God's choice. That God had put his hand on him, that God had appointed him to be king, and that God had touched the hearts of some people. To get behind him. He had touched the hearts of some people to follow him and to uh help him. These people whose hearts God had touched. I just want to remind you as we start here of a couple things. First of all, that there will always be naysayers. You see the very last verse there. Here, this king. First of all, they're asking for a king That's what they wanted. God gave them the king, said, here's the one for you. And then they said, Who is that? How is that going to save us? That guy's not going to do it. No, I ain't got I ain't going to have any part of him. Forget that. There's always going to be naysayers. Doesn't matter what you do or how appointed by God or or how much God's in it, you're still going to have people stand over the sidelines and throw cold water or stones. That's just the way it is. Because we're all sinners. There's those that don't have the faith in God or an understanding of His plan. They're going to question everything And try to stop it from moving forward. Just like they did here in verse number 27. But at the same time, I praise God that He will reach down from the gates of heaven. And he will find among his people a group whose tender souls, whose love for God will allow them to be touched by God Will allow their hearts to be reached by God. And they will stand and serve As we spoke on this morning, sacrifice for God. Because God had touched their hearts. I don't know, beloved, what it is About God touching our heart. But there's something miraculous that happens, that takes place when the creator of the universe, our Savior, Reaches down into our soul and touches our heart. As we spoke about this morning, sacrifice Becomes no sacrifice at all. When God touches your heart, what was a sacrifice is now no sacrifice at all. God touches your heart, that which was a burden becomes a blessing. When God touches your heart, that which was hard becomes easy. Because God has done something inside of you, changed you from the inside out. And I beg God tonight that we would have a church full of people whose heart has been touched by God. Oh beloved, I don't want a church full of people that follow me because I'm a dynamic pastor. I don't want a group of people at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that that uh that get behind the program of the church because I'm a a great leader. Or they get behind what's going on at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because I've got such a personality and they just love being around No, I desire that what happens at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, the people would be moved to action because God had reached down and touched their hearts. I want God to touch our hearts, not just tonight, but that we would be a people sensitive to Him and He could reach us. The sad fact is, is many times the older we get and the longer we've been saved, the less likely we are for God to touch us anymore. What are we going to do if we're going to have a heart touched by God? Give you a few things. If we're going to have a heart that can be touched by God, I want you to understand that we need to have a converted heart. A converted heart. Now, obviously God has to open our heart to the gospel, and I'm not going to spend long here. I believe that we're speaking this evening to a crowd that at least by your testimony has testified to the fact that you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior. But I want you to understand that in Acts chapter 16, verse number 14 There was a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple, of the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us. The Bible says here, whose heart the Lord opened. And I often pray that God would go before us as we go and knock on doors and put out John and Romans, that He wouldn't just open the door, but that He would open the hearts of those we witness to. That as you go forth and give out the tracts that you're doing as part of the track club of Hunt Valley Baptist Church this month in the effort to reach out and to make an impact on our community, that God would open the hearts of those that receive those tracks. We need God to do that. God has to open their hearts. This is where it starts, but this word converted here, I'm not using a converted heart in the sense of that we think about it sometimes when we think about think about you know reaching the convertible. Amen. I'm not thinking about that. I I'm thinking about this in the context that God used it when he was talking to Peter. You see, when God was talking to Peter in Luke chapter 12, he says, And the Lord said, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you. That he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. When thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Yes, God needs to open our heart to salvation, but how many of you realize that Through time our hearts get closed again. Through time, our hearts get hard again. You see, this Peter, he was talking to Peter here. This is not, he's not telling Peter, Peter, when you get saved. Then you can help their brethren. He was talking to Peter. I mean, what's the next two words? He says, and when thou art converted, what's the next two words? Help that brethren. So he's talking to the saved. He's talking to Peter, you know, here's an opportunity. What this word converted there literally means. It means turned, changed. It means to be recovered. You see, sometimes Christians, we drift away from God And we need to be turned back to Him. When we have been converted, that is, our hearts have been recovered. We've turned back to Him from our wayward way. Then we're able to help our brethren. And then we're able for God to touch our hearts. Saul was chosen by God. We know in the end he messed up. 1 Samuel chapters 8 through 15. describe the the life of Saul. They talk about him as an individual and all of what he did and ultimately How he sinned and messed up and was rejected by the Lord. Samuel had everything going in his favor. He was the kind of guy, I mean, the scripture says he stood head and shoulders above everybody else. He was a dynamic man. The Bible tells us several things. In chapter 10, it tells us that he had a new heart, that he had a strong body, that he had spiritual power, that he had loyal friends, that he had a humble mind. And he had the guidance and prayers of the prophet Samuel, and yet, in spite of all these things, he failed. Why? Because he stopped allowing his heart to be touched by God. Christian, sadly, if we get to the place where we come Sunday after Sunday and week after week And we sit in the pews, and the preacher stands up here, and whether it's me or one of the missionaries or anybody else sits up here and preaches their heart out, but nothing touches your heart. You're you're you're in a bad place. You're in a bad place. It's not about how long you've been sitting in a pew or how many years you've been saved. We still need to have a heart sensitive and longing to be touched by God. When we get to the place where we literally almost we almost become proud in the fact that we know so much That the preacher can't say anything to we haven't heard, can't teach us anything, can't tell us anything, and we we we would never say it. But I wonder how long has it been since God touched your heart? You see, Saul had reached a place he could no longer be touched by God. You see, sometimes, although we know God, the spark of his love in our soul has gone out. And we need God to set a fresh flame in us. Ch version tells a story how he one day was standing at his window looking out down his street. And he looked at the homes down the road there, and it was a winter day, and the snow had fallen all morning. As you look down the street, every yard was covered with several inches of snow, and every rooftop was covered with snow. But as the day progressed, he he looked out the window in the mid-afternoon and then in the evening just before Dusk and he looked down the street and down the street he saw some houses where that snow That outside influence that had come and laid on the house early in the day had melted. The heat from within had risen through the house. And throughout the day, slowly and periodically, as he looked out the window, he saw the snow one section at a time would would break free from the roof line and come down and splash into the street. And the heat from within caused that snow to melt away But he looked down the street and there were two or three houses that were empty. And there was no heat there. And that snow just sat on those roads. And beloved the heart of a Christian is like that. The attacks of Satan The cold weather that he tries to throw onto your life and onto your heart, and the attacks from outside and from this world, yes, they're real. And yes, they do come. And they hit us and sometimes they hit us hard and sometimes it begins to build up on us. But beloved, when there's a heat inside When there's a burning flame in the soul of us, that heat from inside will overcome those attacks. It'll overcome that cold from without and warm us up again We need God to touch our hearts. Love it, it takes a converted heart. It takes a consecrated heart Paul said, for me to live is Christ, to die is gain, completely, 100% given over to God. I cannot help any time I think of this, I think of Mary's pastor growing up as a teenager, Pastor Don Green, who just went home to be with the Lord, with the Lord actually while we were in St. Thomas. So Dr. Green, he used to always say, give it all to God, lock, stock, and barrel. He would say that a lock, stock, and barrel. He'd give it to God. Have you given it to God? All of it? You fully consecrated, surrendered, yielded to Him? Oh, we love to hear the stories of those that are surrendered. We like to talk about Paul and how he gave it all to God. We like to hear about Isaiah, who who said, Here am I, send me. We love to hear of those who surrendered and yielded to go to Mexico, who surrendered and yielded to go to all of these countries we have hanging here. We love to read those missionary stories Like of Adam and Iram Judson and how God worked in his life. Ad and Iram Judson as a young man knew what was right, went off to university. It'd be a warning to you. University is not a good place to send a Christian young man or lady. This young man went off to university and started spending time with the intellectuals. With these really smart people around him. And of course, these smart people said there is no God. They were atheists. He had a very good friend. His very good friend used to tell him, Oh, your God doesn't care about you, your God doesn't care about this world. If there is a God at all, he He kind of was a proponent of the clock theory where God just wound it all up and let it go, you know. Doesn't have anything to do with the world today. He had his very good friend, his name was Jacob. Jacob was an atheist. Adam Arm Judson began to buy into this philosophy, and he let go of all that his dad had taught him. They talked about all they were going to be and how they were going to be famous and how they were going to be popular and they were going to write books and Adnar Judson actually wrote a math curriculum and another uh English curriculum, but he found no satisfaction in it in that no joy in in in completing those works and he thought, Well I'm gonna go off to a big city and I don't remember what big city he went to but he went there and found out it was very expensive to live there. It was hard to live there and He had spent some time there and and didn't have any success. So he was traveling home. As he was traveling home on his travels one night, he he reached a hotel or motel place and and it was booked up, except they had one room which had two beds in it and had a curtain down the middle. The proprietor said, well, that there's only one room. We can give it to you really cheaply because actually the guy that's on the other side of that room is dying. And he's very, very weak and And he actually sometimes he cries out in the night because he's in pain and and so we'll let you sleep there and had Naram Justin thought, Well I'm I'm I'm tired and you know, surely I'm tired enough, I'll just go to sleep. It won't matter. He went in, checked in, got in his bed, put his head down, and thought, well, finally I'll get some rest. And the man on the other side of that curtain began to call out in pain. Adnar Justin began to hear himself thinking about, I wonder if that man knows Jesus. I wonder what's going to happen to that man when he passes away and Adnar fought sleep and wanted to get to sleep and was striving to get to sleep and and finally it kind of quieted down and he got some rest. In the morning he I was talking to the proprietor of the hotel and he says, Hey, um, how is that man doing? I I noticed he did maybe he's doing a little better. He quieted down through the night and he said he died last night He said, really? He said, was he all by himself? Did he have family here? What was his name? And he said, his name's Jacob Insley Jacob Inslee was his good friend, who was an atheist. Who died alone in the room next to him. The story is said that Ad and Aram Judson got onto his horse and began walking home, and almost with every clap of the hooves of the horse. Chimed in his heart and mind would be the words, He's dead, He's gone, He's lost. He's dead. He's gone. He's lost. And they had all these dreams together, but all of a sudden Adam and Aram realized the day's going to come and you're going to die. And if you don't know Jesus, you're going to spend an eternity in a place called hell. And so Adnah Judson said, I have only one life to live for Christ and I'm going to reach the loss for him. And he went back to his home and went to Bible college. And you know he went to be a missionary in Burma and served and sacrificed for God to reach thousands of souls for Jesus Christ. They said miraculously when he went to Burma, not one person knew Jesus is Lord and Savior, but by the time he died, one in every three people you talk to knew Jesus because of his ministry. Oh, we love to hear the stories about somebody that was so consecrated, God did something like that. But beloved, if we want God to touch our hearts, we're going to have to be consecrated. We're going to have to be consecrated, given over to him, surrendered. You need to have a conditioned heart, beloved. How long has it been since you had a checkup? Just like your physical heart needs an EKG once in a while. Need to check on how you're doing. Your spiritual heart needs a check-up. How long has it been since God touched your heart? Some of us are in pretty poor shape physically. Worse than that, some of us are in pretty poor shape spiritually Just like our heart, physical heart needs exercise to stay strong, our spiritual heart needs exercise to stay strong. Stay strong. It takes a consistent resimen to a spiritual exercise to keep your heart in the right condition so that God can touch it. So that God can reach down and speak to you. It's kind of like the nutritional facts that you see on an ingredients list of some bottle. This contains 14% of the daily needs of the vitamin C that you need. Oh, that's only 14% of the vitamin C. I've got to find some vitamin C somewhere else. Beloved, Sunday morning service only contains about 15% of the spiritual nourishment that you need. You gotta find something somewhere else. Get in church Sunday night, get in church Thursday night, get in the Word of God personally every day. Get some spiritual nourishment. Condition your heart so God can speak to you. Beloved, if you're going to let one thing go, Let the outward man go. It's going to perish anyway. This outward man's going to die one day, but the inward man, the spiritual man, that man is going to live for eternity. And if you're gonna spend some time on one or the other, spend time on a spiritual exercise Oh, we we we'll take time to go running, we'll take time to you know do some jumping jacks or some push-up, we'll take time to go to the gym. Right, boys Brother Brad got my voice going to the gym. As if I didn't already feel fat. This guy's going to the gym. We'll take time, but that's just the outward man. You know this outward man it dies a little more every day. It's gonna pass away. We need to put an emphasis and importance in strengthening that inward man. Second Corinthians 4:16 says, But though our outward man perish, Yet the inward man is renewed day by day. You can renew that inward man with some spiritual exercise. You get stronger as a Christian when you do that. Hebrews 11:6 says, But without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Diligently seek him. Lastly, this evening, we need to have a constrained heart. A constrained heart. Second Corinthians 5. 14 says, For the love of Christ, constrained. Us. The love of Christ constraineth us. There ought to be something that pulls on our heartstrings, beloved. As we talk this morning about that great sacrifice that That was made for us. That love, God committed his love toward us. Christ, who did all this for us, it ought to constrain us. To leave our hearts in a condition that can be touched by God If we got a renewed vision of the sacrifice that God made for us, that alone would touch our hearts. But sadly, we've grown weary of the old, old story We can sing, tell it to me again, but in reality, we've heard it so many times, it does nothing for us. It does nothing for us. How long has it been since God moved your heart? Beloved, we need to fall on our knees and ask God, beg God to touch our hearts again.