To remember. Memorial Day is that time to remember. Somebody said that Armed Forces Day is a time and we honor those who are wearing these wine. Veterans Day is a time that we honor those who no longer wear the uniform. And Memorial Day is a time. Honor those gave heroically of themselves. They put their well-being second to the future, our future. And many obviously paid the ultimate sacrifice. We're blessed being in proximity to uh DC and the fact that some of our nation's great memorials are there and we have the privilege and the opportunity to be able to go and to see those memorials that are set up in honor of those that have given their lives. As you stand and behold those more memorials, it's sobering. It's sobering when you see that V-shaped wall with 58,286 names inscribed upon it of those that gave. And paid the ultimate sacrifice for us. As you stand before those two 43-foot arches of the World War II memorial that represents both the Atlantic and the Pacific theaters where we fought in that war. You know, seeing those sites is sobering, but beyond that, for many, it's painful. Because they have names on those walls that are of loved ones, friends and family, people they marched with, people they knew And they know they paid the price. Let's not let their sacrifice be without a moment of remembering. A moment of gratitude and thankfulness for what they've done. Well in our text this morning we see God has told us about A lady who's to have a memorial unto her. A memorial that's to be remembered and kept even all this time later. And as we ponder and think about that, I wonder what type of memorial, what type of legacy are you and I going to leave? We're all going to leave a legacy. We're all going to be remembered in some capacity for something. But what type of a legacy, what type of a memorial would be sufficient or able to be set up in remembrance of you. And as we consider this lady this morning, I want to give you four simple thoughts. that we might look at her life and say, you know, God recognized this and God saw what she did and and he said this is to be a memorial for her. And so maybe if we would like to leave a lasting legacy then maybe what we should do is follow her example and be encouraged and exhorted today to do what she did. First of all, I want you to see this morning her display of care. The display of care that she had for her Savior And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of Spikenard, very precious, and she broke the box. and poured it on his head. These events took place in the little town of Bethany, which is located on the southern slope there of the Mount of Olives. I've had the privilege of being able to walk those streets and and be at the homes where they believed that these meals took place. This was a very precious place for Jesus. He was among friends. He was among the family. He was among those that professed love for him, and what a joy it is to be able to sit with family, to sit with friends, to to have that common bond where you know that those that are present love you. Amen. That's that's a privilege that we shouldn't take for granted, and to have them there with us. And Jesus was there in this favorite of locations, there maybe celebrating the resurrection of Lazarus. As they gathered together. Whatever the purpose or cause for their gathering, beloved, he was surrounded by those that professed their love for him, but there was only one there that openly displayed it. There was only one that took a moment and went beyond the ordinary. Got out of their shell just a little bit and said, I'm going to do the unexpected because my love is so strong and my burden to express this for Jesus Christ is so great that I can imagine As like would be in anybody's heart, like I wonder what people are gonna think about this. I mean nobody this is not normal. You don't do this for all the guests that come to your house and And here this is Jesus, a very precious man and the God in the flesh, and everybody there loved him, but she says, you know what, I'm gonna Break this bottle. I'm going to take this box and pour out this precious ointment on my Savior. She said, I love him that much. She loved him enough to just show it to any and all. Do you love him enough this morning? Do you love him enough to do what you can do? The Word of God says there in a few verses down that she did what she could. She had that b bottle, that box of ointment, that precious ointment. She had it and she could do that. Do you love God enough? Do you have enough care and compassion for Him to do what you can? Do what you can. The amazing thing about our Lord and Savior is that he doesn't ask of us what he may ask of someone else. He just asks of us that you do what you can. Do what you can do. You know She didn't have much or she had that bottle, maybe somebody else didn't, but she had it, and she said, I'm gonna show my love for Christ with this. This is how I want to show my love for him. Maybe today you only have two mites. But you know, in that story, Jesus said with those two mites that that their lady gave more than all those that stood watching. She did what she could. You know, we are familiar with that little story of uh the little boy who gave five loaves and two fish. We look at the five loaves and two fish that were brought to the Savior, and what are they among so many? What what possibly difference could this make? And maybe in your heart and your mind you look at the skills that you have and the ability that you have, and you look at it and you say, Well, I can't do much, or I don't have the strength to do much, or I don't have the means to do much, I can't do very much What are five loaves and two fish among so many? But when you bring it to Jesus Christ, you have no idea what God could do with it. Do you love God enough to say, I'll just do what God wants me to do? I'll do what I can do. Maybe you don't have the means that somebody else down the road does, or somebody else that you might know does. Maybe You don't have the ability to do what they can do, but will you do what you can? Maybe you aren't overflowing with talent. You look down and you see somebody uh like Jackson down here and you say, Man, here's a guy full of talent Here's a guy that's preparing for the ministry. Here's a guy that's ready to preach. And he you look at him and say, Oh, I I can't be like that. Praise God, you don't have to be like that. God's not looking for you to have the talents that Jackson has. God's looking for you to do what you can with what God's given you. And do you love him enough to stop making excuses and say, Oh, I don't have much, and just say, I love you, Lord. Here's what I have, you can have it. I want to do this for you, pour it out for God. Do you care enough? Do you love him enough to just give yourself? You and I, we only have one life to live. 'Twill soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. Do you love Jesus enough to just do it? One poet said this: Do what you can, being where you are. Shine as a glow worm if you're not a star. Work like a pulley if you can't be the crane. Be a wheel greaser if you're not able to drive the train. Be the oar if you can't be the sailor. Be a little needle if you can't be the tailor. Be a broom if you can't be the sweeper. And be the sickle if you can't be the reaper But just be what you can for Jesus. I praise God we don't have to be what somebody else is. We don't have to do or to give or to sacrifice what somebody else sacrificed. God looks at us and we take what He's given us and we say, Lord It's only five loaves and two fish. It's really maybe not that much. And the need is so great and my ability is so small, but Lord, here it is. And that honors God. And God takes your skill and He magnifies that and your gift to Him and He glories in that. Beloved, her motive was not to be noticed. Her motive was not to be promoted. Her motive was not to be praised. She just loved Jesus. And she wanted to show it. And she showed it by doing what she could. Think of that song, My Jesus, I love thee. I know thou art mine. The second phrase there says, All the folly of sin I resign. I wonder, dear beloved, do we love him enough to even stop sinning? Lord, I love thee. So I'm gonna stop doing this. I love these, so I'm gonna I there is a reason, beloved, to give it up. There is a reason to quit There is a reason to let go and to stop, and it's because we love Jesus and what Jesus Christ has done for us. There's a reason. She put her love on display, the open display of her care for her Lord. I want you to notice that she disregarded the cost. There was this box of ointment of Spiknerd. Very precious It was recognized as very precious. Verse number four, of course, they looked and said, Why was this waste of ointment made? And five, for it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence Spiknerd. It's a very precious ointment. Don't know that I've ever seen it or had the opportunity to look at it, but according to those that I've studied and read after, it's uh kind of a reddish tinted ointment. Was harvested to a from a plant that came all the way from the Far East, uh from probably India uh region, and very expensive. the labor that it took to get it and of course transportation and all that. It was a very precious ointment. It was something that it was expensive and not everybody would have this 300 pence. A pence would have been the same as a Roman denarius, a coin about the size of a quarter. And we know from studying the scriptures and other passages of scripture where we know that a denarius or uh one pence was equivalent to about one day's pay. So you're looking at this with 300 pence, you're looking at you're approaching a year's salary in value That's a lot of value. You took whatever your salary is and the amount is not important. It's how much effort it took to get it. It took an entire year. And whatever your salary is, that that would be comparable to say, oh, that that entire year's salary. And that's a substantial gift and a substantial expression of love that she made. But she disregarded the cost. The cost was not what's important to her. The measure of sacrifice, beloved, is not the value of the gift, but the value of what's left. The measure of your sacrifice for our Lord is the value of what's left. I have here some mints. That I try and keep handy in the pulpit so that I'm not offensive when I come down and talk to anybody. Let's say I gave one of these to Alex because he needs it. Um I mean I have a whole bunch of 'em. That didn't matter, right? No big deal. But let's say my container was like this. It's it's a small thing. But I say, hey Jackson, want you to have The measure of your sacrifice for the Lord is not measured out of the size of the gift or the value of what any particular thing is. is it's measured by what we still have. Because all we have came from God. You know, God has been so good to us. He's blessed us beyond measure. And what could we give him that he hasn't already We're just giving that back. We're just returning unto him the blessings that he's bestowed upon us. And Just trying to think about how to illustrate this with you. I mean being able to, you know, I think, especially in America, that a lot of times we have the habit of giving of our excess. But do you know sacrifice doesn't come into play until we give of our essential. That's when sacrifice comes into play. It didn't mean anything to give him one of a whole stack of mints. But if it's the only one I had, now I have to wear a mask the rest of the day. And not because of COVID. That's the worst when you're wearing a mask and you notice your breath stinks. It's pretty bad when you're smelling your own breath. You see sacrifice, she didn't worry about the cost, beloved. It's no sacrifice to give that which I don't want. It's no sacrifice to give of that which I will not miss. David said, I will not sacrifice that which costs me nothing. They wanted to provide for him the place to sacrifice and give it to him. He says, No. Because that's not a sacrifice. It's only a sacrifice for me to give when I give of that which cost me, that which I want, that which I desire, that which I will miss. That's when sacrifice comes into the play. Only after we have poured out, beloved, that which we desire have we sacrificed The thing this morning is it doesn't matter if you're a prince or a pauper. Because in the Lord's service it has never been about equal gifts. It's about equal sacrifice. That's what it is. He she loved him enough It moved her to disregard the cost completely. When is the last time you didn't evaluate and weigh the cost? Pastor says, hey, we're gonna have a work day. Uh we're gonna come and we're gonna coat the parking lot. Um, okay, how much time do you want? You need me from one to two o'clock? One to three o'clock? Okay, so two hours. You see, we're we're evaluating, we're we're measuring how much are we willing to sacrifice? How much are we or does it matter? It doesn't matter the sacrifice. When love is the motivating factor, You know, my kids how much time is sufficient to spend with my kids? They need needed twenty minutes a day, they need I mean, when love is a motivating factor, time isn't an issue. I want you to see that she had disdain for the critics She had disdain for the critics. In verse number four, and there were some that had indignation within themselves and said, Why was this waste of ointment made? For it might have been sold. They murmured against her. You know what? There's always going to be critics. There's always going to be somebody that'll take your sacrifice and belittle it. There's some that will say, why would you do that? You know, you start you're coming to church here and and you you start giving of your Sundays and you say, I I love Jesus. And God's speaking to my heart and something real is happening in my life and and I just I just want to be in God's house and you start coming to church and just on Sunday morning you're here in God's house. And you know what? When you start doing that, you're gonna have family and friends. Like You're going to that church again? Uh uh another Sunday? I thought you went to church last Sunday. I I I thought you were already in church this month. I thought Easter and Christmas was sufficient. Why would you do that? Every you're talking about every Sunday? Why would you do that? Because God is real and He's doing something in my life and it's powerful, but I want you to know there's going to be critics. There's going to be people that will come and they'll mock you. They'll laugh at you. They'll say, Why would you do that? Isn't that all just a bunch of hocus pocus? Isn't it a bunch of just funds? I mean I mean, okay, you need that crutch a little bit, but not every week Let's be realistic. Isn't there more important things in life? They're gonna mock. They're gonna laugh. They're gonna make fun of your sacrifice. Oh man, just just think of you actually giving something to God What? Why would you give something? Well, because it's a tax write-off. They're gonna make fun of you. Why would you do that? You give up your time, you give up your talents, you give up your treasures, you give up what God has given you. God moved in your heart and you desire to do so, and you're excited about it. And when you do that, like this dear lady who took that and poured it out on the head of Jesus. And she was thrilled to be able to do so. And there was critics. Yeah. It's amazing they were even among the twelve. You know, I mean y I guess you can understand a little bit when you have friends or family out in the world and they don't know Jesus, they don't have a personal relationship with Christ, and and they might not understand why you would want to do for God. But man, to have critics in the church, that hurts. Sometimes that can be painful. But we just we we just gotta ignore that. You gotta ignore that. You can't let those critics impact you You've got to disregard that. You've got to, as she did, have disdain for the critics. Don't don't worry about it. Notice, beloved, who the critic was. Now don't turn there, but in John 12 we have the same story, and in John 12 it says Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence? Judas was the critic. So when you have a critic you may do well to consider who it is. Who it is that's criticizing you. Most of the time it's the person that has an ulterior motive. You know Judas, you know from the story that he probably wanted to take that and give it to the poor. But only after he got his thirty percent cut, right? Only after he got his his portion You know, consider who it is. You see, for her, the approval of Jesus was far more important than the approval of Judas. And I'm not ignorant today. I understand, beloved, that sometimes the critics hurt. That sometimes the the the those that mock your sacrifice or question your sacrifice or even question your motives It impacts us. You feel it. Sometimes it's hard to ignore. But can I encourage you to seek the approval of Jesus, not the approval of men? You know, beloved, could I encourage you not to be a critic? Don't discourage the saints. When one person wants to give to missions, wants to say, hey, I want to support missionaries. I want to help the gospel get around the world. And I'm excited about being a part of that and I want to do it. Other people would say, okay, let's do it, but let's not be crazy. Let's let's not go overboard. Let's just be moderate, you know. You know, I believe that the critics are going to answer to God one day. Because they discouraged the brethren. They discouraged the brethren. You know when Gad and the half tribe of Manasseth wanted to stay on the east side of the river. They didn't want to go into the Jordan land. Remember they talked to uh Em and said, Joshua, hey, we want to stay here, can we stay here? And God's God told them, you can stay, this can be your portion, but you have to go in and fight. You have to go be a part of the battle because otherwise you're going to discourage your brethren. And listen, Christian. What we do and don't do and what we say and don't say, it impacts the brethren. It impacts other Christians. And it's vitally important that we encourage People to love Jesus, not the opposite. Amen. That's what we want to do. Some will see little value in what you give to God. Some will say it's insufficient or inconsequential. But don't worry about what they say. You do what God wants you to do, and God will be pleased. God will be thrilled, and you'll have a lasting memorial, a lasting legacy that you'll be leaving. This morning last day I want you to see the demonstration of her confidence. Verse number eight says that she hath done what she could. She came aforehand to anoint my body to the bearing. Verily I say unto you, wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also That she hath done shall be spoken of a memorial for her. You see, she did what she could. She came aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. You see, she had listened to Christ. She believed him. She had faith that what Christ said was true. He had said that he was going to die, that this temple was going to perish. In three days he would raise it up again. But she had faith and she believed that the time that he was going to be there with them was going to be short. Beloved, had they, that is everyone else present, had they only known how imminent Christ's departure was. Had they only known how short of a time Christ was going to be there with them, I think they might have all been desirous to express and show their love. Jesus said there in verse number 7, For ye have the poor with you always. And whensoever ye will, ye may do them good, but me ye have not always. I think this probably was an extra special blessing to Christ because he knew his time was short. The time for that expression of love was not very long and the opportunity would be past. Jesus knew that in her showing her faith, her confidence in what Christ said, she expressed her love openly, and I believe it was precious to the Savior. Don't delay, beloved, being a blessing to someone. The Lord is laid on your heart. Don't wait until it's too late. You don't know how long you have. You don't know how much time you have to show that love, to express that concern, to be that blessing. We think a lot of times we put it out of our mind, well we've got forever. But we don't have forever. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth We don't know what a day is gonna bring forth. And she in obedience and in belief of what Christ did, she had confidence in that and she He said, you know what? The sacrifice doesn't matter. The cost doesn't matter. The critics don't matter. It doesn't make any difference what other people say. I've only got this little window of opportunity to do for my Savior, my Lord Jesus, right now. And so I'm going to break this. and I'm gonna pour it over his head. And this quiet, unassuming woman has left a legacy that has been a memorial for these thousands of years. Because of the sacrifice she gave. She did what she could. Beloved, you know it's your faith that will motivate you. To do that which she wouldn't normally do. She believed Christ. She had faith and trusted him. And so she was willing to do something that wouldn't normally happen. Just like we talked a few weeks ago about Peter. It wasn't normal to step out of a boat. It wasn't normal to to to ask to get out on the water and come unto him, right? But it's faith. It's that confidence in God. And beloved, when we have that faith, that confidence, without faith, it is impossible to please Him And when we take him at his word, and this book that's full of the promises that he's given to us, when we take those promises and we have faith in them, We believe it and we live our life and exercise what we do because of those promises, that faith is on display. You see, nobody else there really understood that their time was short. But Jesus said, Hey, he's she's Me, you only have here a short time. You could do whatever later. You can help the poor later down the road, but this window, this opportunity is right now, and it's going to be gone. And it's because she knew what Christ said. You know, the Bible is chocked full of promises that are for you and I. Truths, principles that we should be living our life by. And it's faith in God, confidence in what he said, that makes us change our actions. And live a different way or do something different. And there will be critics. And there will be people that mock and they'll say, why did you quit going there? Man, we used to go there and have so much fun and you guys say, well, I gave that up for God. And they'll say, What? You did what? I never man you're you're crazy Why would you quit doing that for God? Because God showed me there's a better way. Because He's promised me some things in His Word, and I'm my faith My expression of what understanding what Christ said, I'm going to live my life in concordance with that. And that's what she was doing, and that's what we should do. And beloved, you will build a legacy that will continue on Not just for today, but for eternity. If you have faith in what you're doing for Christ. And believe his promises. You know, I like I like doing things for God. I've always enjoyed it. And uh serving the Lord and impacting ministries. There's churches around the country here that I've had the privilege of helping in different capacities. Those of you that are church family, you know that I I I work with my hands and God's given me some skill in that area. There's different things that I've been able to do for churches. And I was telling the interns this last week, you know what's exciting when you you're a part of something like this Like you could come here in ten years and you could say, Yeah, I I coated that parking lot. You know. Doesn't it look good? That's that's nice. You know Mount Zion Baptist Church, the gymnasium that they use up there? I drywalled that. Back in probably 1994. 94, 95. Uh I drywalled that and they're still using it. And it's just fun. You walk in there and you think all these years later that's a testament to Oh, it only took a week. Four cut days from college. Did it while I was in college? I took five cut days, drove up here in Drywall Derby Gymnasium. But it's a memorial to what what what I was able to do for God. And and I I'm excited about those little things, but you know what, you're gonna have a bigger memorial than that. Because everything you do for Christ, every track you give out, every John of Romans you hang on somebody's door, like Rita's Every time you're a witness or you praise God or you point somebody to Jesus Christ, you're impacting their life. And not just for today, but for all eternity. I think we're gonna be in we're gonna be in heaven. You know, people have done things for you and every time you see them, you're like, that gratitude is there. You just like man I'm so thankful for their friendship or so thankful for what they did. I think in heaven we're gonna be there for a thousand years and you're still gonna have somebody come by and say, Hey, I just gotta tell you once more. I know I've told you a thousand times, but listen I wouldn't be here in heaven if it wasn't for your witness. I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for your sacrifice. I wouldn't be here if you You didn't have a little bit of boldness and went beyond yourself. And just just that one time there in the cast register, you just just said, Praise God. And I I saw your joy and I thought, man, I need that joy And it caused me to go to church and it caused me to hear the truth and I trusted Jesus as my Savior. Thank you. You've got a lasting memorial. Things that we do for Jesus Christ last for an eternity. Let me encourage you this morning to live your life in such a way that you'll leave a lasting legacy, not just for today or tomorrow, but for all eternity. By investing in somebody else's life.