Stand some massive marvels of ancient architecture. The pyramids which you were able to see in the video that we just concluded. Those pyramids were dedicated to the sun god and the moon god You know, I always try and bring back some type of a gift, something from the missions trip for the church family to remember the missionary in the field and such. One thing that that area is known for certainly is the pyramids, but I didn't want to bring back a pyramid because of the idea that that really represents for the people there. Is the worship of false gods. These massive structures were constructed around 200 B. C. That is just amazing when you consider they're about 750 feet across at the bottom. They raised the bit the largest one is about 250 feet tall And they did it all with hand labor. They didn't have the heavy machinery that we have today. It's amazing when you think about it or consider it. Reardon was telling us about the graves that they found at the foot of the pyramids there, which contained bones and carcasses of what they believed to be bodies. the remains of those that were sacrificed on the altars at different periods when those large structures were used in worship of false gods. I was struck with a thought about how God does not call you and I to be put to death to please him. But he asks that you and I live for him. And what we're going to use for our verse, text verse this morning, Romans 12, verse number 1. We see, beloved, that we're called to be a living sacrifice. He said in Romans 12, verse number 1, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, By the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. A living sacrifice. This terminology, this phrase that Paul presents here would have come as quite a shock to even the the Roman believers because at that time Being very familiar with the sacrificial system, with the Old Testament law and The process of sacrifice, anytime the word was used to sacrifice, they everybody would have in their heart and mind thought immediately to the fact to the idea that something has to die. In order for there to be a sacrifice. And for Paul to put this phrase here and to tell the believers there in Rome to be a living sacrifice. Must have took them back. They must have pondered and thought about that. But we understand, beloved, that the reason that you and I are able to be a living sacrifice is because someone did die. Jesus Christ died and became that sacrifice once for all. He died and gave himself for all of us that you and I might live And that sacrifice that was made for us empowers us, enables us to be a living sacrifice for him. I want to ask God to speak to our hearts this morning, and I'll be brief. I won't be very long this morning, but I want to challenge our hearts and minds with the thought of being a living sacrifice. Would you pray with me? God, we come now before your throne asking of you this morning that you would drive home this point to our hearts That we might fully grasp and understand what it means to be a living sacrifice for you. And Lord, that we would desire in our hearts to put into practice this truth. Yielding to you and being that living sacrifice that you would be honored and glorified. Bless this time in your word in Jesus' precious name Amen. We see here first of all a remarkable petition. He says, I beseech you. Therefore, brethren, I beseech you. Paul writing to the brethren, he beseeches them. That word beseech means to implore, to invoke, to invite. There is literally a pleading that's taking place. That word beseech means a request with an earnest desire behind it. Paul is pleading and begging the brethren, listen, I beseech you, please, will you hear me? Will you understand this truth? Will you let it sink home into your heart that what God desires of you is it you'd be a living sacrifice? He's beseeching them. His pleading heart motivated by the sincerest of love for the believers. Wanting what's best for them, he calls them to this. It's noteworthy that Paul is not angry. He's not harsh. He's not hateful. And may that be uh Admonishment or an encouragement to all preachers of the gospel. To present with earnestly, to present with passion. But to do so in the love of Christ. Yes, the message of the gospel is an earnest, earnest message, an important message, something that must be proclaimed. But we are to do it in love. He says, I beseech you therefore. Therefore The commentator Gill says, therefore shows that the following exhortations Are so many conclusions, consequences, or inferences deduced from what had been said in the latter part of the preceding chapter That since all things are of God and by God and for God, then the saint surely ought to present their bodies to him. To know, approve, and do his will. You see, that word therefore, he's saying, I beseech thee, therefore. He's saying there's a reason why I'm calling you to this There's a motivation, there's a cause, there's a purpose for which I'm saying this. He says, I'm pleading with you, I'm pleading with you, therefore, because of what I've already said Because of all the truths that I've already presented, and beloved, we have the first 11 chapters of the book of Romans, which are a great doctrinal presentation of the truth of Jesus Christ. The truth of justification by faith alone. The truth of the fact that he came and was offered as a propitiation for my sin. The truth that he came and offered himself, well I was yet a sinner. But God committed his love toward us and that, well I was a yet sinner. Well yet sinner, Christ died for me. These truths are presented in the beginning, 11 chapters. He says, I've given you all of this truth, all of this doctrine, all of this teaching about the glorious nature of the mercies of God. He says, therefore Because of what all God has done for us. Because of all those mercies. Will you do this? He says, by the mercies of God. He summarizes those truths in that short phrase It's all the mercies of God. You know, David, Isaiah, and Daniel, they all expound and talk about the great mercies of God. Jacob said, I'm not worthy of the least of all these mercies. Nehemiah Said that God has showed his people manifold mercies. Oh, in the Psalms, David proclaimed over and over again the tender mercies of God. He used the phrase, the multitudes of his mercies. Have you experienced and known the mercy of God? Then Paul says, I beseech thee therefore. He is writing to them and he says, I beseech thee, therefore. One commentator said that that therefore stands as the hitchpin. the turning point, the resting point for the seesaw, in which on one side stands all the doctrinal truth of the first 11 chapters. And then on the other side stands the practical implementation and application of that truth in our lives. He says, therefore A small word, but brings home a great point for us. He's writing this truth to you and I. That is to those that have already believed, to those that have enjoyed the mercies of God You know, this request wouldn't make sense to somebody who hasn't enjoyed the mercies of God. They would wonder, why would I present myself if But for those that have known the mercies of God, those that have experienced it, they stand back and Hopefully you desire to present yourself. We see secondly A requested presentation. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies. A living sacrifice. Dearly beloved, here is the heart of the Christian faith. The secret of it, as it were. The secret to that phrase which we look at and hear and talk about the abundant Christian life. Dr. MacArthur, in his commentary on this book, explaining this, says, Some years ago, a tearful and obviously distraught young woman approached me. She said, I just can't seem to live the Christian life the way I should. I'm frustrated and don't have any spiritual victory. I struggle with the simplest forms of obedience to my Lord I'm constantly defeated. Can you help me? Dr. MacArthur asked of her, what has been your method of solving this problem thus far? She replied, oh, I've tried everything. I've attended many different churches and I've had all kinds of extraordinary spiritual experiences. I've been prophesied over, prayed over, and blessed. I've experienced several miracles. I've been slain in the spirit, lifted in the spirit, dropped in the spirit, risen in the spirit. I've done all of that, and in spite I'm still not pleased with my life, and nor do I believe God is pleased with me. He said, I've tried to get everything from God that I can, and yet I still am unsatisfied. And Dr. MacArthur said, I think you have just put your finger on the heart of this problem. The key to spiritual victory and true happiness. Is not trying to get all we can from God, but in giving all that we are and have to Him. This dear lady was in pursuit of gaining for herself some greater spiritual experience, and yet remained unsatisfied. And the truth presented to her is it's not about what we gain, but it's in what we give to him. That's what this verse is saying, and that's what is at the heart of true Christianity That ye present yourself. That word present is to stand beside, to proffer, to be at hand. Just present yourself to God What a joy it is when I'm working on a task in one of my children. Unasked, undemanded, not having been told to, comes and says, Dad, can I help you with that? They've presented themselves. They offered. They said, Can I can I do this for you? Can I take care of that? And man, it it means so much, and I know that the kids are in the house, and I could walk into the house and I could tell any one of them. Get up off your tail and come out here and pick this up and get this done. I could tell any one of them to do it But you know what means a lot to me? When I'm out there working and they get up and they come out and they say, Hey Dad, I saw you were working. Can I help you with that? That's what the Apostle Paul is saying. He's saying, I beseech you, therefore, I know God is the creator of the universe. He's the Savior of your soul. He could demand of us anything that he wants. He could make us do whatever he wants to make us do. He is God. But he's saying, would you, out of a heart of love, come to your Heavenly Father and say, God, here I am. Whatever you want, whatever you need, I'm making myself available. How much better is that than making ourselves available to partake of the unrighteousness of this world? Would you turn back in your Bibles to Romans chapter number six? I'm sorry, forward. You're in one right now, right? You're going to move forward to Romans chapter number six. In Romans chapter 6, verse number 13, we see this same word used. Now it's translated differently, but it is In the root word, it's exactly the same, but he says, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. That word yield there is the exact same root word that is translated in verse in chapter 1 as present. Chapter 12. You guys know what I'm saying. I'm obviously confused. Twelve verse one. And I said it right at the beginning, right? Go back. Go back. Sorry, I didn't want you to get hung up on that. We're gonna address it and move on. So you just know that I don't know what I'm talking about. But he says there where was I? Oh it's the same word. Yield is the same word as present. See, beloved, you have a choice. You can determine or decide to yield your members, to yield your body as instruments of unrighteousness. You can determine to take and do what you want with your life, and God's going to give you the freedom and the liberty to do that because he is not a dictator and does not demand, but because of what he's done for us because of his bountiful, endless mercies that are renewed every morning. He says, would you just present yourself, yield yourself to God. You have a choice to make. You can yield yourself, yield this body to partake of and be a part. To be involved in every kind of unrighteousness that's available in the world today. Oh, but how much greater is it? How much better is it to yield yourself to God? To present yourself to your Heavenly Father as a living sacrifice for him. Note, beloved, that in both passages there's a descriptive term used. He uses specifically on purpose the word bodies Yield ye your members, yield ye your bodies You see, this is not something that's just spiritual Something that's just maybe a little bit in our in our way of thinking about it mystical, like just something that we kind of do in the background or just magically happens You see, a yielding of the heart will always transfer to a submitting of the hands. Where you will use your body to bring honor and glory to God. You have a choice. You yield your members, you yield your body to partake of unrighteousness, or you yield your members, you yield your body to submit to God. You know we could sing that old song with the kids sing, Oh be careful little hands, what you do. Oh be careful little eyes what you see. Oh, be careful, little ears, what you hear? You could go through. That's our body. You've got a choice to make. Are you going to yield those members? Are you going to yield your body as instruments of righteousness or unrighteousness? Are you going to present yourself to God a living sacrifice to do whatever God asks of you? Paul starts right away talking about the mind. In verse number two there, Romans 12, verse 2, you guys know that. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your what is it? Mind. You know that's because the Christian life Is won or lost in the mind. What happens up here in your mind is the direction that you're going to go. Satan knows that, and that's why he does all he can to try and occupy your mind. To fill your mind with the things of this world. I ask of you, are you renewing your mind? Are you taking time, effort, and energy to yield your members, to yield your body, to yield your mind to God? I know we take time and energy to to yield ourselves to catch up on the latest YouTube. I know we take time to get the latest news. Those things aren't necessarily bad You may not be watching something that is improper or wrong. You may not be partaking of any activity that would put a frown on God's face. But are you at least taking equal opportunity to pursue God? I'll tell you what, I know it would transform our church and every church out there. If we as God's people would just give God equal time. Not not more time. Just equal time to the time we sit in front of a screen. Just equal time to the time we sit partaking of the worldly activities we enjoy. Those things might not be wrong. They can be, but I'm not saying that what you're doing is wrong. I'm just saying, but are you yielding yourself to God? Are you daily presenting yourself, Lord, here I am? Whatever you want from me today. Use me today. I'm submitting my hands to you, I'm submitting my body to you to do what you want today. Which, beloved, means you're not going to be able to do some of the things that Satan would have you do. Yeah. We see that it's a holy sacrifice Present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy acceptable unto God. That's because that's the kind of sacrifice that's acceptable. Is a holy sacrifice. You don't hear a lot of preaching or teaching on holiness today. But God still requires it. We're gonna offer a sacrifice, it's gotta be a holy sacrifice. That's what's pleasing to God. Then we see the reasonable provision. He says, which is your reasonable service. Which is your reasonable service. Beloved is reasonable. It's a reasonable request. Can I ask you? I've used the illustration of my my kids coming up and saying, Dad, can I help you with that? Can I ask you, do you think for a child that's grown up in my home under the loving, compassionate care of an affectionate father? Why are you guys laughing? A child that has been cared for by me. A child that's been provided for, all of the food on the table, all of the clothes, all the the the home over the the roof over their head, the the the years of of picking them up and Teaching them how to ride a bicycle and and teaching them how to run a chainsaw, Amen. Teaching them all all the things that's been invested in them. Let me ask you, do you think it's reasonable that they would on occasion come out and say, Dad, can I help you with that? I think it's reasonable. It's not asking too much, it's not expecting too much. I think that is something that should be in the heart of a child that's learned how to be grateful for all that their mom and dad has done for them. And beloved, God has done exceedingly abundantly above what we could ask or think, beyond what I even have in my limited vocabulary and inability to impart truth. I tell you I can't even Express what God has done for us. It's reasonable for Him to say, Would you come and just present yourself as a living sacrifice? Would you just live for me? It's reasonable, beloved, because of all that God has done for you and I. He gave up everything for you and I. He gave himself a sacrifice and died on a cross so we could know the forgiveness of sin. So we could know the joy of the Lord. He sent his Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth and to comfort us. Well It's reasonable, beloved, because of what he's already done, and it's reasonable because of what he does day by day. How many of you know that we are still the recipients of God's blessings day by day? How many of you enjoy Romans 8. 28? It's amazing, beloved, that we have that truth. That no matter what struggle you're going through, what heartache you're carrying, what burden you're currently in, you know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. You know that whatever the burden is, that your Heavenly Father is working for your good. Man, each and every day, God's blessings are bountiful and beyond measure. He is a friend to stick closer than a brother. Beloved, it's reasonable because one life twill soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. Most of the things we invest our heart and time and energy in They will not amount to anything. But do you realize every ounce of energy expended Every moment of time taken, every penny given for the cause of Christ lasts for eternity. It goes on before. It's an investment in the future for all eternity. It's reasonable because it lasts forever what we do for him. Can I ask you this morning? Is he worthy of it? Do you believe that? Do you believe that he's worthy of it? Was he worthy of your sacrifice? If he is, then I would say, as Paul said, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, I beseech you to present your bodies as a living sacrifice We went to the mission field. And we had a week to observe a missionary. that was presenting himself as a living sacrifice. I've been to many mission fields. I've seen a lot of missionaries on their home turf. And I can tell you I've never seen one that works harder than Brother Reardon. He wore us out. We were like, is there gonna be a break today? For a little bit. Could we could we have a little downtime? You see, he's just taking the time that he has. And given it all to God. He was a testimony to me, a challenge. Paul was talking to the church at Corinth once, and he said to them, I will very gladly spend and be spent. for you. He said, I I I'll do it, I I'll invest every ounce of energy. If it kills me, I'll gladly do it for you. I wonder if we would be willing to say God. I'll give everything I have. You know, beloved, I can't help but think about the story of the young girl who wanted so bad to give something to God. She saw other people sacrificing and giving to God and putting things in the plate. She sat back and was just distraught with her inability. She had nothing to give. The ushers brought the plates back down to the front and set them on the Lord's table. And with tears in her eyes, not being able to give anything to God, she left her seat. Walked down to the front. She took the offering plate off. She put it down on the floor. And she stepped inside. Sir Lord, I've got nothing, but you can have me. When beloved, that's what God really wants. Because in all reality, it's pretty easy to give this. It's a whole nother thing to say, You have me, Lord. I'm presenting myself to you. A living sacrifice.