1 Peter chapter number 1 this morning, I'd like to learn a little bit about our hope. A little bit about the hope that we have. You know, you say, Brother Magnum, it really seems like there's no hope. Seems like there's no hope for the world. I don't know what you're going through in your life. Maybe you feel like yourself, like you have no hope. But let's look this morning from God's word about the hope that we have. And about the hope that we can give to others. How many of you have ever heard of a man named Arbud Dwyer? R. Bud Dwyer This might be one of the first groups where nobody, except my wife, because she's heard me, I've only maybe told this story three or four times, but has never heard of Arbud Dwyer. Okay, so Arbud Dwyer. He was the elected treasurer of Pennsylvania back in the late 1980s. In December of 1986, he was found guilty in a bribery scheme. His sentencing was scheduled for early January of 1987. On January 15th, January 15th, Arbud Dwyer, he held a press conference in his living room. He read from twenty-seven pages of notes. Praise the Lord, I don't have twenty-seven pages of notes this morning. But he read from twenty-seven pages of notes on live TV. about how he was innocent, about how the justice system had failed him, and ultimately about how he had no hope. At the end of the press conference, with the news stations watching him, he shot himself. Because he truly believed that he had no hope. Well this morning, ladies and gentlemen, we have hope. This man Arbud Dwyer didn't realize it. He didn't realize that there was a hope for him. But us in here this morning, if we have Jesus Christ as our Savior, if we've accepted Him into our hearts, we have a hope. How sad is it that no one had told this man about this hope? How sad is it that he didn't know about this hope that is in the world? So this morning we're going to talk about how there is hope. No matter what is going on around you, no matter who the leader is or what family situation is going on or what kind of medical thing we have that we're struggling with today. there is always hope. Let's look at it. 1 Peter chapter number 1. We're going to read verses 1 through 4 this morning. 1 through 4. The Bible says Peter An apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through sanctification of the Spirit Unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Grace unto you and peace be multiplied. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you. Lord, we thank you for this opportunity to be here this morning. Lord, I thank you that my wife and I could be here with this church. Father, I pray that you'll be with us now as we look at our hope, the hope that you have given us because of your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, we love you. We ask that your hand will be upon this service and the services to come and all the teachers that are downstairs teaching right now. Lord, that you'll be with us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So in verses one in verse one, Peter here says, the Bible says, Peter is an apostle of Jesus Christ. And he says that he's writing to the strangers who are scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. All right, you maybe you Bible majors or something like that. Do you have any idea of where those five cities in modern day are located. If not, it's okay. I had to look it up. I didn't know. Any idea? Don't take a stab at it if you don't. Modern-day Turkey. Okay? So modern-day Turkey, this is where these uh five cities were located, spread out throughout modern-day Turkey. And Peter here is writing to them. And he's writing mostly to the Jews But at this time, Peter was living in Rome. So we believe that 1 Peter was written around the time of 64 or 65 A. D. Just a little bit of history there about the book of Peter. You can go and do your own research on it. It's not like exact. You know, nobody can exactly tell it. But we believe it's around 64, 65 A. D. Peter's living in Rome at this time, and he's writing to these to the strangers. He says to the strangers there that are scattered throughout. Now what do you have an I any idea of what these strangers are? So these strangers, right, I was up the definition. It means a sojourner. A sojourner. So you know many times today we think of a stranger like oh the creepy person that might live across the street that yells at us when we maybe dump some trash on his yard or something. I don't know. I hope you don't dump trash on your neighbor's yard. I don't, okay, I don't dump trash on my neighbor's yard. But you know, we think of strangers a different way. But Peter here, he's referring to them as strangers. He's talking about them as a sojourner. A sojourner. You know what that means? Because they were just passing through. He's writing to the Christians here. You see, he's writing to those where their home isn't actually in these five cities. That's where they reside, but their home is in heaven. There's these strangers. You know, we sing the song about um, you know, oh um this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. That's what this makes me think of. Because this world is not our home. And the people that he's writing here, you know, we know Peter is written to strengthen the brethren, we say, right? It's written to be an encouragement. An encouragement to the Christians, an encouragement to those who are strangers. You've probably never thought of it this way, but if you've accepted Christ in your heart, you today are a stranger. You're a stranger to this world. You're a sojourner. So Peter here is writing to these people And if you look up, I mentioned these are in modern-day Turkey, but during that time it was under the rule of the Roman Empire. Okay, and this was mostly closely to the height of this great Roman Empire. This Roman Empire that hated the Christians. Hated They were doing terrible, awful things to these people under such persecution that we can't even imagine today in our minds. in our you know 21st century American Christian minds. We can't imagine these things that these Christians, these strangers were going through during this time. But Peter's writing to them, and this whole book of 1 Peter and 2 Peter, it's all about encouragement. It's all about it's all uplifting about how Jesus Christ is there for you and how he died on the cross for you. and how he has paid the price and all those things. And he's just trying to be an encouragement. He's just trying to lift them up. You know, because they needed it. And I really believe that today we need it. We need encouragement. You need to be encouraging each other. We need to find a way to encourage ourselves in the Lord through God's Word. The Bible talks about how David learned to do that. And I truly believe that if David didn't first learn that he couldn't have been the right king that he was, you know, and today we need to learn to be an encouragement. But Peter, the book of 1st and 2 Peter here is here for us as Christians. To be an encouragement. And he says here, you know, you think with me they're suffering, they're going things through things from the Roman Empire that we couldn't imagine. And Peter's writing them and he tells them that you have this hope That you have hope. You know, and just imagine with me, they're going through such more terrible things than we go through today, and Peter then can say, You have hope. So I don't want you to think today over the manual hope. You know, I'm I've I've got this disease and I don't know what's going to happen or or somebody had just passed away and I feel like I have no hope in the world. But there is a hope. So this morning I want to look at that hope. We're going to look at it. We find it in verses 3 and 4. That was just kind of a little introduction into what's going on here. So let's look at this hope in verses 3 and 4. Verse 3. Verse 3, the Bible says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. This may shock you, but it may not. Some of the most religious people in the world will not be in heaven. The most religious people. Maybe some of you in here might not be in heaven I don't know. That's between you and the Lord if you've truly accepted Christ in your heart to save you, but maybe you're just trying to live out a good life. You're just trying to come to church at Sunday school. That's great. You all are here and we dress up. We put on a suit and a tie and you know we've got nice shoes or ladies are wearing nice dresses and skirts and you all look fancy and it looks great. But that's not what gets us to heaven. That's not how we get to heaven. No, we know that. You know, many people talk a good talk or they walk a good walk, but they will not be in heaven. You know, some of these these TV evangelists. You know, the world thinks of them as great Christian people. I don't know, maybe some of them will be in heaven. It's hard to say. It's hard to say. But here in Peter he's he's giving us this encouragement that we have this hope. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, excuse me. I mixed up my verses. Some of you were probably like, No, I didn't. Not of works lest any man supposed. Let me reread that. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man. Man should boast. We know the only way to get to heaven is through Jesus Christ, right? Through the finished work on the cross that He has done. We can't get there on our own. We can't get there by going to church. We can't get there by going by being baptized. You know, that's a big thing in the world today that many people in Mexico. That is something that we are going to have to fight against because it's been in their culture for so many years. You know, this strong Catholic heritage is strong Catholic culture. But even in um I hadn't mentioned this yet, I don't think this week, but there's this big tide switching There's this big tide flowing through Mexico City right now, and it's really coming in the younger generation, and it's this tide of Pentecostalism, right? But not necessarily more of you know, we think of Pentecostalism as like um these crazy people that do these uh so-called miracles and they're like healing people. It's really sad. I don't know. How about I'm getting off track here, but I want to talk about this for a second. Have any of you seen this yet? I've I don't know, maybe you don't use Facebook or something like that, but I've seen this on Facebook. Come across my feed here recently This next week coming up, there's this big evangelistic conference that's going to go on in Lancaster City. Have any of you heard of this yet? Look it up. It's really scary. It really is. It's one of these false teachers. And he travels around through America. He's one of these Pentecostalisms, and he advertises. The advertisement actually says, come and receive your miracle. And the video is all about uh these people running up and down the it's it's in the video. They're all about running up and down the aisles and they're coming up here and kneeling and he's there touching their hands and people are throwing their uh like throwing their uh crutches. up on the stage. It's really crazy. It's really sad to see it. That's going to happen in Lancaster City next week. Look it up. It's there. But anyways, there's this tide going through Mexico City right now, it's Pentecostalism. But Pentecostalism down there is not necessarily like that. It's more of like non-denominationalism. You know, we think of kind of like a do whatever you want throughout the week, you know, but you go to church You learn about God and you learn about you bring your kids to church and they go to their classes and they learn about Christ and you know they've got a worship band up on the stage and And and you know, everybody's got their hands in the air and they're up there dancing and all these great things and they're singing these very popular songs, and that's the flow of what's happening in Mexico. to a city right now, but that still has the same idea of a works based salvation. But we know through God's word That that is not how we are to be saved. I gotten off topic. We're getting back there. Talking about baptism does not save you, works does not save you. The only way to be saved, our salvation comes from Jesus Christ. It comes from what God has done for us. Believing in John 3. 16 that God sent his son into the world. You know, believing that Jesus Christ lived this perfect life. Imagine that. It's hard for us to imagine somebody living a perfect life. But Jesus did that. And he did that for you. He did that for me. He did that to pay the price of our sin. And in verse three here were we reminded that we, that's those who have trusted in Christ, we are begotten again Right? When we ask Christ to come into our heart and to save us, we are a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. The Bible talks about how we become begotten again. We're born again. We have that new life. But he says here, according to his abundant mercy. Abundant mercy. Do you ever stop and think about the mercy of God? You know, mercy is is God's mercy is him withholding from us what we deserve. What we deserve. We don't deserve what we have. You know, we don't deserve the blessings that God gives us. We don't even deserve to have an eternity in heaven. But because of God's love, because of God's mercy, he sent his son, Jesus Christ, to give us that love so that we can have an eternity in heaven. When Jesus died on the cross, he had no sin debt to pay He was perfect. He never lied, never cheated, never stole anything, never talked back to his parents. Parents in here today maybe I'm sure my mother would think that'd be great if I never talked back to her. I probably still do. She probably still thinks I'm crazy. But Jesus Christ never went through that. He lived a perfect life. He didn't deserve to die. But no, he chose to die. He chose to take up the cross, to take our sins, and to nail them to the cross with him. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins Jesus chose to shed his blood for you and for me. God's mercy. God's mercy is taking that punishing blow of sin and nailing it to the cross and saying you don't have to bear it. that. Taking eternity in hell forever and saying you don't have to bear that. You said, Brother Mandarin, I've never done that. Maybe you've never accepted God's gift. It's a free gift. All we have to do, the Bible says Romans 10:9, that thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved It's that simple. Believing in God, accepting Him into your heart, and asking Him for forgiveness and turning away from your sin. Today is the day of salvation. So Peter here he starts off talking about our salvation. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his abundant mercy, we just talked about that, hath begotten us again. That's our salvation. God gave us his mercy. We accept him into our heart. He begotten us again. We're born again unto a lively hope. A lively hope. Let's look at what that hope is in verse 3 Begotten us again unto a lively hope. I don't want you to get biblical hope confused with worldly hope. You see, worldly hope is like a wish or a dream. You know, you hear it all the time. People say, Oh, I hope I win the lottery. I hope I get to do this. I hope tomorrow I get to go here. And you know, sometimes we say it. But that's not what Peter here is talking about. He's not talking about that hope. You know, that hope is like a wish, it's like a dream. But no, this hope here that Peter is talking about, this hope that comes from Jesus Christ, it's a sure foundation. A sure foundation. Ephesians 2. 12. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter number two. Keep your finger here in 1 Peter. We're going to come back. So let's look at Ephesians Ephesians chapter number two, talking about this hope that is a sure foundation. Ephesians chapter number two. We find that the foundation of our hope is in Christ's resurrection. Ephesians chapter number two, verse 12. The Bible says that at that time Ye were without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. There was a time in my life where I was without hope. I didn't have, you can turn back to 1 Peter, we'll be there. I didn't have this hope that I have today because I was without Christ. But at the age of 12, I had realized this in my life. We were out Soul winning that day. And um an evangelist was in it's interesting if you were paying attention on Thursday night you'd notice that an evangelist was at our church when the Lord had called me to missions, but actually there was also another evangelist that was at our church the weekend that I got saved. He was staying at our house. But an evangelist was in and we were out soul winning that morning and I was with him It was me and me and this man, he's now a pastor up in upstate New York. But me and him, we were out soul winning. We were at this old folks home. It was kind of like an assisted living type thing, but it was more of where you have more freedom. And we were there and we were talking to this lady. Her name was Mary Lynham. And we were there and She had come out of her room and we were sitting in the main room there talking with her. And that day I got to watch as this evangelist took God's word and showed her from the Bible how to be saved. He walked through all the steps. She had lived this whole life She was an elderly lady not knowing anything about Jesus. And I got to watch that that day. And that morning she had accepted Christ in her heart to be her Savior. And I noticed the joy that she had in her life just instantly You could kind of see she was there crying and you could see just as like all these many, many years of living in sin, being without hope, talking about hope this morning, being without hope, having not Jesus Jesus Christ and it all just being washed away. And I realized in that moment that I had never done that. I was at the age of twelve and I went on the day trying to fight this with the Lord, fighting with the Holy Spirit. You know, he was telling me, thinking all day long, this is all I could think about was how this lady had just gotten saved, and I knew that I had never. I was trying to Trying to pretend that I was a Christian, trying to pretend that I was saved. And it was late that night. I mentioned the evangelist was staying at our house. His son was with us. He was um me and my brother had bunk beds, but he was with uh sleeping in our room. He was around my age, and he was sleeping on a sleeping bag on the floor. And we were talking that night, and I remember we talked about This lady getting saved. Of course, here it is. It came up again. The Holy Spirit brought it right back up. And we were talking about this lady getting saved. And I remember we had said goodnight we were going to go to sleep. And I just couldn't sleep. I just laid there for at least an hour, just fighting with the Lord, because I truly knew that if I was to go to sleep tonight, and if I was to die in my sleep, I knew that I was going to wake up in hell, and that scared me. That scared me. So I got up that night and I went went to my parents' room and I said, Mom, I know I'm not saved. I need to get saved. And that night I accepted Christ as my Savior. And from that moment on, I then had hope. Right? Ephesians told us that without God we had no hope But here in 1 Peter, we're talking about the Christians, talking about those who have been begotten again, that we now have hope. We have this sure foundation. Remember, this hope is not a wish, it's more of an expectation. This hope is an expectation. It's a foundation. We know that it's going to come true. Titus chapter 2, verse 13 says, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior. Jesus Christ. You say, how can someone believe, the world asks things like this, how can someone believe that God is going to come again? How can someone believe in heaven? How can someone believe in hell? Well, we believe in these things because of everything that God's Word has told us. has prophesied about and all the things that Jesus said he was going to do, things that God said he was going to do, and has already come true. Right? Every promise in God's book has already come true. And we know, I mean, think in your own life about all the things reading throughout God's word that He promises to you. Has He not been faithful to those promises every single time? So why? Why now would He Why now would that change? That's how this hope, this lively hope that we have that talks about in verse 4 That's why we have this hope because of what Jesus has already done for us. I truly 100% know. I know that Christ is going to come again because his word has told me so. His word says that he is going to come again. He said he would come the first time, and then he came. And then he died, and he rose again, and he proved there that he was going to do what he said he would do, and every time he will do it. Our hope is rooted and founded in the Word of God. Philippians chapter 1 verse 6. 6 says, being confident in this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Listen, that means this. Whatever Christ has started in your life, whatever he's put in your heart to do, He promises that in Philippians chapter 1. Whatever God has put in your heart to do, if you follow him in faith, believing That he will see you through it. He will see you through it. Right now, Katie and I do not know when we will get to Mexico City. We're really praying. It's about a year and a half We would love for it to be less. We don't know. But we know that God has called us to be there. We know that He wants us there. We know that He has a place for us there. And we are confident confident that he will see us all the way through this deputation journey. He will see us all the way through until the very end when the day is that we get to drive down there and be there. And then we know that we can be confident that he will see us through the work that he has called us to do. Because he promises that whatever he starts in our life, he will see us through to the end. God does not start something he will not finish. Many times in life we start things that we don't finish, right? I don't know, maybe you've got some type of like honey to-do list guys. And you've probably got like five started things on there, I don't know, whatever it is. But God is not like that. Whatever God promises He's going to start, He will finish. Our hope is rooted and founded in the Word of God. We have all these promises from God. We're not like our Bud Dwyer. Remember, he didn't have hope. He didn't have God. I truly believe that this man was without God because he said that he has no hope. But we Have a hope because we have Jesus Christ. All around you, people are searching for hope. Today, many people are searching for hope. And we have this hope. And how sad would it be if we kept this hope to ourselves and we didn't share it with others? You know, you go to the store and you see these people and and they're living out their world with no hope. They're living out their life with no hope. Who will tell them about that hope? Verse number uh four. Verse number four, the third point this morning we look at our inheritance. This inheritance that God has for us. The Bible says, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away reserved in heaven for you. So let's start with what this inheritance is. Keep your finger here. Turn with me to John chapter number four. John chapter number four. We're going to look at what the inheritance is, and then we're going to talk about what How good that inheritance really is. John chapter number four. Fourteen, excuse me. I was looking at the verse there, I'm like, that's not it. John chapter number fourteen. This inheritance that God has for us. Verses 1 through 3. This is Jesus speaking. He says, Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there ye may be also. That inheritance that Christ has for us is this place that He is preparing for us right at this very moment. That place is heaven. These mansions that we learn about in God's Word that He is preparing for us. That's our inheritance, this inheritance that we're promised, this inheritance that we can believe in. Because of our hope, because of what Christ has done for us. I don't know, maybe some of you in here today have an inheritance that you might be expecting from your parents when they pass away or something. don't think I will get a single thing from my parents, but you know, that's not important anyways. But I don't know, maybe you have an inheritance that you're preparing for your kids or for your family, whatever it might be. But this inheritance that God has for us, you see, there's no wavering in that, right? The inheritance of the things of this world, like we can be promised something from our parents, like, oh, I'll give you this. But there's no guarantee we're gonna do it Maybe um like a fire comes and uh uh burns it all up and then all the money is spent rebuilding that or a flood comes or different types of things, whatever it might be. We're not necessarily promised that inheritance, right? You know, there's still a chance we might not get it. But this inheritance, this inheritance that God has for us is a guarantee. It's a guarantee that we will get it. And it talks about it here. Peter mentions four different things. He describes this inheritance in four different ways. The first one is incorruptible. Incorruptible, you know what that means? That means nothing can ruin it That means it's out of reach of man's imperfect hands. There is no person that can ruin that inheritance that is waiting for us. I just mentioned that. You know, our worldly inheritance can get ruined. And then we might not get it. But this inheritance in heaven, it's incorruptible. You know, maybe your parents when you were younger, or maybe you as parents, have something that's very valuable. And you keep it out of reach of your children. Okay, I remember when I was little, we had actually my parents still have it because they kept it out of reach of me and I didn't break it, but it's this Pillsbury Doughboy cookie jar. I don't know if any of you have ever seen that. How many of you have like a fancy cookie jar? Anyone? Is it just my family? Okay, we're the weird ones. Alright? I get it. You don't have to tell me. But we have this Pilberry Doughboy cookie jar And they always kept it when we were when I was growing up in Connecticut really little. We had this counter that met at a corner. And like the back corner of it was really far back. And I remember they always kept this cookie jar way far back there because they knew that little Josh is going to try to get it. He's going to try one because he wants the cookies And two, if he gets it, he's gonna break it for sure because I'm sure I broke everything at a little age. I was like this crazy wild child. But anyways I remember that they kept it out of reach of me so that I couldn't corrupt it. Well it's like that with heaven, right? God keeps it out of reach of man's incorruptible hands. Man's corruptible hands, excuse me. Excuse me, that we can't reach it. We can't get to it and corrupt it now. We also can't get there in an unsavory way. That then when we got there we corrupted it. Right? We have to be perfect to get there. The only way we know we can be perfect is by Jesus Christ, by the blood that He shed, by being washed of our sins and having that whole new body. So it's incorruptible, it's out of reach, but not only out of reach of man, praise the Lord, it's out of reach of the devil. Does the devil not corrupt everything around us today? You know, he has his hands in everything in the world. He has his hands in modern day Christianity, corrupting it. We were talking earlier about this this conference that's going to go on in Lancaster City and just a week or so. About this terrible, corruptible conference by the Pentecostals. You know, that's Satan. That's Satan having his hand in there, disguising it as good. They say they're doing it in God's name. They say they're doing it for Jesus Christ, but it's not. It's not. But thankfully our inheritance is incorruptible and then it's undefiled. It's undefiled. You know what that means? It's pure. It's perfect. You cannot steal or cheat your way into heaven. The only way is through the perfect Son of God, through Jesus Christ. You can't buy your way in, you can't work your way in. The only way there is through the pure imperfect way. But also our time there will be pure. How wonderful will that be. No more pain, no more sickness, no more dying, no more tears, no more sin. Pure. It'll be a pure time. Our inheritance there. There'll be no temptation. No unholiness around us. No more temptation to do wrong. No sin. It's pure. Remember, God have reached the Satan. He can't get to it. He can't make it impure. So it's incorruptible. It's undefiled. Thirdly, it fadeth not away. You know, we think of we like to talk about the streets of gold. We don't know a lot of what heaven's gonna look like. I personally am looking forward to We don't know if that's even if there's gonna be a lot of buildings. We don't know. We don't know a lot about heaven. We know that Christ is there preparing a place for us. He tells us it's gonna be a mansion Whatever that might be. I've heard different theories. I don't know. I'm not here to theorize about it. But we do know there's gonna be streets of gold, right? There's gonna be pearly gates and streets of gold. And you know what's wonderful about those? They are not gonna fade away. They'll be just as beautiful, just as bright on day a hundred thousand as they are on day one to us. I mean think how long heaven's already been in existence You can't imagine it in your mind. Right? But heaven does not fade away. It's eternal. There's no ending point. It will last forever Everlasting. In a million years it'll still be the same. It won't fade. Imagine if your house today was like that, right? If you didn't have to clean the outside, pressure wash it. Uh currently we're renting a place in Denver, Pennsylvania. And I tell you, like, it's terrible. They get um the guy that owns it every summer he'll pay to have a pressure washer come. and to pressure wash the mold off the side of it, this green mold off the side of the house. And like a week later, it's there again And I'm like, Dave, it's back again. He's like, I just paid to have it done. I'm not gonna do it again until next year. But imagine if, you know, that never came back. Or if you never had to fix your shutters or never had to clean a window again. Wouldn't that be great to never have to clean I remember that was always one of my jobs growing up was cleaning the windows and the mirrors because I have this bad habit of getting them dirty. Ask my wife, I probably still do it. She should probably make me still do it. Anyways, you know, we never have to do those kind of things because Because it's pure, it's everlasting, incorruptible, it'll never fade away. And then lastly, he says it's reserved in heaven for you. We'll read the verse again, verse 4, to an inheritance, incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Remember, we opened up talking about how Peter was talking to these strangers, these sojourners living in modern day Turkey and how they were not um their home was not here. Right? Though this is what he's talking about here. This this inheritance that they have, this eternal home, it's reserved in heaven for them. If you've accepted Christ into your heart, you have a place right now that is reserved in heaven for you. We see all throughout the New Testament that it there is something for us after death. You know, many people in the world today believe that there's nothing after death. You know, they say, oh, well I'm gonna die, I'm gonna rot in the ground, that's it. Some people believe that, you know, they're gonna come back in a later life as something else, and you know, all these people believe different things, but we know we know that we have An inheritance that's reserved in heaven for us after our time on earth is over. John chapter 14, verse 2 says, In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for You. Exactly. That mansion is there being reserved for us. Colossians chapter 1, verse 5. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven. This hope again, talking about this inheritance that we have, this hope that we have because of what Jesus Christ has done for us. You know, we today can have hope. Heaven is real, remember it's incorruptible It's undefiled, it's perfect, fadeth not away, and it's there for us. It's there for us. Christ wants to spend eternity with us. That's why he sent his son to come and to die on the cross to pay the price of sin. Because he loves us, because he wants to be with us. He wants to have that relationship with you. And we have that hope. So I don't want you to think this morning, oh Brother Magnum, I don't have any hope. The world seems terrible. I've got all these bills. I'm in debt. I don't have any hope. Remember, Arbud Dwyer believed he had no hope. Do you know why? Because he didn't have Christ. So if you ever feel like you don't have hope, turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. Read about this hope. Because of God's mercy, because he has begotten us again unto a lively hope. This incorruptible, undefiled, fadeth not away, hope for us, this inheritance that we have in heaven. This morning, we have hope.