Here as I mentioned already, uh we're gonna switch gears and we're gonna move into our our preaching time. So if you would uh grab your Bibles, I'm gonna encourage you to uh Open your Bibles and turn to the Book of Colossians. Turn to the Book of Colossians. In the book of Colossians, you can turn to chapter three. We're going to go over two passages or two verses that are very similar in terms of one of the phrases that that appears in the in the passage, but we'll see. the similarities, a little bit of the differences, and we'll we'll talk through some of that. But I will say that as we get into tonight, you see the slide there, the the topic that we're going to be talking about. tonight is music. And I've entitled the message, A Message on Music. We'll start off with the Purpose. And really what that does is it kind of lays the groundwork for us uh and there's not going to be necessarily an outline uh to to take notes of uh but just some different thoughts that that I've been able to able to condense for this evening, but also things that we'll be able to build on each other at a later date as opportunity comes up. If I have an opportunity I'll just kind of pick up onto the next topic and we'll go about it that way. But today we'll begin with the purpose of music. And so a message on music, that's what we'll discuss this evening. And I hope you're in Colossians in chapter three, and we'll go to verse number sixteen. And the Bible says this, just follow along there as I read to you. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. uh teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Alright, why don't we start off? We'll start off with a word of prayer and then uh Then we'll get into it. Let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you for the day. Lord, I do thank you just for the gifts that you give us, Lord, for the ability to uh to sing and uh Lord for those that play music, the ability to to play music. Uh Lord, I even thank you for just the the lifting up of of of our voices tonight uh that Lord we hope is a a a sweet sound to your to your ear. And uh Lord as we as we open up your word I just pray Lord that you would Teach uh your people the the truths from it, uh that we would be able to apply it and uh Lord that we would learn and grow from it and uh Lord that it would make a difference in our life as Christians as As we praise you and as we serve you, and as we worship you, and we'll thank you for it. Lord, we ask you for your blessing on this time and your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, one area where I have uh been burdened recently is in the area of music and And I will say we maintain a a high standard in music, and there's many people whom God has gifted uh musically, uh, but quite frankly, at least uh where where I think that that I have fallen short is isn't on the area of of teaching on music. There's there's so much in the scripture that we that we're able to cover, uh whether it be topics on the family, whether it be topics on on very doctrinal key issues, uh to to disciple people, to help them. Uh all these things they they we cover a wide gamut and I think one of the areas maybe that uh is lacking at times Really is on the teaching on music. The Bible mentions music over 500 times And whether it's discussing music, the word music, or whether it's talking about singing or something with instrumentation, that is is mentioned over 500 times. Another point to consider is that the largest book that we find in the Bible is a song book. Alright, it's the book of Psalms And the the idea here tonight and throughout this this study is I I'll state that very transparently that my desire is not to be prescriptive in terms of saying like this is you know this is right, this is wrong and go through a list uh of that. I I I I I hesitate purchase is has been screened, it's been evaluated, and has been evaluated as this is uh uh this is something that we will will would would uh consider and uh give you the opportunity to to purchase if you so choose. And so we go through a lot of painstaking work to make sure that we're screening those things that we present But as we go down this this study, uh again it's not my desire to to you know hit every mark and say this is This is where I think things are good or this is it's not about what Gus thinks or or or anything like that. What what we want to point to, uh I I I could give you my opinion what I think is acceptable, but I want to what I want to encourage tonight, especially throughout this message, is for you to look at your Bible to allow the Spirit of God to help you to discern through what is the biblical principle. So as we look at this, this this these passages in scripture. I want you to receive these principles, to apply them, and it is going to require us to to really put our thinking caps on. This is going to be a little bit more teaching rather than preaching. But as we delve into this subject of music, again, I'm hoping to be able to in the future present a another topic on this, but independently it'll be able to stand on its So we'll limit ourselves to what we can point to there in Scripture and uh most of what I believe that what is presented uh is related to music in the church. Uh but I really hope that these principles are in the world. Principles will help guide you in your personal choices in music as well. So the passages tonight, as I mentioned, have a consistent element. Alright, if you would hold your place there in Colossians 3 and turn to the book of Ephesians, if you would. Turn to the book of Ephesians and just a few pages behind in Ephesians. Chapter number five. In Ephesians chapter five, we have a familiar passage It goes into verse 19, but the thought begins in verse number 18. And it says, And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. So we see this phrase appear in both of these passages, the psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. So let me explain those for you. First, as we look at the Psalms, The easiest way for us to understand it as it's provided for us in the Scripture is to understand that this is the Psalms that we find in Scripture, the book of Psalms, the heavenly hymn book. as a as we m as I mentioned. It's a song book. It's something that's given by God. And there's certain if you look at the different Psalms, you see that there are uh there's annotations that talk about maybe an instrument being played uh throughout that psalm. And so these psalms that we see are the hundred and fifty psalms that we find in this book are songs that we find. Now understand also that the word that we see as translated into Psalms also gives us a sense of instrument. So that conclusion gives us the opportunity to consider that this could also be implying that music, it's instrumental music that is presented as well, that could be considered psalms as well. Another uh other folks what they uh I I've also heard taught that this Psalms is scripture, so the singing of Scripture. That's certainly uh the the idea that we get with the book of Psalms. Psalms, uh, but other scripture songs. There are many songs that we have that are specific uh specific verses in the scripture that are quoting scripture. And so that's an another idea that we can uh get from this this word Psalms. Alright, the the next word is hymns. And understand that the word hymns is only found in the New Testament. Interesting. Enough. But the idea of hymns is a song of praise to God or to celebrate God in song. That is what a hymn is. Alright, and so we talk about that we sing hymns and we have a hymn book, and as we consider that word hymn, I want you to understand that that is a song of praise to God as we celebrate the Lord. Another word that we find here is spiritual songs. Alright, and that word songs, the the word that that comes from is uh the the Old English word that is considered ode. So a song. It's exactly what it is. It's what you and I would think of of a song, something that we that we sing with our voices. But understand that there's a very specific adjective or descriptor that's provided in this passage both times It's not just songs, it's spiritual songs. And so understand that the implication here is that These songs are going to be spiritual. They're going to be they're not going to be carnal. They're going to be spiritual. And so I want you to consider those things, and as we we we talk about that, these are the two passages that we look at that really give us an indication because both of these books are written to a church and they're given instruction to the church on how to use music, how to use psalms. hymns and spiritual songs. And so the first item that we see in terms of a purpose for the these Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, you can go back there to Colossians chapter 3. And in verse 16, the purpose there that is stated is for teaching and admonishing. For teaching and admonishing. That is the per the stated purpose. So the stated purpose there, what's interesting about this word, is teaching is what we would exp what we would think teaching is. The word there is a s the same word that is uh caught that is defined as didactic. Alright now if you're a teacher you understand what that word means. Didactic is more what you and I would consider a lecture form. Alright, someone explaining something to you. Now, for whatever reason, that is a very good way that I learn. That is my preferred method of learning Not everybody is like that. Not everyone likes to sit and a lecture and just soak in the delivery of information. Some people are are uh l learned differently through hands-on means, but I prefer lecture learning. And so that idea is the idea of didactic, and so that is that that word. Teaching. Teaching. We would understand that as lecturing, the technique of lecturing But a purpose that God identifies for music is to teach. Now that's very interesting, and we see this very much in the Hebrew culture. As you look at the scriptures, In the book of Psalms, the thought, if you read Psalms, and there's also some Proverbs, some Proverbs as well as some other chapters. in the Bible that are uh they call them acrostic verses or acrostic chapters or in the case of the Psalms, it is uh an acrostic psalm. And what it does, especially if you have studied Psalm 119, is that each section is a smaller subsection of eight verses. We divide them up into eight. But they are eight verses, each representing one letter of the Hebrew alphabet. So there's 22 sections of eight verses. And those twenty-two sections represent at the beginning by a letter in the alphabet. So for example, it would be in our language as we would say A and then A has an explanation of what what A is. in the Hebrew culture is that all those things were spelled out and they were talking about the word of God and explaining about God and teaching about God to the point where these All these sections of verses were a memory aid and helpful for teaching about God, about his nature. about his character, about God's word and how the the value and importance of God's word, the function and what God's word does. It talks about the word being a light. It talks about the word being uh different elements that help understand about the word of God. And so we see that as was a teaching uh tool, it was a teaching tool for and that was a song. Also consider that the purpose of considering that the purpose of music is to teach, one thing that I hope that we consider is that the songs that we sing should should be biblically correct. Now, as we look at the hymn books, uh we take time and you know we say that. You know, make sure you're paying attention to the words as as you sing them because those words help us to teach or to understand about the nature and character of God. Alright, as we sit here and as we come to a service, we'll stand and we'll sing holy, holy, holy, and we can't help but be overcome with understanding that God is a thrice holy God, and that that song, that hymn just continues to bring that point home that God is a holy God. And so that teaches us, that helps us to understand. His nature and his character. And it helps us as we sing songs. That is one of the purposes of music in the church is to help us to learn and to teach us these things about God. As we sing music, it is teaching us. We can sing congregational songs that teach us a variety of biblical truths. And this is one of the reasons that especially in in in junior church we take time to learn some of those choruses and songs that we're teaching uh teaching the young people uh all the way to the little kids right we teach them Jesus loves me this I know For the Bible tells me so. And so all these things are there as music in the church, the purpose of it there is to teach. and to help us to learn. So again, as we look at these songs, the songs that we sing And especially maybe you come across a song in the hymn book, I would encourage you, as we sing a song, consider it, think about it, think about some of the words that are being spoken. And if there's a question maybe that comes to your mind and saying I don't know if that's entirely biblical. Let's talk about it. Let's let's talk through that. And uh there's many many songs that people have, you know, maybe raised a concern. concern about uh in for for a variety of reasons and saying well I don't know if this is necessarily biblically accurate. That's an important thing to do because these songs are supposed to teach us, they're supposed to help us to learn If there are some songs that are biblically questionable, again, let's talk about it, talk to me about it. But also we see in this passage that music is to admonish. The idea here of this word admonish is to warn or to exhort. The thought that is conveyed or communicated from this word admonish is to put in mind. Alright, to help us remember, to help us in our Christian walk. And so these songs are so important for us to learn. Because as you go about your life, you and I can face a situation and hopefully a song comes to mind. that you can sing uh unto the Lord. That's a hymn that gives us a a a reminder. All right? That's a that's a song that can uh help us to to grab a hold of a particular Bible truth that'll help us to get through those difficult times. Alright? And so there's plenty of songs like that. I know there's songs in my life, and there's a variety of different songs that we can take, and again, take them with us to help us through those difficult times. Or Again, admonish or to admonish one another in that. But it's to help help us in our Christian walk. Another purpose that we see in Colossians 3. 16 Is it says there, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. So the idea here is of singing That word teaches us that it's to sing to God, to the praise That idea there of singing is to the praise of anyone. But as you look in the passages and if you look at the This word in the Bible, it's always connected in the New Testament there with God. You're singing unto God And so here this singing that we're supposed to do, we are supposed to sing. We're supposed to sing to God. But the Bible says there's singing with grace in your hearts. To sing in the grace of God is what we're supposed to do. So this is one of the reasons that as a song leader I encourage and I exhort you on Sundays to sing with energy and the way I wrote it is to sing like you're saved. That's what that's talking about. Singing with grace in your hearts. If you have the grace of God, if the grace of God has been bestowed to you, you should sing like it. That's what that's talking about Singing with grace in your hearts and singing admonishes. Now here's what happens. As you sing, and as you sing louder, it encourages others to sing. It's just something naturally that happens. Now what's interesting to me is that as you look at this passage, 316 We're also supposed to sing heartily. The following verse that is right after this passage when it's talking about teaching and admonishing one another in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. What does the Bible say in verse 17? It says, And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, again, whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks this uh the encouragement here is for us in to sing. Now as we go back, let's go back to the book of Ephesians there in Ephesians chapter 5. This it talks about there the the the same phrase, but the next purpose that we see, so one purpose we see is teaching and admonishing The next purpose that we see is singing. The next purpose that we see is in Ephesians and where it says speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns. and spiritual songs, singing. Once again it talks about singing. And then the next one is making melody in your heart to the Lord. So this word here has to do, that idea of making melody, it has to do Excuse me, with uh with plucking or striking a chord, or gives us the idea of using a stringed instrument. In the New Testament, it is used to sing a hymn But music, understand, is there, again, striking a chord with a with the idea of a stringed instrument. So that making melody in your heart is like making making music. And so as we do that, understand that the purpose of this of music in both of these two passages is to edify. It's to edify the believer. It's to edify people in the church, to build one another up. And again, if you look at especially in uh In in verse 19 here of Ephesians, it says speaking to yourselves. This is something that we're supposed to be doing and exhorting and encouraging, edifying one another. So one of the purposes of music is for the congregation. Alright? Now another purpose that we see in the scriptures that is found in Acts chapter 16. And this alludes to uh Stephen's question. Uh it's very hard to deny that there is an evangel evangelistic purpose in music. music. Alright, as you look at the scripture, I would not say that this is a primary purpose, all right, but this is still a purpose that is identified in the scripture. Because in Acts chapter 16, verse 25, this is the famous passage where the jailer says, What must I do to be saved? What led to that? There in verse 25, it says, And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them. Now the idea there could help us to fall into teaching and admonishing, but I separate these because it's slightly different. Teaching and admonishing that relates to the bre brethren. This is evangeliz evangelizing the lost. So this prayer and song of Paul and Silas had power, and that was clearly seen. That was something that was observed. Now I want to point out another passage to you in the book of Psalms. Excuse me. Uh the in the book of Psalms uh Psalm forty, where the Bible talks about being pulled out of the horrible pit and out of the miry clay. Verse number three says this, He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. And so this new song, again, this is a new song that was observed by people. The Bible clearly says there that many shall see it. It was observed. Some that that there was an visible impact to that new song in the mouth of the psalmist. And that new song is observed and it had an a an effect on the people that observed that song. And that was it said that they they shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. So again, this is not necessarily a primary purpose in music, but again, understanding that this is one of the purposes. Now, the last purpose that we'll cover is one that We see all throughout scriptures, so it's very hard to isolate a particular passage because there's many that that that relate to it. But I'll ask you to turn to 2 Chronicles chapter 29. And 2 Chronicles chapter 29. And we'll walk through that in just a moment. But as you turn there to 2 Chronicles 29, I will say that I try to be very careful how I use the word worship. In some churches The person that is guiding through the song service is called the worship leader. And part of that is because many people today equate music and worship. And what I want to just encourage you to understand this evening is that worship does not equal music. That's a misconception. And I will say that music is a means of worship. It is something that we see, it is something that we do, it is a form of worship. Music that in the church that is conducted is a form of worship. But if we we i if we just equate those two then we remove a lot of what the Bible talks about and points to in terms of worship. worship. One thing that you will find as you look in in the scriptures is that if you look at that word worship, very often it is connected to A service, some type of service or giving, or some type of sacrifice. Now that word worship, what I want you to understand, that word worship is One man has defined it as our response when we see God. When you read the hundreds of passages that have that word worship, You find that when men saw God, they fell on their face before God. And when you see this word worship, You see bowing. It talks about bowing. It talks about bowing in worship towards the Lord. In humility, in fear. These are the types of things that we see. Now, what I want to remind you about, or at least uh uh help you to understand, is that worship can be done in a variety of different ways. But like I said, many times it is connected to some type of service or a sacrifice. But what I will say is that we cannot deny that there is a connection in the scripture when we talk about music and worship. So as you look at the passage, let me just real briefly go back to the book of Ephesians. In the book of Ephesians, that passage begins when it talks about the filling of alcohol. It says, Be not drunk with wine where So there's a a comparison there between a person that is filled with alcohol and a person that is filled with The Spirit, the Spirit of God. And the byproduct of that r it comes in that following verse when it talks about speaking to yourselves in Psalms and Hymns and spiritual songs. So the natural outflow of a spirit filled individual is Psalms and Hymns and Spiritual Songs. What comes first? The spirit filling comes first. The obedience to God through sacrifice comes first, and we'll see that in this passage. And then comes the music. The the one of the problems that we find, especially with how people are using the word worship and how people use the word music to or people use music today in the church is that many times they say like, hey, this music gets me in the spirit. But that's not the order that we see in the scripture. And so I want to make sure that I point that out. But as we look at 2 Chronicles chapter 29, we see this very clearly. You can go to verse 20. And what this is talking about is this is talking about Hezekiah reinstituting the temple worship. And so in verse 20, this is the Bible says Then Hezekiah the king rose early and gathered the rulers of the city and went up to the house of the Lord, and they brought seven bullocks and seven rams and seven lambs and seven he goats. for a sin offering for the kingdom and for the sanctuary and for Judah. And he commanded the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of God. So it goes there again, realize this is we're talking about an offering here. There's something that is that that that is being given. And they're reinstituting the temple worship in order and the way with the priests and things like that The priests went through this process and then go to verse twenty five. And he set the Levites in the house of the Lord with symbols, with psalteries, and with harps according to the commandment of David and of Gad the king's seer and Nathan the prophet. for so was the commandment of the Lord by his prophets. So David was one of the first uh the was the first king to institute somewhat of a musical orchestra for the for for worship and so here we see Hezekiah is bringing this back. So that's another part of that, right? And so there we see that And so again, going down there, th th that's where we talk about the music and the orchestra being brought in. Go down to verse twenty-eight. The Bible says And all the congregation worshiped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded, and all this continued until the burnt offering was finished. Verse 29, and when they had made an end of the offering, the king and all that were present with him bowed themselves and worship. So so we see kind of the the full spectrum here, right? We see the sacrifice, the offering, the obedience to God, the obedience to God's way. And then we see the the musician out the musical element to it, and then it talks about that because they were obedient to God, because they were following uh the way God had outlined for them to do things, to worship him Then we see that the congregation, the nation, and then led by the king, of course, here, we see in verse 29 that they all fell down, bowed themselves, and worshipped God. So we see that through the scriptures that music is a means of worship. And again, it is it is connected. Now But what I want you to understand is that many w w the best way to characterize The singing that we do in church, the special music that is done, the offertories. We have a variety of musicians. Partly is because it's done during the offering, but all that musical element, all that musical components of what is done in the church is done as an offering to God. That's what we need to consider and apply. Now, another thing to consider is that when we give an offering to God through financial offerings, something that we we do, it's not necessarily something that God needs or benefits God directly in any way. Our offering is not some manner of penance or something that we're trying to do a quid pro quo with God. It's something that we do out of a heart of gratitude, again, out of a heart of of having our being spirit-filled, of having grace in our life, and we do that in obedience to the Lord. Now our our music should follow these intended purposes that we've outlined. Now, I'm as guilty as the next person where we may pick a song, I may pick a song because I like it or because I like how it sounds. Alright, I had a conversation with Ms. Darcy that I'll share with you. It was a funny story that as I went through this, uh sometime last week I asked Ms. Darcy about a song uh that the choir sang a long time ago ago th that hadn't been done in a while. And I asked her if we could bring it back into the the into the rotation. And as I thought about it, w the main reason was because I liked the song. I liked the way it sounded like And as I was studying this and as I was preparing this and I was uh as I was writing these notes, I'm sitting there and I I I wrote this down. I may pick a song because I like it. And really the Spirit of God pointed that out and say But is it is it appropriate? Is it acceptable? Now here's the thing. As we stop and consider Many would argue and say, well, I make an offering towards God and I'll make that offering and what matters is the heart. What matters is my heart, my heart's desire in presenting that to the Lord. Lord. And so we have to think about that. Because my purposes should align with God's purposes. My purposes in giving an offering should align with God's purposes as well. And if all that matters in the heart, I have to think, is was there an example where someone gave an offering but it wasn't accepted? And the fact is is that that's true. We see that in the book of Genesis, where Cain brought a sacrifice to God. And the Bible says very clearly in Genesis chapter 4, verse 5, but unto Cain and to his offering he, this is God, he had not respect. God did not accept Cain's offering. Now, the Bible doesn't clearly point out that You know, his heart was right toward about it. But what I see is that there is a certain offering that God will reject. And so our desire, the principle that I want us to walk away with tonight is, is our offering of music acceptable to God? Is what we offer to the Lord acceptable to God? Is our offering focused on myself more than God? Is my offering Formed after the world? Or is my offering not heartily as unto the Lord? All these things we have to consider as we're again making an offering to God And that offering, we want it to be accepted, and we don't want it to be rejected by the Lord. But as we do that, we need to make sure that our purposes in presenting that offering align with the purposes that God outlines in in his in his word. So if something is more about me than it is about God, that's not a good offering. And so when we consider that, I want us to make sure that we're thinking about that. As we pick our music, as we sing congregationally together, we want to make sure that those things are acceptable as we present them to So that we can put a smile on his face, so that he can be pleased, and so that we can do things as he outlined for us to do. Let's pray. Father, we do love you. We thank you for the day. We thank you for your goodness. And Lord, I do again thank you for the people that uh in this church. Uh Lord, for the different