To do those things. Alright, so the first place that we want to begin is we want to begin with the biblical history of music. Alright, so a easy question is uh uh as we look into scripture, an easy question is who created music? God. God created music. That is correct. And so as we look at that, I want to just point out to you, as we look at the scriptures, why don't you turn to the book of Job? Book of Job. And so we're going to give the biblical history of music. And as we look at this, a lot of it is just organizing. just kind of some some thoughts so to so that they flow well. And so we're going to begin with a biblical history of music. And as we look at that, we we just want to see how this relates to to history. And in Job chapter 38, I'll go through verses one through seven, and then really the the key portion there is on uh is in verse seven. But if you recall, a pastor a few weeks ago and a few months ago went through a study of the book of Job. And here is where there is a lot of back and forth between Job and his friends and discussion between them and uh uh just presenting ideas and then a rebuke of those ideas and just a lot of back and forth. But in chapter 38 Uh what is interesting is this is the time where God speaks. So this is God speaking uh uh for himself and it's recorded for us what he says. And in Job thirty-eight you can follow along in verse one. We're we're going to end there at verse seven. Uh the Bible says, Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? Gird up now thy loins like a man, for I will demand of thee and answer thou me. Again, this is God speaking. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measures thereof if thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line upon it? Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened, or who laid the cornerstone thereof? When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy So these questions that God is posing and he's talking about the foundation of the world and creating the world. And so what we see here, as mentioned in Job, God is questioning Job and he's asking him these these uh these a variety of of questions like were you there? Were you there at creation? Were you there uh in the heavens when these things were going on when I laid the foundations of the earth That's the the idea here that God is is communicating to Job in just a very uh uh poetic and and questioning manner. Uh but the key portion there in the verses And so there's that idea there, that word there, saying together. The morning stars sang together. And so at least the principle that I want you to understand is that music predates humanity Alright, music predates humanity because again, during the even before the foundations of the earth, the morning stars sang together. And so we get we we get that. uh from the scripture. But even early on in the scripture uh we see that post uh post-flood uh post-flood we see that uh uh Jacob, or uh in the in the the story of Jacob in Genesis 31, verse 27, uh there's this communication between Jacob and his father-in-law. uh where Jacob is trying to steal away and and and leave, uh leave his father-in-law's country. And there's this discussion back and forth about uh about that. And so uh Laban is rebuking is rebuking uh Jacob for his his activities, and there's this back and forth between them, but in Genesis chapter 31, you're welcome to turn there, but I'll read it for you In Genesis chapter 31, verse 27, we see uh here Jacob mentioned it as well. And he's saying, Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly? Why why did you run away secretly? and steal away from me and didst not tell me that I might have sent thee away with mirth and with songs, with tabret, and with harp. And so he's saying, Hey We would have had a celebration for you, and that celebration uh there was musical instruments involved. So we see that in as part of the biblical history of music. The other element that I want you to see, and let's turn to the book of Ezekiel. Again, we're looking at the biblical history. The book of Ezekiel is where we'll turn to, and I'll ask you to turn to hymn number uh 28 or hymn number chapter number 28 shows you where my mind is right it's always about what hymn page number to turn to At least we're talking about music, and so there's some kind of an association, right? So praise the Lord for that. But uh uh Chapter 28 of the book of Ezekiel, and There's this element here that I want us to look at that is interesting and it's talking about the king of Tyre. Now it's widely accepted. that this uh is d discussing and uh this is referencing um satan or in his form as he was an angel uh previously Lucifer And so in chapter 28 of Ezekiel, verses 11 through 15, the principle that I want you to understand here is that Lucifer was musical. Lucifer was created as an angel, and uh many believe that he was uh uh a angel of music, and we'll see that why we'll see why that is uh here in the passage. Ezekiel twenty-eight verses eleven through fifteen. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God, Thou sealest up the sum full of wisdom and perfect in beauty Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Again, this is a reference to Lucifer. Every precious stone was thy covering. So understand this is the description of him. the Sardius, Topaz, and the Diamond, the Beryl, the Onyx, and the Jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle and gold. The workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth, and I have set thee so thou wast upon the holy mountain of God. Thou hast walked up and walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created till iniquity was found in thee. And so we have this passage here in Ezekiel that's very interesting because it's talking about the workmanship of thy tablets. So there's this description. And this is where, you know, the the Bible, Jesus said that uh Lucifer was an angel of light, as he he described that way. And he was a very beautiful angel, and we see that description here in uh in Ezekiel 28 But part of it in verse 13 is where it says, The workmanship of thy tablets, that's an instrument, and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. And so there's this element whether he is holding or in an instrument or it an instrument is part of him. Quite clear in terms of the wording, but we see here that Lucifer is music is a musical angel. So we can come to the conclusion as that that music is a key part of Lucifer's purposes. Now, when when we consider that, we can we we see or we can come to the conclusion that Satan is the one that corrupted music. Alright? And he continues to use music as a tool. The same enemies of the Christian are the enemies of God. And those enemies, we know what they are. What are the three enemies of the Christian? The world what's the set what's another one? The flesh and the devil. Alright. Flesh, think of flesh is, you know, when we think about it, the the enemy of the Christian We think about our flesh. But in the same way, man, man is the enemy of ourselves, right? So we are our own worst enemy, is what we're s what we're what we're uh how we communicate that. But the enemies of God are the same. There's a world system that is contrary to God, there is mankind that is corrupting the things of God, and there's the devil that is against the things of God as well. And using those things, using those other elements to to hinder or to push away from God's plan, to corrupt God's plan, to corrupt God's purpose. That is the the spiritual warfare that goes on uh all the time. And so again, understanding that in in in the Bible, the Bible as as as it describes it, is under we we understand that Satan has this this uh this use uh of music. He d he continues to use music as a tool. Now instruments appear very early in the Bible. In Genesis chapter 4, we see Genesis 4. Again, this is right after the situation with Cain and Abel described. And we see that Cain in verse 16 of chapter 4, Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. Again, he was kicked out, he was banished, he was supposed to be a vagabond on the earth. And Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bare Enoch, and he builded a city. and called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch. And unto Enoch was born Irad, and Irad begat begat Mehujael And Mahujael begat Methusael, and Methusel begat Lamac, and Lamak took unto him two wives, the name of the one was Ada and the name of the other Zillah, and Adah bare Jabel, he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle, and his brother's name was Jubal, he was the father of uh of all such as handle the harp and organ. So there was two sons, one named Jabal and one named Jubal And Dubal was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ. So there was uh enough technology. Here's the thing, is that we we we we have so much of the world's concepts uh in our mind that we think that, you know, back in history, thousands of years ago, that People were in caves and they they they didn't have technology and they were you know limited in the resources that they had and that's not necessarily the case. As we see here, this is again looking at at pre-flood, and they had a if you look later on in that passage, it talks about some of the descendants of Cain. were artificers of brass and uh they were metal workers, so they used metal, they had the technology to work with metal. And even in this case, J Ball had the technology and the the means, the resources as well as the ability to make music, to have the harp and the organ. And so uh we don't know exactly what these these instruments were, but we see this early on in the scriptures, as early as Genesis chapter 4. So consider that instruments appear very early here in the scriptures as part of the musical history of the Bible history of music. Next, as we move along, we see that music was a part of Israel's national inception. So when the nation of Israel was born after And we will use the reference point as the time of the Exodus where they came out of Egypt and they were going to make their way to the promised land. We're making their way out of Egypt. We see even then that we have music that's referred to. In the book of Exodus, we see uh a passage that is talked about Uh why don't you turn there? Exodus chapter 15, and right there early on in the scripture. Exodus chapter 15. And if you've turned there, we'll begin at The beginning of chapter 15 in verse 1, and someone, if you have it in front of you, what is the second word in that verse? Saying, then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the Lord, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously, the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. So there's this song of celebration that as the nation of Israel, right after they have had this victory, over the Egyptian army as they're they were they were thrown into the sea here as the Bible says. Then there's this song that is uh that is part of their national history. But it's something that's very uh consistent. If you look at the book of Deuteronomy, uh chapter 32, verse 1, uh or actually it's uh let me turn there and then I'll I'll give you the previous verse. 32 verse 1 is where the song begins, but 3130 is the kind of the introduction. And so chapter thirty-two goes through. the song of Moses. And so we see this over and over that this the this this song There's another part of it that is referenced, I believe, in the book of Psalms. So it's referenced throughout the Bible, this Song of Moses. And so it's very neat to see that music was part of Israel's national inception. But also we see that Israel music was a part of Israel's religious life. Alright? Israel was part of, or excuse me, music was a part of Israel's religious life. And so we see that in Ecclesiastes 2, verses 8. I'll read this to you. So again, we know that there's the there's the idea of uh the worship that t took place at the temple, uh, and it says that Uh Ecclesiastes written by Solomon says, I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces, I got me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men as musical instruments and that of all sorts. And so again, there's this this element where Solomon uh uh brought together the the the m mus musicians, whether it be singers or uh an orchestra, he brought together these as part of the the dedication of the temple. I'll uh point point you to 2 Chronicles 29, 27 through 29. Uh here we see Hezekiah also made use uh as the kingdom of Israel went on in history and became became this uh very uh pr uh pronounced and and strong nation. uh there was there there was cultivated uh uh musicians, singers that we see here, and this is just an example of it in 2 Chronicles 29. uh twenty-seven through twenty-nine. Let me read it for you. And ket and Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the altar. So uh uh this is uh a part where Hezekiah is taking part in this uh celebration at the temple. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the Lord began also with the trumpets. and with the instruments ordained by David, king of Israel. And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded, and all this continued until the burnt offering was finished And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that were present with him bowed themselves and worshipped. So music was a part of the religious practice that we see in the nation of Israel. And so we already mentioned it in Ecclesiastes, but music, excuse me, was a part of Israel's royal life. So we mentioned Solomon, but uh if we go back If you recall, in the book of 1 Samuel, Saul made use of musicians as well, and one of his musicians was David. 1 Samuel 16, 23 It says this, and it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took and harp and played with his hand, so Saul was refreshed and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. And so we see early on in the royal line, even Saul himself made use of musicians, and then we see David as well in 1 Chronicle 25, verse 1. Moreover, David and the captains of the host separated to the service of the sons of Asaph and of Heman and of Jedhan. Who would who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals, and the number of the workmen according to their service was And so it goes on to talk about their organization and their numbers of the of the musicians. So we see that in David. We mentioned Solomon as well. So understanding that is uh music played a key part throughout the nation of Israel, throughout the history of the nation of Israel, as we see that in the in in the scriptures. But also if Will point to a couple passages in in the in the prophets that discuss that music was a part of Israel's private life. Alright? And in Isaiah 5, verses 8 through 12, it says this: Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth. In mine ears, said the Lord of hosts, of a truth many houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant. Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath and the seed of an omer shall yield an ephah. Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink, that continue until the night, till wine inflame them, and the harp and the vial, the tablet and pipe and wine are in their feasts feasts, but they regard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the operation of his hands. So this is something that is is com uh specifically spoken against the nation of Israel. It's the the prophet Isaiah speaking against Israel in terms of what's going on. And they have their lands, they have their houses, they're being very prosperous. And they're uh, as the Bible would say, eating, drinking, and being merry. And part of that included a leisure part of uh the music that they were using. And so we see here that at this point, there's a reference or references that we see in the scripture where music is leaning toward entertainment. All right? It's leaning towards entertainment and we see that in in Amos as well. Amos chapter 6, uh verses 1 through 5 says, Woe to them that are at ease in Zion. So again, this is this prophet speaking against the the the people. And trust in the mountain of Samaria, which are named chief of the nations, to whom the the house of Israel came, pass ye into Kalnah, and see, and from thence go ye to Hamath the Great, and then go down to Gath of the Philistines. Be they better than these kingdoms, or their border greater than your border, ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seed of violence to come near that lie upon beds of ivory. Now listen to the description and stretch themselves upon their couches. These are people that are at ease. There's woe to the people that are at ease. It says that lie upon beds of ivory ivory and stretch themselves upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock and the calves out of the mist of the stall, that chant to the sound of the vial, and invent to themselves instruments of music like David. And so here there's woe being pronounced unto Israel, as we see here as part of this history, because their music is leaning more towards their entertainment and just for a pastime. And so that's going to tie in a little bit as we go into the audience of music. As, well, we're running out of time already. Music was a part of church life. If you go to the New Testament, in Ephesians 5. 19 and Colossians 3. 16, both of those talk about the use of psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Acts 16 is the passage where Paul and Silas were in the jail and they were singing, singing at the top of their voice, singing at midnight. Uh and that's when uh when uh God uh uh allowed them to get out of jail and then the the Philippian jailer was saved. We see in Hebrews 2, chapter uh chapter 2, verse 12 Says this, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. And so we see here in the New Testament as well that we see the use of music in church history. Now throughout history, not necessarily out of the scriptures, but in terms of practice, what we've seen uh uh recorded for us as well as how we practice today singing is part of the church. Uh we we see that it's part of church life. But then we also see that biblically music has a part of future prophecy. And so I won't go into every single uh every single passage, but in Revelation 5, 8 and 9, and in Revelation 15 There is uh there is praise that happens. I'll read one of those for you, Revelations 5, 8, and 9. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints, and they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And so there's uh again a new song that is uh delivered, and it is at a time of prophecy And so we see that scripturally as we go through each of these uh uh generations, each of these uh uh sections of time we see in Bible history the use of music. And so all throughout the Bible we see it And so we'll transition into the the audience of music. So in Psalm 96, verse 1, the Bible says, Sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. If I could just point out something to you, the that phrase, sing unto the Lord, appears 17 times in the Scripture. And so when we consider music, when music is a means to, we've heard it often, is that it's a means to praise. And if we're going to praise, that praise is meant to be towards God. If music is a means to worship, it is a means to worship God. When music is made or played, understand that it's a reflection of God because God created music. He created the notes and the order and the structure, the chords, all of it is made by God. Now There's a quote that I'll share with you by Johann Sebastian Bach, one of the greatest composers. And he was a Christian, and he said this. He said, Music's only purpose should be for the glory of God and the re recreation of the human spirit. Now what we'll point out there is that obviously he's saying initially for the glory of God And when we think of recreation, we think of a a pastime. We think of just, again, having fun, just, you know, chilling out. A recreation park, you know, is kind of what we think of. We think of just relaxing. But that word recreation carries a different meaning because it's understanding that it's a refreshment, a refreshment of the strength and the spirit after toil. So that's the idea that we get when when when uh we use when we use this or when Bach used this word recreation. And another thing we'll point out is that It was for the r recreation of the human spirit, not necessarily a recreation for the human flesh. And so when we look at that, you know, a lot of times when we consider music and and you know we say, oh, well, we like it. I like how it sounds. And so that's more, again, focused on uh on man, not necessarily focused on God. And so when we see that quote, we see He says that the purpose is for the glory of God and the recreation of the human spirit. So what we need to take away is that the primary audience, the primary audience of music is God. The primary audience of music is God. Anytime that these passages in the New Testament, there was a handful, I mentioned them, Ephesians 5. 19, Colossians 3. 16. Revelations 5. 9, Revelation 14. 3, and Revelation 15. 3. Each of these passages have this word that when in our English Bible it is singing or sung. Alright, that's how we see it in the scriptures. But that word, as we look through these passages, that word is used in relation to singing unto God. We don't see it detached from that. We don't see it detached from singing unto God. So again, drawing that conclusion that He, God, is the primary audience. We sing When we sing, when we sing as a church, we sing unto the Lord. We make music unto the Lord. The primary the primary uh audience of our music. Uh again, much of this as we we talk about and as we communicate these ideas, that revolves around the the the use of music in the church. And so when we look at that, the primary audience of our music sh is God. And when we make God our primary audience, we're putting aside the praise of men. More often than not, when we see this this idea of of praise in the scriptures or singing or music, more often it is that there's a direct connection there with that music being unto God. And so I point that out because when we look at that, and when we look at the scriptures, we have to realize that that's first and foremost, all right? An example of that that I'll give you is if you look at an orchestra, all right, uh if you look at an orchestra and you have different components of the orchestra, you have the uh you have the the woodwinds, you have strings, you have all these different elements. Uh you have brass And then you have percussion. Now, there's some people that would say, you know, like absolutely percussion drums, that's absolute absolutely, you know, wrong. There's no place for that. Now, again, there's some people that that believe that. However, percussion uh helps with a rhythm, and rhythm is kind of what moves music along. Alright, we'll get into that at a different lesson, because that's the components of music. But understand that whether wherever you land on that, whether you think that percussion is okay or whether you think that percussion is is absolutely to be banned Understand that percussion makes up a very, very small portion of the orchestra. It's minute. It's something just enough to kind of carry the music along. So taking that principle, when we look at that, we don't want to get out of balance because it's the same way. Like, yes, there's an audience of music that is directed towards man, but primarily the emphasis, the emphasis of that audience, the emphasis should be making music and making melody and singing unto God. And so yes, there's this part that's mankind, but that's a smaller percentage that is should be less emphasized. And so that's one of the takeaways that I that I hope that you understand from this. So when we look at the idea of making God the primary audience of our music, What the the the takeaway that I want you to consider, and we'll walk through this as we look at the idea of mankind, is that This music that we play, that we make, that we sing, is considered an offering unto our Creator. Because it's a reflection of him. Now we'll take those principles and we'll walk through those a little bit in the time that we have. But understanding first and foremost that the primary audience is God, help we need to make sure that we understand that All these elements that we talk about, praise, melody, worship, those are words that we use. that are directed towards God. And so we need to make sure that we keep those things in line. Now the secondary audience of music is mankind. And we we mentioned this a little bit when we talked about our uh our purposes of music because there is the passages in Ephesians and Colossians, it talks about singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Or it says Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. So that's definitely directed to God. But then it also says in those passages, in verse 19 of Ephesians 5, it says, speaking to yourselves. So there's that element that is towards people. So I've broken this down into two components. The first being believers and the second non-believers. So when you look at the secondary audience of music being mankind, I want you to consider first the believers, and then we'll talk about the non-believers. But understand that we can't get this out of balance. We c we can't make the primary audience of our music mankind. And so one of the problems that we have especially in our day, is that and I think we all can fall into this a at times, is that we have a culture that likes to be entertained. And so when we see someone that stands before us, we almost put into our mind it we translate it as I am being entertained. And that's something that you have to maybe change your mindset on Alright, here's the thing. I'll give you another example that somewhat relates to this. I try very hard to, when I read my Bible, to read it in the book. Not, you know, if you use your phone for that, then that's that's between you and the Lord. I'm not trying to criticize that, but I'm saying for me personally, I cannot use my phone regularly because when I read it through my phone, my mind just flips into this like scroll mode where I'm just it's I'm passively just kind of reading and I'm just kind of skimming And that's something that I've found that I do personally. So as much as is possible, I try to make sure that I use the the the hard copy, the book, so that I can read out of it And that's something that I do because my mind goes into that mode. And so again, because we live in a culture of entertainment, we see someone come forward and we see someone sing in front of us And we're just kind of sitting there kind of like in entertainment mode. And when we're in entertainment mode, what do we do? We clap, right? And so again, different churches are going to do things a different way. And usually normally what we do is that we normally don't necessarily clap with with the music that goes on here. And again, change your mindset. Your music is an offering. If your music is an offering Consider that. As the plate goes around, if somebody is passing the plate and handing the plate down, do we clap when they put something in the plate? That would be pretty weird, alright? That would be something different. But again, the music is an offering. It's not a performance. And the music As an offering requires a particular response. The response is reverent. The response is respect for the offering. Again, if we're looking at that as an offering, you know, if you recall in the scriptures, uh Judas was criticized for, or Judas was rebuked. for criticizing the offering of the widow. And so many times, again, if we have someone that is making an offering, whether it be through music, whether it be through singing, whether it be us singing That criticism that goes along with it, that's out of line. That's out of place. There should be no room for us criticizing the offering of another. Because again, if we're walking down and seeing the plate, we're not like Man, that guy. Like if that is going through our mind, then that's the wrong spirit. That's the wrong mindset. So we need to change our mindset that it's that that me this it's not entertainment. It's It's an offering. And if it's an offering, we should respond to it a certain way. And not necessarily praise for the offering. If music is an offering, it doesn't require acknowledgement. If music is an offering, it should be done to the best of our ability, to the best of our capacity and capability. That's music for believers. Again, the the purposes are to edify, to speak truth. There was purposes that we already discussed already as to that's the the the reason and the purpose to for music for the believers. But one thing, another element that I want to point to with the secondary audience of being uh of being mankind is that there's music as we present music for unbelievers What I want to encourage us to do is that that music should be pointing towards God's holiness. That music should be pointing towards God's creation. That music should be pointing to salvation. Those are the elements that as we present music to the lost, there should be a distinction in that. There should be something that they are and and and the words that we communicate. So as music is presented, as music is played or sung, again, the response should not just be Passive. It should be thinking on those words that are sung. As you read through the hymn book and as you you look through and you sing unto the Lord. There's a message that is carried in that song that as a group, as a body of believers, we're singing together. And I try to point it out often that, hey, we're not singing for one another, we're singing unto God And so as we think of these words and as we sing them, yes, maybe we like how they sound, or yes, maybe they give us a reminiscing uh uh a reminder of you know maybe sometimes in in your youth or something going on in your life. But more importantly, it should be a message of praise that we're communicating to God. And again, with that We shouldn't hold back. We should sing praise unto God. We should sing it heartily. And that we should do it to the best of our ability. And so how important it is for us to do that as we sing unto God. So if you can take anything away from our lesson, understand that as we looked at the history and as the audience, the music singing that we see that we participate in in in the church, music is centered around God I began with the question that that who created music? God created music. And again, he put all those things in order. For our benefit, for us to enjoy, yes, but it was mostly to use those things so that we can bring honor and glory and praise to Him And so it's our responsibility to take those things and there's many people that are gifted in in music, many people that that can uh even if you're not gifted in music that you ought to Sing praises and lift up your heart and praise to God to worship Him in that way. He's the primary audience of our music. And all this, as we look at music in the scriptures, we look at what we what we do, how we do it in the church, I want you to understand that we need to remember that it's for him. It's not for anyone else. It's for him. And that's how we should go about our our our ministry, how we should go about in in singing and praising him. And I hope that that you take that away from this morning.