Um but I d I always enjoy just sitting. Um we traveled a lot as a family and so I would just sit there and just think. Think on whether it was, you know, something from the Bible or just thinking about, you know, stuff from life. So I um it always amazed me just the mind, how how it works. Um even today, scientists are puzzled by the mind, the brain, and they can't explain how our thoughts you know, our emotions. They can't explain any of that because it's part of, I believe, of just God's being and you can't really scientifically have a scientific name for for that. So I I've always been interested in it and when Pastor gave me the chance to uh do a Sunday school lesson, well I thought, well I would like to, you know You know, this seemed like a very interesting topic. It it uh it was a topic that I had in my mind for for uh several several times just thinking about I w I would like to teach this someday, I would like to preach about this someday. And so I have the chance now to do that. And so today I'm going to be talking about a mind like Christ. Here we're going to read in our uh in the passage. Philippians chapter two, verses five, starting at verse five through eight. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now I want us to go back up to um if you can just to the beginning of the chapter, um the first the first uh two verses. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowls and mercies, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. In this passage, Paul is writing to the church at Philippi, and he's telling them the importance of having one mind, a like-mindedness. In this church I have taught I talked with Miss Mary about this the other day in the church. There are a diversity of different cultures and different people. And that's a very good thing. Because when they're all coming together, they're all coming together in Christ. We're all one in Christ. So we all have a connection in Christ. That's our foundation. I think even Pastor mentioned that a few nights ago. And that's what Paul is telling the church at Philippi. He said if if this church is going to suc to succeed, it needs to have one mind, a like-mindedness. He said, for um not only do we have a have a like-mindedness, we have to have a mind that is like Christ. As we know, the church is made up of individuals and each one is responsible for the choices they make. We each, um, though we are one church, we are each individual people and we go each day having choices and decisions that we make as a believer, as a Christian The choices that we make are dependent on the type of mind that we have. We can have a like mind in this as a church, but each of us need to make sure that we have a mind that is pleasing to God. However, Paul says in order for the church to go forward and be full of the power of God, each member needs to have a like mind. That is, the mind of Christ. So today, we're going to be going through this just this passage that we read and see, you know, just how God wants us, how he teaches us to have a mind like Christ. And I just want to first point out that it was commanded. He says in verse 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. It's a command. It's not an option, it's not, you know, this is what I would like you guys to try to do. It's not um it's not a a wish. It's not a decision, a choice. You know, you can have a mind of Christ. No, it's a command. We are to have a mind like Christ. It is required. And so today we'll see. I'm going to want to start out by just with a few with three points on how we can imitate the mind of Christ. We're going to take a look at the mind of Christ. and see what Christ how Christ's mind was and how we as Christians can apply that to our lives. So first we're going to see that he had a sacrificial mind. Sacrificial mind. In verse number six it says, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God He was God. God that came down to earth, Jesus Christ, he was God. He was He was the same person that He was in heaven, only now He was in the flesh of man. He gave he gave it all up for us. He gave everything that he had in heaven. His glory, his throne, his angels, the people, the the the songs that were sang to him day by day. He gave it all up to come to save us who don't sing praises to him day by day, who don't really sometimes uh even frank like if you're me, sometimes we don't even think about our Creator. From time to time. There are days, there are times where we, as you can see, we do things without thinking about God. But he gave all of his glory that he had in heaven to come down. And to to to save us. He found worth in us to give it all up for us. John fifteen thirteen says, Greater love has no man than this, and that he lay down his life for his friends. He s he found enough worth in us to come down and sacrifice and give it all what all the glory that he had in heaven for us And that's what I one of the parts of the mind that I want to see in Christ. He gave it all up because he found a worth in us. He found us worthy to come down and give his life for us. And Mm like for me that's it's uh it's pretty humbling because uh we I know how I am, I know how weak we are. We make mistakes day by day. We disappoint God and we grieve God and many times on how we act and how we we say, how we talk. And decisions that we make. But he still, knowing that, came down and found us worth dying for. He sacrificed it all, he gave it all just for us. He suffered for us. It was part of his sacrifice. He gave his own body. He was beaten. As I said, he came down, he was God, but he still felt the pain as they beat beat him He still felt the stripes on his back, he still felt the crown of thorns being slammed into his head. He was he it was just a the sacrificial mind of willing to give up everything, anything for the will of his Heavenly Father. He wanted to do anything Yeah. For him. His father was his most important thing in his life and he was willing to do anything for his father to please his father and to save us and to reconcile us to himself. And that that's one of the minds I it's very important mind, especially if to be a Christian, to have a mind like Christ, you have to we have to be willing to sacrifice. Um m m you know, I grew up on the mission field. My parents are missionaries. My dad, he gave up life in the United States. Um many I was talking uh I enjoy talking with a lot of people who come to the United States and are immigrants. And I just like to hear why they came. Because apparently there's people here in the United States that don't want to be here because they complain about it all the time. And so I'm like, why are you coming here? I mean everybody's reminding us how t how terrible, how horrible of a place this is. Why do you want to come? And some people, oh, economically the United States is very doing is an economical place for us. We can start a business here and really grow economically. Other people, um, socially, other people, you know, religiously. We get to Worship God as we please. We get or other people just they get to be have a human human rights, just to experience human rights. They said and as a missionary, my dad, he gave that all up. To go to a place where he didn't know the language, he didn't know the people, he didn't know the culture, but he decided to do that for His love for God. He gave it all up. He sacrificed it all. Because he found worth in the people there in Mexico. He knew that their souls needed to be saved. Well, as last week we learned about Barnabas. He sold everything he had for the cause of Christ He gave it all up, gave all his land up, and decided to have really no home, just travel from city to city preaching God's word. A sacrificial mind is a mind is a part of the mind of Christ. Not only a sacrificial mind, but we also see in this in this um in this in this uh text he had a servant's mind. In verse 7, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. He gave him he he gave him he gave up he made himself of no reputation. He gave up of himself. He gave up of his power. He gave up his glory. In a for in a way he restrained he didn't use his deity for himself when he was here on earth. He could have. He could have um when John James and John wanted to burn down the you know, strike bring fire down from heaven to burn those people who um rejected him, he could have done it But he chose not to. As they were beating him, he could have brought his legion of angels to protect him. But he didn't. He could have changed Pilate's mind to free him, but he didn't. He could have he could have he could have. He could have done so much. But he didn't. He gave he gave he what he what he considers himself he didn't consider himself He he stopped thinking about himself and thought about others. That's the mind of a servant. They stopped thinking of themselves, they stopped considering How they can be pleased, how one can can can be pleased, how one can be satisfied, what can I get for myself, what can others people get for me? And decided I'm thinking and the servant will say, I reject myself, and I'm willing to humble myself and do what others are not willing to do. God not only he gave up on himself, he he like I said, he felt what we feel, the pain that we feel as we were working on Pastor Derek's house. Throughout the day, you would just hear somebody scream, OW! Somebody would hit their hit the hammer on the nail, but the wrong nail. The fingernail. And you could hear it. It was painful. God felt that pain too. Jesus felt that pain when he was on earth. You know his father was a carpenter. I'm sure many times he cut himself when he was if especially if he shaves wood like I do. If he shows what like I do, he's cut himself probably a lot of times. He felt that pain. That same pain that we feel. He felt it. Not just that physical pain, but the inner pain. The grief, the loneliness of when his disciples left them in the garden. He felt that loneliness, that pain. He was but he gave it he he was willing to take it because he thought less of himself and did it for the cross. He became a servant. He had a servant's mind. Matthew 20, 28 says, Even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. He he th the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the God of the universe, the creator of all, came down to minister. Us. I find that unbelievable. I just f I I it astounds me. It shocks me that he would want to do he would want to minister us But he did. And that's the kind of mind that we need to have. We need to be submitted to the will of our master as he was. He he came to minister. Even if his will of his man of his father was to minister to us, us lowly people, he did it. He healed the sick. He washed his disciples' feet. He taught those who came to listen even though he was tired. I think of the story of of the um Samaritan woman by the well. He was taught he was tired as he sat there on the well. And as the woman went into the town to grab all of her friends, all of everybody she knew, everybody she could to come out and hear him preach. And the disciples were coming with with lunch. The best part of the day, lunch, lunchtime. That's the part we always look for here in uh Hump Valley. Lunchtime. But that's this is a time where he gets to refresh himself physically. But yet he he he he put away that time. Because of the need of the people that were there to minister to those people in that town of Samar Samaria. He had a servant's mind. He rejected himself in order to save us. He became a servant. This I I like to uh think just this last week we've been doing a lot of work on Just not just preparing for a BBS. Yesterday was a good ex was just a good example. Using that time, Friday g Friday and yesterday. Using that time that we could spend on our own, maybe have even family time. But we sacrificed that time and we decided to become a servant and we came and we set up a tent. We got things prepared for VBS. And that's going to be going on for this next week too. But it's it's all part of having a mind of Christ. Learning to serve. Maybe not doing the important things like Jesus, you know, preaching to thousands. But maybe just doing the small things like giving the bread and fishes like the disciples. Becoming a servant. A servant's mind is the mind like Christ. So not only we see a sacrifice that Christ, a mind of like Christ is not just sacrificial and giving everything, it's also giving, just rejecting of oneself and becoming a servant. a sir having a servant's mind, we also see thirdly that he had a strong mind. A strong mind. The mind of Christ is a mind of strength. As we see in this passage, verse 8, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. He endured the cross for our salvation. He he fulfilled He did everything on earth for the cross and he endured it. The Bible says he did it with joy. Hebrews 12 2 says For the joy that was set before him, he endured this cross, despising the shame. He did it with joy, as they were as he was carrying that cross up to Calvary. He wasn't thinking, ho home, oh myself, I'm no. He was doing it with joy. There was a joy in inside of him as he was suffering. And I know it is it's that's a and that's a quality of the Christ of a Christ like mind. There's joy and suffering for Christ. There is a joy that people that can experience in regular suffering outside. You go to a you know you go to anybody and say, Hey, do you enjoy it you know when you're suffering, do you enjoy No, they don't. They're not they're not gonna tell you yes. But it's a it's a quality of Christ and it starts in the mind having a strong mind, willing to endure. He suffer his su and this is how he was able to and to have that joy. He was focused on the end and not the means. Isaiah 53, 11 says, He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servants justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. That's saying is that he was able to bear all that at Calvary. He was able to bear all that shame. He was able to bear all that pain for the end. And that end is all the saves, all the Christians that are alive today and that will become Christians in the future. He saw that at the end of the of the at the end of the tunnel, Jesus could see all the saved and he said, that's it's worth sacrificing for. It's worth enduring this pain. It's part of a str it's a strong mind. to to go through suffering for the for for for for others. We must be willing to endure some things for the cause of Christ. As a Christian, it's just it's this world does not like Christians. The world does not like Christians, Satan does not like Christians. As we can tell, there's a big there's a movement against Christianity. uh here in the States, it's bigger in other countries. But they're against everything that we believe in. We can see we're getting attacked on every front. Because there is the hatred and I believe in a few in many in a few years, if this keeps on going down down the same pattern, down the same road, there will be suffering for the Christians. Physical. Um it could happen. It ha it's happening in parts of the world where the Christians are physically suffering for Christ. But yet they stay there. I always think if God called me to Iraq, would I go? I don't really want to be called Iraq. Because most Christians mo or Nigeria. Because those are h those are, you know, war zones. Those are places where Christians are murdered, they're killed, they're hunted. But there are Christians there. We do not hear about them, maybe. But there are Christians there. Why are they still there? There's a joy and suffering. They see the end. They see the end of of of a nation, of a people that were enslaved by Satan and the lies that he's had them blinded. And they see that Christ is the way for them and th they they see as Christ saw, as he saw as he was on the cross, he saw the salvation of the world. And that's what missionaries, that's what people s that's what these people, I believe, people see when they go to these countries and are suffering for Christ. They see the salvation of those people, of the people that they're working with. And seeing their salvation that just gives them the endurance to keep on going for Christ. It says having it's part of having a strong mind, and that is the mutt part of the mind of Christ. Not only did he endure the cross, not only as a strong mind, endurance, the endurance of our Savior, a part of the mind of Christ, but also the obedience. He was obedient to the death. It was a strong he he he had no second thoughts. He didn't think, oh, you know, maybe I got myself in a bad jam, I can back up now. No. He went through with it. He stayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. He let them bound bind him He fulfilled the promises, the prophecies. He submitted to God's will. He even rejected Satan's alternate plan Satan said, You can have all the kingdoms of the earth. You can have it all. I'll give it to you all. He could have saved we could have all you know we could have all been under the kingdom of God. But he rejected that. Because he is the king. And he wasn't you know, he wasn't gonna bow down to Satan, but he rejected all that to become obedient even to the death. He battled many strength he battled many um battles in his mind. As we see in the Garden of Gethsemane, it was a big battle for him there as he was praying. to to to God and he said if this cup pass from me but at the end he said it's your will God's will and not mine your will be done And we see that he became obedient up to the point where he said it is finished, and he paid the price for our sins. But he endured it. Because he had a strong mind. He was obedient to the death. Because he had a strong mind. And that was a part of the mind of Christ. So I don't know I don't I know every day we're gonna be battling where there's gonna be high days and low days for us. As a Christian, we each individually have have that. There are times where we are excited for Christ and there are times where the devil will bring something to discourage us. But it's during that time that w as we see as Christ did, That when that time comes we go to our Heavenly Father and we can endure it by looking at the end, the end result of of what is of the suffering So I may em I may be a little short, but this this is what God just wanted me to give today. Just having that mind of Christ. Do you have that mind of Christ? Is it a sacrificial mind? Giving up anything that God would ask, giving up everything. I there is a story of a missionary that I read this last uh this last semester in school, William William Borden. A millionaire. He was a millionaire. And America he lived in America, was a millionaire, had everything he could in life. But he went to the ministry. He went to he went to school to study to become a missionary in Egypt. He went to Egypt a few months later, he died. But while he was in the United States, what he gave up as a millionaire. He w because he was able to give up all of that, he was able to reach hundreds and thousands, thousands of young um Americans, young men and women, and and just Touch their hearts. God used them so that He would touch the lives of thousands of young people to give themselves over to the ministry, to give themselves to full time in the ministry. And he gave up he gave up that lavish, high life in order for in order to please God. He had a sacrificial mind. And also another part of that we saw of the mind of Christ is a strong mind. Willing to endure all for the end product. Sorry, servant's mind. I skipped one. He had a servant's mind. Giving up of oneself in order to serve others. and becoming a servant, doing the small things. Another part of the last part that we went with strong mind. Just willing to endure the suffering for the joy of the salvation of others. And being upcoming obedient to the will of God. to the end. Those are the attributes of the Christ mind. I hope that this gives you some help just um in how your mind, if your mind or I know or your mind can the sorry. If your mind needs to be if it's Christ-like, if it's a mind like Christ, I hope that can help you in just some areas if if you if you're um If you're wanting that. I know for me I I enjoyed studying this and it's as I said, I I like to think. I like to think how my mind is and you know, in this world I can f you can fill your mind with a lot of junk and with a lot of emptiness, but with the mind of Christ. God can use that and use it in a great way and thus these are just some areas and how we can have the mind of Christ