Turn your Bibles this evening to the Word of God, amen. I'm just trying to decide where to have you go because we're we're going to see a lot of scripture tonight. Why don't we turn to uh the text, the text verse, 2 Peter chapter 1, verse number 19 Loyola Jones and Bill Eddy, they uh were they they wrote a book called Laughter in the Appalachians. They tell a story in that book of a country preacher who announced that he was going to preach on Noah and the Ark. And he announced to his congregation the text in which he would be preaching from the very next Sunday. And he encouraged them. To go home and to read that text and come back prepared and ready to hear a message from the Word of God via that text next Sunday And a couple of mean-spirited young boys happened to be observing the text and they were looking at it, and they noticed something peculiar about the location. of the text where he was going to be preaching on that great story of Noah. Due to the peculiar nature of the location of the text and how it was laid out in the Bible, they thought to themselves and they conspired together to sneak into the church during the middle of the week. They took the pastor's Bible and they glued together two pages. The following week, when the pastor got up and began his message and laid the foundation so beautifully, prepared the audience for the Word of God, and he began to read. And he said, Noah took himself a wife. And he turned the page. And he said, and she was 300 cubits long, 50 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high. After reading that, he paused. He said, You know, I've been reading this book for nigh under 50 years. I'm not sure I ever saw that before. He said there's some things that are hard to believe in the Word of God, aren't there? There is some things that are hard to believe, but beloved, they are the Word of God. And I guess tonight I just want to encourage you with regards to the fact that we hold in our hands the very Word of God And just remind you about this book that we have the privilege of reading and studying. We see in our text this evening, 2 Peter 1 and verse number 19. We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. until the day dawn and the day star arise in your hearts. We have also a more sure word. I'm going to preach tonight on a more sure word. I was reminded of the first time I spoke from this text, just about a month and a half ago or so when I went to Indiana, I think Brother Schrock got up. And uh he told all the kids in chapel a little story about when we went to Israel and uh we were in Israel and they asked us before we left, is there anybody that would like to preach? There was probably 20 preachers on this trip and many of them with many more years experience than me, and I certainly Would not have stuck my name in the hat. I don't feel worthy to, but they specifically asked me. They said, Would you like to preach? And I said, Well, I'm not going to turn down an opportunity to preach in the Holy Land, for sure. So I mean uh obviously there's much more capable, skilled men, so I was not asking to, but if you would like me to, I would be honored to. And they said, well, we want you to preach. And uh so I had the privilege of preaching in the Holy Land right next to the Sea of Galilee. And we had spent the whole week, we saw over a hundred historical sites, and We saw places where David fought Goliath and where he ran and hid in the caves from Saul, and we saw where Gideon uh men knelt down and and some lapped up the water like a dog and others reached and grabbed for it. We saw uh the Mount Carmel where uh the prophets of Baal were and we saw just over a hundred uh historical biblical sites and it was amazing to see those things. I remember before we went to Israel I was talking about going and Somebody uh around here, uh they came to me and they said to me, man, the Israel, I remember when I took that trip to Israel and it changed my life. to be there and to see the places where Jesus walked and where Peter was and where all the Bible stories, it was so miraculous to be there and see those things. Well, at that time this person who was talking to me about their life having been changed by being in Israel, they weren't faithful to church then, and now they're out of church altogether. Uh so I'm not so sure how much being in Israel changed their life. But I'm telling you is that I was there and I got to see See all those things, but beloved, I don't believe the stories that are found on the pages of Scripture because I was in Israel and I saw the location. I believe the Word of God because God has said it and I believe it. My belief was settled a long time before I went to Israel. And seeing those historical sites, although it was amazing and I love it when I'm reading the scriptures to know that I've been there and sometimes I can picture them in my mind. It's an amazing thing to actually have been in those locations, but I believe the word of God whether I've seen them or not And if you ever get to take a trip to Israel, let me give you one piece of advice that I would do if I had it to do over again. I would take my Bible with me to each location and I would mark in my Bible that I was here. I was here because there's a lot of times now reading passages of scripture, I can't remember if I was there or not. And so I wish I had it notated in my Bible. Because then I would know, well that means I've got pictures. That means I can go back and review that and uh so that would might help you if you ever get to go to Israel, take your Bible and make no But there are on the pages of Scripture some things that might be hard to believe, but we believe them because they are the very Word of God. Listen, everyone can't go to Israel. Everyone can't observe those places where Jesus walked or where Paul preached or where Stephen was stoned. But we believe them because we have the Word of God. It's a sad thing that in today's world there really is a famine for the Word of God. So many people don't know the scriptures at all. One Sunday school teacher was teaching her kids a class, and she asked of them, Do you know who it was that defeated the Philistines? One of the boys in the back said, Well, I'm not sure. Are they in the American League or the National League? That's the level of people's exposure to the Word of God today. People don't know the book. And let me encourage you tonight that we as God's people need to know the book. We need to spend time in the Word of God. And my desire tonight is just to exhort and encourage you to Realize what you have to value it and to protect it. This is the Word of God. And we are at this church a King James Bible church. We believe in using, preaching, and teaching the King James Version. Is there enough scripture in some other version to lead somebody to Christ? I believe there is, because God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But can I tell you that this is the book that God has used for generations to reach the world? And uh it's uncorrupted and I would stick to it. This is under attack today. Uh even in good churches, churches that don't want to stand by the King James Bible. They want to say, well, any version's okay. You can just read whatever you want. We've spent time and we've taught on this and and we took an entire summer. We have the book available and you can go to sermon audio and listen to them if you're wondering about it. There's a lot of stuff available to you with regards to why we stand on the King James Bible. But uh I want you to know that at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we do. And this is the word of God. Let me give you a couple of things tonight. First of all, the Bible is God's word to man. It is God's word. It's not just a good book. It's not just a book that was gathered and put together that has some great principles. What is the guy that wrote the uh the little parabolic stories? Is it Bennett? The little stories, the the goods the humorous not the not humorous, but they're the Was it Bennett? Was that's his last name that he wrote? What's the what was the book he wrote? I put you guys all on the spot and none of you are helping me. He wrote that little it's like children's parables that teach principles. You know, it's a little The Book of Virtues, I don't know. Whatever you guys want to call it. That's what I'm getting to. I want you to understand this is it what this is what's important. Who cares who wrote whatever book, right? Matthew 4, 4, he says, But he answered and he said, It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Second Timothy three sixteen, all scriptures given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness Second Peter two one twenty-one for the prophecies came not in time old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. Can I tell you this is a miraculous book The Word of God, this book that we hold in our hand, it is a miraculous book. There's so many things that we could give you with regards to how miraculous this book is, but let me give you one tidbit, one little picture into this. Do you know that Psalms 118 is the middle chapter of the Word of God? That's the very middle chapter. And Psalms 117 is the shortest chapter in the Bible. Psalms 119 is the longest chapter in the Bible. Now if you take all the chapters before 118 and add them to all the chapters after 118, take leap keeping that middle chapter out You have 1,188 chapters. Do you know that Psalms 118, verse 8 is the middle verse in the Bible? It's just a small thing. It's not Bible, but it's just a small thing that gives you a glimpse of how miraculous there is. There's things like this over and over and over again on the pages of scripture that tell us this is not something that could have been put together by man. This was something that was put together by God and he gave it to us for our admonition. Psalms 118, verse number 8, that middle verse in all of the Bible is it is better to trust the Lord than to put confidence in man. It's better to trust the Word of God than it is to trust the man. Do you know that there has been over 25,000 historical and uh scientifical uh and textual facts that have been found out and proven to line up consistent with the word of God There's been people that have said, oh, this is wrong, it doesn't line up, the scripture says this and it's different. And then they'll have another archaeological dig that will end up proving exactly what the Bible said. Over 25,000 of them thus far in history that history, archaeology, time, science has continually proved the Word of God to be proved proven as accurate, even though it was uh written so many thousands of years ago by so many different people over such a great amount of time It is the Word of God. This is a miraculous book. It's a powerful book. This book has the power to save, according to John 1. 21. It has the power to not return void. You can't say that about any other book that you might pick up and spend some time reading. It will accomplish its purpose, Isaiah 55, 10 and 11 tells us. It is a powerful book. It is described as a hammer and as a fire. Beloved, this Word of God has the ability to break up the most hardened hearts that are available. It has the ability to melt the even the coldest, the most uh frozen heart that is out there, this fire of the Word of God. If we would just get into it. when Daniel Webster, that nineteenth century statem, uh was just a boy. He was reading and he was always desirous to learn and to know more. And the only book that he had available to him at that time was the Word of God. It was late at night and he was in bed, and of course at that time the only capacity means of light they had was candles, and he was in his bed and he was reading the Word of God. And he inadvertently caught his bed on fire. And uh when they came in and put the fire out, they said, What were you doing? And he said, Well I was searching for some light, but I got a lot more than I was asking for That's the thing. The Word of God has light in it, and it's there, and it's available to anybody that would take time because it's a powerful book. The Word of God is a sword. Hebrews 4. 12 tells us For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and the joints and morrow and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. Beloved You know, the Bible tells us we can't even know our own hearts. And yet the Word of God can discern our heart. The Word of God can reveal our heart. The Word of God can instruct our hearts. This powerful book that we have. This is a Bible that God gave us. It is his word to man. I would encourage you to value it, to protect it. I want you to see secondly tonight that the Bible really is our source of faith. The Bible tells us in Romans 10:17: so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. If you wonder about yourself and say, I don't have enough faith, we need to spend more time in the Bible. Because that's where our faith is going to come from. That's where faith is going to grow as we are in the Word of God. This source of our faith, beloved, this Bible, this book, it's able to convict the heart It's able to convert the soul. It's able to conquer the will, and it is able to capture the mind, the word of God. This book produces life because it is alive. It produces life. It is the only book in all of the world that can do that, but John 6. 63 says, the words which I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life. It is the word of God that brings men to the knowledge of salvation where they can repent and have new life in Jesus Christ. These words on these pages, they bring life, they are life. Peter tells us that it lives and abides forever in 1 Peter 1:23 through 25. Isaiah tells us that this book that lives will endure forever, Isaiah 40, verse 8. Jesus said himself, my word shall never pass away. Matthew 24, verse 35. This book produces life, and it should be central to our life The Word of God should be central to the believer. It should be something not just that we value as something that's precious and you you set it on a shelf and you look at it like a fine piece of art, but something that you value because it impacts your life on a day-to-day basis. It's something that has changed you from the inside out. It ought to be central to your heart. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God. Do you have God's word central to your heart? It ought to be central to your home. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 7 says, Thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Teaching this, the word of God ought to be central to our home. It ought to be central to your hand, beloved. We are to be doers of the word, not just hearers only. But to be doers of the word. It ought to be central to our hand and to our life, how we're living and what we're doing on our day-to-day basis. This book, Beloved, it produces life. It also promotes growth. 1 Peter 2. 21 says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that they may grow thereby. The word of God promotes growth. It is, in fact, the only path to maturity. The Word of God is the only path to maturity. This book, outside of that, somebody may be saved for 25 or 30 years, but still be a baby Christian. Why? Because they've neglected the path to maturity And that is to be in the Word of God. That's one of the reasons why the discipleship ministry of Hunt Valley Baptist Church is so vital to our church because it brings people back to studying the Word of God on a one-on-one basis where they're looking at the book and they're growing because they're in the book. That's what we need to be doing. I would say that that ministry is probably one of the most valuable ministries that we have as a church It goes to the heartbeat of what the church is supposed to be doing. Yes, I know that we are supposed to be winning the loss, but I think in some respects churches have They they have completely neglected both sides of this, and here's what I'm saying. I think churches have decided that the church house is for winning the lost. And what I mean by that is they think that they've got to get lots of people to church and, hey, we want to, and then they get saved here. But you know if you look in the Bible, people were saved out there. And they were brought to the church to be discipled to be trained, to become servants and to be prepared and ready to go out there and win some more people to Christ. and bring them to the church. Now, hey, it's a wonderful opportunity if we get somebody lost here to present them the gospel, but that is not the sole mission of the services of the church. The services of the church are to disciple the saved, to teach us how we should behave ourselves in the house of the Lord, to teach us how to live and to walk as Christians, teach us how to go out and to win the lost. We're supposed to be winning the lost and bringing them to church, and then the church is supposed to be discipling them, and that's what we want to be doing as a church It promotes growth as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that they may grow thereby. This book it provides cleansing, beloved. John 15, verse number three. Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way, take heed thereunto according to thy word. I remember Some years ago I and I've told you this before, I know a few of you will remember it because you've commented to me about it, but I remember hearing Dr. David Gibbs preach and he was talking about many, many years ago because he was with I believe it was Lester Roloff and they were supposed to go to court in the morning and he was David Gibbs was looking over his notes and and preparing, you know, and and uh he said, Lester Roloff pulls me over and says, I want you to come over to my room. He says my his room, hotel room, is next to mine. We came over into his room and and uh he he went over into one corner of the room and he says, I want you to to get down in that corner and he's like, you know, Brother Roloff, I need to look over my notes. He said, You need to do this more And he said, I want you to get down in that corner of the room and you're going to pray and you're going to talk to God. He said, I want you to get clean. He says, I'm gonna get down here in this corner of the room and and and I'm gonna get clean. He said, we prayed for a while and David Gibbs, in the way only way he tells stories, you know, he turns a five-minute story into 25 minutes. And uh he's talking about how he uh you know he's looking over and Lester Roloff is just still praying, just still praying. He said, finally, Lesser Olaf lifted up his head and he looked over at me and he says, Are you clean? He says, I don't mean, did you did you wash your hands? I'm saying, are you clean? Are you clean? Are you clean every whit? Every single part of your life. Is there anything left that you need to confess? He says, We're going into court tomorrow and we need God on our side. He says, David, are you clean? Beloved, we're washed through this word and we need to be Christians that are continually getting before God and bathing ourselves in this precious word of God that convicts the hearts that we might confess our sin and be clean before a holy God. The Bible is our path to maturity. 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17. He says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect. You know, that is complete, that is mature. It's what that word means. Perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Oh, I know Paul was instructing this young man, Timothy, who was serving in the capacity of a pastor, and so some people would look at this text and say, well, that's uh for the pastor, but let me ask you, are you a man of God? Are you a woman of God? And I believe it's applicable to all of us that we be mature. Without the word of God, we will not be thoroughly furnished. God's word, beloved, demands our attention. It demands our attention in Proverbs 4, verses 20 and 22. He says, My son, attend unto my words. Does the word of God grab your attention? I was just telling Brother Sarah before that we started tonight that I feel privileged and honored to be able to give my life to studying the Word of God, to be to t to to be able to take the this message on these pages and share it with God's people. What a privilege that is. Just studying the word, does it capture your mind? Does it capture your attention? Or do you read it just to get your two chapters or three chapters done and I did my duty for the day? It demands our attention. He says, Attend unto my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them in the midst of thine heart. For they are life unto those that find them and health to all their flesh. The words of God demand our attention. The words of God demand our retention. Are you memorizing anything in the book right now? You got any passage of scripture that you're working on that you've looked at and I know last year we had quite a focus on memorization for a while. Has the memorization faded away? The scripture, the verses that you had memorized, are they still in your heart and mind. Have you reviewed those flashcards or that app for a while? It demands our attention our retention. Psalms 119-11, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. We ought to be retaining the Word of God, putting this into our heart, that God could bring it back. I wonder how much of the Bible would we have if They took away the Word of God today. We've recently just finished reading a book about a girl in communist uh Poland. Romania, sorry, in Romania, and just the the the battle to sneak in Bibles, the life-threatening situations they were in, just to try and get a copy of the Word of God. One copy that they had to share and pass between people and afraid if they were carrying it and walking down the street to give it to somebody else or hiding the Bibles in locations and being caught and arrested and imprisoned for months and months because they had a copy of the Word of God. How much of the Word of God would we have in our heart if they took it away from us today? I know we have it everywhere, available, but are you putting it in your heart? The Word of God demands reflection. Psalms 1 verse 2 says, But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. Does he meditate day and night? Just reflecting on the Word of God. I know we've all had conversations like this, and I have I have just the same. You know I sit and listen to somebody like Brother Mike Bagwell preach. And I'm like, my soul, I might as well just give up. I might as well I don't know why I'm preaching. I mean you hear some guys preach the word of God and you look and you think How in the world did they get all of that out of that one text? Like I've read that text ten times and I never saw half of that stuff. How did they do that? Reflection Time, time sitting, pondering, musing upon that text where God just takes it and runs it through their heart and mind over and over and over again until thoughts develop and it becomes richer and richer and more and more powerful. And it it is not outside of the grasp of any one of us That would want to take some time and reflect on this amazing book. Joshua 1. 8, this book of the law shall not depart out of my mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, that thou shalt Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous and thou shalt have good success. Beloved, we're talking about the privilege it's ours to have a more sure word. The Word of God demands subjection. It demands obedience. This is the words of God. This is his commandments. I read this week about somebody that was sending the word of God through the regular U. S. Postal Service. They said the Postal Service has gotten so bad by the time it got there, four of the Ten Commandments were broken. Some of you will get that later. But we shouldn't be breaking the commandments. It demands subjection. It's not just for us to take and leave whatever we want and oh we love the part, my God shall supply all your needs. Amen. Oh, we love the part that the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. We love those verses, but the ones that demand and call for holiness, I don't know how important that is. Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. James 1. 22 Not only does the Word of God demand subjection, but it demands projection. It is our privilege to read and to gain knowledge, to soak this up so that it impacts and changes our life. But do you understand that ultimately is so that we can tell somebody else? The word of God demands projection. Or we could say proclamation. Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel. What we have the privilege of hearing is not just for us to soak it up, but it's for us to grow thereby, but that we may give it to somebody else. Are we are you using what God has given you to impact somebody else? The exciting thing about the discipleship ministry is the the goal, the ambition is that when you have successfully gone through discipleship, you'll reach the point where you will go get somebody and disciple them. Where you can take what you've learned and share it with the next person. The same commit thou to faithful men. That's what we're supposed to be doing. The Word of God demands projection. Would you turn in your Bibles? I'm going to bring this to a close, but turn to Psalms 19. Just familiar verses. But I just couldn't think of any more powerful way to just close this down and to just remind us of these truths. Psalms nineteen and I think let's begin in verse number seven. Just gonna read down through verse number eleven, and we're gonna bring the message to a close. The law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The testimonies of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statues of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart The commandments of the Lord is fear, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. Lord, we thank you for the privilege that's ours to gather in your house and the privilege it was mine tonight to preach this amazing book I pray, God, that we wouldn't take the pages of Scripture for granted, but that we would read them realizing that they are quick and powerful, that Lord, it is a book that is alive and Although sometimes we don't feel the power, sometimes we don't see the change, that Lord, it is in fact fulfilling its purpose in our life. You promised that it would not return void. I pray, God, we would have a renewed dedication and commitment to this precious book and allow it to impact us day by day. Be with this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.