This morning we're going to talk a little bit about Jesus, the reason for the season. We see in Matthew chapter one and verse number twenty-one For he has given his name. In Matthew chapter 1, verse number 21, he says, And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. Can we pray together? Lord, we come to you now, and as we turn our hearts and minds heavenward, and we look into the pages of Scripture, we ask that you would Bring the Word of God alive to us that you would speak to our very hearts, that you would remind us Of who this individual was, the Son of God who was made flesh and dwelt among us, whose name was Jesus. Lord, I pray that As Christmas season tends to be so busy and our days are full and all the things we want to accomplish and the people we need to connect with and the gifts we need to buy and the appointments we have to make, Lord, I pray that we would take time to pause and praise you and thank you for your Son, named Jesus. Would you have blessed this service this morning? We ask this here in Jesus' name. Amen. Christmas is called many different things. Round the world there's other countries that have other names, some of them meaning the same thing but in their own language or tongue and Some of them just the Christmas season referred to by other things like Noel or Navidad. Some, even here, and a lot of times more likely today in the world in which we live, people just call it the holidays. But it's Christmas. It's Christmas. For without Christ there would be no Christmas. When you take Christ out of Christmas, there is no Christmas. There is no reason for it. I'm I I know that uh the stores All would love to have the season without that or regardless, but outside of Jesus there is no reason for the season. There are many names for Jesus in the Word of God. In Isaiah chapter 7, verse number 14, he says, Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign, behold, a virge and shall conceive and bear a son, and now his name shall be Emmanuel. In Isaiah chapter 9 and verse number 6, those familiar verses, for unto us a child is born, and unto us the son is given. The government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Billy Sunday walked through the pages of scripture and counted every single reference to Jesus Christ in a in a the titles that he was given, the names that Jesus was given. He said that there was 256 of them in the pages of Scripture. Some of you today would call him friend. Amen. We refer to him as Father. We call him Lord. We call him Savior. We call him God. We call him good. There are so many names, and each one of his names gives to us a meaning and holds significance in our lives as we contemplate and think about this man named Jesus. But of all the names that are found in the pages of Scripture, and all the references that we in our hearts or in our minds may want to call Him in appreciation for who He is to us. There is one name that's above every name. And that is the name Jesus. Look in Philippians chapter 2 with me if you have that in your Bible, Philippians chapter 2, beginning in verse number 9. We're just going to read a couple of verses. A lot more to this passage of scripture that we could reference, but we just see here, he says, wherefore God also hath highly exalted him. And given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth, and things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Beloved, there is a name that is above every name. It is the name of Jesus. That name is above every name that we may have here on earth. There have been some great men that have occupied space here on earth. You can think back in your heart and mind to men that you would call great, some would call D. L. Moody a great man. He himself would probably not appreciate that in his humility, but God used him in a mighty way. George Washington and others of our founding fathers, C. H. Spurgeon, the the prince of sp of preachers uh that you know just impacted the world and today is still read after and The Word of God is made alive through His recorded and written-down messages. But there's a name that's above all those names. Jesus. Throughout the pages of Scripture, there are many people that hold significance for us. There are many names that we think of and God has used their story and their message to challenge our lives and maybe to motivate us to go on for God. And they they they've stirred us and You think about some of those men like Enoch who walked with God and was not for God took them. You think of Moses who gave us the law, or you think about David David, that man after God's own heart and how he did falter and fail and fell into sin, yet he came back to God and repented. And how many of us, our hearts, have been stirred by the stories of David? From the time we're a little child until today, still we're moved as we contemplate and think about this man named David. But there's a name that's above every name. It's the name of Jesus. Boy, they sang the songs about David. That's kind of what got Saul a little mad at them as they were singing songs about David. But beloved, there has not been one name in history in which there have been more songs written than the name of Jesus. In our songbook, there's an excess of 50 songs that have the name of Jesus in them, in their titles. Songs we sing or think about. Jesus is the sweetest name I know. And he's just the same as his lovely name. And that's the reason why I love him so old. Jesus is the sweetest name I know. Take the name of Jesus with you, child of sorrow and of woe. It will joy and comfort keep you. Take it then wherever you go. Jesus. Beloved, I have seen with just the name of Jesus, I have seen the lost given light. I've been able to be by the bedside of somebody who is suffering and at the name of Jesus see them given strength I have seen the perishing be given peace because somebody quoted scripture containing the name of Jesus. Oh, it's just the whisper of this name. Why is this name so special? Because it's a name above every name. Because it's a name that is almighty in its power and its scope. The angel of the Lord said in Luke chapter 2, verses 10 and 11, he said, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. It's an almighty name. A name that means, literally means Savior, Jesus. There's no other name in all of history or even in the pages of Scripture that can do what the name of Jesus can do. Acts chapter 4 and verse number 12 says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. There has been a lot of great men throughout history and a lot of great men in the pages of Scripture, but not one of them can do what the name of Jesus can do. For there is no other name given among men whereby ye must be saved. Understand, your faith and trust is put into the one man named Jesus Who was God in the flesh? Why? A verse we read there in Matthew that we began with tells us what he came for, and he shall bring forth the Son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for what? He shall save. His people from their sins. Oh, the power of that name, the Almighty name, to be able to save people from their sins. Beloved, he came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to bring the lost back into fellowship with him to provide forgiveness for them that their souls might be saved. Boy. You see, beloved, he did not come to save men from being sinners. He came to save men from their sin. We are still sinners. But I'm glad today that I am forgiven for my sin. And I can proclaim that I am forgiven. Why? Is that so? Why can I have that assurance? Because I have the promise. of the word of God on it. That God will forgive the repentant heart that comes to him. Because why? Because Jesus was a babe that was born in a manger and then Lived a sinless life and gave himself a sacrifice on an old rugged cross for you and I. You say, are you getting it? The reason for Christmas is not trains and tinsel. It's not gifts. It's not even food and family. These are all things that are fun and things that we enjoy, but we must purpose in our heart to keep the focus on what the the the season is about and it is literally about salvation. About a man named Jesus who came and gave himself, and we celebrate his birth, his birth at the in the manger there, and we celebrate it at Christmas Just to pause and remember the gift of God's Son for you and I. But why did he come? He came to bring salvation. Jesus is the only reason for Christmas. Boy, it's a powerful name. It's the name through which salvation is brought. Jesus is the name through which prayers are answered. Jesus is the name through which sins are forgiven. At the name of Jesus every knee shall bow. And at the name of Jesus the wicked are made righteous. At the name of Jesus Satan trembles and demons flee At the name of Jesus, there is no other name with that kind of power. All hail the power of Jesus' name Let angels prostrate fall, bring forth the royal diadem, and crown him Lord of all. You guys know I like singing. It's hard for me not just to sing those, just to sing it out, you know I want you to know that you guys are gonna laugh at this one, but give me a second. His name is August. You say, what? His name is August? Like, what? You see, I know that that's a month of the year. But you might not know is what August actually means See, August actually means awe-inspiring. It means majestic. It means noble, venerable. His name is awe-inspiring. Wherefore, God also hath highly exalted him Beloved, God exalted him, and you and I should exalt him. We should be lifting up the name of Jesus It should motivate us. We should recognize the majesty of it. It is truly an awe-inspiring name. Somebody many years ago, far more eloquent than I said that to the artist he is altogether lovely. To the architect, he is the chief cornerstone. To the astronomer, he is the son of righteousness. To the baker, he's the living bread. Banker, he is hidden treasure. To the biologist, he is life itself. To the carpenter, he is the sure foundation. To the doctor, he is the great physician. To the educator, he is the great teacher, and the farmer, he is the sower, the lord of the harvest. To the florist, he is the lily of the valley and the rose of Sharon, and to the geologist, he is the rock of ages To the horticulturist he is the true vine, and to the judge he is the righteous and holy judge. To the juror he is a true witness. To the jeweler he is the pearl of great price Oh, to the editor, he is the good tidings of great joy, and to the occultist, he is the light of our eyes. Hey, to the philosopher, he is the wisdom of God, and to the printer, he is the true type. To the servant, he is the good master. To the student, he is the incarnate truth And to the toiler he is the one who gives beloved rest. The name of Jesus. This one whom should be highly exalted. He was exalted by God, and he should be exalted by us. To the sinner, he's the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. Beloved God hath given him a name that's above every name. He was highly exalted. How are you exalting the name of Jesus? We should be exalting him, beloved, because he is worthy. There's a lot of people that get exalted in the world today. You think about Some social influencers. Whichever social influencer you want to plug in there, who just happened to start a YouTube channel and had a video or two go viral. And once that happened, then they spread, and then now they they they kind of got millions of followers because they dropped a pancake on their head one day and it was very funny. You know, whatever. Could be the corniest, dumbest thing that they did, but for some reason it went viral and everybody's watching it and then it gets on the news and then they go get interviewed by Oprah or somebody because they had a had a video that went viral. You know? Now all of a sudden everybody's following them. That's what they did. What did Jesus do? He forgave us of our sin. He's gone to prepare a place for us. And where he is, there we may be also. Getting my mansion ready over there. You know, this life, no matter how long it is, it's still short. The Bible James tells us it's just a vapor. But we're going to live in eternity somewhere. And we have the privilege to live in eternity in a place called heaven because what Jesus did. Why there's people so enamored and highly exalting some basketball player or some movie star or some football player Okay, they've got some skill and and a lot of times they have worked hard to get where they're at. But because they can throw a ball through a hoop or or catch a football running down the field, that's that's why we're gonna highly exalt them? What what about highly exalting God? What about highly exalting? Would you rather Listen to something a a documentary about your superstar Would you rather be an Old Testament survey and learn about the promised Messiah who's gonna come in his name is Jesus? We are highly exalting things in this world that do not need to be exalted. And we're leaving off the exalting of the one. Whom God said should be exalted. And his name is Jesus. Boy, he is worthy of our worship. Revelation chapter 4 and verses 8 through 11. Revelation is easy to find if you wanted to turn there. Revelation chapter 4. The Bible says, and the four beasts had each of them six wings about them, and they were full of eyes within, and They rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was and is and is to come And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him, they sat on the throne who liveth forever and ever The four and twenty elders fell down before him that sat on the throne and worshipped him, that liveth forever and ever, and cast their crowns before for the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created. Beloved, He is worthy of our worship. He is to be highly exalted in our hearts and in our minds when we find ourselves enamored with and drawn to and wanting to lift up something that's going to burn up one day when God comes again. May our hearts be turned heavenward again, and may we look to Jesus and highly exalt the one who is the Savior of our soul. And one day is going to return. We'll be caught up together with him in the clouds, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. May we highly exalt that name. Oh worthy, worthy of worship, worthy of praise Worthy of honor and glory. Worthy of all the glad songs we sing, worthy of all the offerings we bring. You are worthy, Father, Creator. You are worthy, Savior, Sustainer. You are worthy, worthy, and wonderful. Worthy of worship. Worthy of praise. Oh beloved, we ought to highly exalt his name. The whole story of Christmas is wrapped up in that one name. Jesus. Would you this Christmas put an emphasis, a focus on that one day? The name of Jesus. There's just something about that name. There is a name I love to hear. I love to sing its words. Do you know him this morning? Do you love him? Are you worshiping him? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed