People robbed and spoiled. I would like to for a few minutes Speak to you this morning on the thought presented right there in verse number 22, a people robbed and spoiled. The spoil that he's speaking of here is not that of a spoiled brat. He's talking about something made rotten. He's talking about the results, beloved, of evil things, the spoiling of a life That Satan has had his has had his way with. This is what he's describing. He says, there are a people that have light and they should know the truth. But instead they're walking in darkness, and this is a people whose lives have been robbed and spoiled. A people whose lives have been destroyed because they're walking as though they have no light. They should know the truth, but they're acting or living like they do not. Would you pray with me and let's ask God to give direction and leadership through this? As we speak for a few minutes on this, the people robbed and spoiled. Lord, we come to you right now, and I yield myself to you, an unworthy vessel, to preach a holy word of God. Lord, I pray that you would take this service, that you would remove the distractions of this world. You'd allow our hearts and minds to focus on your word. I pray you would allow me to step aside and just bring forth your message as you would have preached to your people this morning. Would you bring us into your presence? Would you speak to our hearts? God, I pray this this message this morning could save a life I pray that you would use it. Ask in Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, this morning I would have you see the call of a servant. Back up with you, if you would, to verse number one, Isaiah chapter 42 and verse number one. He says there in verse number one, Behold my servant. That idea of behold is the idea of calling to attention, of yelling out you saying, Hey, behold, behold, my servant, he says, saying, Look here, look up Like one might call their children. He says, Behold my servant whom I uphold, my elect whom my soul delighteth. I have put my spirit upon him, he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. You see, God here is talking to his people. He's talking to the Jews, to those that should have light but refuse to see the light. He's speaking to them about Jesus Christ who he was going to send, the Messiah that they were looking for, but they refused to see the Messiah. The reed that he speaks of in verse number three, the reed that is bruised but not broken, that is Jesus Christ. He's speaking specifically about Jesus Christ there. He's saying, hey, I'm gonna send the Messiah. He's gonna be a reed that's bruised but not broken. In verses 6 and 7, he describes his ministry and what he's going to do as far as sending the light to the gospel to the Gentiles. He says, I, the Lord, hath called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand and will keep thee. And give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles, to open the blind eyes, To bring out the prisoner from the prison and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. Beloved Jesus Christ is the light of the world He came to seek and to save, and all through his ministry while he was here on earth, he did bring people out of darkness, not just those that were blind that were made to see, but those who were spiritually blind that did not see who Christ was and did not come unto Christ. He also allowed them to see the light of the gospel where they could put their faith and trust in him. That is the Jesus that we love and serve. He reminds them that it is folly to follow after idolatry. In verses 16 and 17, he describes this. He says, hey. And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not. I will lead them in a path that they have not known I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them and forsake them and not forsake them. They shall be turned back. They shall be greatly ashamed that trust in graven images. That say to the molten images, Ye are gods. Christ is saying, boy, I'm going to expose the fallacy of bowing down to false idols, of following after false gods. And as we have been studying the Old Testament, we understand there's many times that the children of Israel were given to following after false gods. Could I remind you this morning that we have idols? We have false gods. We have things. You see, anything that we put in front of God becomes an idol. It becomes something that we follow after. That's something that we're we're putting before God and He's saying, Boy, I'm I'm gonna one day when the when your eyes and the scales are removed, you're gonna see how foolish that was. I will bring those in darkness to light, he says. Those who are looking to these molten images, to their own gods, they will be ashamed, he says So we see here first of all the call of the servant. I wanted you to have the context of what it is that we're we're speaking about, but now I want you to see And maybe most importantly, the cause of the spoiling. Look there In verse number 18, the beginning of our text, we see first of all that the cause of the spoiling was because they were blind when they should have been able to see. He says, Hear ye deaf, and look, ye blind, that ye may see who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger that I sent. Who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the Lord's servant Seeing many things, but thou observest not. Opening the ear, but heareth not. He's saying, Boy, you you sat in church and you heard the preaching, but you didn't hear the preaching. He's saying you read the word, and the word of God is true and quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing and dividing asunder of soul and spirit. And the word of God tried to reach your heart, but you blocked it. He's saying, You should have had the light, but you didn't, the Aaron Rogerson and his family got here late uh the other night I don't know, Friday night I think it was. And and they came in and it was dark outside. Of course it's getting dark earlier and earlier and I said, Well come on down, let me show you uh to your room and we headed down the side of the white house over there and there was no lights on. I said I was gonna get out here and turn lights on for you. We're making our way down the steps And of course they've never been there, so they don't know how many steps and they don't know what we're walking through. And it's very dark around the side of the house. There wasn't much moonlight at all. We were walking around in the dark. How many of you have ever taken your phone out and uh done this, right? Like, okay. And I'll tell you what, you don't see much light here, but you turn that on in a dark night and that provides a lot of light, right? It you see there's times in our life that we're walking around in darkness, but we really don't have to. God's saying you you have the light. The Word of God is a lamp unto your feet and a light unto your path. You have the light, but the problem is, is you're still walking around as though you don't The cause of the spoiling, beloved, the reason many lives are robbed and spoiled, he says, is because there's men who were walking as though they were blind when they should have been able to see. He tells us in the book of Revelation, he says, Because thou sayest I am rich and increased with goods, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. Beloved, the sad reality is many times we don't even know the true state of our condition because we refuse to look at it. We have available to us the light of the gospel, we have available to us the Word of God to guide and direct our light to life to live in the light of the gospel, but instead we're choosing to live in darkness. We know the light of God's word is available. So we see, first of all, that they were blind when they should have been able to see, but we see secondly cause, look down in verse number 24. He said, this is a people robbed and spoiled, but in verse number 24 he says, why? Look, he says, who gave Jacob for a spoil and Israel to the robbers? Listen to this. Who did it? Did not the Lord, he against whom we have sinned, It's notable here that God said He allowed the life to be robbed and spoiled Why? Why is there a spoiling? Listen, he says here, for they would not walk in his ways. Neither were they obedient unto his law. God is saying, I gave you the light. I showed you where to go. You refused, you refused, you refuse to do it. It's your own fault that you fell in a hole. It's your own fault that your life is a mess. It's your own fault that something has been robbed and spoiled because the the light of God has shined into your heart. God has stood as a hedge of protection against the onslaughts of Satan and tried over and over and over again to keep you from going down that path. But you persisted. And God said, okay, I'm going to stop. I'm going to stop. Beloved, it's like this. If a policeman happened to come by your house And and uh he said he knocked on your door and he said, Well yesterday evening I noticed your front door was standing wide open. And I noticed a couple of the r neighborhood hoodlums were out here and they were eyeballing your house. And they were here looking, they were checking it out, seeing what they could get, and your house wasn't locked up. So I'm just giving you a little bit of a warning here. You ought to lock up your house. And and the the the he comes by and he warns you. And then he was there and he protected your house from being robbed, from being spoiled. But instead the next week you say, Oh, that guy doesn't know what he's talking about. I live in a nice neighborhood, and you leave your house open again and your home is robbed and spoiled. This is what God is saying. I've tried and tried and tried to guide you in your life, to tell you how you should live, to give you direction, but you've refused to follow in the way that you should go. You refuse to be obedient to the commandments of God. For they would not walk in his way, neither obedient to his law. You see, beloved, the Christian life is a life of change. The Christian life goes directly contrary to my flesh and to my nature. The things that I would, I do not, and the things that I would not, I do. That is a battle that we fight every day because this old body, this old flesh wants to go and do what it wants to do. But we have been given the light of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the glorious truths of his word that are to guide our life. And he says, that is how you're supposed to live. That is the way that you're supposed to walk. And we say, well, I'm not so bad. But are you walking in the way that God said? You and I have a choice to do what we want to do. Are we going to serve God or serve our flesh? God says, be ye holy, for I am holy. Beloved, it's high time God's people stop thinking and living like we were given ten suggestions. They are called the Ten Commandments. Satan, your adversary, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And God stands as a hedge of protection and guards his people against the onslaughts of Satan But can I tell you, when we refuse to walk in the way that God says to walk, and we refuse to be obedient to the command of His Word, We open ourselves up for Satan to come in and to rob and spoil our life. I don't know if you have ever been r robbed, if you've had things stolen. It is a violation. It is not just that something was taken, but it's that they were in your space. They came into your home. violated the the sanctity of your home and and the security that you thought you had inside that space is gone and you find it hard to fall asleep at night because now where you felt you were safe you found you're no longer safe Beloved Satan wants to come in and rob you of good and precious and that you love in your life, and he would steal it away, and he would violate or spoil your life if you allow him to. The Bible tells us very clearly, he that sowed to the flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. Yet so many of God's people are living in the flesh, living after the world We want to disregard the preaching of the word and quench the work of the Holy Spirit in our life and grieve the Holy Spirit and then act or pretend like everything's okay. But we're leaving ourselves open for Satan to rob and spoil. You know, we lived in York, our home up in Loganville, PA is a York address from Loganville. And the garage of the house is underneath the house. The split level with the garage you pull in underneath the master bedroom. And more than once in the ten years that we lived there, we would come home from vacation, one, two, three o'clock in the morning, something real late, right? It's late at night, and we'd come home and Of course we're getting everything out of the car, right? Until all the kids get everything out of the car. We're getting all the stuff out. Everybody's unloading the car. It's late at night. Everybody gets their stuff out of the car, everybody goes to their room, and everybody goes to bed. And we get up in the morning and go downstairs, and we find out that we left the car doors open and the garage door open. The whole house was open all night long. Everybody thought somebody else was going to close it up. Everybody just grabbed their stuff and walked out. We left. I mean more than once, the whole garage, and my wife, if she would have known that. She's downstairs today. So she she's always very like, let's lock everything. Like lock everything. And uh every night you ask Caleb, what does she say? I don't worry about it too much, but she definitely means so she would have been fit to be tied if she had known the grass door was wide open. But you know you open yourself up. And that's what the Christian does when we choose to live our own life instead of walking his way. Can I give you the conclusion of the spoiling? He says here, but this is a people robbed and spoiled. You see, beloved, Satan is the great accuser. And his desire is to come in and rob you, to violate your life, to spoil all that is good. Somebody in our church just recently came home after being gone for a few days and they found that nightmare You see something stunk in the basement. And they thought, oh great, some animal got in here and died. Like the whole basement reeked, you know. Something died. So they're looking for it Until they notice there's a puddle of blood under the freezer. And they think, man, a freezer fell on the rat. No, no. There's a puddle of blood under the open. They open the freezer. And the freezer quit working and everything in the freezer was rotten. And it was like a burst of rotten just stench coming out of the freezer. That you know how meat gets when it's starting to warm up and starting to turn and yeah, it was bad. That's what Satan wants to do your life. He wants to spoil every good thing that you have. Of people robbed and spoiled. Beloved, this is Satan's desire. You think about it, even ever from the beginning, all the way back to Adam and Eve in the garden. Would you think about this? Adam and Eve were in the garden. They had everything. They literally lived in paradise. They literally uh could could plant tomatoes and there was no weeds to hinder their growth. There was no worms to get into them. Probably the most beautiful, best tasting tomatoes that would ever grow grew on those vines. I mean They literally lived in paradise. They had everything they could possibly want. God cared for them and they walked with God in the cool of the day. But listen, along came Satan, and they had a choice They had a choice. They could continue to live in the glory of what God had given them, obeying God's command not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, or they could follow the way of Satan, and they chose Satan. And you and I, each and every day, we have a choice. Satan comes to you, and he wants to rob from you the beauty, everything that God wants to give you, and everything miraculous that God wants to do in your life But we have a choice. We can yield to God and follow God and continue to bask in the blessing of His goodness in our lives Or we can choose to walk with Satan and Satan will come in and rob and spoil every good thing that you have. Beloved, the problem is he wants to take it all. And we, by the choices that we make, are giving him access He would take anything that you value in your life because he came but to kill and to destroy. You value your family. You value your kids. You value your job. You value your health. Anything that you would look at and say, that is most precious to me, can I tell you that Satan would glory in the destruction of it? I'm fed up this morning. I'm fed up. I'm I'm heartbroken Over the Christians' lives, who I have stood and watched be robbed and spoiled. Over and over and over again I've been at this for twenty-four years And in twenty four years of ministry and serving and working with God's people, I've seen over and over again young people whose lives have been destroyed because they chose instead of to walk in the way that they should go They chose to give in to the flesh and Satan robbed them of something they could never get back. A young lady lost her purity, lost her virginity long before she should have, because she chose to follow the flesh instead of yield to Satan. And she can never get that back. Satan robbed her of something, and she lost it long before she should have. Young men who've given themselves over to the flesh, who lost what they should have had, the joy of a miraculous and beautiful marriage and a home life Because they sought after the flesh and became addicted to pornography and were involved in that to a point where they no longer could even control it and their lives are are just a cesspool of filth now. You can live in that or you can choose to follow God. But it's a choice that you make. I've seen it over and over again, families ruined, husbands and wives, relationships broken because of sin. I'm not upset at you, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm not upset at you this morning. I'm brokenhearted over the sin that Satan brings into our lives, and he's destroying lives. He's ruining people. He's taken everything that God wants to give you. He came to give you life and to give you life more abundant. That's what God wants for you. But when we yield to Satan and we allow him to direct our lives, We are opening the door and Satan comes in and I've seen it over and over and over again and people's lives destroyed. And I'm begging with you this morning, I'm pleading with you to please don't give in to Satan. Please don't let him lead your life. Yield to God. Do what God wants. Live in the glory and the blessing that is His way. Just a couple of weeks ago, the church where Mary and I served right out of college There was a young man who was born when we were there. Mary held him. This little boy took care of him in the nursery with all the excitement and the joy of a little boy in his life that he could live and go on and serve God and do great and mighty things and mom and dad were excited. Mom and dad are still there in that church, still serving the Lord, still faithfully doing what God wants them to do. This young man grew up. A little while ago, he had the opportunity to steal a large amount of money from his father's work. He took this money. It was found out. He was ashamed. His father's name was ruined. He looked at it and said, I'll never be able to pay it back. His conversation was such that he said, I just don't know that I have anything to live for. He was communicating this to somebody. That thought his conversation was way too close to suicide to leave it alone. And this person called his father at work and said, listen, your son is not in a good place. His father left work immediately and drove home as fast as he could. This was just two weeks ago. He drove home as fast as he could. He came through the front door. Went into the boy's bedroom and he wasn't there. He went over and saw the bathroom door was closed and he was banging on the bathroom door and he heard the gun go off. This man's son killed himself in his own bathroom. What I'm saying is that Satan robbed that boy. Satan robbed that boy of the life he could have lived. It didn't have to be that way. But when that young man had the choice to walk in the way that was right, We're to take that money. He said, I want the money. And you and I every day are faced with decisions where we're going to decide if we're going to walk in the way that's right. Or we want the money. Well I'm telling you, friend, is that Satan is looking and waiting for you to choose the money. Because he wants to rob and spoil your life. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?