As I've uh told you before, we are going to be looking at Romans chapter eight and verse twenty-eight. Uh I'm going to preach you a message this morning entitled A Powerful Promise. A powerful promise. Romans 8:28. If you're there in the Word of God or you know it by heart, would you uh quote or read it with me? Romans 8:28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. We have presented here this text, this promise, a powerful promise for us. It has been said that you have to break an egg in order to make an omelet. The idea there is that Sometimes things have to get worse before they get better. Sometimes things that look bad actually can be good and if you're here this morning and maybe the very uh fabric of your life or the whatever per protection you might have felt you had, you feel like it's breaking, it's it's it's being shattered. The question that I pose to you today is can you trust God? Do you know that God is in control, that He has a plan for your life? Can you hold to the promise that's given to us in this verse this morning. We don't know sometimes what God is doing. We're not sure what he might be trying to accomplish, but that's where faith and trust comes in. There is given to the believer here this very powerful promise indeed. This verse has brought as much strength and hope to the mind of the Christian caught in a storm as probably any verse in Scripture. This is among the most well-known verses, probably only surpassed by John 3. 16 and maybe Psalms 23. This verse that we grab a hold of, this promise that we have given to us here, R. A. Tories said, Romans 8. 28 is a soft pillow for a tired heart. This is a verse that we go to in a time of trial. I want to give you a few simple thoughts, three simple thoughts to be precise, because you know any good messages has three points in it, right? Uh uh but we're going to look at three three things this morning and I don't expect it to be very long. You're going to be able to get to the to the restaurant early or or home early Uh I don't know that you'll beat the rain. The rain's supposed to be coming and going all day, so that is what it is. But uh we're going to, I hope, hear from heaven this morning. I hope be challenged in our hearts regarding this promise that we have from God. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to your heart as we begin? Lord, I bow humbly before you this morning. grateful for the privilege and opportunity that's mine to preach your word. Lord, the hope that these your people need this day is not something that I can give them, not something that the words that I share can accomplish. But the power of your word can do its work in the heart of your people in a way that is beyond understanding and beyond comprehension. And I pray, God, that you would minister to each and every heart that's here today. We're thankful for those that have chosen to come and to gather and be here in your house today and for those that are tuning in online from a remote location, whether because of sickness or travel or unable to make it this morning, but Lord, we pray that you would put aside the distractions for a few minutes and draw us into your presence. Speak to our hearts in Jesus' precious name. Amen. First of all, I want you to see here the surety. of this promise, the surety of this promise, there is in these first three words a conviction of heart that is given That every Christian really should have. He says, and we know. And we know. Now you understand this morning, beloved, that there is some things that We don't know. There are some things that we believe, or maybe by faith trust And then there are some things that through experience we have come to the place that we know it. That is the journey of the Christian life. You come to the Lord and put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, and He saves your soul. And you hear this promise. And in your heart and mind, there should be a level of faith. Every believer ought to at least be in this place where you by faith can Put your trust and say, okay, I I don't see a way. It doesn't make sense to me, but I'm gonna trust God that uh Things are going to work together for good. I'm going to trust God. But as you grow in your faith and as you grow and go in your Christian life, You reach the place where you get where the apostle was here, he says, and I know. He says, this is something that we know. I believe that you can't outgive God. As a young man I I began giving to God and and trying to do what I believe the Bible teaches regarding tithe and tide is is you don't even get to giving until you get past ten percent because that first ten percent is God's And you start giving to God. But through the years of giving to God, I have learned that you can't outgive God. It's not something that I know or that I know in a matter of belief or that I trust because just because the Bible says so. But it's something I know because in my life God has proven himself faithful over and over and over again There is some things in our life, beloved, that we know because God's done it for us. And I hope that you're here this morning and that this is something that you know. As a child of God, have you come to the place in your life that you believe this promise completely? Beloved, for the believer, there is no such thing as fate. There is no such thing as luck or chance. There is no such thing as an accident. I told you a few years ago, actually on Roundup Sunday, but There's a cowboy that went to apply for insurance, and the insurance agent looked at him and said, Have you ever had any accidents? He says, no. He says, well sir, where did these scars come from that are on your body? He's like, oh, this is where my horse kicked me and broke two of my ribs and I had to get all these stitches and And he's like, well what about this scar? And he says, well that's where rattlesnake bit me and and uh I had to have it cut and and get all that infection out of there and uh yeah it left a little bit of scar. And he's like, well aren't those accidents? He says, No, I'm pretty sure they've done it on purpose. There's there's not really any accidents. If you believe that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, that God is in control of our life That there's things in our lives that we chalk up to accident or or fate or luck or we look at it and we say, Oh, that just happened, but But either you believe it or you don't believe it, on one hand you have God that's in control of the affairs of men, and He has all power, He's omniscient, He's omnipresent, He can Be there in every situation and you believe He is protecting you, guiding you, leading you, or you don't. We can't say, Oh, well, this was an accident that caught God off guard And we've all been through it. When we have a tragedy come into our life, many times in our heart and mind we always go through the what ifs, right? What if I would have been there, or if I would have left a couple minutes later, or if I would have done this, and you think about the infinite ifs. That ought to, in your heart and mind, maybe start to close off the idea that maybe it wasn't just an accident. Because there's an infinite number of ifs. If I would have driven just a half a mile slower, I wouldn't have been at this corner when that car came through and I wouldn't have got hit The smallest minute fraction of change, and it would have been a different story, right? You see, God is in control of the affairs of men It begins with that conviction of heart that we know that he's in control. Do you know it today? Yes. Do you trust him? No matter how dark it is, no matter how uh hard or blusterous the wind is blowing, can you trust him? Yes. Are you like Job who Was able to say, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I'm working towards or trying to establish in your heart a conviction that you know That you know that God is going to work all things together for good. During a uh Jay Bernie McGee tells about having been in San Francisco during an earthquake. There was a dear saint of God who was standing there looking at the destruction and she was smiling. He looked at her and said How can you smile at such destruction? She said, Well, I was just thinking how amazing it is that I have a God that can shake the whole earth. This is a knowledge, beloved, that dwells in the mind, but it fills the heart in the midst of the storm, when there's great tragedy. It is a sure promise. There is no might or maybe in this text. It's a simple fact that's stated. Maybe this morning you've known the pain of desertion. Maybe somebody's deserted you or left you or they declared their Never-dying love or faithfulness to you as a family member or a friend, and yet they left you. So how could this possibly be? All I can do is think of the story of Joseph, whose his own brothers sold him into slavery. Sent him off where they thought they would never see him again. And he says there if you read towards the end of the book When he gets back and meets his brothers again, of course they're afraid that he's going to take judgment out on them. And he says, you know what, you meant it for evil. But God meant it for good. We never know what is happening, and sometimes we might not know this side of heaven, but we can trust. It's something that in our heart and mind we have a conviction of, it's something that you know. There is not an exception in this text. There is not all things work together except for this thing Except for that thing, except for the one thing that I'm dealing with or the struggle that I'm facing, my health problems or hardships or circumstances. Oh, I know all other things work together. I hope you're here this morning and you are able to declare that you know. Is it something that you know this morning? Yes. Do you have a surety of it? Yes. Oh, I hope so. Secondly, I would like to look at the skewing of this promise. Sometimes it gets skewed a little bit. Sometimes people take this promise and apply it where it doesn't belong or use it in a way that it is not intended. You will hear people say thing, well they will quote this verse, but they'll misquote it and they'll say, all things work for good. Well, stating that doesn't make it so, and it's a misuse of this amazing promise. It does not say that all things work for good. Is that all things work together for good? Together, beloved, is the key word in this text. There's not many of us here that enjoy a spoonful of flour. There's not many that would, unless you happen to be Filipino, that enjoy eating raw eggs. It's uh balut. They eat 12-day old eggs. It's like an energy drink. They say it's really good. You let me know if it works. There's not many of us here that would take a spoonful of shortening or would like to uh just eat uh eat uh uh take a swig of vanilla extract That smells so good. Vanilla extract, it's like, man, that just smells delicious. But if you ever, as a young person like I did, thought, well that smells really good, it must taste good. Oh my goodness Yeah. No, few drops goes a long way. But when you take all those individual things and put them together Most here enjoy chocolate cake. Any case, yeah, hallelujah. Any case, hallelujah. It takes away from the promise because you have to understand that in some circumstances there are individual things that that come up that aren't pleasant or that we don't like or maybe we don't understand, but we have to have the faith and know that it's going to be put together with something else by God to work out his ultimate will Oh, individual trials are hard. Sometimes our experiences hurt. The lessons of life often are painful. But it's only when these things are put together by an Almighty God that the final tapestry of His will is performed in our life, and we see that it was for good. It doesn't say that you will always see them as good. This is where trust comes in. There are times, beloved, that from a human point of view, it looks bad. From a human point of view, there doesn't seem like there's any hope. From a from our standpoint, we look at it and say, there is no way that this can be good. I don't see how this, don't tell me that this is going to be for good. Or the passing of a loved one is hard. We can't see any good that comes of that. But God says, precious in his sight is the death of the saints. The saints are promoted to heaven. They're with Jesus. They're restored with their friends and loved ones that have gone on before them. They are having a glad reunion day. And oftentimes God will even use the passion of a loved one to draw us closer to Him. To reach somebody else who maybe was wayward or lost, and they'll be reached with the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you understand, beloved, that many times the greatest burdens that we have will ultimately bring forth the greatest blessings? But it takes trusting. It takes following God. We don't always see things as good. Sometimes they just don't look that way. We're not omniscient. We can't see everything. We don't know the beginning from the end. This individual circumstance that's arisen in our life, that in and itself, it might be hard, but God knows. I remember a time in El Paso, Texas, and my dad was just getting there and he was just going to start the church. I was telling somebody about this recently, so if it was you, I apologize, but uh the he was starting this church and he wanted his church to be downtown El Paso, Texas. I mean he really wanted to be downtown, right, right in the heart of the city. I mean that's he's like, this is where all the people are, this is where I want to be. And meanwhile, we were living out in the desert. About twenty miles away probably. And uh he was out soul winning and witnessing in the desert and he started a midweek Bible study and had ten, twelve, fifteen people come and he just thought, hey, when we start the church they'll come into the city And uh anyways, he found a building downtown El Paso that uh he was really excited about it. And I was excited about it too because the hallways were big enough to roller skate in. And that was awesome. And uh it was a hotel. So it was a big hotel and there was big meeting rooms that we could start having a church in and and then we had all these hotel rooms that we could use for classrooms and then places for people to stay and Big huge fountain in the foyer. I mean it was beautiful. Southwestern uh hotel, really, really nice. And he was it worked out financially. He was going to be able to buy it and Going through all the work on this hotel he wanted to get to have start this church, and this was going to be where the church was. And and there were several delays, and he couldn't sign the paperwork. And he won he wanted to sign the paperwork because we were going to be leaving town. And the realtor delayed, and this happened, and that happened, and it became It came Friday and we're going to be leaving and he didn't get it done. He was very frustrated that he wasn't able to sign the paperwork on this hotel before we left. We're going to be out of town for two weeks. Now he's going to have to wait till he gets back and it's going to take another 30 days after that. He really wanted to get the process started. And uh it didn't happen. As hard as he tried, it didn't happen. Well, while we were on vacation, out of town for two weeks, the hotel burned to the ground. Total complete loss. It was just a pile of ash. We went drive by there and and there was a few sticks all charred sticking up and I still remember looking at that thinking, oh, no roller skating. Man. I was looking forward to playing in that fountain. Yeah But what I'm saying is God did that. God protected him from signing on a dotted line and buying and owning a hotel that next week was going to burn down. He was trying to make it happen and he wanted it and he was so frustrated that it didn't and he thinks now we're behind schedule. And you know you don't always get such a clear picture of the hand of God But when those things happen, it gives you the faith to trust when you can't see. Because you know that he's in control. There's a supplying of it that He gives us. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to His purpose. You know, there's two words in this text that are present-tent, the word work and the word love. The word work here, we know it's present. The God is presently. This is not something that He's going to do someday out in the future, and oh, I know ultimately when we get to heaven everything's going to be good. No, this He is presently. working for our good. But we see there's a condition in this verse, a two-fold condition. This is not a promise to everybody in the world. This is a promise to them that love God. To them that love God. And you know, I hear this this is we have some of these, I imagine there's probably a plaque in the bookstore that has a portion of this verse on it. If not, at some point there has been and you guys bought it and now it's at your house. Um there there is there these are everywhere. These these statements and and a lot of times There's people out in the world that that uh have this verse and they they want to claim that verse, but you understand there is a requirement here. He says to them that love God. Listen, beloved, if you refuse to accept the greatest expression of love that's ever been given, for God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. God sent his son, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. If you as an individual would deny or reject the very expression of love that God provides to forgive you of your sin, how do you suppose you fit into this verse? How could you say that, well, I love God when you've rejected his son? If you are going to fit into this verse, if you're going to claim this verse as something for you in your life, it starts with knowing That I have received Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior. I've accepted God's gift, his love that was shown towards me, and because of that, I love Him We love him. Why? Because he first loved us. Do you love God this morning? Yes. This promise, beloved, is given to them that love God. You know When my kids were young, I told them that uh if they would go to their dentist checkup and they found from the dentist Now my dentist might not like this, but I told them if they got a good report they had no cavities, I would give them fifty dollars. And you say, what? $50 for in that case again, no allowance and nothing like that. But I thought if I could motivate them to brush their teeth and care for their teeth correctly and they could go to the dentist and not get a if they had cavities I was going to give the fifty bucks and a whole lot more to the dentist. So I thought I was getting off cheap. You know, I thought this this is pretty cheap, man. If I could my dentist probably didn't like it, but uh Cody's back there cheering me on though. So um but I said, Hey, if you can you know you take care of your teeth and you you brush your teeth like you're supposed to and make sure that you're this and you go and you get a good report, you have no cavities, I'll give you fifty dollars And uh several of my kids took me for a bunch of money. But uh I was glad to give it to them because they were taking care of their teeth and they were, you know, doing what they needed to do to make sure that they didn't have cavities. But you know what? I did not do I did not take an ad out in the paper and tell all the kids in Baltimore, if you if you do not have any cavities, then you uh will get fifty dollars. I didn't even tell everybody in my dentist office. It was just my kids. And what I'm saying is God has a promise that He's put in His Word here, but this is not a promise for everybody just to grab. It's a promise to those that love God. Those that love him and are willing to follow him You know, beloved, a lot of times there's debate. There's turmoil over the thou shalt nots in Christianity, right? The the how come there's so many don't do this or don't do that and there's great stress over that But you know the Bible is very clear. He says, if you love me, keep my commandments. Sometimes even in Christianity we get that backwards. We get so focused on the commandments. And we get so hung up on do this and do this and I'm going to be this kind of Christian and I have all of my ducks in a row and I have all my T's crossed and all my I's dotted and boy I'm a good Christian You're a Pharisee Because this is not the goal. The goal is love him. And when we love him, obedience is an outpouring. Obedience is a natural reaction. Obedience is an inevitable result. Of love. But too many Christians are standing over here and they're trying to dot all their I's and cross all their T's, and they forgot. They've left their first love. If we're going to grab a hold of and have this promise as part of our life, it has to be first rooted in a love for God. You know, the Bartels family, this missionary to Russia. If you've been reading their updates, it's one of the families we're going to talk about tonight because they're no longer going to Russia. They're a very young family. They've got babies. They have children, uh one son with a lot of health problems and If you recall a few months ago, they were planning and they were ready to go to Russia. And then his wife got sick. And they had to delay their flights. One thing led to the next, they ended up not being able to go. And then Russia declares war on Ukraine. And you look at it and you say, man, we're ready to leave and we're going to go serve God. And why would God let my wife get sick right now of all times? Have to go to the hospital. You look at that particular situation and you say, man, that's terrible. But now in hindsight, can you imagine if they had moved to Russia, been there for three or four weeks, maybe not even really have a place to live yet? Several little babies, all the way down to an infant just some months old? And uh the country goes to war? God said, no, it's not time for you to go. So I'm gonna delay your flight. We have to trust God. W. G. Thomas said the restrictions mice must be carefully observed For godlessness is sin, and that work is wrath. It is only in connection with the believer that these wonderful words are true. Of the man of the world who deliberately continues without Christ, it may be fearlessly said that everything is against him. Now there's a lot of truth in that statement, but he says, you understand, he says that we know that somebody hasn't come to repentance and trust in Jesus Christ, that they are under the judgment of God. This verse here has a promise to the Christian that all things work together for what? Good. But what he is saying here, and defining from biblical principles, is that when somebody does not know the Lord as their Savior, that their What they are working towards is wrath. Ultimately, the judgment of God when they reach heaven, whatever it is in this life, those things are just furthering the wrath of God in their life. It's working towards that wrath. Everything in their life ultimately, he says, at the end, it could be fearlessly said that everything is against them. So beloved, I don't know about you, but I certainly want to be amongst those that love God and have Him working on our behalf And he says here to them that are called according to his purpose, this is the second fold, the second aspect. I suppose the defining difference here is whose purpose do you want to see brought forth? You know, we use the Lord's Prayer, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth. as it is in heaven. But I wonder, do we really want to see his will done? Is it really about his will? Is it really about accomplishing what he would have, or is it about our will and what we would like to see accomplished? You see, if we want his will accomplished, then some things we look at and say, oh, this isn't good for me. But do we want to see God's will accomplished? Is it something that will further the cause of Christ? Sometimes you have a flat tire or your car breaks down or you know what I I can tell you this morning There's a lady here in our church, not going to give you the details of the story, but a few months ago she had a testimony. And she says, you know what? My car has been broken down all summer. And I was so frustrated that my car was broken down. I thought this is not fair. And then she saw what God was doing. Amen. And I I don't have liberty to tell you the details of the story, but she was able to look back and say, wait, oh, this is what God's doing. This is why this has been this way. It's sometimes not necessarily good for us, but it ultimately furthers the cause and the will of Christ. Do you understand that God is always going to do right? Nehemiah 9 33 says, How be it, thou art just in all that is brought upon us, for thou hast done right. God's going to do right every time. He's working for our good. Always working for our good. Can you trust his plan? Sometimes we might have to go through several things that, from our point of view or in this life, are hard Maybe we don't understand what they are, but we know that God is working. I know sometimes this verse is thrown out casually. Especially when you're in pain, when you've suffered loss, when you've been through a great heartache And a brother or sister comes up and they pat you on the shoulder and say, Well, you know all things work together for good. In your heart and mind you're thinking, you don't have any idea what I'm going through You have no comprehension of the pain that I feel right now. It might be used casually, but I want you to understand that It's not from them. That promise is from him. And I want you to know that the author ultimately we know is God, but the Apostle Paul, you know Paul was shipwrecked. He was beaten. He was imprisoned. He was thrown out of the city. He was deserted and Just read Corinthians eleven. Many, many things. But I'm saying is Paul endured and went through more than any two of us put together. And yet he declared this promise that all these things are going to work together for our good. You guys know the story of Amy Carmichael? Young girl who went to be a missionary. She, when she was a young girl, I don't know what her passion was, her desire was to why she wanted blue eyes. But she passionately wanted blue eyes. And she had such a strong belief in God that through teaching Sunday school and her mom and everything, she just believed, well, if I pray, God will give me blue eyes And so she got down one night and she prayed, God, I know you can, I know you're powerful, I know you can do it. Lord, I want, I want blue eyes. And she prayed for blue eyes, and she got up in the morning and went and looked in the mirror, fully expecting to have blue eyes. And when she looked in the mirror, her eyes were brown. And she tells her story and describes how crushed she was because at that moment she thought, God didn't answer my prayer. It wasn't until some years later that she learned that God did answer it. He answered it with a no. And no is an answer. When mom and dad when when the kid asks mom and dad for ice cream and dad says no, knows an answer. It's not the answer they want, but it is an answer. And she learned that God said no, but she didn't understand why until she was a missionary in India. And persecution was severe. And she had to blend in, not stand out. She would actually take coffee beans and stain her skin so they couldn't see how pale she was. After having been in India for a while, somebody casually said, you know it's a good thing you don't have blue eyes. Because you would never be able to hide if you had if you had blue eyes. And it brought back to her mind as clear as it was yesterday, the day that she begged God for blue eyes. And she thought, God didn't give them to me. And then she realized God said no, but God has a plan. I don't know what's going on in your life or what you're going through or what you will be going through, but can you trust God? I hope it's something that you know and that you carry with you. That you understand it's a promise given to them that love God and want to see God's work accomplished. His will be done Not my will, but his will be done. And we know that he is working out for good. I don't know what you get to the end of your life, the older I get, and I'm still not that old, amen. Thank you, Bill. The uh the older I get, the more I am looking back on life a little bit. And you can start to see the hand of God. Oh, I know once we once we reach glory, we'll understand. We'll understand it all better by and by. Amen. But I appreciate when God gives us some glimpses of his moving in our lives as well. Grab a hold of this promise and make sure you're one that loves God. and that you're called according to his purpose, not our purpose, but his purpose. Would you stand