I mean that sums it up in such a clear and definable way when If you were going to talk about parables and what they were, they're an earthly story with a heavenly meaning that's been around for a very long time, and it is a very concise explanation of a definition of what a parable is. There's really not a better way to say it than I know than that. Christ used this illustrative way to teach those that would listen Any truly effective teacher and preacher today will also use illustrations, application, to get the point across. Uh I tend to be an illustrator. I tend I enjoy illustrating. I thought for a long time, and I don't know when I might have the time to do it, but I thought of a radio program. The title of the program would be Illustrations for Inspiration. And they would just be like three-minute segments, just give a strong illustration and the Bible principle that's taught through it the scripture reference or the scripture verse, illustration for inspiration, something that would just come on because I enjoy illustrations. I enjoy how effective they are at getting the point across. at teaching something. You know, uh like there was a turkey in the farmyard and the the turkey was talking to the cow and the turkey said, you know, I wish I could fly to the top of that tree and uh the cow looked at him and says, Well, uh I've heard that that baloney is really good and has high energy in it. If you eat that bologna you'll get some energy and so the turkey didn't really like it, but he ate the baloney And uh the first day he was able to get to the first branch on the tree and you know, he thought, wow, that's this is great. So he kept eating bologna and after a week of eating bologna every day He didn't like it, but he knew it was good for him, it was going to give him the energy. So he wa after a week of eating that, he was able to fly to the top of the tree and he finally made it to the top of the tree. And then when he when he got to the top of the tree, the farmer saw him and shot him. So the moral of the story is baloney might get you to the top, but it won't keep you there. Illustrations can effectively teach a principle, and that's what Christ did for us. Divine truth, another definition or another way of saying this is this divine truth clothed in human garb. And that's what Christ did over and over and over again. He would tell them practical earthly stories, but what he was really teaching them was some divine truth. Deep biblical principles that they needed to understand. I know when we think of parables, we think of the teachings of Christ We think of his gospel ministry, the time he was here on earth, and Christ certainly was the master of parabolic teaching. Not parabolic. Parabolic. Teaching. He was the master at this. And he set the standard for everyone who aspires to do that. But as I studied this, I found that there is much more, a whole lot more than just Christ's parables in the scriptures. As we look at the definition here, I want us to think about it in more or a broader sense than if we say, if anybody anywhere, if you talk to anybody that goes to church and you say uh parables They think of Christ and his teaching of the parables. Not realizing the term parable and what it means overall, and that there is so much more in the Bible about that. So we're going to look at it a little bit, we're going to broaden our definition just a little bit to give us a full scope of what it means. A parable, by definition, includes similitudes. Similitudes there. Number one. Similitudes, comparisons, sayings, or proverbs. It can be just a similitude. It can be short and brief Something like if I just said as lazy as a cat. That fits into the definition of a parable. It's something given a comparison to. The Old Testament Hebrew word for parable, the Old Testament Hebrew word for parable is mashal, meaning proverb, similitude, or to be like So anything that's like that, any similitude, any comparison between two things can fit into a parable. In the New Testament, there are two Greek words for parable. There is parabole This is found 48 times in the gospel, this Greek word. And that is meaning to place one thing by the side of another. To place one thing by the side of another for comparison's sake. You know, as you would take any type of a thing and illustrate it. To define something, you could set the example, you know, as dead as a doornail. Anything that you can do, you put something alongside, if I said rule like a king Okay, I'm talking, what I'm talking about is ruling, but I'm laying aside the example of a king. To give in our minds the picture of somebody ruling and because we know what a king is and what a king does and the power that he has, it puts a def a a strong, lengthy definition to the fact that I said rule like a king. And we could spend a lot of time talking about what ruling like a king is, but just saying that gives the definition. Laying it alongside. Um Paramora is used uh mostly by John. By John. This is found throughout the book of John, and that's the other word for parable found in the New Testament, and that mean meaning is wayside. saying a proverb, a presentation deviating from the usual means of speaking. If we bring together these two things to lay the side, Jesus Christ was the master utilizing this method to teach powerful truths with a very simple illustration In a harmonious way. He would teach these truths very simply, but showing the harmony between the practical, the physical, and the spiritual And Jesus was the master at this. This harmony between the spiritual and material things is illustrated in Romans chapter 1, verses 2. The Bible says, for the invisible things of Him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made Even his eternal power in Godhead, so that me they so that they are without excuse. The invisible things of him from creation of the world are clearly seen. He is saying that even creation is an example of God. And men are without excuse because of what they see in creation. We see of the character of God's faithfulness in the rising of the sun every single day. We see lessons about who God is in creation itself. And this harmony between the spiritual and the practical God continually draws upon, Jesus Christ drew upon, to teach the parables that he taught. Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter 13. Matthew chapter thirteen. In Matthew chapter thirteen, verse number ten, there's a discussion taking place here. In verses ten through fifteen he says, And the disciples came and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables. So they ask the question, why do you teach in parables? Why do you do this, Lord? Why do you teach like this? Sometimes you know it's hard for us to understand But Jesus answered them, and he answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given See, it's given for them to know that they should know these mysteries, but there's some that should not know the mysteries. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundant, but whosoever hath not from him shall be taken away even that he hath. Therefore speaketh I to them in parables, because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah's which said, By hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and by seeing ye shall see and shall not perceive. For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed, lest at any time They should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, they should understand with their hearts, and should be converted, as I should heal them. God was teaching imperables for two reasons. And we're going to get into the reasons for teaching imparables in just a moment. The definition here, we see that God had a purpose for it and what it was. Then we'll look at the development as we see it throughout the scriptures, the development of parables. This type of teaching was done through all of history. It was not just Jesus Christ, although he was the master of it. It was done all through history. Okay, first, uh, this is found in the Bible in Judges chapter 9, the very first time that a parable is used to tell Teach. This is found in in Judges chapter nine, uh when Jotham used the story of the trees choosing themselves as a king to convince the inhabitants of Shechem of the folly of electing a man like Abimelech to be their king. The example was given there. The The parable was given in Judges chapter nine. So we see it all the way back in Judges chapter nine. Now there are 58 parables in the Old Testament. And I left R out of your notes. So you've got to write in R 58. But there are 58 parables in the Old Testament. How many of you knew that there was 58 parables in the Old Testament? Or that there was a lot of parables in the Old Testament? Now, when we as we get into this study, I believe that we're just going to look at the parables of Christ. And probably not even all of them. But uh we're not going to get into the parables. We'll be here a while if we try and tackle all the parables of the Bible Uh so we'll probably just look at a few of the parables of Christ as we get, but I gave you a list there of the parables so that you would have them in your notes anytime you wanted to look at this. Here's there's Very if you want to know something about the parables, once we get done with this, you're going to have a pretty good resource ready at hand to look at the parables. You can see all of the parables with their text and their references Now, the division of parables, according to Lockier, the Old Testament can be divided into three groups of parables. First of all, there's the story parables, as the example of Judges chapter 9. in the story of the trees, this type of parable. Then there's the sermon parables that were given. An example in uh Isaiah chapter 5, 1 through 7, and in the example there of the vineyard. And then there's symbolic parables that are used to teach. And that egg an example of that is the two sticks that stood as a symbol there in Ezekiel 375. Now there are 54. There are 54 parables in the New Testament. So not all of these are Christ's parables, but there are 54 in the New Testament. 38 of those. are taught by Christ. Now this 38 that are taught by Christ and the 54 that are listed, this is not a complete exhaustive de definable list. You could read if you see anybody that's taught on parables, some would attribute to Christ only 25 parables. Some would attribute 30 parables. 30 is a pretty common number of people that would attribute 30 parables to Christ Or they would say the teachings that actually fit into a parable. But if you take the broader definition of the fact that it could be something as short as a as a proverb. The list is upwards of at maybe even 70 parables that were taught by Christ. But uh it just depends on what you want to quantify as a parable and what you want to include in that list of parables. So there are there it depending upon what scholar you read, they would say, oh, there's only 28 parables that Christ taught, or there's thirty-three, or there's thirty-seven. or or whatever. Thirty-eight is I would say a pretty high number, so you're going to be sure to get all of the ones that that are that fit into that category, although there are many other things that Christ taught that fit into that category into the definition of the word parable. But this is not a complete list. The 38 that are here, there are others that could be stuck in there. And if you read somebody, you might find one that somebody calls a parable that's not in this list. And you think, oh, Pastor Caleb, you know, you missed this one. Well, I didn't want to put all seventy of them down. Uh and you know, some people would differ on what's what would fit into uh a parable and what doesn't And so that's why the number is not necessarily consistent across the board. Um there there's a division of New Testament parables. Okay? The general theme of parables in the New Testament is the kingdom of heaven. as suggested in our text here in Matthew chapter 13, verse number 11. And he answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. See, Christ was teaching about the kingdom of heaven. Christ was teaching them what he wanted them to know. And this general theme is seen throughout all of his parables and can be applied in one way or another to heavenly things. And first we see the character of the kingdom in many of the parables, as such is the example in the parable of the mustard seed, the parable of the leaven, the parable of the hidden treasure, the parable of great price. that the character of the kingdom, what it's like or what it's going to be like or what it should be like, the kingdom of heaven. And the then we see the character of the king example or exemplified in several of the parables. Such as the parable of the workers in the vineyard, the parable of the lost sons. You see the character of the king being taught And the application of that is drawn for us to learn and see what the king is like and to learn of his character and what he how he would act or respond in a particular situation. So we learn of the king through these parables like that. And then the character of the king's subjects. The character of the king's subjects. So in example of like the parable of the Good Samaritan, the parable of the priest, uh I'm sorry persistent widow, uh the one who came and kept knocking and uh you know, we need this the character of the king's subject. What kind of character should we have? As we see these parables being taught, we learn not just about the king doing what it should be like Not just about the king and what he is like, but also about what we should be like and what God expects of us. Now there are 16 parables in the New Testament taught by others. There are sixteen parables in the New Testament taught by others. Mostly John and Paul, obviously to take out the Gospels. Uh you would have John and Paul there that would be your major authors of the New Testament. Um, but sixteen others that can be referenced there in the New Testament parables that aren't taught by Christ. So now I want to see the discharge or the use of parables for us today. Teaching by parables does several things. Christ teaching or us using parables ourselves, teaching by parables, reserved truth from the scoffer. It reserved truth from the scoffer in our text here. Jesus says, and he answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. You see, there were some that were just curiosity seekers. There were some that were just hanging around just because they wanted to see what Christ was going to do next, but they did not want to have a relationship with Christ. They didn't want to know and understand the mysteries of the Word of God. They wanted to see what was going to happen next They wanted to see a lame man get up and walk, or they wanted to see a blind person healed, but they did not want to know Jesus Christ. So one of the main reasons that Jesus taught in parables was to conceal, to hide the divine truth from those that did not want to know it. That did not want to see it. And we understand that the scriptures is not for the world. The meat of the word is not. They need to come to Jesus Christ. The Bible says that those things are hidden to them. They could read the scriptures and they don't understand the truth of it. It doesn't apply to their heart until they trust Jesus Christ as their Savior. They want a relationship with Him, and then the pages of Scripture come alive. Then they start to see what it is that God is teaching and how it applies to them and what they can glean from it. But until they desire the relationship, It's hidden. And they hear Christ tell the story and they think, oh, that's neat. That lady found her coin. That's great. But they did not understand the truth that was being taught there and how it applied to them and to the kingdom of heaven. And so it divided the the truth seeker from the curiosity seeker. Those that wanted the truth would ask, like in Matthew 13, 36, uh he they asked, they actually say declare unto us, but what they're saying is explain. Explain to us the parable in 1336. Then Jesus went to the multitude away and went into the house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares in the field. Though those that wanted to know said, hey, Lord, teach me. And listen, as we look at parables or as we look at the scriptures, And we see the Word of God, we need to get to that place where we say, God, open the pages of Scripture to me. Show me, teach me from your word. Lord, I want to know. And ask God, sometimes You might hear somebody preach or somebody teach and they read a passage of scripture and they begin to expound on that passage of scripture. And in your minds you think, you know, I've looked at that passage a hundred times, and I never saw that. Ask God to open the pages of Scripture to you to reveal and don't feel bad because it's an endless well. of knowledge and truth that God can teach us. And Brother Marlowe's here shaking his head. He's been saved a long time, been teaching the Word of God a long time. And he can still look into a passage of scripture that he studied and taught and And still God can open it up one more layer. And He can still get excited and say, wow, that is neat. Look at what God taught me today. When we ask God, Lord, teach us. What you mean by this. And that's what we want to be, somebody that desires to know that. It also revealed truth to the seeker. Not only did it reserve truth from the scoffer, but it revealed truth to the seeker. One can hear the story and never ask, what does this really mean? How does this apply to me? Smith in his dictionary of the Bible says that parables sometimes would withdraw the light from those who love darkness. A parable can sometimes get the light to turn on. Somebody that doesn't even really know what it is they need. And I, many times, when I'm given the gospel, will talk about a just judge. And people, they love God and they think God is a God of love and he would never send anybody to hell And so I'll give them the parable. And I'll start in my presentation of the gospel with the fact that we're all sinners. And that sin is a transgression of the law. And I say, for example, if you went out here and drove your car down the street 100 miles an hour, you have transgressed the law. If an officer stopped you, you would have a penalty to pay, wouldn't you? And they would say, yeah. They don't see I'm setting them up. I'm setting up the parable for them. And they're like, yeah, I said, see, we've all transgressed the law. We've broken the law. And then I say, you know, but uh the fact is is that God is a just God. The the penalty has to be paid. Let's say that you uh broke the law and you had to go to court and the judge is standing there. And the judge is up or he's up in his booth and you're standing in front of him and the judge says, listen, you are going X amount of miles an hour over the speed limit. This is a $500 fine or five days in jail And you say, oh man, I don't have $500. I can't pay that. And the judge says, okay, you got to spend five days in jail. And he you say, oh I can't, if I do that, I'm gonna lose my job. I mean I can't afford five days in jail. And oh my goodness, what am I gonna do? I can't pay this, the price is too high But the judge can't just let you off. The payment has to be paid. He's a just judge. The payment has to be paid. You wouldn't like a judge if he said, oh, you know what? I'm a loving judge. So I know that you're a murderer. I know you're a rapist, but we're just going to let you off. We wouldn't want to judge like that. God has to be just And then I say, but you know what God did? God stood up. He took his robe off. And he came around the front of the bench. And he held out $500 for you. It is a just judge that demands the payment be paid. But he paid it. He came around and said, It has to be paid, but I'm willing to pay it. And that's what he did when he sent his son Jesus Christ. And I can tell you over and over and over again, as I've given that illustration, I have seen the light come on. In people's eyes. Wow. That makes sense. He has to be just, he can't just let everybody off, but it's his love for us that caused him to pay it And it opens their eyes to the truth of the scriptures in a parable. So it reveals the truth to the seeker, somebody that wants to know. And I've also been there where people just sat and listened to that story. There's many of you that have never heard me tell you tell that illustration before, and even right now, the power of that hit you. Right now. But there's been people I've stood at their door and they just it's like it didn't even register because they're not a seeker, because they didn't want it So it's going to reserve truth from the scoffer, it's going to reveal truth to the seeker, and then it's remembered by the sincere. The powerful thing about teaching by parables. is it's easy to remember. How many of you could tell me the parable of the prodigal son? Did you study that this morning? No, but it's a way of teaching that's rememorable. There might be moral principles, there might be truths and things that we that we don't remember. But Jesus taught this way because it's remembered by the sincere. It's easy to remember. Okay, we've got a couple of minutes here. Uh first of all, a parable should be looked at in context. As with any passage of scripture, anything we study, you need to understand the context. What's taking place before it, what's taking place after it. Put it in context. Don't just read the parable all by itself. Okay? Does it appear in more than one gospel? That would give you several other references. Many of the parables appear in more than one gospel, and in the parables that I listed for you, it shows that. Do you understand the historical and cultural context? It'll really help you understand the parable if you understand the historical or cultural context. Why did Jesus use the Samaritan in the story of the Good Samaritan? If we understand the historical context, it opens that story up to us a little bit more because the Samaritans were despised by the Jews. He had no purpose or reason or shouldn't even have bothered to try and go help a Jew. But he did. Understanding that, what about in the parable of the lost coin? If we understood the value of the coin in that day, it might help us picture this story a lot better. The more we understand about the historical or cultural context, the more it will open that parable to us. Okay, what was the problem that prompted the parable? If we look at it in context, we'll see what there's some problem, there's something that was taking place that prompted Jesus to begin teaching in this parable When we understand the question, we can form a correct answer. A parable only teaches one main truth. only teaches one main truth. This is very important. A lot of people want to delve into parables and draw from them these extensive levels of truth, you're gonna get into trouble doing that. Understand the parable in context and draw from it the one main truth. Just like any passage of Scripture, there's only one interpretation. There are many applications. We can apply it to our life in many ways. Based on what we're going on through going through in our life at that time, it may teach us or help us in a different way, but there's only one main truth. We've got to be careful with that. The effort to draw meaning from every single part would get you in trouble. Each part is there to support the main truth. It's all important. Every part of it's important. But trying to draw meaning from every part is an extreme we don't want to go to. It's like a painting, a masterpiece. We don't want to discount the parts. We don't want to say, oh, all the parts don't mean anything. Because if you take out the parts, the masterpiece of the painting is not there. Every part is important to make up the painting. But there's only one painting, not a whole bunch of different paintings. So balancing those truths is is important and delving too far in either direction is an error. If you go too far to, oh, every single part teaches something. And I'm going to find every single part and what it teaches. And people do this. I have an example here. This would blow your mind. But this is actually published, taught doctrine. From the parable of the good Samaritan. By the Samaritan man who went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, Adam himself is meant. Okay, so they're drawing from there, they're saying that Jesus was actually talking about Adam in that Good Samaritan story, drawing meaning from every single part. Jerusalem is a heavenly city of peace from whose blessedness Adam fell. Adam left Jerusalem, was heading to Jericho. He was in heavenly peace, and he fell from that, and he's going to the city of sin. Ah. Who stripped him The when these thieves that fell upon him, the thieves are the devil and his angels, who stripped him, they stripped him of his immortality They beat him by persuading him to sin, and they left him half dead, because in so doing, as far as a man can understand and know God, he lives, but as far as he is Wasted and oppressed by sin, he is in fact half dead. So they're drawing trying to draw meaning from every single part of the parable and apply it to something. So diving too deep into these parables and saying, oh, how can we apply this to every part of our life will lead you to error. So you need to have the balance. Find the one main truth. and realize that every application should at least be in harmony with that one main truth. Um Then application should be brought from one of the main from one main foundation or the main truth. No extreme should be taken in either direction. A parable has details that are needed for the earthly story, but hold no real spiritual significance. So don't try and draw spiritual significance from the fact that the Good Samaritan was walking on a dirt road. Okay? That means that this life is hard and there's going to be bumpy roads that we're going to have to walk someday. I mean, trying to fail too much can cause problems. It should there are parts of the story that are just parts of the story. So as we dig into these parables, I hope that we can appreciate how blessed we are to live in a day when we can understand them, when they can apply to us. In Matthew chapter 13, where we started, verses 16 and 17, the Bible says, Blessed be are your eyes, for they see And your ears, for they hear. For verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see. And have not seen them, and to hear the things which ye hear and have not heard them. There are a lot of people that wanted to know the truths that are made plain to you and I. They would desire to know that. The Old Testament prophets could only look ahead. But we get these things explained very clearly to us, and we're blessed to live in a time when we can. So we want to praise praise the Lord for that. And as we as we dig into these, I hope that this study will be something very applicable and good and uh for each of us and we'll glean things for our lives.