Well, we want to welcome everybody here. We're thrilled that you've taken the time to come and support. I was just talking to Ken there in the back and I said, man, I'm so glad you came. He says, well I just had to. He said, man, these people put all this work in and and you know practiced and memorized their lines. The least I could do is come and enjoy it. I said, hallelujah, that's good, I tell you, if I could get everybody to think that, this place would be full tonight. But we're thrilled that each of you took the time to come and uh many of uh guests friends and family uh that have come along as well and we're uh honored that you've taken the time to come and uh experience the katada here this year at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm going to begin with a word of prayer, and uh then we will turn it right over the can over to the cantata um after I pray uh And Jason, would you come up here and grab this chair for me? Just carry it off the side right there and I'm gonna take this one out of the way uh that way after I pray. And we'll turn it over to the cantata and please enjoy uh a son is given. Let's open in prayer. Lord, we love you. We thank you for your goodness and your grace to us. We thank you for the gift of your Son and what it means for us who know you as our Lord and Savior and the change that you brought in our lives. And I pray, God, that the message tonight would be clear. that uh you would give everyone that has practiced and memorized and learned their lines. Lord, give them clarity of thought and ease of the nerves. I pray that they uh would remember all that they've rehearsed and Uh Lord, that we would just uh enjoy the cantata tonight and that you would speak to our hearts, Lord. Bless each and every person who took the time to come out and I'll be a part of it tonight. We're grateful for all these things. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Unto us the child is born Unto us the sun is born, unto us, asan is unto us, the sun is a very good one. Wonderful comes almighty God, the everlasting. Council. And he said to her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favor with God. And behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth the Son, and shall call his name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. Almighty God, we have the lasting father, the prince of me. Well before you review how we're going to do it. We come back to our final case of the day. If all of you could please bear with us just a few minutes longer, we can get you home for the holidays just as soon as possible. Mr. Kobe, who do we have next? Um up next we have a defendant charged with a DUI and fleeing the scene of an accident. Sorry. Your Your Honor, if I could ask a quick favor. Merry Christmas, Sarah. Merry Christmas, Your Honor. I thought this was going to be a quick case, but here stands a noble public defender to disabuse me of that belief. I'm sorry, Your Honor. If I could just ask a brief extension to speak with my client Uh we haven't had a lot of time to prepare. Come on, Sarah. This is open and this is an open and shut case. Stop dragging it out. Why are you stalling? This isn't anything but open and shut, Ryan. Mrs. Novak I could give you a a very brief continuance, but anything longer than an hour or so, and your client's going to have to spend Christmas back in his cell. It'll just take a few minutes, Your Honor. Confer with your client, Mrs. Novak. We'll see you back here in 45 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor. Well Infant holy, infant holy, for his battle cattle stall. I think holding this one Swiftly winging nature singing, well, ringing, ringing, springing, we're going to be able to do that. Oxford sleeping everything. So the glory of story guarding the gospel. Thus we joy see, free from sorrow, raise his voice, breathe the morrow for joy. Right for the small. Oh yeah, the cable in the corner and hiding your face from the judge is very suspicious behavior. I I can't face him again. Who? Judge Hammond? Do you know him? I I I can't face him again. Why? Do you think you aren't gonna get a fair trial? I mean s I mean we can get another judge or ask him to recuse himself. No, it it doesn't matter. I can't help you if you won't work with me. Fine. Look, we don't have a lot of time. Just tell me what happened. It's like I told you on the phone. I fell asleep at the wheel. It was an accident. Simple as that. Okay, and you weren't under the influence of alcohol? No, I told the other cop that and the other attorney. I don't even know why you keep asking me that. Probably because of your past DUI. That was twenty years ago. That's what this is all about, huh? You finally gonna stick it to me? I know I should have never come back here. Come back here? You don't live here. No, no, of course not. I got out of this town as soon as I could and never been back since. Why were you coming back last night? It was uh my mom. She has cancer and I I needed to come back. Uh I'm sorry. It's whatever happens. So just to clarify, you were driving back to your mother's house at two AM? Yeah. I worked all day and Caught up caught up in some traffic, left late and I was driving through the night to get here and I thought I could make it I mean I was almost here when I came out the exit and I I must have nodded off or drifted off for a second. And that's when you struck the parked car and the courthouse sign. Okay. What's the point of this? Maybe you should take this a little more seriously. I mean this is your second DUI and the prosecutor will want to lock you up for thirty days minimum. What that's ridiculous. I wasn't even drinking. I've been sober for two years to the day And how do you explain fleeing the scene? I didn't flee the scene. Yes, you did. No, I did not. I hit my head, it was cold outside, and thought if I could just get home, I would call it in and report it. You still fled the scene of an accident. An accident? All I hit was a parked car. Well, that doesn't matter. It should. I did nothing wrong. Matter of fact, you have nothing on me. Mr. Freeman, I am your attorney. I'm trying to defend you. You're not making our lives any easier by being so belligerent. Yeah, well, newsflash? It doesn't matter. He's gonna fill the book at me anyways. The judge? Okay, Craig, if there's something you should tell me, y you need to say it. It doesn't matter. It's hopeless. Sorry for the inconvenience, Mr. Covey. That's no problem, Judge. They're sure taking their Dear sweet time. I'm just sorry to see the Public Defender's Office abuse your kindness once again. Hey, it's okay. We really do want to make sure that everyone receives fair representation here. Trust me, Your Honor. At this stage they're always guilty. Otherwise they wouldn't be in this mess. That is quite a jaded view of our justice system. Hey, I mean I'm just saying I've been in my line of work just long enough. that I know that these creeps they're all the same. Hey, this it's a human being we're talking about here. Well yeah, it's it's basic human nature. A criminal needs to be punished. Otherwise he will go back into his old ways. People do not change. I do appreciate your strong sense of justice, Mr. Covey. However, you seem to be forgetting the place of mercy. Forgiveness and rehabilitation. Not to mention that whole pesky concept of innocent until proven guilty. You're changing the subject, aren't you? No. I would just simply remind you that no one, none of us are perfect And but for the grace of God, any of us could fall into all sorts of evil. Okay, Judge. I know, I know you teach a Sunday school class, but this Ain't a little kid's Sunday school lesson. And this isn't some minor sin problem or little indiscretion. I get you should forget mistakes. Believe me, I get you should forgive mistakes. But not bad actions. Not when they cause harm to others. Mr. Covey, we are all sinners. All we like sheep have gone astray. We are all deserving of judgment. Bo? Look who's being the bleak bleak, pessimist, jaded, I believe you said, jaded pessimist now. It would be if that were the end of the story, but it's only the beginning. Christmas reminds the sinner that fear and despair can give way to joy. Oh Joey, my Savior's birth to fall in man is present This on the Shepherd hear it. The rabbit earless dog can hear a melody. Glory by God in the prince, but will be sent me. And that is me with us. It's me they will not have more stranger Source brain. And we with the Lord have glory. So it's not here. Just remember to be respectful and honest. I mean, I can tell you from past experience you are lucky it is Judge Hamden today and not Judge Miller. Mrs. Novak, are you and your client ready? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you for your patience. You too, Ryan. Yeah, yeah, maybe we proceed. Yes. We will now hear the case of Mr Mr Where did my papers go? Oh, oh, I have them right here. Thank you. Yes, thank you very much. The case of Mr. Craig. Your Honor. I told you. It's hopeless. Mr. Craig Friedman. It's like a ghost from the past. Uh I must alert counsel that I am too familiar with this defendant. Uh due to our past history, uh I think it's important that he stands before a different judge today. Your Honor, I am aware that there is history between the two of you. However, my client is desperate to have his case heard. He came in For the holidays to see his mother who is dying dying of Cancer. I'm aware. To wait for another judge would potentially leave my client in custody over these precious few days Additionally, he doesn't have a lot of money to pay for bail, so please hear his case. And how does the defendant plead the charges of driving under the influence and fleeing the scene of an accident? He pleads not guilty to the DUI, but guilty to leaving the scene of an accident. And I should add that he would like to waive his right to a trial by jury. For the record, Your Honor, the state has no objection to waiving a jury trial. Okay, Mr. Friedman? Greg, at least look at him. Mr. Friedman, is it true you want to stand trial before me and waive your right to a jury trial? Uh uh y yeah, yes, Your Honor. Alright, court will take a brief recess now. Your Honor, what Okay, Craig, still what's going on? How in the world do you know Judge Hammond Uh I I I caused his son's death. What? Yeah. I I killed his son. And you just you j you just threw yourself on his mercy? What have you done? Mercy series served for me. Then my God is rabbit I have won with someone. I had a circle. So I know I think Try Jesus I was a stupid kid. It was it was my seventeenth birthday. I went to a party with some friends. Someone showed up with alcohol. Everyone pressured me to drink and it was my birthday after all. You don't have to explain it to me. Well, you're my counselor, right? My advocate? Might as well know who you're advocating for. Craig. I don't know how many drinks I had. It didn't even seem like that many. And suddenly I realized how late it was and didn't want my mom to be suspicious, so I grabbed my keys and left. Somebody tried to stop me, but I was fine. I drove home and I I knew I was drunk but then again, like I said, I was fine. I mean I was always fine. Uh I I didn't see him. uh swerved and he was practicing for attract me. I I didn't see him, it was an accident. Of course it was. I mean it wasn't my fa what am I saying? Of course it was my fault. I am so sorry. Yeah, me too. My life has never been the same. Craig, I don't begin to assume to know what your life has been through, but didn't you pay the penalty for that mistake? Didn't you serve a sentence? Manslaughter. D U I manslaughter. What an awful word. Manslaughter I was convicted and sentenced to two years and then let out early but off good behavior, but it's probably just because of my age. Then you can find solace that justice was served. Justice? Who's justice Jason's still dead. I still killed him. I mean it didn't bring him back, did it? Didn't wipe w wipe away my guilt. I mean today I couldn't even look the judge in the face, not even once. You have to move on and and try to live a normal life. Yeah, well when you cause someone else's death, when you kill a man's son, you don't get to just m m move on. That's not how life works Have you tried talking to a doctor or a counselor or maybe someone at a a church? You're kidding. Church. Yeah, nobody wants me in church. Come on. Nobody even wants me in heaven. I don't think any of us get to decide who deserves heaven. I'm sorry, Your Honor. We're we're ready. It's okay, and and forgive me for eavesdropping. I guess I wasn't expecting to hear a discussion on heaven today, but I guess with the season and all it makes sense. I'm confused I think you need Christmas. Precisely, Sarah. Christmas is the time when Jesus left heaven to earth to open heaven for all mankind. What You would know, sir, as the resident Sunday school teacher. Sorry again for taking so long. We're ready to proceed. Very well. Open heaven to man. How would he even do that? Born in property debris. Born in property. With the Prince of your train. Tend to come first, when you pray, and to my finding the way. Come to suffer, come to die, come to hear his And you give the Lord before us to my life. Holy word come from God. Godley Furthermore, my client did not stagger and stumble around, nor did he sink off into the shadows. As my esteemed colleague so vividly imagined. Watch the video. In fact, I would assert that my client did not intend to flee the scene at all. He was disoriented, tired, and seeking shelter from the cold. He was also under the in under the assumption that his mother could die at any moment. He didn't think he had done anything wrong. My client fell asleep behind the wheel, and there is no evidence Your Honor, as I stated previously, there is plenty of evidence that this is a DUI. Go back to the flight. Just go back to the flight for a minute. You're like a broken record. It marked the extent of the damage, the lateness of the hour, most importantly the fact that he fled the scene. Why else would he flee the scene? Your honor. It's because he was drunk. And he didn't want to get caught. You can't take a breathalyzer when you're nowhere to be found. It's too convenient. I have so many objections right now, I don't even know where to start. Okay. Um If both of you are quite through with your theatrical performances, I believe we can bring this case to a close. At this point, I've heard from both of you, as well as from the defendant himself, and we seem to be descending into this cycle of squabbling. Okay. I've heard your closings and I'm ready to rule. Look, whatever happens, we can appeal. No. They brought me here. Why was this now? Will the defendant, Craig Friedman, please rise. After hearing all the arguments, weighing the facts, viewing the video footage, and hearing your testimony, I find as follows. To the charge of driving under the influence, I find the defendant not guilty. What? Oh, Greg! And to the charge of fleeing the scene of an accident, I find the defendant guilty In determining the sentence for this crime, it is noted that the defendant has a criminal record, including a previous DUI manslaughter, of which I am painfully familiar. Due to the extent of damages caused to the courthouse property and the suspicious circumstances to your flight, I sentence you the maximum fine allowable, $4,000. It's okay, Craig. It's still a big win. Surely we can come up with that amount somewhere. What what is the judge doing? Here's the amount that Craig owes, paid in full, four thousand dollars. If there are any other damages or um expenses that come up in the meantime, I will cover those as well. Your Honor, what J Jud Just take it to the clerk, okay? Uh tell her to get the paperwork in order. I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much. Judge Hammond, wait, y you can't do this. Go home, Craig. Be with your mom. It's Christmas time. Okay? She needs you during this time. But how could how could you do this? I forgive you, Craig. Okay? It's about time you accept my forgiveness. But much more than my forgiveness, you need to accept God's forgiveness. You need to accept Jesus Christ as your Savior. Hm. I I I tried once, but I mean how can he save me? I mean, after all the the pain that I've caused and the life that I've wasted, you you judge if all people would know why I I could never be saved. You're wrong, Craig. He died for you. He loves you. He's waiting for you right now. Is that really true? Yes. The Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Can I do that now? Absolutely Dear Lord, I I don't even know where to start. Um I'm not any good at this and I know it's been a while, but Lord, I I ask that somehow, Lord, if you could forgive me, God, from all the pain that I've caused and the life that I've wasted, Lord, Lord, forgive me of of all those mistakes, of my sins and my transgressions. God Lord and I I believe. I do believe. And God, I confess that you are my Lord and my Savior in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. This this is the best Christmas present anyone could ask for. Judge, I I need to thank you truly. Thank you for for giving me I know it probably doesn't mean much and wouldn't help anything really, but I want you to know that I've felt so guilty my entire life and I have suffered every single day since that awful night. I know you've suffered. But I want you to know that much more Then you're suffering. I wanted your redemption. I I don't understand how you could feel that way towards me of all people. I can't feel that way towards you by myself, but I can with God I I feel I feel strange. I mean I feel like this huge weight has been lifted off my shoulders. I mean I feel like I finally feel Justified. What? Th the word justified, that's the word you're looking for. It means to be made right or to be declared righteous. Well no I mean I can never be righteous I I know that for sure. No, no, not any righteousness of our own. But when we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior, we take on Jesus' perfect righteousness. The wrath of God has been appeased after we've accepted Jesus Christ as our Savior. And God declares that from now and forevermore we are justified. I just is not a my law I will say God, the righteous God of all maker of evil. For y'all think that it may be born. The tutor starts content. All has been all that's in perfect Just this your demand, he's a word of guilty man, justified by I will tell me for the In the car of perfect love will God here I need that one for the I am the God of God is God's pleas for Christ's sake Just by the road, deep with God to Christ has done, prices not a road, I will stand. I will stand it for the round S. Sure. How can I help you, Ryan? That that scene in there was touching, truly, I must admit it. It was touching. But I hope you don't hold it aga hold it again me for saying that I don't understand how you could be so how you should for how you could forgive him so quickly and so easily Well, to be honest with you, it really wasn't quick or easy. But, sir, that was the perfect chance to avenge your son's death. He didn't even serve his full sentence. I don't understand that kind of forgiveness. It would seem to me like you'd want justice. Justice. I love justice. I mean, I seek justice. My hope for life is eternal justice But not my justice, and certainly not yours. I I apologize, Your Honor. I see what you're saying. You mean God's justice? Exactly. What is justice without mercy And and what is mercy without justice? But but your son. You're right. My son. My only son. I I did lose my son. And I doubt that pain that I've experienced throughout life will ever go away. But through this tragedy, I couldn't help but think about another father who lost his only son. Jesus came to earth for the very men who caused his pain. I'm one of those men, and so are you. You asked me how I could forgive him so easily. I can forgive because I've been forgiven. I must forgive because I'm forgiven. And through forgiveness. comes freedom, peace, and joy inexpressible. Choice in the world of glory is done every Trust me and I mercy the earth and they don't raise that man There's all the four dances, what do you want to play? Repeat the sounding drones We be a sounding Saints and Sarah Lord in the room Because you take his work. Forest are perfect time for as the curtain Joy to the world, he was the one which is can break and make the nation's good. The glory comes just and wandrava and wandirt and the Well I just wanted to take just a moment and uh ask you to think about the message that was portrayed tonight. If you're here and you feel a weight of guilt, regardless of what you've done, maybe we're not talking about something as drastic as Craig Friedman who took the life of the judge's son. But do you understand the Bible is very clear that for all who sinned and come short of the glory of God, every single one of us are Born in sin. The psalmist said we're born in sin and shapen in iniquity. We all stand guilty. before the judge of the world, the judge of the universe, the judge of heaven. How much guilt is there really is irrelevant I don't have to tell more than one lie to be a liar. I don't have to steal more than one thing to be a thief. I don't have to commit more than one sin to be a sinner. There may be some here that in your eyes you're really a pretty good person. But if you were on Honest before God, you would have to say, Well, I certainly have sinned. And you know whether you really feel the weight of that guilt or not, the fact is that it's there. You can experience the Forgiveness that Craig experienced tonight. God is offering that freely to any who would just call upon him. Message was given so clear. We are all guilty before God. But God desires and wants to offer, you know, to be Be justified. If you're here tonight and you would like to experience that justification, that is to be forgiven, to know the forgiveness of God, to have that weight You know, it didn't really matter that for Craig it was an accident. That for Craig it was something Something he never meant to do, that it was not on purpose, that he wanted to do something different, that he would change it if he could, but the facts are that it it happened And so he bore that guilt. But the judge offered forgiveness. And the judge paid His debt. You see, that's what a righteous judge does. A righteous judge demands that the law be met. Some people say, well. God is love and God loves everybody, and boy, God would never send anybody to hell. God doesn't send people to hell. They choose to go there because they denied his answer and means to get to heaven. Craig in our story here, Craig could have looked at the judge and he could have yelled over there and said Don't take that money from him. I don't want it. That's what many people in the world do to our Savior. He offered himself as a free gift. to cover your sin debt, and you would look in the eyes of the judge and say, I don't want what you're offering. I would ask you tonight. Would you like to know that forgiveness? Would you like to be justified? Forgiven just as if you had never sinned, that your sin has been removed. Because you put your faith and trust in Christ. Now, if you're here this evening, and you'd say, Pastor Caleb, I'm not sure I understand all of that, but I know That I would like to know more about it. Would you show me by an uplifted hand and just say that's me, Pastor Caleb, would you pray for me tonight? Would there be one in here you say that's me Just pray for me tonight. I need to know more about this. I I don't know who's all here and where you're at, but the message is clear this evening. The goal is that you There's people all over this room right now that are praying that you, every one of the people present, know for sure that you're forgiven, that you're on your way to heaven. I'm going to have every head bowed and every eyes closed just for a moment. I'm just going to give you an opportunity with nobody looking God spoke to my heart. And this is something that I need. Would you pray for me right now? Would there be one in the auditorium here? You would say, That's me, Pastor Caleb. Thank you. Lord, we come to you now. We're grateful for your love for us. We thank you for the amazing message that was portrayed so eloquently tonight by song. and the acting of those involved in the cantata this evening. We thank you for what they've done. But most of all we thank you for the gift of your son. And God we pray that Each and every person here would know you as Lord and Savior before the night's done, that they would not leave without getting that settled. Lord, I pray you'd give them the courage to speak to somebody ourselves. We know ourselves more than anybody else. But Lord, the privilege and the joy of salvation is that that guilt can be removed. I pray that you would help them this evening to take that step of faith and turn to you before it's too late. Lord, we love you. We thank you for this time. We ask this in Jesus' name.