Uh we're going to be in uh second Kings chapter 18 this evening. Second Kings chapter 18 when Pastor asked me if uh if I could do this on Sunday. Um I I agreed. And then Sunday night he said his Sunday school was going to be in Hezekiah, so sorry, Pastor We're going to be looking at Hezekiah a good bit tonight. So still come to Sunday school. You can sleep through that part. Just kidding. Don't sleep during Sunday school Um so just kind of by way of introduction, I I I like I can't sing. My my everybody in my family is musically inclined. I sometimes joke that my kids get all their talent for me, that's why I don't have any. Um I can't sing. I but I I I love music, I love songs. I especially like to learn the history of songs. To me it just kind of takes what's already a good song a lot of times and kind of elevates it. One of those, if you're not familiar with it as well, is my soul. If you don't know the history of that song, it's still a great song. Great Truths, it's still a wonderful song. But when you know the history behind it, and what went into making that song, it just makes it so much better. If you don't know just very quickly, Horatio Spafford was a Chicago businessman. He was a real estate investor and the sh the the fires in Chicago in 1871 uh wiped out a lot of his investments. And uh so they him and his family rebuilt. And after a few years they planned a trip uh to to Europe and because of some of the business matters he got held back from that trip. So he sent his wife and his four daughters along and uh he put them on a ship called the SS Ville du Havre. And he would later join them. Well, while they were crossing the Atlantic, the ship collided with another ship and they both sank. And he got a telegram, he's saved alone from his wife. Um so his four daughters perished and and his wife was was kept alive. So as he traveled to meet his grieving wife now. The ship that he was on passed near the place where his daughters had drowned. He was very moved by sorrow, but still clinging to his faith, and that's when he wrote the words, It is well with my soul. Now if you don't know that, it's still a beautiful song. You can still very much enjoy it. But boy, when you know that and you get to that lyric when sorrows like sea billows roll. And he's on the ship where his daughter has passed away, where he's got that grief, but that deep-seated um peace that he has. I mean it just it just takes a great song. It just to me just elevates it. Um Philip Bliss wrote the music to that song, and the name of the tune for that song is the name of the boat, or Villa du Havre. It's actually the name of the tune. That's what we're going to do tonight. Tonight we're going to look at the history, the backstory, if you will, of a of a song. And it's a song that you're very familiar with. It's found entirely in the Bible. It's found here in 2 Kings chapter 18 and 19. We're going to be reading a good bit tonight. But my prayer is that once you find out what the song is, this song will be an even greater encouragement and blessing to you than it is already. So let's pray and then we'll read. Read. Pray that you be with Pastor as he's away, Lord, and pray that you just put a hedge of protection about him, his family, Lord, as they travel tomorrow morning, the many miles. I pray that you just give them protection and safety. Lord, I pray that this evening you would just speak to our hearts in an individual way. We have a lot to cover tonight, Lord, and you've laid this on my heart, and I pray that you would just help me to relay it in the way that you've put it on my heart, Lord, that it would be a blessing and an encouragement to others Pray that you would just give me the words to say, speak through me in Christ's name. Amen. All right, we're going to start reading just there in verse one. The Bible says, Now it came to pass in the third year of Hosh Hoshia, son of Elah, king of Israel that Hezekiah, the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign. Now that he we're told that he's the son of Ahaz. So before we go any further, we're going to really briefly look at um some of Hezekiah's heritage, his upbringing. King Ahaz devoted himself to pagan worship and evil. He was a very ungodly king. He toured the nation building shrines. He was going after every powerless religion he could possibly find. He even sacrificed his own sons, burning them alive in a ritual to the idol Molech. As a result of that, the Lord opposed his administration and he only reigned for 16 years. Judah lost the empire that was built by his father, King Uzziah and his father, uh, King Jotham He suffered constant military raids by neighbors, even lost national sovereignty and became a vassal to Assyria. On one occasion, Israel, the northern kingdom, invaded Judah, took 200,000 wives and children of Judah's warriors to be slaves. The Lord was not willing to abandon Judah in spite of Ahaz, and so he sent a prophet to meet the conquering army, threatening them with the Lord's anger for kidnapping their brothers' families. So they went back to Jericho. You can't make this stuff up. This is amazing. In spite of all this, the Lord is the You know, in spite of this compassion that God has continued, the Lord has continually shown to Ahaz, He continually does things to provoke him. Later, Judah is invaded by the armies of Israel and Syria, and the Lord spoke through the prophet Isaiah, promising that the attack would not be successful. In spite of that offer of a miracle and you know to verify the prophecy and to aid Ahaz's faith, Ahaz wouldn't trust the Lord. He went and plundered the temple. I mean, this was just a very wicked man. Very ungodly king. This is Hezekiah's father. In fact, in recognition of Ahaz's terrible leadership and its cost to the nation, Ahaz was buried in a commoner's grave. rather than the royal cemetery. And that is a very high form of dishonor. That is a very dishonorable thing. That's how little he was thought of. And that's all recorded in God's word, 2 Kings chapter 16, 2 Chronicles chapter 28, Isaiah chapter 7. You can read that for yourself, just how wicked the father of Hezekiah was. So, verse 1 again, now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshiach, son of Elah, king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign. Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign. And he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Abai, the daughter of Zechariah. And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his father did. So a lot of times people think that your upbringing excuses you. You know, well, you know, my my parents were wicked. I live in a wicked world. I can't do what's right. I think we see from Hezekiah here right off the bat that his father was about as wicked a man as you could be. And Hezekiah did what was right. And he wasn't 70 years old. He hadn't lived a long full life and had all this experience. He was 25 years old. This is a young man. in charge of a nation. Sometimes we seem to think that, you know, you can't lead anybody until you get to the age of 70 or 80 or 90 and you lose your mind. He's a very young man with a lot of responsibility, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord. No matter your home life, no matter your upbringing, no matter what the nation you live in, no matter what's going on around you, you can still live for God. And I don't think Hezekiah suddenly became I don't think they put the crown on Hezekiah's head and he thought, hmm, now what am I going to do to serve the Lord? I think as hot Hezekiah lived in that wickedness, I think he thought, you know, when I become king, I'm gonna make some changes I'm gonna, you know, what my father's doing is disgraceful. And I'm gonna I'm gonna make some changes. I'm not gonna let happen to me what happened to him. I'm not gonna make the same mistakes that he did The Bible gives us some specifics. Here in verse 8, he removed the high places, break the images, cut down the groves, break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. For unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and he called it Nehushtan. Nehushtan is uh is a word that means a piece of brass. It is a very dismissive term. Um I one of my favorite words is note it. When somebody tells you, you know, the sky's blue, okay, note it. Very dismissive, very kind of, you know, all right, whatever. That's what this this the the meaning behind this word is, it's just a piece of brass. And the the children of Israel, and Christ spoke about this image about this brazen serpent to Nicodemus in John chapter 3. So it wasn't bad in itself, but the children of Israel began to worship it instead of the God of it. And they burnt incense to it. And so Hezekiah, I mean it's one thing to tear down, you know, the false religion and the false things. This was something that God had given to them. And he realized what it was, and he had enough godly courage to take care of this problem as well. This is a godly man Verse 5, He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. For he claved to the Lord, and departed not from following him, but kept his commandments which the Lord commanded Moses. And the Lord was with him, and he prospered whithersoever he went forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not. He smote the Philistines, even unto Gate Gaza, and the borders thereof, from the tower of the watchmen, to the to the fenced city. He he broke down those pagan idols and altars. It took some godly courage, and the the Bible tells us that the Lord was with him. Now that shouldn't surprise us. Psalm 1 says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season, his leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. Which is almost the exact same words as you read in verse seven God was with him. That shouldn't surprise us. That's a promise of God. If you do what's right, if you walk in the way of the Lord, then he will prosper you. Verse 9. It came to pass in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, now 29 years old. I'm going to emphasize that some because sometimes we think that, you know somebody my age doing this. This is a young man who's faced with some unbelievable challenges. Came to pass in the fourth year of King Hezekiah, 29 years old. Which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of son of Elah, king of Israel, sh that Shalmanazar, king of Assyria, came up against Samaria and besieged it, and at the end of three years they took it, even in the sixth year of Hezekiah. So from the time he was 29 until the time he was 31. That is in the ninth year of Hoshea, king of Israel, Samaria was taken. So they besieged the city for three years. And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyria and put them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan. and in the cities of the Medes, because they obeyed not the voice of the Lord their God, but transgressed his covenant, and all that Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded, and would not hear them nor do them. So now, here's King Hezekiah, he's already a young king, and now he's got, just to the north, he's got the nation of Israel, and Assyria is coming and besieging it. Not not total full out warfare. They just surrounded the city and stopped anything from going in or out and the people inside would eventually give up. Took three years in this case Hezekiah knows what's coming. He's not a dumb man. He knows what's next. You know, it's the great Assyrians. They're countering everybody. They got the neighbors to the north. Who's next? Verse 13. Now in the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, he's now 39, did Sennacherib, king of Assyria, come up against all the fenced cities of Judah and took them. And Hezekiah, the king of Judah, sent to the king of Assyria to Lakish, saying, I have offended, return from me. That which thou puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah, king of Judah, three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold. And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the Lord. And in the treasures of the king's house. At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the Lord, and from the pillars which Hezekiah, king of Judah, had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria. So here comes Sennacherib, king of Assyria. He invades the smaller cities of Judah. Hezekiah tells him to leave. Get out. So Nakarib says, all right, here's what I want. I want 300 talents of silver, 30 talents of gold. Quick search. I didn't research this. It doesn't matter. You're going to find out this is a lot of money. A talent is around 75 pounds. A talent of silver today is worth about $25,500, and a talent of gold is worth about $2 million. So we gave roughly $7. 5 million worth of silver, $60 million worth of gold, $67,500,000 altogether. That might not be exact. I don't think it matters that much. It's a lot of money. Right? I mean that's that's a that's a ton of money. Um if you think that's you know if you want to if you don't think it is, you can give it to me. Um The exact amount is not as important as the fact that it is a very significant amount. Now, Hezekiah grew up surrounded by wickedness. He grew up with all of this. He knows that the Assyrians are not going to rest and that they're going to be back. He he bought himself some time, literally, bought himself some time. And so he begins to do something very, very wise. He begins to build a tunnel. The tunnels still exists today. It is a tunnel that will bring fresh water into the city. It's called, fittingly enough, Hezekiah's Tunnel. It's in Israel. You can walk through it if you're so inclined. It is 533 meters long, about 1,750 feet, and it brought water from the Gihon Spring to the pool of Siloam Yes, that's the pool of Siloam where the blind man went and washed the clay out of his eyes and regained his sight. The same one. They dug the tunnel. This is a mark uh engineering marvel of the day. They dug the tunnel from both sides and met in the middle And there's inscriptions on the inside of the wall about how they did that uh uh in the tunnel and how they did that and the joy that there was when they met in the middle. I could never do that. Uh it's hewn from solid rock. Why is that important? Because if there's people outside of the city and you can't bring water into the city, you're not going to last very long. If you have water, you can survive. He's a good king, he knows what's coming, and he starts to make plans. He's trusting in God But he's making preparations. He's working towards defending his city. At some point he even sent to Egypt to try to get some military help In Job chapter 1, pastor is doing Job on Thursday nights. In Job chapter 1 and verse 10, when Satan goes to God, he says, Thou hast blessed the work of his hands. Not just that he blessed the man, because sometimes people think if you just sit down and sit on your hands and you look around and say, God's waiting for God to bless me. It doesn't work that way. God blesses your work. He blesses what you do. Hezekiah is making preparations for what he knows is coming. Pretty good for a young man. Verse 17, the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rapserus and Rabshekah from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a great host against Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem And when they were come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the Fuller's field. And when they had called to the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shibna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder. And Rab Rabshekus said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest? Thou sayest, but they are but vain words, I have counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou trust that thou rebellest against me? Now behold, thou trustest upon the staff of his bruised reed, even upon Egypt, on which if a man lean, it will go into his hand and pierce it. So is Pharaoh, king of Egypt, unto all that trust on him But if ye say unto me, We trust in the Lord our God, is not that he whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and have said the Judah and Jerusalem ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem? Now therefore I pray thee, give pledges to my Lord, the king of Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them. That's like I want to play, you know, I'll play you in uh in basketball to to 11 points and I'll spot you ten. That's what he just said, okay? I'll give you two thousand horses. You know, I I'll I'll go to war against you and I'm gonna give you two thousand horses if you can put riders on them. That that's that's what he's doing, okay? When I read that this morning, it w again. And it was like, oh, that's that's good. Verse twenty-four, how then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? Am I now come up without the Lord against this place to destroy it? The Lord said to me, go up against this land and destroy it. So the Assyrians here understand they're absolutely mocking the Jews. They're they're mocking King Hezekiah, they're mocking the Jews. I mean they have an alliance with Egypt, but that that Egypt is weak compared to the Assyrians. In verse 22 he says, You trust in God, but you tore down all of God's God's altars. tore down all of God's highest places. He didn't understand that they weren't gods. They were false gods. And again he says, we'll give you a 2,000 horse. We'll spot you 10 points. We'll give you a 2,000-horse army if you can put people on them. And then in verse 25, he goes on to talk about how their gods have directed them to this place to destroy it. Now he's he's using the name of Jehovah there as the God who directed him, but it wasn't Jehovah who directed him, it was their gods, their little G-O-D-S. So the siege is on. In verse 17, back in verse 17, there was these men, and a great host was sent against Jerusalem. So this wasn't just these three guys. Sometimes you think, oh, it's just these three guys. No, this was a great host that was sent against them. We know at some point it was 185,000 men. We'll see that in a little bit Whether that was 185,000 all at once, whether that was 100,000 joined little by little until it became 185,000, I don't know. It was a great host. God said it was a great host, so it was a lot of people Verse 28. Then Rabshekah stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and spake, saying, Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria. Thus saith the king, let not Hezekiah deceive you, for he shall not be able to deliver you out of his hand. Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliver us. In this city shall not be delivered into the hand of King the king of Assyria. Hearken not to Hezekiah, for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me, and then eat ye every man of his own vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye every one of the waters of his cistern. Until I come and take you away. I mean y'all are y'all getting this. Just just come with me and we'll we'll we'll kidnap you. We'll take you away. Verse 32, until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of olive oil and of honey, that you may live and not die. And hearken not to Hezekiah. Hearken not unto Hezekiah, when he persuadeth you, saying, The Lord will deliver us. Don't listen to him. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all? this his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? Where are the gods of Hamath and of Arped? Where are the gods of Seraphim, Hena and Iva? Have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand? Who are they among all the gods of the countries that have delivered their country out of mine hand? That the Lord should deliver Jerusalem out of mine hand? But the people held their peace And answer him not a word, for the king's commandment was, saying, answer him not. Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household. and Shebna the scribe and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder to Hezekiah with their clothes friend and told him the words of Rabshekah. Uh first thing Rab Shekha spoke in the Jews' language. There is something very special when somebody speaks to you in your language. If you have ever been outside of this country somewhere where they don't speak English, there is nothing greater than finding somebody who speaks English. Nothing. I remember we'd go to the Philippines, we'd get in a taxicab, my wife would say, and the taxi drive driver would say, and she'd say, okay, let's go. And I'm like, what's going on? Like, I don't know I don't understand My wife's from Cebu when she they speak Cebuano. The national language is the Galog. When I was with the kids, we'd go we were in Giant one day and we were walking down the hall and there was a cabayon, one of the fellow countrymen And and it always started the same. Oh, you know, lots of Poe, Po, Poe, Poe is Tagalog. I didn't know any of Saiyan. I didn't know any Gaog. I knew if I knew heard Po, they were speaking to Galog. When I heard die. I'll die. Die with Cebuano. So they would spend five minutes working out where each other was from. And when they figured out that they were from the same place and spoke the same language, and I started hearing, oh die, die, die. Come on kids, let's go get something to eat. Because mom's gonna be a while If it was just Messiah, Miss Leaders up here laughing because, yep, when it's the same language, it is very, very special. It's just different. And this this Rabshekah comes and he's not speaking in some other, he's speaking to the Jews in their language. This is a major psyop. This is major psychological operations going against all of the people to kill their will. Don't believe Hezekiah. Hezekiah may be a godly king. Remember what his father was like though Just don't listen to him. He's going to wind up being like him. Don't listen to him. Listen to me. None of the other gods were able to to deliver the people their people. How do you think your God is going to? And they went and they told Hezekiah, now that's bad news. It's bad news for a young king. What's he going to do? If he compromises, what's going to happen? They're going to get carried away. If he doesn't compromise, they're going to be slaughtered But King Hezekiah was a godly king, so it shouldn't surprise us what he did. Look in verse chapter 19 and verse 1 It came to pass when King Hezekiah heard it that he rent his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord And he sent Eliakim, which is over the household, and Shebon the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amos. That is Isaiah. Isaiah the prophet is Isaiah. And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, this day is the day of trouble and of rebuke and blasphemy, for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth. It may be The Lord thy God will hear all the words of Rabshekah, whom the king of Assyria, his master, has sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the Lord thy God hath heard. Wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left. So the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah. So this is it, right? This is the day of trouble. He's been preparing for this. He's done all he could, and now the day of trouble is at hand. It it's it's it's go time. He prayed, he he sent to the man of God Isaiah, and what a great example when trouble comes, right? I mean this this young man is a great example of of what to do in a time of crisis. Get on your face before God. Go talk to the man of God. Seek godly counsel. Don't look for somebody who's going to tell you what you want to hear. Look for somebody who's going to give you the truth. And that's exactly what he does Remember also, don't ever forget, there's a steady flow of water into the city. Water represents something in the Word of God. It represents the Word of God. There's this steady flow of water, and and just like uh water is essential for physical life, the Word of God is essential for spiritual life. In fact, the prophet Isaiah said, Ho everyone that thirsteth Come ye to the waters and drink. The steady flow of water that symbolizing just his reliance on the Word of God and on God. And verse 6, Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall you say to your master, Thus saith the Lord, Be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, which the servants of with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me, behold I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumor, and shall return to his own land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land So Isaiah tells him he'll go away, and he does. Verse 8. So Rebshekah returned and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah, for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish. And when he heard say that Tirka, whatever that guy's name, king of Ethiopia, behold, he has come out to fight against thee, he sent messengers unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah, king of Judah, saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying, Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the king of the hand of the king of Assyria Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands by destroying them utterly, and shalt thou be delivered Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed, as Gozan and Haran and Rezbah and the children of Eden which were in Thalassar? Where is the king of Hamath and the king of Arpad and the king of the city of Seraphim and Hina and Iva? I mean, he's not pleased. So he sends a letter back. Even then, you know, a letter is the way to communicate bad news, right? Even then they sent the letter back. Look, all these other nations, and and I don't know if you've noticed it or not, but we've read a lot of names of a lot of nations and a lot of kings that Assyria has gone through. This is not some small army. This is something to be reckoned with. And and they say, you know, these nations trusted in their God. Do you really think your God is that different that he can deliver you? He is desperately trying to make Hezekiah a break. He's trying to break his faith in God. Anything he can to just just wearing him out. Nothing's changed in the world. That's all they do today is just try to wear you out, right? Verse 14, Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it. Bad news again, right? Hezekiah went up into the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said, O Lord God of Israel, which dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God. Even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth, thou hast made heaven and earth. Lord, bow down thine ear and hear. Open, Lord, thine eyes and see, and hear the words of Sennacherib which hath sent him to reproach the living God. Of a truth, Lord, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands, and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were no gods, but the work of man's hands. wood and stone, therefore ha they have destroyed them. Now therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou walk out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. Again, Hezekiah's burden, what does he do? He goes and spreads it to the Lord. I mean, it it it says that he he he went up and the house spread it before I don't have an idea that he went up there and like You know, okay, Lord, I got this letter. I I I I feel that this was a king, a godly king. You have to believe he's a well-respected king because the people were listening to him when they came and spoke against Uh you know, he he gave them the words to not don't speak back and the people listened to him and did not speak back. I feel like this man went and took this and laid flat on his face. in front of the Lord and took this letter and Lord you're going to have to do this not to make me look good the last part of that verse 19 that all the kingdoms of the earth may know That thou art the Lord God even thou only. He wasn't worried about his you know his library that was going to come. He wasn't worried about what people were going to write about him. All he cared about was that the name of God was not blasphemed. If you have a burden, take it to the Lord. He acknowledged that all the other nations were powerless against the Assyrians because their gods were powerless Because they weren't gods at all. They were just nice carvings made out of man's hands. Verse 20. We're almost there. We're we're going somewhere. And if you just stay with me, when we get there, the destination is worth it. Verse 20, then Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, That which thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib, king of Assyria, I have heard it. No, Isaiah is a major prophet, meaning he wrote a lot. I shouldn't tell you this, but when I was in Bible college, I called them the long-winded prophets, because they wrote a lot. It's not really. So we're going to skip ahead a little bit of some of what Isaiah says here. He writes a lot here in verse 32 Therefore, thus saith the Lord concerning the king of Assyria, he shall not come into the city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it. By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, as should not come into the city, saith the Lord, for I will defend the city to save it for mine own sake and for my servant David's sake. Hezekiah, your prayer has been heard and answered. Now look, I I mean I Put yourself on the wall of the city of Jerusalem, and there is 185,000 battle-hardened troops surrounding you. chariots, horses, camps, these guys don't care. Half of them are probably mercenaries. They don't care. And God says They're not going to be shooting arrow. They're not going to come before it with a shield. Do you understand that what was said here is the most improbable thing ever? I mean you're standing there looking up at this massive hundred and eighty-five thousand man army and God says they're not gonna do anything. And you probably know the end of the story, verse thirty five. It came to pass that night That the angel of the Lord went out and smote in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore and five thousand. And when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses. So Senacherib, king of Assyria, departed, went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh, and it came to pass as he was worshipping in the house of Nishrach his god, that Adramelech and Sharazar his son smote him with the sword Exactly like I say it was going to happen. I like it when God solved my problems. We went through all this. Because I want you to understand, Hezekiah was facing a impossible situation. There was no way. There was nothing he could do. There was nothing that all the mighty men in his his garrison could do. They were facing an absolutely, completely impossible situation. This Assyrian army would have wiped Judah off of the face of the earth. They wouldn't have even broken a sweat. Judah didn't stand a chance, and yet they prevailed. Why? Because of the mighty power of the true and living God. Now that's something worth singing about, isn't it? That's something that would make you write a song, isn't it? And you know the song. You know it very well. In fact, I would bet, I'm not supposed to bet, I would guess that in your house On a t-shirt, on a coffee mug you own, somewhere you have some of the words of this song written. So we're going to look at it. It's not found in the hymn book. It's found in the book of Psalms. There were actually three Psalms written about it. Psalm 46, Psalm 47, and Psalm 48. We're just going to look at 46 tonight, because we're in America and we have to get up and go to work in the morning. Sometimes people will attribute these to David. Most of David's Psalms are attributed to himself. You find it as a Psalm of David. This is not a Psalm of David. Most Jewish scholars believe this was written by King Hezekiah. These three psalms were written by King Hezekiah right after this event. And if you read it, with that event fresh in your mind. It's hard to not see it. And you know it very well. Psalm 46, verse 1. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof, sail. There is a river. Remember the tunnel, the fresh water. It's not exactly a river, but there's this flesh, fresh flowing water. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God the holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early The heathen raged. The kingdoms were moved. He uttered his voice. The earth melted. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Salah. There's 185,000 dead people outside the city walls. That's going to take a little time to clean up. That's going to take their horses, all their stuff, their animals, everything all this $185,000,000 people. 185,000 people is going to take some time to dispose of, and they had to dispose of them because if they didn't, there would be rampant disease. In my mind, I can't prove this to you, I can't show you this, but in my mind, the last part of these verses, this psalm was written as they were Rejoicing in what God had done as he did this horrific task. Verse 8, come behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he hath made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot in the fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Sailor. The point tonight is very simple. You're facing something. Some of the Senakarib at your work is is in your ear every day Blaspheming the name of God, telling you how powerless God is, mocking you, you go to the doctor and you say, I'm just going to trust the Lord and the doctor will mock you. You have some Senacarib in your life. You have some impossible situation that you're going to face. You're going to have somebody who's trying to get you to doubt the goodness and the greatness of God. They're going to try to make you fight the battle in your own strength. You're never going to win. You've got to use the example of Hezekiah. Take what he did, this godly man, and use it in your own life. Keep the water flowing. When the trouble comes, prepare for the trouble. If you're not in trouble now, know it's coming. Get ready for it, because it's coming. It it just like that. I mean in the blink of an eye, uh studying Job on Thursday night, it happened out of nowhere. That that that suddenly there's this great battle and and Hezekiah prepared for the day of battle by making sure he had that steady stream of life-giving water. And I mean just to make it even better, even gooder. The w the the tunnel is hewn out of solid stone. Which, you know, the Lord Jesus is the rock of my salvation He had that water flowing daily. When trouble came, he didn't run from God, he didn't quit church, he didn't go compromise on what he believed. He stood strong, not in his own might, but in the power of God And for God's sake, that God might be magnified. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Be still. Well, that's hard to do, isn't it? Be still and know that I am God. I would encourage you, whatever you're facing, it may be mocking from your co-worker. Persecution from your own family over what you believe. Fear of what God is doing in your life. It might be laziness, idolatry, whatever it is, whatever it is, take it to the Lord. Lay it out, spread it out to him, and let him take the problem for you. Not because it's going to make you feel better, but just because he can handle it. If you're not besieged right now, you still got to follow Hezekiah's example in preparing for the day because it is coming. Get the water flowing. Get that water that gives life. Let it flow. And then when troubles come, you'll be able to stand Let's pray. Lord, we love you. We thank you so much for your love for us. Thank you for King Hezekiah, Lord, for recording this event for us in the Bible, Lord, this true story. And I pray that you would just help us to see, Lord. Whatever it is we're facing, Lord, this was just an impossible situation, Lord. A a uh this the psychological operations going on, the just the the the sheer um mass of of humanity that was there, Lord, against that nation, Lord, and and how you preserved it. Lord, I pray that you would help us to see that. Help us to always trust first in you, Lord, and and to to look to seek your face, Lord, to just be still and to know that you're God. And just, Lord, even as those troubles come and as times come, Lord, I pray that you would help us, Lord, to to remember always that that you're in control. You're in control of the drama of our lives. Lord, I pray that as we see these this uh the these these words of this verse which tr found everywhere, Lord, I pray that you would help us to always remember what what they came from. And Lord, the the sheer power of what you did. And I pray that you would just receive the glory and the honor for it all. We ask it in Christ's name.