There have been some faithful men that have gone before us. They've set a example that implores us to do better. I was able to text my father this morning, say happy Father's Day, and thank you for your investment in my life. For the help that has shaped me and made me what I am. I uh am am grateful, and although Dad would be the first to say he wasn't perfect, What I told Dad this morning is I thanked him for just being faithful. For being faithful through the hard times and the good times. Being faithful to God even to this day, just desiring to serve and honor God, to please Him Not perfect. Would never say he was perfect. Matter of fact, would say he he messed up more times than he got it right. But he praises God. And uh That, of course, is a goal for me, to be faithful. Using that as kind of a a foundation, the fact that there's men that have gone before it and they've done They've done it already. They they stayed faithful. They were able to accomplish what God wanted them to do. You and I, we can do it as well. We don't have an excuse. We can't say it's too hard. Can't say, oh, it's different. It's a different day. Things are harder today than they were yesterday. We can't do it. It's not going to work. I would like to give to you this morning an example of a man who was a successful father Turn your Bibles if you would to Genesis chapter 6. Genesis chapter 6. A man who was a successful father in the face of great adversity. In the face of great hardship. He was somebody that did it when most others didn't. And he sets an example of somebody that was faithful. And I hope this morning to encourage you and exhort you to the same. We see in Genesis chapter 6. Verses 1 through 5 they kind of describe the beginning of mankind and how man began to be fruitful and multiply. They began to fill the earth. You know, one generation after another was born. But then what happens in verse number five, there's God looking down on earth, he sees something that displeases him. In Genesis chapter 6 and verse number 5, he says, And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on earth, and it grieved him in his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man from whom I have created. From the face of the earth, both man and beast and creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation. And Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons, Shim, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them. And behold, I will destroy them with the earth. He of course gives him the instruction to build the ark, describes for him exactly what he was to do and how he was to do it. And told them there was going to come a flood. Down in verse number 18, he says, but with thee will I establish my covenant. And thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy son's wife with thee. And every living thing. Of all flesh, two of every sort shall thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female, of fowls of their kind, and cattle after their kind, and every creep thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee to keep them alive, and take thou into thee of all food that is eaten And thou shalt gather it to thee, and it shall be for food for thee and for them. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him. So did he. The story goes on, and we could continue to read in the entirety really of chapter six and chapter seven. Some almost 2400 years before Christ would walk on earth, before he would come and be born of a virgin. This story that we read of here takes place. When Noah built the Ark and became The means by which God would save mankind. This story of Noah and the Ark. Oh, there's been a lot of movies made about it. There's been a lot of dramatization of the events surrounding this time and what took place. The world looks at this story with unbelief. They look at these miraculous events and the descriptions and they say, well, how could these things be? And oh, the events that take place in this story are up there with the greatest of all fiction writers But I want you to know it's not fiction. The description given to us here by God is the Word of God, and beloved, if you're going to believe any of the Word of God, you've got to believe all of it. Yeah, you can't just pick and choose and say, oh well this this this is right and that's right, but this is not. Let God be true and every man a liar. We believe the Word of God. We don't question it. But this morning I don't want to draw your attention to the miracle of the flood and how God used Noah to save mankind. What I would like to point your attention to is the fact that Noah was a successful father, that Noah was a godly man in a time when it was exceedingly difficult to do so. God describes for us in this text the day in which Noah was living. He says very clearly it was a day of great corruption. Verse number 12, and God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. You know, we could take some time this morning and describe for you the corruption on the earth today. I had started gathering some stories, and you know that the current events that are readily accessible, which lay before us the great depravity of man are in abundance. Yeah. And I thought, you know, there's I don't think there's anybody here this morning that needs convinced. Of this fact. I don't think there's anybody here that would need illustration after illustration to be uh to agree with the fact that the world is full of corruption. Our moral compass today is not just off track, it's been thrown away. When they every time, every step they take to remove God from society They are removing the very foundation, the very control mechanism that is unchanging. That establishes the pointing for that moral compass. And as they choose to remove God from society in every measure in which they remove him, the further he's removed, the further out of sorts man's moral compass will get. When I was a young man, I'm talking about fifteen, sixteen, seventeen years old. I was already in my mind thinking about the day that God would give me a family. And I actually dreaded the fact In my mind, I at 15 years old I thought, man, I don't want to bring kids into this world. How can I possibly raise kids for God? How could I do what God how could I I mean I knew as a fifteen year old the challenges that I was facing and and the the the filth that was in the world and the the the moral depravity that was everywhere and I thought Man, how could I possibly bring children? I know in my dad's day it wasn't near as bad. I mean basic society had a moral measure to it and there was respect and and so many things it was different but now it's much harder why would I want to do that and beloved that was a long time ago Thirty years. Can I tell you it hasn't gotten better? I'm sure you've all wondered, like I, time and time again you've thought, how much worse can it get? Like sure it can't get much worse. I mean If things are so bad it just can't get much worse. I mean we're already at the bottom of the barrel, and then you wait two or three years and you think, oh my goodness. What are we doing? What are we thinking? How in the world is this possible? I wonder, have we reached the point that it was in the day of Noah when every imagination of the heart was evil continually. In verse number five, he says, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Have we reached that point? Today it's not just that, you know Wickedness went from the place where wickedness was disdained to the place where wickedness was tolerated But then we moved over here to where wickedness is promoted. And beloved, in recent days we've gone one step further and we've gone to where everything that is pure and wholesome Isaiah five, verse number twenty says, Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil. That's what's happened, hasn't it? And we look at this and we've come full circle in my reasoning at this point Where we say from the beginning, oh man, things are bad. Today is worse than it was before. Surely I can't be expected to be faithful. Surely I can't raise a family for God. Surely today things are so bad. I can't be expected to do that. Well, beloved, Noah did it. In a day. When things were like they are today. Noah did it successfully. It was a day of violence. Great violence, verse number 11 says, The earth was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. Verse number 13: And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence. Again, we could give story after story after story of the complete meaningless, utter, just ridiculous violence that's out there today. To the point where you're you're thinking like I can't even stop at a stoplight. Somebody could come up and and and with the gun I mean people being shot just because they halt at somebody Teachers being beat half to death just because they gave an honest grade to a child. You think this is craziness, the violence that's in the world today. How could we expect to live for God, to be faithful to God, or to serve God in such a world? Noah did it. Somehow Noah was able to raise godly children. Somehow he was able to have a home that honored God and pleased God in the midst of a wicked society. And if Noah could do it, you and I could do it. If Noah could do it in his day, then you and I can do it today. I know, beloved, at times it seems impossible. I know it seems at times that we're going to be overrun with the wickedness of our society. But, oh, beloved, hope thou in God. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You can have victory through Jesus Christ. You can raise your children for God. You can have a home that honors and pleases God. Day after day after day, even though the onslaughts of Satan and the devil and this whole world bombard you continually, you can be victorious. We've got to stand up. Quickie like men. Stand up, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. How did Noah have success? How was he a successful man? How did his family honor God? I'm speaking to the men this morning, but this is applicable to any and every one of us. Every one of us can grab a hold of these truths and carry them home with us, and they'll change our life. First of all, I want you to know how he was able to be successful as we see that Noah worshipped God Noah worshiped God. The world was wicked. Things were in a bad way. And we see described very clearly, God was ready to destroy it all. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Oh, those verses over in Hebrews that describe Noah tell us. And Noah didn't just know about God, but he knew God personally. He knew God personally. Hebrews 11, verse number 7 says, By faith, Noah, being warned of God of the things seen as yet, moved with fear. prepared an ark to the saving of his house, by which he condemned the world and became heirs of the righteousness which is by faith. Excuse me, heirs of the righteousness which is by faith. They were given righteousness by faith, just like you and I. He received righteousness that's only available through faith. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. It was through faith that Noah had a relationship with God. Noah was saved by faith, just like you and I. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. To be a successful father To be a successful mother, to be a successful anything in this life, it starts, it begins with knowing Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Being saved, having that relationship with God, not just knowing about God, the world knows about God. Satan himself knows about God. It's not just knowing about God, there's gotta come a time in your life where you realize you were a sinner and you were destined, you were de determined already to be, to spend, to pay for your sin, to spend an eternity in a place called hell, and you realize that and say, I don't want to go to hell, I want to go to heaven. The only way to attain that is by trusting Jesus Christ. And he has shed blood for you. You confess your sin, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sin, to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. You confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Thou shalt be saved. Success in this life begins with knowing Jesus as your Lord and Savior. You want to be a successful father, you need to be saved. One man said, Oh, oh, does that mean I can't teach my son to play ball or ride a bike or fly a kite? or or how to swim and so on and so on. Well, no, you can do those things But the Bible tells us, for what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? So you might be able to teach your son how to swim and keep him from drowning, but one day he's going to die and he's going to spend an eternity somewhere. He's going to spend an eternity in a place called heaven That God prepared for him and God wants him to go there, or he's gonna spend in a place it called hell that God prepared for the devil and his angels. How are you doing, Dad? I'm pointing your kids to to heaven. It begins with you first knowing you're saved. Knowing you're saved, knowing God as your personal Lord and Savior. Beloved, saving the soul is always far more important than saving the body. Yeah. You could gain the whole world and lose your own soul. Can I ask you this morning, Dad, are you saved? Do you know that beyond a shadow of a doubt without hesitation? As much as I know I'm standing on a wood platform, I know Jesus is my Savior. There is no hesitation or no question. I know that if I pass away today, that I'll wake up in heaven because to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And that's not just because I know that verse. It's because I hold to the promises given to me in the Word of God that if you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, He'll take you to heaven when you die. It's the promises of God's Word. You say, well, you're trusting in that. Well what are you trusting in? Just what you think? What makes what you think any different from what anybody else thinks? Why is what you think better? You know what it doesn't matter what I think. It matters what this book says. The book says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You got you gotta be I I think that you're a liar if you say you have no sin. That's what the Bible says. That's what the Bible says. But I I think everybody knows they're sinner for all of sin and come short of it. Everybody knows that. I mean if they have even the the the the smallest amount of truth in them, they're gonna say, yeah. Yeah, I'm a sinner. Well then how do you take care of that sin? You say, Oh, I take care of it by going to church once a month. Do you really think that I mean really? Do you really does that give you peace? How about you take God at His Word? He says, confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead and thou shalt be saved. Take God at His Word. Some of you in here, you have been fighting the decision for salvation for a long time. You've been putting it off You've been saying I'm not ready to make that commitment. One of the reasons, maybe you're not ready to give up your sin. But are you willing to let that sin take you to a devil's hell? Are you willing to let that sin keep you from being a successful father, a successful individual, any and all of us? You say Pastor Caleb, you're being very direct this morning. This this is very serious. And here's what I know: that there is spiritual warfare going on right now. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. There's spiritual warfare going on for the souls of men. I want you to know that God loves you this morning. God sent his son to die for you. He wants to save you and take you to heaven. All you've got to do is be willing to admit that you're a sinner and put your faith and trust in Him. It's such an easy thing to do, but why do we fight it so much? To be a successful father, you see that Noah worshiped God. He had a relationship with him. Do you know worship is the mark of a true believer We don't have time to go over to the New Testament. We could show you how the mark of a believer in the Old Testament, of course, was circumcision, but in the New Testament with Jesus Christ, the mark of a believer is worship. You're worshiping God. And we want to worship him in spirit and in truth. Somebody is truly worshiping God, is not preoccupied with what he gets, but is looking at what he can give. He's not just seeking a blessing, but looking to offer a sacrifice. That's what worship is. Do you come to church ready to worship? Psalms 95, verse 6 says, Oh come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker. Are you ready to kneel before him? One day every knee is gonna bow. I would much rather do it today. Just do it today. I hope you're in God's house today and you have in your heart a spirit of worship. Because he is God. And we're just men. The best of men are men at best. We're just sinners saved by grace. And before you today there's just one pile of dirt talking to another pile of dirt. About God who loves you. And we just want to worship him. I hope I'm not pointing you towards Caleb Buttrel today, but I hope I'm pointing you to Jesus Christ. Christ, the one who gave himself for you. We see Noah worship God in the midst of a wicked and perverse society when things were so vile and disgusting, you looked at it and thought, How is this possible? But Noah kept his eyes on God. I want you to see that he walked with God in verse number nine. He says, These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect. In his generation. And Noah walked with God. You and I can do it too If Noah walked with God in the middle of his wicked and perverse society, you and I can walk with God. We can remain pure and clean and have a right heart and a right mind in the middle of all the filth that's around us. Sometimes it seems impossible. Sometimes, as a man, you feel like you've got to walk around with your eyes shut. Oh my goodness, I can't look anywhere. I can't look at anything. What am I gonna do? Oh, the world is so filthy. But you can be pure and clean. You can do it. Noah did it because he had a walk with God. He maintained a real and a powerful relationship with God that impacted his daily life, not just Sunday morning. I hope if you're here this morning, man, woman, boy or girl, I hope you have a real relationship with God that impacts your daily life. That's what it's about. That's what Christianity is. Christianity, beloved, is not just coming into church and being here on a Sunday morning. Oh, that's a testament of our worship. That's a that's a testament of our love for Christ. And we do that to be strengthened and to encourage the brethren and to be encouraged. But true Christianity is with you on Monday morning when you get up and go to work. It's with you when you when you come home on Tuesday evening and you decide what you're going to watch on television. True Christianity is with you when you're going to the hardware store and you're going through that checkout line and the Holy Spirit says, that man might not be saved. Should you give him a track? Walking with God, beloved, does God walk with you? Do you listen to him? Bob Jones Sr. used to describe the Christian life as a series of room in which God would lead you He would take you into room number A and give you some instructions like he gave Noah and said, here is this boat, this is what I want you to do. But God puts us into a room and he has these instructions for us and he says, I want you to complete this. And when we complete what God has for us to do inside of that room, God says, Well done. And he takes us to room letter B and he says, Here is what I want you to accomplish in this part of your life. And here's what you're to do for me, and this is what you're so and we try and accomplish that. And if we accomplish that, God will take us to room letter C And ultimately, when we reach the end of our days, we stand before Him, and our goal is that we'll hear, Well done thou, good and faithful servant, because we've progressed through and accomplished what God wanted us to in each stage of our life. But what he said is if you're over here in room A and God's given you some instruction and you don't ever complete it, You may have been saved for 25 years and you're still in room A. Because you have not accomplished what God wanted you to achieve. In this room. You haven't taken that next step in your Christian life. God hasn't directed you on. And the only way that happens is when we walk with God each and every day. When you walk with God, he will change your life. When we walk with God, we're no longer walking in darkness. John 8. 12. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness. We're not walking in darkness. When you're walking with God, you're walking to please Him. 1 Thessalonians 4:11. Furthermore, then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus that ye have received of us how ye ought to walk. And to please God. When you're walking with God, you're pleasing Him. When you're walking with God, you're walking after his commandments. We saw that of Noah, that he did all that God commanded him to do. Are you doing all that God commands you to do? Say, well, I'm doing a little bit, and that means I'm doing pretty good. But if you want to be a success, you need to do all that God commands. Second John 1, verse number 6 says, and this is the love that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment that you've heard from the beginning that you should walk in it You know, Noah's friends and family, they knew all knew too well that Noah was going to walk with God. That Noah was going to do what God wanted him to do. Your friends and family know that? Is your faithfulness to God dependent upon circumstances? Your friends and family know well you know when we were kids we would go visit our extended family? on vacation, grandma and grandpa aunts and uncles and all that. And you know on Sunday when we were away on vacation, this is pre-streaming days, which Might not be a bad thing. Uh, but we were on vacation. We would get up on Sunday morning, get dressed, and go to church. And here we are staying in the house with grandma and grandpa and Uncle David and and Aunt Kathy and all their kids and Uncle Charlie and all their kids and None of them were getting up. You know, they all knew. Yeah, Sunday Roger's gonna be in church. Now as a kid, I was asking mom and dad, why can't we stay home? Look We only got one day here. We could stay home with them. You know, we get home on Sunday afternoon and they've been playing all day. They've been having all this fun. You know, dinner's on the table ready to go. And I'm thinking, man, we missed it all But today I'm glad Dad took me to church. I'm glad Dad put a priority on the things of God. His obedience to God was not just contingent on who was around or what was going on. Noah did according to all that God commanded him to do. Do you want to be a successful father in this wicked world? Do you want to have a godly home in a society where it seems impossible to worship God? Walk with God. It's not going to happen by accident. It's going to take work. It's going to take effort. You have to purpose in your heart like Daniel Bold, who purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's Meet. Oh, that we would walk worthy of the God who saved us. Walk worthy of Him. Stop making excuses. Stop making excuses. Let's walk worthy of God. Let's stop defending our sin. And let's walk worthy of God. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth, Jesus said. So I want you to see that he worshipped God, he walked with God, and lastly this morning, Noah witnessed for God. In 2 Peter 2 and verse number 5, a description of Noah, he says, and Noah was a preacher of righteousness. For 120 years, Noah proclaimed the truth that God's judgment was coming, that a flood was on its way, and people hadn't seen that before, and they thought, well, that doesn't make any sense, Noah. You're saying these things, rain has never fallen from the sky. You don't even know what you're you have lost your marbles, Noah. People mocked and made fun and ridiculed and criticized him. I'm sure that he was the butt end of a lot of bad jokes Noah was the one the comedians all joked about. Noah was the one that everybody laughed at. Because he was a preacher of righteousness. He told the truth. The people didn't believe it. Beloved, we need to be like Paul and be ready. So as much as is in me, I'm ready to preach the gospel. He says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. He was a preacher of righteousness. You know It's the call of God on every Christian's life to lift high the cross, to let our light so shine before men. The great importance of living in such a way that your life and testimony as a witness for Christ cannot be overstated. We are to live in such a way that our light shines in this world. But more than that, you see, he was a preacher of righteousness. It wasn't just lifestyle evangelism. It was telling, verbally telling people about Christ. Do you know that 79% Of people who walked through the doors of a church for the first time came at the request of family and friends. Seventy-nine percent. Only three percent came because they had a problem in their life and were looking for help. Seventy-nine percent came because somebody said, Hey, would you go to church with me? And they brought them to a place where they could hear the truth that God loves them. He told others the truth, and you know the story. They didn't believe, did they? They mocked and laughed and criticized. The others laughed. But do you know who did believe? His house believed. His own children believed. Christian, uh we would be miles and miles ahead if we could just win our own children. Verse chapter seven, verse number one says, And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark. For thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. Noah and all of his house were saved. What a victory! What a victory for Noah to have his family on the ark there. Can you imagine him there when the doors closed and then the rain began to fall? Can you imagine Noah's relief Can you imagine what he felt? Yes, I'm sure his heart was burdened and broken for the fact that there were so many who were going to perish. There were so many who didn't believe. There were so many who didn't get into the ark, and I'm sure he looked out and wept over those that weren't there. But oh, the joy that he had because his family was in the ark. Because his sons were there, they were with them. I don't think we could even begin to describe the joy that he had, the relief that he felt At the same time of being burdened over the loss of so many others being thankful to God for the Savior of his own house. Dad, your work might be important, but it's not the most important thing. Your life should not be about your career but your kids. Should not be about your hobby, but your home. It should not be about your level of finance, but your family A young man who is being sentenced to the penitentiary for committing forgery. The judge was very familiar with their family. The judge knew that this young man was, this young man's father was the author of some very successful books. He had read them. He was shocked to see this boy before him As he was talking to the young man, he said, Do you remember your father? I remember him well, Your Honor, came the reply. Trying to probe the offender's conscience a little bit, the judge says, you sir, are about to be sentenced. As you think today of your wonderful dad, what is it that you remember most clearly of him? After a pause, the judge was shocked to hear the answer. I remember, sir, when I went to him for advice, he looked at me from the book he was writing and he said, run along. I'm busy. When I went to him for companionship, he turned to me and said, run along. The book I'm writing must be finished. Your Honor, you remember him as a great giver of law, and I remember him as a lost friend. The magistrate muttered to himself, alas, this man has finished the book, but he's lost his boy. Where is your focus, Stad? Noah's greatest success was not the fact that he built an ark. Noah's greatest success was the fact that in the Ark was his family. And that doesn't happen by accident. We've got to worship him. We've got to have a relationship with him. Know him as our Lord and Savior, and let our heart and life worship him for who he is. Bow the knee to him. We've got to walk with him day by day and let him shape our daily life. Hey, he's still working on me. Some here they may look and say, man, Pastor Caleb, I could never be a Christian like like that person down the aisle. Hey, they're looking down the aisle at somebody else and saying I could never be a Christian like them. We're all just sinners saved by grace. Trying to please please God. We stay here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, God is not as concerned with where you're at as He is with the direction you're headed. You may today find yourself in a place you think, how did I get here? This is not where I want to be. The joy is you don't have to stay there. Because you got a God in heaven who loves you, that will save your soul, forgive you of your sin. And you can begin to worship him and walk with him. And then we get the joyous privilege of witnessing for him. That's how we become a success as a father.