Hebrews chapter 9 will be there in a moment. Hebrews chapter 9. Appreciate the opportunity to preach. We'll be looking at a Bible study that I've kind of been doing myself. um in my own personal studies, so hopefully it can uh be a blessing to you. Hebrews chapter nine. Playing the tuba, it's like, you know, you know how to I know how all the notes and I know how to play everything, but um you know, when you're not in shape doing it all the time. It's kinda like me playing uh softball and kickball this week. You know, you know what to do, but it's just, you know, physically you're just not quite as as there as you used to be. So w one of those things I encountered. So hopefully we'll keep practicing getting back into it. It's uh it's a lot of fun to play. So hope Miss Darcy didn't give me the look. She said if you're too loud I'm kicking you out to that side. So She didn't sh she gave me a look. I don't know if it was good or bad. I'll have to ask her after. So uh Alicia and I uh appreciate uh this church so much. Uh I wanted to give a testimony but I knew you guys didn't want to hear me twice, so Thought I'd just say something now. You guys have just been uh such a blessing, really. Uh look forward to coming to church and um you guys we already are church family, obviously Alicia already. Uh belonged here, but uh we certainly appreciate everyone here. So and uh I pray, I think almost every day to get the opportunity to return that blessing to you guys. So And what I'm preaching tonight isn't new for anyone, but I just pray that it can be a challenge, some sort of blessing to you. This evening, the title of my message is A Tale of Two Judgments. A tale of two judgments. Hebrews 9 verse 24, it says, For Christ has not entered into the holy places made with hands. Where are the figures of the true, but into the heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us, nor yet that he should offer himself often as the high priest entereth into the holy place after year with the blood of others. For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world. But now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself And as it is appointed unto every man, unto men, once did I, but after this the judgment. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness to us, God. Thank you so much for just everything you've done for each and every one of us in here, God. As we reflect on what you've done for us on the cross and looking forward to our eternal home of heaven, God, I just pray that uh we would remember. what you've done for us and we would be grateful and we would uh try to reciprocate your love to others. Just thank you for this opportunity we have to learn and uh opportunity for me to preach and just pray that uh we wouldn't take that lightly and uh we would just Use it to further your kingdom. Thank you for all that you do for us. We love you in your name. Amen. So I'd like to just for a few moments challenge everyone to think about heaven. And what it cost us to allow us to enter there. I think of the song How Beautiful Heaven Must Be. Do you ever think about heaven and how great it's going to be when we get there? We read of a place that's called heaven. It's made for the pure and the free. These truths in God's word he has given. How beautiful heaven must be. The angels so sweetly are singing, betrayals and failures destroyed, all pain and all suffering forgotten, and all tears will be turned into joy. How beautiful heaven must be, sweet home of the happy and free, fair haven of rest for the weary. How beautiful heaven must be. Sometimes it's good for us just to remember heaven and what Christ did for us to get there. No longer do we have to have someone to mediate for us on our behalf on the Day of Atonement with animals' blood But rather seeing then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens, as the Bible says, and that high priest is Jesus Christ. First Timothy 2. 5 says, For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time. Are you glad you're saved this evening? Romans 5. 6 says, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die, and you guys know the rest of this. But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Are you thankful that Jesus Christ paid sin's penalty? Let me ask you this again. Are you looking forward to heaven? We get to see Jesus. That's the first and foremost. I'm so excited. And also I think about all the other people we'll see there. I know many of us have loved ones that have gone on before. We'll get to see them. Be reunited with them. And um just think about the world and the the so many of them do not have that hope of heaven. They're lost and they're dying and they don't know what to do. Um so I'd like to look at this this topic of um what happens after we die. And we as believers we know that. So I kind of want to take that approach and and point it to us as believers. But death doesn't have to be scary for us, does it? Doesn't have to be. Because we know where we're going, because we know who's there. So this verse here, Hebrews 9. 27, I'm going to read it once more. And as it is appointed unto men, once to die, but after this the judgment. When I go soul winning or I'm witnessing to someone, I more than likely will always bring up this verse. Because a lot of people don't even know that. They don't even know where they'll spend eternity when they die. They don't even know what happens after death. Do we just disappear? Do we just go back into the ground and and that's it. As Christians, we know that's not true, of course. We live in a very humanistic society. A society where people believe that there's no life after death, that this is it, and that's it. That's done. Humanism focuses on fulfilling yourself today because there might not be a tomorrow It's a very common phrase that you'll hear in the world. It allows man to be the final authority in their life regarding good and evil. Ultimately, you are your own moral compass, and you can decide what is good and what is evil. The late humanist Carl Sagan wrote, The world is so exquisite with so much love and moral depth that there is no reason to deceive ourselves with pretty stories for which there is little good evidence. Far better, it seems to me, in our vulnerability, is to look death in the eye and to be grateful every day for the brief but magnificent opportunity that life provides When I read that, kind of you know, he's he's a good writer, so it's like, okay, that sound that sounded pretty good. But once you start peeling that away and start looking into what he's saying, um Let's look what he let's look what he says here. Just basically stare death in the eye and be grateful for the magnificent opportunity life provided you with today, allowing man to be his own moral compass. And this world, do we see a lot of morals happening in this world? Look where that's gotten us. He's calling the truth of God's word a pretty story that has little to no evidence for. That's not true. My Bible says in Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handiwork. That's enough evidence for me. A little girl one day was taking an evening walk with her father. Wonderingly, she looked up at the stars and exclaimed, Oh daddy, if the wrong side of heaven is so beautiful, what must the right side be? By this world, we know that there is heaven. It's written all over the pages of Scripture. And even if we didn't have the Scriptures, we can just look outside. And there's no doubt in our minds that there is heaven So that's, you know, dealing with the world, there's a lot of that humanistic, it's a humanistic society. 2 Corinthians 4 verse 4 says, In whom the God of this world, and who is that? Satan hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. As believers, we know that's how the devil works. He blinds the eyes of unbelievers, keeping them in darkness to the glorious light of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But going a step further, I also believe that he blinds believers' eyes as well. Many believers know the truth as to what happens after we die. But they sometimes drink the lie of the devil, believing that they don't have to think about it right now. I've been there as a teenager. I know I struggled with that a lot. Just didn't like to think about that. I knew I was going to heaven, but I didn't really want to care about that right now. Um they he lies to the believers, telling them that eternity is an eternity away. But we know that it's so close. He loves to get Christians distracted with things that don't have a heavenly meaning. He's even gotten Christians to the point where they get uncomfortable thinking about heaven. Are you that way? Are you uncomfortable thinking about heaven? There's a major problem if you do. Many would rather fulfill their dreams here on earth than be in heaven with Jesus. We need to be proactive in seeing the devil's lives and how he tries to get in our lives. You better believe that Satan is going to tempt you to be that way, even by twisting scriptures. Didn't he do that to Jesus? If he tempted Jesus with scriptures, he'll do it with us. And one of the main ways he does it is by getting them sidetracked and forgetting about the judgment seat of Christ. So kind of want to look at the two judgments today, a tale of two judgments. There's I think roughly seven different judgments that are mentioned in the Bible, but I'm just going to look at the two, the two um main ones that are in Scripture So the first one is in Revelations 20, if you can turn there, Revelations 20. And that is the great white throne judgment. The great white throne judgment. Revelations chapter 20. And verse eleven. Revelation twenty verse eleven, and it says And I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. I recently have been challenged to study and read a book of Revelation every day. Um it's been a it's been encouraging to me because Revelations is not something that like, oh what do I want to read today? That's where I'm gonna go. I'm gonna go to Revelation. It's not one of those more easier to read passages of scripture. I know it can be confusing and difficult at times, but I do still believe us as believers should be aware and informed about what's happening. at the end times and to learn from it. I've personally heard it said before that revelations and other prophetic books of the Bible aren't as important as some other books in the Bible. That's not true. The Bible says that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. So all scripture, right? It answers itself right there. All scripture. And I'm pretty sure that revelations is a part of all scriptures. And if that wasn't enough for you, I would tell you to look up Revelations 1 verse 3. Revelations 1 verse 3, I'll just read it. Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. So the Bible even says the reader will be blessed if they read Revelations. So, I don't know about you, but I know I could use an extra blessing in my life. And this is the only, also, I believe, the only specific passage of Scripture that says you'll be blessed by reading that specific passage of Scripture. So what a blessing that is. And the point of this passage of scripture we read is so important, even to saved individuals. It gives us the proper perspective when viewing this lost and dying world around us. It is sobering to think about the millions of souls who will stand trial at the great white throne judgment. So if you look at verse 7, of Galatians chapter 20. Look at verse 7. And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loose out of his prison. and shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. So, here we see when the judgment will take place. It will take place after the millennium and after Satan has been banished to the lake of fire. And that is in verse 10 you see that um the devil has was cast into the lake of fire. So that is when this great white throne judgment will happen. It's not happened yet. So just so you are aware, anyone that has died and gone to hell will be in hell, but then they will stand at the great white throne judgment. We read in verse 14, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, so hell and the lake of fire is a common thing that I've even been confused with. Uh but they are two separate things. Um no one as of yet, as far as I understand is in the lake of fire. So that is when it will take place. And the person who will stand before this judgment is whoever was not found written in the book of life So if you have not been saved, if you do not know Jesus as your Savior, then and you do not do that, then you will stand trial at the great white throne judgment. Aren't you thankful for your salvation? I don't want to know what that looks like. I tried thinking about it this week and I'm like, you know what I don't have to worry about it. I'm not gonna be there. So And I'm not only am I glad for my salvation, but I'm also glad that I don't have to spend eternity in a place where God is not. So then another thing is I've heard before the question who is the judge at the Great White Throne judgment I believe that answer is in John 5 verse 22. It says, For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son. Jesus Christ will be the judge and will cast those unsaved people into the lake of fire. Just to clarify, again, if you're saved, you will not be here. The result of the Great White Throne judgment is final. It's it. After that, it's over. And we have heard the saying that hell is growing every day. And that is true. The countless number currently in hell and the number of people aren't in hell will all stand and will all stand before the great white throne judgment after the millennial reign of Christ I re read a commentary and David Sorensen, the one I have, wrote, It is clear that hell is separate and distinct from the lake of fire. The distinction might be illustrated in the modern American system of justice. A felon is first incarcerated in the county jail until such time as his trial and sentencing At that time, he then is sentenced to the long-term penitentiary. When an unsaved person dies, they go immediately to hell, the interim place of judgment until the great white throne judgment. At that time, they are damned forever into the liquid fire to the degree of punishment adjudicated as just by Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit thus describes this as the second death Those who participate in the final resurrection, those who are saved, will never face the second death. Praise God. So that's the first one, the great white throne judgment. And then the second one would be more applicable to us as believers, the judgment seat of Christ. And we can find that in 2 Corinthians, if you turn there with me. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. A few months ago, uh Alicia, Pastor Caleb wrote, uh, preach a sermon on only preaching how old you are. So people have been talking about that. So I have twenty three minutes to preach tonight. So I'm trying to race here. I'm I'm kind of teasing. I know that's You know, that's I don't think believe that's the time limit I was given. But um I asked Alicia, you know, like what do you think about me preaching? Are you excited? She's like, I'm I'm excited that you'll be preaching 23 minutes. It's like, oh, come on. But the only reason why she's excited, because she's getting a short sermon tonight. So hopefully I don't disappoint. Second Corinthians chapter five and verse ten, it says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. In this passage, we just read about the judgment seat of Christ. That is also referred to as the bima seat. Bima is the word from an ancient Greek word. referred to as a seat or a platform where a jer a judge would address assembly, an assembly. So that is also the beam of a seat that's the one and the same. So we I probably will use that word interchangeably there. So also, um, one might ask, where will this judgment take place? Uh the answer to that is in 1 Thessalonians 4. 16. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the air, in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air. And so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. This judgment will take place in the air after the rapture. Of course. So we will not stand trial at the judgment seat of Christ until after the rapture. Something else I learned through this. So certainly don't know at all. It was fun to learn, to ask questions from different uh people and you know continue to uh grow in my study here. So only believers will be judged at the Bemis seat, the judgment seat of Christ. This again, this judgment takes place after the rapture. Matthew 16, 27 says, For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels. then he shall reward every man according to his works. So that's after the um Jesus comes back. So again believers will be the ones who will be judged at the judgment seat of Christ. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 where we just read, if you read that chapter later, or you will see the word we used 26 times in that chapter. And all of those times, each instant is only referring to believers. So that would be a personal study you could do or the one you know that I have seen that that is referring to believers. So Again, what will be judged at the beam of seat of Christ? What will be being judged? So salvation will not be being judged. That is not the matter of topic here. That was has already been settled. John three sixteen settled that, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. So if you have done that, if you have uh received um the everlasting life from Jesus, then that's not you're not going to be here. Oh no you will be here. That will not be the topic uh being brought up. But what will be being judged is our works and our faithfulness to Christ. That's going to be judged. So if you're a believer and you think um you can do whatever you want without any consequence. That's not true. You you know, you're not going to get away with it. That's a simple lie of the devil that we so many times buy into that, oh, you know, this little thing I can do. No one knows. It's between me and myself. You know, no one else knows. I mean God knows, but he knows I'm a sinner, whatever. There's going to be a reckoning day, and that's going to be at the judgment seat of Christ. And uh one might ask, how is God going to judge our works? Well, he will be doing so by fire. Um 1 Corinthians chapter 3, um if you want to turn there uh just a few pages over, 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Verse 11 says, For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. Every man's work shall be made manifest. That word manifest means to display or to show. It's going to be revealed. Every man's work of what they have done is going to be revealed. It's going to be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. So literally our works are going to be brought before us, and everything that was not done for the glory and honor of Jesus Christ, things that are eternal value, they're going to be burnt up. Um so I even in my mind thought, okay, well, what's the big deal? You know, at least I'll have something to show, right? Um but there's there's you know that that should be a very sobering thought for us as Christians We do not want to have anything be born up. And I'm sure we will, you know, but we want to have as many rewards as possible. there at that time. So no one will be able to say that God showed any favoritism because it's going to be revealed. Galatians 6, 7 and 8 says, be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. We will all answer for what we've done here on earth at the judgment seat of Christ So what might be the results of the beam of seat? After your works have been burnt up by fire, only the reworks that remain you'll receive a reward for. Do you have works that remain? Do you have anything to show? Anything that you've done to help further the kingdom of Christ? Or is everything you're going after in life going to be burnt up? Wood, hay, stubble Um things that don't matter. You hit the fire, it's gone. Um we had a fun at the campfire this week. Um, even that wood, you know, a b a big piece of wood, it's you know, it maybe a an hour or two, it's it's gone. Um and that's by our fire. I can't imagine God's fire. That wood will be gone. So just a just a thought there. Is what we're doing here pursuing after in this life going to be uh e of eternal. Is it going to burn up or is it going to survive God's fire? How can we be prepared to meet the Bima? So this is something, well what can I do to make sure that I'm prepared to to be at the judgment seat of Christ. By having constant communion with Jesus with much self-examination. How often do you examine your heart? Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. See if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. When the psalmist wrote that, I don't believe that he thought he had any sin in his life. I believe he was asking God, show me where there is sin where I don't even know it's there. Um if if you just have tons of unconfessed and known sin in your life, that verse isn't for you. Um this verse is for people who you know are trying to have those um short sin accounts with God. trying to know that everything, there's nothing between them and the Savior. By having constant communion with Jesus Christ. That's a daily, constant communion. It's a daily thing. It's multiple times in the day. Having that sweet relationship with Jesus. Also by having constant confession of our sins. Let me remind you that true confession will only happen one time with each sin. What do I mean by that? You can't have confession multiple times. Like, oh, I just did this and I'm sorry, Jesus, keep going on. The next day you do the same thing. That wasn't confession. That was you doing what you wanted to do and then trying to cover it up. Um that's not confession. When you truly confess, you're not going to turn back to that sin. And sometimes it's hard. I I you know sometimes their sins have strongholds. But we have Jesus who wants to help us with that. Don't keep confessing the same sin thinking God will keep forgiving it. If it's true confession confession, there'll be a true change in your life. Also, we can be prepared to be at the judgment seat of Christ by much prayer and meditation on the Word of God. How much do you pray? How much do you read God's Word? This is uh uh convicting for me, but um sometimes, you know, out of your daily reading, how many times past that do you open God's word or meditate on God's word Is it just a checklist? Is it just let me let me get this done and be done with it for the day? Or is it, oh how I love that law, it is my meditation all the day long. where we constantly think about God's word and hide it in our hearts. By constant also, we can be prepared by constant attention to the will of the Holy Spirit. Being in tune with God's Spirit is so vitally important. We have to be in tune with the Holy Spirit. If we're not, well, that's when we can slip up. That's when we'll mess up. That's when we'll sin. um having the constant attention to the will of the Holy Spirit. And then also by having a clean conscience before not only God, but also with man. A clean conscience. Knowing that you you know that your conscience is clear. If it's not, then you you need to get that right. If it's with God, with God, and with it if it's with man, with man. Um and I've you know I've heard that well, you know, my conscience only needs to clear be clear before God. I've heard that before. Acts twenty-four, sixteen says, and herein do I exercise myself to always have a conscience void of offense towards God and towards men. So I like that passage of scripture. So I'd like to conclude tonight with a question. First, I don't want to assume, but um, are you saved? Have you had the time where a divine appointment where you've where you've met Jesus, where you've met the Savior, where you receive the light of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ? Have you? We don't want to assume that. If you doubt that, you know, I get that matter settled. Has there been a time where the Lord saved you? Um, I also think that in this religious world we live in, if you gave someone the plan of salvation, they would agree with you. But that person also might be trusting in something other than Jesus Christ alone. And I've seen that a lot. That's a lot of people, you can go through the plan of salvation with them. They know everything you're saying, but they're also trusting in maybe their works or maybe um the good things they've done, maybe they're um their heritage, maybe the fact that they go to mass or church every Sunday. But if they are trusting in anything else other than uh grace through faith alone, Jesus Christ, then I don't believe they're saved. And that's that's from the Bible. Titus 3. 5 says, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. If you have put this matter of salvation off in your mind or you're unsure, get it settled. I urge you. I would hate to see any of my friends not be there with me in heaven one day. Because heaven is going to be a revealing day. Maybe people you thought were there aren't there, and maybe people you thought they're never going to be there, they're there. So it'll be a revealing day for us. Also, I want to ask you, have you kept your urgency in sharing the gospel with others? Think about the great white throne. Think about your lost family members having to stand before God. That's a sobering thought, isn't it? There should be some urgency in that matter. We certainly don't want any of our uh family or friends or anyone we know. Um it should get us busy about serving God. If you are saved in this e if you are saved this evening, you most definitely do not have to worry about the great white throne judgment. But you still have a court day date at the judgment seat of Christ. It's coming. Are you ready to meet the Lord? Are you looking forward to heaven? Is that exciting for you? This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. I think of that song often. And what I think about is, it's not my home. I'm just passing through. Don't worry about everything here. Focus on what's important. What is heaven? There is an old legend of a swan and a crane. A beautiful swan alighted by the banks of the water in which a crane was wading about seeking snails. For a few moments the crane viewed the swan in stupid wonder and then inquired, Where do you come from? I come from heaven, replied the swan. And where is heaven? asked the crane. Heaven, said the swan. Heaven? Have you never heard of heaven? And the beautiful bird went on to describe the grandeur of the eternal city. She told of streets of gold, and the gates and walls made of precious stones, of the river of life, pure as crystal, upon whose banks is the tree whose leaves shall be for the healing of the nations. In eloquent terms, the swan sought to describe the hosts who live in the other world, but without arousing the slightest interest on the part of the crane. Finally, the crane asked, Are there any snails there? Snails, replied the swan. No, of course there aren't any snails there. Then, said the crane, as it continued in search along the slimy banks of the pool, you can have your heaven. I want snails. This fable has a deep truth underlying it. How many people, especially young people, to whom God has granted the advantages of a Christian home? has turned its back on that and searched for snails. Searched for those things that have no value. Things that will not be in heaven. Um how many people have turned away from the love of their parents and the their love of their home to learn too late that heaven has been forfeited for snails? So just think about that. How many believers can be focused on the things of this world that we go through life looking at heaven begrudgingly? It ought not to be so. Make sure we have those snails out of our life. Make sure we are having the proper perspective of heaven and that our life is ready to be there. Are you ready for the judgment day? Let's pray.