I want you to turn your Bibles this morning to Psalms chapter ninety. Psalms ninety. On March fifteenth, just a few weeks ago I went to the homegoing service of Fred Joseph Brooks. Ten days later And Tuesday, March 25th, I went to the funeral for Sue Roberts, where her husband of 56 years Laid her down to rest for the last time. I was walking into Beck Funeral Home in Spring Grove, PA, and As I'm walking into that funeral home, I uh get a text communicating to me that Linda Wiley had passed away. So Mary and I and several of the church family went to the homegrowing service yesterday for Linda Wiley. On Thursday morning of this week, I got a call from Don Fowler asking me if I would be willing to speak. at the homegoing service of his mother, Catherine, who was 102 years old. Catherine was uh uh member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church until she had to move to North Carolina to be close to the family some number of years ago. But she loved Hunt Valley Baptist Church. She often talked about the church And uh he called and said, I know that it would be her desire to have you do the funeral if you'd be willing to. I know we've been looking at the names of God, but I really feel led to here for a couple of weeks. certainly this morning to take a break from that and remind you of the truth that we have found here in Psalms chapter 90. Would you look with me at Psalms chapter 90 and verse 9 Through verse number 12. The Bible says here: For all our days are passed away in the wrath, we spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three-score years and ten. And if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, Yet is their strength, labor, and sorrow. For it is soon cut off, and we fly away Who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, is thy wrath. So teach us to number our days. That we may apply our hearts to wisdom. I feel compelled this morning to preach on a tale that is told. A tale told. Would you pray with me as we begin? Lord, we come to you and I bow humbly as an unworthy vessel to preach. the majestic, powerful word of God to these your people this morning. I pray, Lord, that you would help us to take a step away from the world and uh burdens that we all carry and that the truths of Psalms chapter 90 verses 9 through 12 will be able to reach down into our heart And the importance of it would be driven home. That we would live each day with an understanding that we're telling a story. That one day our tale is going to be told and the time will be done, and I pray, God, that it'll be a tale that brings honor and glory to you. I ask you to just lead through the service now in Jesus' name. Amen. There it's always interesting to walk through a cemetery on your way to the graveside. My wife is very observant. I'm just walking to the graveside. I've got something to do. I'm thinking about the message I'm going to give. I'm thinking about, you know, who's there and whatever and I I'm not really paying too much attention, but my wife she'll go, oh man, he died two days before World War II. And I'm like, okay. Good to know. Let's go, you know. And and she'll be we'll be walking and she'll be like, man, he lived before the Civil War, you know, or wherever. I mean she just points out things. And I'm like, I don't even know how you know those dates, let alone are putting them together right now as we're walking through the funeral. But some interesting epithets are found on uh some tombstones, it's always interesting to read those, but Here's some that have been found and recorded by others. Somebody put on the tombstone, here lies a man named Zeke, the second fastest draw in Crickle Crete. Here lies Jonathan Blake. He stepped on the gas instead of the brake. Remember man as you walk by, as you are now, so once was I. As I am now, so shall ye. Remember this. You will follow me. It's on a tombstone in England. Another one found on the tombstone in England is The children of Israel wanted bread, and the Lord sent them Anna. Old Clerk Wallace wanted a wife, and the devil sent them Anna. Uh I don't know those people or what happened, but here's the thing, beloved, oftentimes you will see on a tombstone a record of a person's life, certainly the dates, and we've all heard the poem of the dash and the time of the life that's between those two dates. But you'll often you will also often see on the tombstones a engraving or maybe a plaque shaped from metal that kind of is something that typifies the person's life. It is a picture an image, something that if you think about that person, it's something that everybody would say, boy, that that when I think about that, I think of him. And uh something might be like a fishing pole. or a farm tractor. Something that just really they look at and they say, boy, that you put those two together without fail. A race car. Or maybe some military honors. Just something that typifies or tells a story about that individual. Well, Psalms chapter 90 and verse number 9 says, we spend our years as a tale that is told. The question I have for you this morning is: what story are you telling? We are all going to leave behind a tale, some sort of a story. What will people remember your life for? What will they stand up and communicate to those that gather in remembrance of you one day? The days of our years are three score years and ten, if by reason of strength they be four score years You know, we don't know how long we're going to live, but beloved, regardless of how long it is, we know that in the span of eternity it's just a speck. It is indeed a short life. According to the CDC, currently the life expectancy of a man is 74. 8 years of age. The life expectancy of a lady is 80. 2 years of age. They also said it was because ladies need more time to say whatever they need to say. I I don't know. If that's true or not, but ladies live a little bit longer. That life expectancy has been expanding and growing uh over the last thirty years because of uh advancements in in science and and medical technology and so on. People are even just a few years ago uh it has grown by a year. But you know what's amazing How long ago this was written? And God in His Word says, basically, listen, guys, if all things go well, the average life is going to be about 70 years old. If by reason of strength and you know things go well and you don't drink too much red five or whatever it is, I don't know all the stuff they're telling you not to drink today, all the i you know, things they're putting in food If you take care of yourself, then maybe you'll live to 80. But the fact of the matter is, there's going to come a time when our life is brought to a close. I remember last year when I told the church, almost just a year ago at Anniversary Sunday, kind of laid out a ten-year vision and I said, boy, uh here's the plan. We want to pay down our current mortgage for a little while and then we want to save up and get some money and and build a new auditorium and our goal is to be our tenth annivers or our our thirtieth anniversary. We want to be in the new building, on the new property. And that's kind of the vision. That's where we're headed. That's the direction we're going. Of course, church was excited about all that, but somebody came to me the next week. I'm not going to tell you who because I don't want to embarrass them, but they said, Pastor, I'm a little bit sad. And I said, why are you sad? And he said, well, because I won't be here for that. I mean just As the course of life goes, it's very unlikely that I will still be alive ten years from now But you never know. Maybe you'll make it to 102 like Catherine. I also remember many years ago when we were in a storefront. And Catherine had sacrificed and given for us to be able to get into our first building. And her aspiration, her desire was to be able to see Hunt Valley Baptist Church in their first building. She said, I just want to live long enough to see us get into the first building. And I remember as people were sacrificing and giving and and we didn't know where it was going to come from, but we were pushing and working towards that end and praying and God opened up the door for this building and uh God's pe the the people that had it said no and God's people our church began to pray and and fast at least one day a week for six months and then We resubmitted an offer for $1 million, and they had this building on the on the market for $2. 25 million, and we submitted an offer for $1 million and they took it. They said, okay, we were able to buy this for one million dollars, and God answered that prayer, but I remember Catherine being so excited that she got to come in and be here in the permanent church home for Hunt Valley Baptist Church Little did she know she was going to make it to 102. She was still going when Don called me. He says, Mom had a good run. She was 102 and decided to go home to be with the Lord. So we don't know there are some who live a little bit longer, but we know that the reality is that, as the Bible says, the time is going to come when our life is cut off. That old song we sing, I'll fly away, O glory, I'll fly away. That's from this text here, Psalm 90. You're cut off and you fly away. Beloved, I'm glad that when I land, I know where I'm landing. Uh I don't know if when they uh uh you know how students sometimes end up in the wrong classroom. And they say, Hey, you're in speech one oh one and the student stands up and starts leaving, they're like, Where are you going? He's like, I'm supposed to be in biology you know. Uh you end up in the wrong place. That that happens. So I don't know if air if the air The pilots on the planes, you know, you get on and they'll get up and they'll say, well, welcome to your non-stop flight to Fort Lauderdale. I don't know if they're hoping making sure everybody knows where they're going or you get on a flight, unless you're flying southwest and then I mean or uh spirit and then they'll say welcome to your triple-stop flight to Pittsburgh. Yeah. Stop in three three way cities on the way. But you know, they announced but I'm glad, beloved, that when I fly away I know where I'm landing. I've got a home in Glory Land. And I'm going. But I have been faced with the reality of these verses in such a strong way in the last few weeks. Moses communicates some clear instruction to us, understanding that our life is as a tale that is told, that it is going to come to an end. He says there in verse number 12, he says, so. He draws a line in the sand and he says, so I have a couple of truths I want to share with you. First of all, this morning I want you to see that there's an allotment. He says, so teach us to number our days He's saying, God, give us the foresight and the wisdom to pause for a minute and consider the time that we have left to evaluate and look at the days we have to live. He says here, teach us. That would be to instruct to consider, to know, to understand. He's saying, God, help us to know how important this is, to pause for a minute and ponder and think about the days that we have left. To number is to weigh carefully. Literally, Strong's definition of this is by implication to a lot. We have an allotment of time here on earth, this side of heaven. We've all been given a set amount of time. We don't know how much time that will be. And so just as one would budget his treasure, one must budget his time We have just gone through the lessons in Financial Peace University about budgeting, and everybody in the class is excited about it, right? Yeah. We're excited about budgeting and you know, a budget is really not that bad. A budget is just a plan for your money. It's having a plan for your money. And although you're not an FPU, I would encourage you to have a plan for your money It will make a big difference on how you live if you establish and set a plan for your money. If you want to know how to do that, come to FBU. But you look at what you have and you establish a budget and you say, here's the plan with what I have. Well beloved, we don't know how much time we have, so the days we have must be budgeted, they must be planned for, they must be seized. Can I ask you, have you thought about how much time you have? The days of our years. You know, maybe seventy, maybe eighty, maybe a little bit more, we we don't know, but can I tell you I know because I reached fifty. Is that why they call it over the hill? Because there's less on this side than there is on that side. There's not near as much time left over here as you've already lived, and you start to think, man, the end is near, and I know that there are others in the room that have passed the 70. And some who have passed the eighty and I know in your heart and mind it has to be ever more real to you, but I would encourage the younger members of our congregation to realize they're not guaranteed to live the eighty. You don't know exactly how many days you have left. So he tells us, teach us to number our days. I want you to know secondly there's an application. That we may apply our hearts to wisdom. He says to apply, that word apply there is to make some practical use of. To engage for a particular service. We're to apply our hearts, he says You know, beloved, that is the one member of your body that the Lord asks of you. Because when he has your heart, he has all of you. You know, one of the amazing truths about Job that we've been studying on Thursday nights is that He knew God and he acted like it. You see, beloved, there's a difference. There are some that know God, but they have not applied the knowledge to their life. So they know God, but they haven't applied the knowledge, and so therefore they don't act like they know God. He says, here, teach us the number our days. Remember, we don't have a whole lot of time. There's only an allotted amount of time. And so with the time we've been allotted, we need to apply our hearts. We need to take what God teaches us And we need to apply the unto wisdom. Wisdom, beloved, is the proper use of knowledge. We know God, and so we should apply our hearts to the proper use of that knowledge. We know, beloved. That one aspect of wisdom is to redeem the time. Colossians 4 5 says, walking in wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming the time. Redeeming is to rescue from loss. Boy, how much time is lost today? Wasted? I mean how many reels can you watch in a row? Nonstop. How how many YouTube videos or shorts? How much time can you spend on social media? Is that really a good use of your time? Or maybe you should redeem. That is to rescue that time from loss because we only have so long to live. We've only got so much time left. Maybe we should apply our hearts to wisdom, and that would be to use proper use of that knowledge. Imagine, beloved. If you had a bank account and Elon Musk decided every day he was going to give you $86,400. Every single day I tried to do some do some math to kind of see like where he was at. Um if you take one billion dollars You would have to spend forty thousand dollars every day of your life. If you lived to be 70, every day from the day you were born to the day you die, you have to spend forty thousand dollars to spend one billion. And uh then I thought but he's worth over two hundred billion, so what would that be? I'm like, I'm done. That's way more math than I want to do But he would certainly have the capacity to put $86,400 in your bank account every day and he wouldn't even notice. And so here's the thing though, he would do it every day, but anything that you did not spend, you would lose. At midnight, it's gone. However, tomorrow morning, he's going to give you another 86,400. Can I tell you how most of us in here would live? We would waste a very large portion of that money every day. Why? Because we know that tomorrow he's going to give us another 86,000 So it really doesn't matter because tomorrow I have another eighty six thousand. Well beloved, there are eighty six thousand four hundred seconds in every twenty-four hour period and God by his mercy and his grace he bestows upon you and I eighty six thousand four hundred seconds every day that he says we're to redeem. The problem is if We don't know, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And too many of us are living like we're going to be here forever instead of acknowledging the fact that we only have an allotted amount of time. We need to apply our hearts to wisdom. We need to use the time that we have, stop wasting it. I know that we're all busy. But what is the most important use of your time? The poet said, I don't have time. I got up early one morning and rushed right into my day. I had so much to accomplish, I didn't have time to pray Problems just tumbled about me and heavy came each task. Why doesn't God help me? I asked. He answered, You didn't ask. I wanted to see joy and beauty, but the day toiled on, gray and bleak. I wondered why God didn't show me. He said, you didn't seek. I tried to come into God's presence. I used all my keys at the lock. God gently and lovingly chided me, my child, you didn't knock. I woke up early this morning and paused before entering my day. I had so much to accomplish that I had to stop and pray. You see there's a difference there. What are you doing with the time that you have? Are you redeeming it? Are you using it to its fullest? Are you doing what God would want you to do with the time that you have? You see, beloved, because there's an account. He says, our life is a tale that is told. There's an account. That is going to be shared. There's a tale that's going to be told. Somebody's going to give an account of your life one day over the last Several weeks I've sat and listened to many people stand up and share the account of the life of the one that they loved. Just yesterday in the funeral for Linda, Pastor Brown, got up and shared it. He's 84 years old, and he said in his ministry he has done over 500 funerals. Over 500 times he's sat and listened to family and friends stand up and give an account of their loved ones' life. Talk about what happened. Talk about how they lived. I wonder, beloved, what are they going to say about you? What will they say about me? You know what, I've been at some funerals. That the person got up there and began to share with the audience the individual's faith in God. And there's people in the audience wondering if they went to the wrong funeral. They got up and talked about the person that How good they were. I recall one funeral that People got up and talked about how loving and ca and and caring of a man this this guy was, and his children got up and walked out because that was a flat out lie. What I'm saying beloved is what are they going to say about are they going to have to stand up and lie at our funeral? Is the account that people are going to give of our life one day just going to have to be a lie? They've just got to make something up because we have not lived in honor of God and his glory? That is our account here on earth. But can I tell you, beloved, what's more important is the account that's being kept in heaven. There is the book in heaven where our deeds are recorded, where the records of our life are kept. Where every deed in their body, whether it be good or bad, is kept and God knows exactly. It's not something that's fabricated or made up. It's not something that We have to rely on somebody's failing memory to recall. It is a clear record of the account of our life. And I wonder, beloved, what does God have recorded for you and I? Psalms 144, verse number 3 says, Lord, what is man that thou takest knowledge of him? Or the Son of Man that thou makest account? God knows what's going on in your life. Romans chapter 4, verse number 12 says, so then every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. The day is going to come, beloved, and it really is not going to matter too much what happens or what people here on earth think of us. It's not going to really matter too much how people view or feel about you and I. But what really matters is what God knows about you and I. The old songwriter. When in the book of hell an old account was standing for sins yet unforgived My name was at the top, and many things below. I went unto the keeper, and settled it long ago, long ago Long ago Yes, the old account was settled long ago, and the record's clear today, for he washed my sins away And the old account was settled long ago. Has your account been settled? The songwriter goes on. He says, the old account was large and growing every day. For I was always sinning and never tried to pay. But when I looked ahead and I saw such pain and woe, I said that I would settle, and I settled it long ago, when at the judgment bar I stand before my king and Key, the book will open, and he can't find a thing. Then my heart will be glad and tears of joy will flow because I had it settled, settled long ago. Beloved, God's keeping a record. The only way to deal with this problem of sin in the heart of man is to have it covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. There's nothing you and I can do to settle that account, but Jesus has done it for us. After your account's been settled, you've been saved, your sins have been forgiven, and you're on your way to heaven. Then God calls of us to those that know God to act like we know God. And to redeem the time that we have to live. That we are bringing honor and glory to Him and not letting our days pass one after the other, after the other, after the other, and having accomplished nothing for glory. Nothing is going to matter in eternity. Think about your life. Are you redeeming the allotted time that you've been given? Are you applying the knowledge of the word of God that's been shared with you in your life to live in accordance with this book. I hope you are because there's an account being kept. Those here on earth are going to remember and share their account. But God has a clear record in his. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed this morning? We're living a life And it is as a tale that is told. One poet said it this way: You're writing a gospel. A chapter a day, by words that you say and deeds that you do. Dear friend, what is the gospel according to you?