Can't leave, you know, you just don't do this in our churches, you don't just look it up in the middle of the service and leave. And he said, All right, so then the pastor would say, in closing And then he wouldn't close. You ever been there, brother? And uh you know go another fifteen minutes or so, and then he'll say like, you know, and then in closing or the last thing I have to say and I'll be done. And then he would say more and wouldn't be done. And and the guy continued to get impatient and upset about that and and he said, No, I'm leaving and so he got up to leave and and she was going to be mortified and she said, um Where are you going? And he said, I'm going to get a haircut. And she said, a haircut? You should have got one before you came. He said, I didn't need one before I came. So we will try to be mindful if uh uh if you need to make a hair appointment afterwards, you can get your cell phone out and start working on that right now, amen. Uh all right. If you turn your Bibles please to Genesis chapter number 18. Genesis chapter number eighteen. It is great to be here in the camp, it was just amazing. And it was uh super well executed and enjoyed being a part of it and I appreciate your pastor having me come and the work that the assistants did to put into it and and other men from Hunt Valley here who helped out throughout and the food was tremendous And it was just uh a tremendous thing, actually that camp is a real blessing to know that the way that the the way that the Lord has brought you all into favor with the ownership there and just an amazing thing. And then going down to the river And uh my son, he's eleven and my daughter eight, they're in the other place. My son just had a blast. He'd still be there if uh if we wouldn't get dragged him on the car on the way home, but and they had these water cannons and uh Um blasting everybody. It wasn't very spiritual, but boy, it was fun, okay? So all right. Well, we want to look at some things today that I think will be a help. I want you to know that I take this kind of thing very seriously and I would never just preach a message to you that I thought would be a great message. Um this is all about what the Lord wants for this church this morning. We'll never repeat this morning again, will we? We'll never be all the same uh in the same place in the same demographics here and the same people here on the at the exact same place that you are right now in your life and where um you're interacting and uh where events are intersecting your life that maybe things are going good for you right now, maybe things are very difficult for you right now. And wherever that is, whatever's going on, the Lord knows. Is that true? And he's got this message uh to help us this morning and I trust that it will be a real help to you that maybe you'll never quite uh forget some of it, not because of me, but because maybe the Lord had it just for you. Well, Genesis chapter 18 is a well-known story, and you will be quite familiar with it once we jump into it, of the story of Abraham and Sarah. And this is An episode where the Lord appears to them. So we'll read a few verses here in Genesis chapter 18, starting at verse number one. And it says, And the Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre, and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day. And he lifted up his eyes, so this is Abraham, and he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo, three men stood by him. And when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the front door, up from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground And said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant. Yet a little water, let a little water, I pray thee. Be fetched and wash your feet and rest yourselves under the tent. And I will fetch you I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts. After that ye shall pass on. For therefore are ye come to your servant, and they said, So do as thou hast said. So verse 6 Abraham tells Sarah to to do some things. In verse 8, he goes and gets the calf out of the out of the pen there. Verse 8, and he took butter and milk and the calf which he addressed and set it before them, and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat. And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? Alright, now I want to stop for a moment here and say, verse number one says that there were, in verse two says there were three men. Now, we would say that these were three angels. Is that true? How many said, I've heard this story before? Can you raise your hand? You know the story. Okay. There's three men, but we would know them to be angels Right? And the reason we know that they are angels is because in a little bit here, two of them are going to leave the the story here and they're gonna head down toward where Lot is. They're gonna head toward Sodom and Gomorrah. And when they get there, they're they're re referred to as angels. And they go into the city there and they talk to Lot and um and they try to pull him out of there, which of course they do. But you know that story, so that's going to be in the next chapter. But the one who stays behind is also an angel, but we would call him what? We'd call him maybe the angel, the angel of the Lord. And in the Old Testament often the angel of the Lord is actually whom? Jesus Christ, right? So the second member of the Trinity before he ever became a baby and became a man in reality, Christ was the son of God. And we call these type of things, they call them the pre incarnate now here's a big phrase that you learn in Bible school, the pre incarnate appearance of the Lord. So before he ever became in the flesh, he shows up because he's alive. Amen. So he shows up, and the reason we know it's him is because at the end of this chapter, Abraham began to talk to him, and he says, I'm going to go down to see the city, and if I find fifty people there Then uh I won't or Abraham says, you know, if you find fifty, you know, let's just look at that for a moment. Look at verse number twenty-three. And Abraham said Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked, peradventure, or perhaps there be fifty righteous within the city? Wilt thou also destroy And spare not, and not spare the place, for the fifty righteous that are in there, that be far from thee to do after this manner, if display the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee. Shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And the Lord said, If I find inside of fifty righteous, then I will spare all the place for their sakes. And then Abraham says, Okay, let's Let's take it down a little bit. Verse number 28, uh 28, the last part he says, what if there be forty and five? Okay. And so the the point is in look at verse 33. And the Lord went his way. As soon as he communed, less communion with Abraham, and Abraham returned into his place. So this is the Lord So all these three angels, pretty neat story here, these three men show up, and Abraham knew something was going on, because what he does is he bows down and he says in uh in verse three, My Lord, if I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant. So We're not saying he that they looked like the Lord and they didn't look like angels, but these men, you know, what would it look like to see the Lord in a human form You might know something special is going on here, even if you didn't know exactly what was going on, you might realize this is not just your normal man. So that he bows down and says, Um let me take care of you here, and he goes and gets some food and And uh brings it to him. And uh but the Lord is setting this all up and he's gonna say some amazing things here, and he says to Abraham Abraham not knowing that it's the Lord probably at this point, he says unto him, verse number nine, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life, and lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah, and we would know this by now, if if you've been following the story up to this point in Genesis, now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age. And it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself. Saying, After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord, Abraham, being old also? And the Lord son of Abraham Wherefore does there a laugh, saying, Child, assured you bear a child which am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed, I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and as Tarah shall have a son. Then Sarah denied, saying, I laugh not, for she was afraid. And he said, Nay, but thou didst laugh. Want to preach today On a template for seeing God's intervention or his blessing in any and every problem you have. This is actually something that could be a very big help to you if we'll just look at the couple points here. There are four points. And if you're going to take notes today, I would recommend that you do it this way. Okay, so I'm going to try to uh give you a way to remember this. In fact later on I'm going to probably need some help, so maybe some teenagers could help me out here in a little bit. But I'm going to go I'm going to, if you're a note taker, how many say you take notes during church sometimes? Okay. How many say I don't take notes because I have a mind like a steel trap or whatever? Okay. All right. Um I've been told I have a photographic memory, but I just don't have any film in the camera sometimes, so it doesn't help me. But uh I want you to think of this instead of one, two, three, four, which you normally just get a message with you know three to four points, so how can we make this a little different that we might be able to remember it? Instead of one, two, three, four, I'm going to encourage you that if you're taking notes to make four boxes on your bulletin or on your piece of paper there. And the boxes will go from left to right across your page. So it'll be an empty box like this. And you'll have to leave room to put something in that box. But one, two, three, four. Okay? And this class, this message always works well in the nursery too, because they understand blocks. Okay? So if you can think one, two, three, and four, and we'll look at how God can intervene and bless you in any situation. Now what is the background of the situation? Well, we're going to set it up for you in this way. That God had given to Abraham some very clear promises, hadn't he? He'd given to Abraham very clear promises going back to about chapter twelve. And what we find is that he began to tell Abraham early on, he says something like this, I'm going to make of you what? A great nation. And you're going to be a blessing, and anybody that curses you is going to be cursed, and anybody who blesses you is going to be blessed. And in you, all nations Now what is he talking about here? Well, what he's talking about is Abraham is what we would call the first Jew the Jew the first Jewish man. And if you want to say, Well, I don't know if he was the first Jewish man, well we know that what's going on here is that God is creating a whole new nation, isn't he? And what he's going to do is he's going to make it out of Abraham. And so whether Abraham was the first Jewish person, you would say, well, certainly the Jewish race came from him. So his descendants were all Jewish, and so we call him Jewish. They're still uh the Jewish people um you know are are uh very much beloved by us. believers, the Christians, whether they're saved or unsaved, we believe and and uh support the nation of Israel and we love the Jewish people. And uh and what happens is that Abraham is told you're going to have descendants here, and the Jewish people are also called the Hebrews, right? So we have later on, well known throughout the Old Testament, things like the three Hebrew children. Well, what is that? Well that is there are three Jewish children. So all throughout the Old Testament, all the people that we know that are great are Jewish people, right? So you have Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, you have Ruth, you have David, you have Esther, you know, you have the prophets, Elijah, Elisha, they're all Jewish. And eventually you get to the New Testament, and you have two people named Mary and Joseph. And Mary has a baby, and he's Jewish, and his name is Jesus. And that is why it's so important that this promise made to Abraham actually got fulfilled because out of Abraham was going to come the Jewish race. There had never been one before. And God looks at all, he was dealing with all humanity after chapter 11, and then he reduces it down to one nation, his chosen race. And he says, Abraham, you're going to have children. And if you could number the stars, Abraham, look up. If you could number the stars, that's how many children you're going to have. Abraham looked down. If you could number the sea the the sand that's on the seashore, if you could number it, that's going to be how many children are going to have. And of course Jesus comes later on, and because of him, all the nations in the world are going to be blessed, right? And are blessed by receiving him as their Savior. So it's very true. Everything God said back here in Genesis chapter twelve, of course we're looking at chapter eighteen. But Abraham is being told these amazing things that you're going to have innumerable, uncountable amount of Descendants, but the problem was they couldn't even have one. Now let me ask you, would that be a problem? And would you struggle with that? Where God keeps saying to you, this is going to happen, but there's no, there's not even a ripple in the lake, and he's like, you know, you're gonna it's gonna be this great, amazing thing, and there's no evidence of it happening at all. And what's going on here? Time is ticking off. You know, when we first find Abraham, he's 75 years old. When God calls him, the first time we find out about him, for the most part, he's 75 years old. Now let me ask you a question. Let's just kind of get real here. Do you think that Abraham and Sarah may have wanted to have a baby by that time already? I mean just try it. There's only two answers, yes or no. Yeah. Yeah, I mean you could always give the no answer and then just change it, so that was good. We jumped right in there. At seventy-five, by that time, they'd probably already had thought about children and had perhaps tried to have children. But what made it interesting is that after they got saved, or we became believers as we call it, then God comes and says that you're Children are going to be the amazing descendants. In fact, anybody who blesses them is going to be blessed. Anyone who curses them is going to be cursed. All nations are going to be blessed by you. And Abraham's like, oh, okay, so we're going to have a baby now. And then time began to tick off. We have another time in the Bible where it says he's 86 years old, and God is still giving these promises. And now at this point, he's 99 years old. So a full twenty five years has passed that he's been hearing these promises. What makes it interesting is that I think Sarah was just losing her faith. Because the Lord comes and says, Where is Sarah? And he says, um, well she's in the tent behind us. And he says, you know, um I'm gonna come back And verse number 10 says, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life, and lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. And then verse number fourteen, at the time appointed I will return unto thee according to the time of life. And it appears a what this seems to mean is about a year from now. So he says to her, within her hearing, he says, hey, let Sarah know, but he was he was saying it to Sarah too. Uh about a year from now, Sarah's gonna have this baby. And she's eighty-nine years old. She's ten years younger than Abraham. So as everything went on, it became more complex, but maybe the hardest thing of all was the Lord kept saying, I'm going to do this in your life, and he wasn't doing it. Have you ever had a conflict in your life with what the the the things the Lord says don't seem to actually sometimes line up in your own life? You know, maybe maybe Sarah is just struggling here. You know, Abraham is this great man of faith, but but what about Sarah? And she seems to be struggling, you know, have you ever heard someone talk about like answers to prayer? And and you kind of feel like, I I don't I don't think I get my prayers ever answered. And you can almost be a little sad when someone stands up and gives some great glowing report. of, you know, the Lord did this and we needed this and a miraculous thing happened and and you're like you know, you try to be happy. Now maybe this is not you, but I I I've seen this in my whole life. You really are ha try to be happy and you are happy at some level, but you're also kinda like, Oh wow. I I mean I'd I I've asked God for things like that. What do you do when your faith is almost gone? What do you do when you're not sure if God cares as much about you as he cares about somebody else And what do you do when God has clear words in the Bible and yet they don't seem to be coming true in your life? Well this is a template for how you can see God alive and real and intervene and bless your life. Would you like to know what the four points are? We'll get there. Let's pray together and ask God to help us. Father, help us now. We have a few minutes here. We're gonna try to trust you to Take the message and do great things. I pray that maybe somebody would already be relating to Sarah. That they don't quite don't see it. And the words are clear to Sarah. And the words are clear to us in the Bible, and sometimes we just struggle. And sometimes we have real problems. And we don't know the way out and we don't know what to do. And we don't seem to be getting a lot of help sometimes from from you. Sometimes the heavens seem kind of like brass. We don't know what's going on. Lord, I pray that you'd help us when our faith is almost gone and how to see you, a template for how to see you intervening in every problem. Lord, help someone today that would be able to go from here. By noon today, Lord, we're done. And somebody within the next few minutes could get up truth that certainly you would want them to hang on to. And I pray that they would. And I pray that the work that you are doing in their life is setting it up for this morning. And Lord, we praise you for this church here. um the faithfulness of the pastor here and his wife and and how they're laboring here and the staff here and and the good people of the church here that uh pull together and and are trying to do uh work for you. Lord, give us all something from heaven today. May we be glad that we came to the house of the Lord, I pray. We look to you in Jesus' name. Amen. In every problem we have, every problem we have Real faith on our part, or dependence on God, in other words, is going to bring the solution that God has for us for that day. Okay, so let me say it to you a different way. In every problem you have, think about a problem you have. If I said to you here in a minute, raise your hand if you have no problems. How many of you would raise your hand? One time my daughter was doing some schoolwork. She homes we homeschool and she was doing her work and a lot of times my wife is helping them with her schoolwork, but my wife was gone. Apparently. And um and so little Julia brought me her schoolwork and the material said, it was talking about as a Bible class, and it said, think about a problem you have. And then go to your parents and get help on a Bible answer and write it in here, in this little box. And so she came to me and she says, it says, write down a problem I have, but she goes, I don't have any problem. And it was this amazing moment. And I'm like, you don't have any problem? And she goes, Not that I can think of. Now think about that. Wouldn't that be a great life to live? Where even when you're trying to, you can't think of any problem you have. So then she she started thinking, and like so she's trying to think about a problem she has that the Bible might have an answer to it, and she says this, she goes So she apparently light bulb went on and she goes, I don't know anywhere where the Bible talks about biting your fingernails. Now let me say, if that's the biggest problem I had was biting my fingernails, I'm doing pretty good, amen. And if you had only a problem like that, you would be like, that's not even a problem. Well she's eight years old. Do you think she ever might have something bigger than that? Who knows? But we have big problems sometimes. But in every problem that we face, real trust or dependence on God is going to bring the solution that God has for you today. And what he wants you to do is exercise that dependence on him today and then tomorrow. And what's going to happen is eventually God's going to do Always what he does, he always rewards faith. And he'll reward it in your life. And this is how it works. First of all, God gives His word. So this is the first box. So I'm just going to hold this up here. I'm kind of a visual learner, so if you can see this, it'll be on the outline too. For every problem we have, God has a word on that problem. Now, how many would say that you are glad you come to a Bible-belie believing church? Now, what is a Bible-believing church? Well, a Bible-believing church is a church that believes the Bible, but it also believes this. It also believes that the Bible that we have here is complete. So we don't go to a church that would say, well, they're missing some the Bible's missing some books or you know there might be some additional books that we could add to it or take away from it or whatever. This is God's word, right? And every bit of it is true. All of it is true. The words, the phrases, the paragraphs, the chapters, everything is true. And here's the thing, just news flash, God's not changing it. So what we have here is a complete book. We call it in theological words, the canon. What a canon is, with reference to this, it's the complete written supernatural revelation of God to man. So what we have here, in case you're wondering, we believe it's inspired, but also we believe it's complete, and we believe it is The complete, written, supernatural revelation of God to this world. Amen? That's it. That's all we get. God's not doing a two point oh, He's not going to come back and said I had a couple typos. He doesn't he He's got it, it's complete, and the Bible says your word is forever settled in heaven. So even in heaven it's not changing. So with the sure word. But here's what's neat about it. When God stopped writing scripture, he closed the window. Or the door, or the possibilities of having any problems that are not addressed in his words. So every problem I have or will have or could have, there's already a word on it. Now my friend, this is gonna have to help us because if we say we believe the word, but we have these problems and we're just like not sure what to do with them And they get very complex. And what God is going to bring us back to is, are you going to exercise faith? In my word. Now, let me let me let us not can I come down here? Never know when some Baptist church is like, no, we ain't never done it that way before, so you get right back up there, okay? Get right back up there. All right. We have God's word, but we all would believe that. If I said it's God's word, we'd get some amen. Is that true? Okay, good, just like that. Good job. Okay. So we're we're we know when to say amen and when not to say amen. But in God's word are also, now this is not deep, but I'm not a very deep person. In God's word are also God's words. So we can hoot and holler about his word and we should, and we should say, Amen, when we say this God's word and it's perfect, right? But that's easy. Compared to this. God actually has words that were written for your struggle right now. And we can say all day long we believe the word, and we can go out and actually live in great unbelief about the words. That were written for your challenge, for your struggle. You could have a big problem right now with your family, for instance. You could have an extended family problem, or someone in your extended family, or maybe someone in your family, and they're going through a big deal, and maybe they're really being hurt by somebody. And you're struggling with your thoughts and your feeling about that person who's hurting that person you love. And you've thought about what you can do and you've tried to do things, and here's the thing, you know that God has words for that problem. Maybe here today and you've got a great problem with a besetting sin. You just as much as you have tried over the years, you have a problem that keeps coming back, a struggle you have, a sin you have, and you give into it on a routine basis, maybe even this morning already. And you are perplexed beyond belief about exactly what to do about that because you've tried before to to do things that are right, and yet here that problem remains. So the only thing consistent is we can say the Bible's true and will always be so, but so far in your life you have a problem that has often been there over the years, and if something doesn't radically change, you're going to die with that problem Maybe you're here today and you're facing a financial crisis. Oh, and you believe God and you believe his word and or you wouldn't be here this morning. But my friend What we got to do is we got to find God's word for your situation. And what God is going to do is he never changes. He's going to need you if you're going to get blessed. He's going to need you to put your whole weight on those words. You're going to have to just say, I'm going to believe the words. And he says to Sarah, Sarah, you're going to have a baby. And she's like, I don't believe those words. Oh, I would have believed it 25 years ago. But now I don't believe it now. I don't believe it. And her unbelief comes out in laughing. Now, it wasn't the laugh that was the problem, it was what was behind it. Because if you go to an earlier chapter, God tells tell tells Abraham, You're gonna have a a child, he you mentioned it more than once. And Abraham laughs and the Lord doesn't rebuke him because his his laugh is like, Yah Alright. What is your struggle today? What is your challenge? What is your problem that you're facing? And if you say, now Dave, don't don't don't tell me I just gotta, you know, go to the, you know, I just gotta believe. You know, and just act like there's not a real problem here. This is very complex. But let me tell you how complex Abraham's problem was. He's given the word That out of you was going to come great descendants and line of descendants. And then God would circle around later on and say, um, say it again. But it wasn't happening. So one day Abraham said, Oh, that my servant Eliezer would live before you. Remember that? He says, one born in my house is my heir, and how about if he becomes like this? line of descendants, he'll be the first one. We'll kind of adopt him and you know kind of probably how apparently how it worked back then. This his this was a servant and so apparently it was kind of like we're all in the family here. You know, we're uh we spent all this time together. I'm just gonna make you be the son. And you'll have children, and there we go. We'll have that, even though it wasn't my child, Abraham says, but it was kind of the same thing because he was my servant. All right And God has to come around and say to Abraham, No, your son, the son I'm talking about, the descendants, are going to come out of your body. So now Abraham's like, oh okay, well that would take out Eliadr. However, as time goes on, they begin to think, okay, the sun is going to come out of me. But God never said the sun is going to come out of Sarah. And if you trace it through, he doesn't. For a period of time. And uh so they came up with this idea. And the idea is this well maybe Hagar can have the baby. Remember that? And that made sense because Abraham then would be the father. And time is ticking off here. We're 86 years old now. And so Sarah says, yeah, let's do let's let's use Hagar and then her child will just be in place of my child and we'll and we'll go from there. So Hagar gets pregnant. Now let me ask you, was that God's way? It wasn't, but think about this. Would you have tried that, and don't get spiritual on me, would you have thought it because God actually never did say at that point Sarah would be the wife, would be the mother. They're here, maybe? Well, I would have been with Abraham is there a So my wife would have been like one of the four angels. I mean she would have been the fourth angel, but that's different. I would have been So then he comes around and of course they get the baby and that becomes Ishmael, right? And we call him the first Arab. And the Arabs and Jews have had trouble ever since, right? To this day. So then the Lord has come back around and says, no, Sarah is going to be the mother. Okay, so God is using the funnel to squeeze the funnel down. First of all, here's a general promise, and now it's coming very, very more clear that there's no way to get around it. God expects them, listen, he expects them to actually take him at his word. And they tried all sorts of things and it's getting more messy. But then the Lord comes around one more time and says, Next year, next year. And Sarah says, No, it's not gonna happen. Stop. And the Lord says to her, Did Sarah laugh Is anything too hard for me? Now, folks, listen, I grew up in independent Baptist churches. My dad was a pastor. I was born on Easter of the year I was born in. I won't tell you what year. So my mom had to leave church to have me. So I'm actually more spiritual than anybody here because I was I was in church before I was born. But one thing about independent Baptist churches is that we're doing the best we can and we're separated from people and sometimes we've got had may had make hard fame decisions and people didn't agree our stances and we we're trying to live right for God at work and And then we still have these problems. And we try so hard and and it's like other people don't try so hard seemingly and their life seems to be great and I'm just trying to follow the Lord and things aren't so great and then the Lord I've got this problem in my hands and the Lord says I've got a word for that problem And I have a question for you. I'm sorry that I'm kind of being not saying it right. I wonder if God wants you to get back to trusting Him with the words that He gave for your problem. Teenagers, young people, maybe you and your parents aren't kind of connecting uh so well these days. They're not y it's just not the relationship it used to be. Because they're maybe they're having you do some things or won't let you do some things that you just don't think are right. And and you feel like well that's not right and so your attitude has not been right. Do you know that God's got a word for your situation? Whatever you're facing, my dear friend, God's got a word for your situation. So it This is where we got to get to and you say, okay, what's next? Well what's next ultimately is for us to get back finding out what is his word for my situation. Secondly, the second box, and I hope you'll write this down. Here's what always happens. This is the way God always does it in everybody's life. He allows there to be the problem. This is the second box. Now this problem could be just a challenge you're facing, again, health or finances or a rebellious a family member or uh something's going on at work, someone at work just doesn't like you, or your boss is being harder on you or than other people. Or you've got bills to pay that you don't know how you're gonna bill for them or pay for them, or you've got a like a an ache somewhere and you're wondering if if this could this be cancer or something, or perhaps you have been diagnosed with cancer, mean put your problem here. What was Abraham and Sarah's problem? It wasn't just that she struggled with believing the word. She actually had a physical problem. Did she? She actually had a physical problem that was running directly contrary. To this word that God kept saying. What was her problem? Her problem was that she was actually physically unable To have children. Now you say, well, we know that, but here's the thing. What I'm trying to get at is this was not in her head. This was not something that she was exaggerating. This was now something she was making up. The Bible actually goes on record to tell us the problem. Look at verse 11. Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well-stricken in age. And it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. All I'm saying is this, in this situation, Sarah's physical capacity and her physical ability to see God's will for her to come to pass was out of the question. Now let me ask you, did I just overplay that point? Was Sarah's physical capacity and ability to see God's will for her to kind of pass? Was it out of the question? From a physical standpoint, it was. There's no like, well, if she would do this or do this. Do you think Abraham and Sarah had tried to have children? And they had tried to do right. This obstacle or this issue or this challenge is real. Sarah's not making this up. The problem is not in her mind. Inspired scripture tells us that she had a physical problem. So my friend, ask yourself, and you already know, what is the problem you're facing if you uh just come up with one. Your marriage is in trouble. That besetting sin is killing you. You have a problem with lying. You have a problem with your mouth. You got a problem. Maybe you're trying to think about what is God's will for me next year now, or what is God's will for me next month? I've got to make a decision about this or that or that. Okay? This is not a sin problem only, but it could be, but it's just a challenge you're facing. So I'm gonna need some help. Can I have a somebody come up here? Can I one of the young people come up here? Young people? Okay, yeah, sure. Uh in fact I need two of you. Come on up. Why don't you just hold that? And just hold that facing that way and you just hold this. So this is the template. Last week I was preaching on this and someone told my wife later on, they woke up the next day with a problem they've had for a long while. And they thought about these boxes. Maybe God will help you to think about what He's trying to do to you today. What's the third thing? In every problem This is the third thing. I need someone to help me out, okay? Someone else? It doesn't have to be just a man, it could be a bo uh a girl. In every situation, you can come over there too. In every situation I have, in every problem my marriage may face, you know, why don't you just come this way a little bit Try to see how obedient these guys are. Come a little more. Okay. Now smile, you guys. Okay. Okay, no more smiling. Alright. In every situation, God's word, that that could be helpful, but sometimes we don't always we can't say, Why kind of I kind of knowing God's word on it? But then you got a problem, and sometimes our problems come from not trusting his word years ago. But in every situation then comes this. There is no problem that you've ever had or will have where the end of the line is the problem. The line continues down into every one of us in every situation is going to respond one way or the other in a problem. Now let me help you with this, not because I'm so smart, but because it's the way it is. See if you can figure it out another way. I'd be glad to talk to you afterwards, but I don't think you'll get there. In every problem, there will only be two kinds of responses you can have. Not three and not one. What are those responses? In every problem I face. There's not just one response I can have. There are two, and there are now three. And that is this. I'll either trust God. Or I won't trust God. You can hold that along with that. So what we have to ask you then, dear woman of God, or dear man of God, or dear young person. Are you trusting God in your problem about how He is said to address that problem in His Word? You know, we struggle in faith, but we're going to be brought back to it that there are no other options. We either trust God And let me say this too. I don't have a little card for this, but behind God's word, you know what's behind it, is the character of a faithful God. So God's character actually stands behind you. So you think of this man as like the Lord, he didn't just give his word, just kinda like throwing him out there like, okay, I gotta have the book of Ephesians, I have to have four chapter uh six chapters and You know, the book of Colossians has got to have four and Revelation's got to have twenty-two, and he's trying to fill these things up and he's not sure what to say, so he kind of throws some random things in there. Or he just copied and pasted a lot into the document. No, every word means something. And behind his word is a faithful God that would not have given it if he's not going to help the people who are supposed to listen to it. So when I don't trust his word, you know what I'm doing? I don't mean to do it. But when I don't trust his word in the problem, I don't respond in faith. I don't trust him. I don't trust his word, it's like I'm not trusting him, and that's exactly what happens. He says to Sarah, Sarah, did you laugh? What would you have done? And God was trying to teach her, you can trust me Is anything too hard for the Lord? And later on we already read it, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? My friend, let me ask you a question. The judge of all the earth? We're not talking about your dad or your mom or a preacher. We're talking about you shall not the judge of all the earth. Do right by you. He has to or the everything makes no sense. And if God is not going to be true to His word to you, then none of it is right. Because if He's going to bail out on you, that means He's not faithful. And if he's not faithful, he's not anything because he's just like me then. I'm unfaithful. And against all logic and against all Imagination, I've got to get back to the fact of I'm going to trust God and I'm going to trust Him that His words mean something. And they were written for my problem. We could close the invitation we could close the situation right now, the service, and get you an invitation, but there is one more step. And then let me ask you this point blank, are you trusting God right now in your situation? I mean, are you just putting your whole weight on him? Have you gone to him lately and say, God, I don't understand? I don't get it. I don't even agree. I don't know what to think. But I know that not trusting ends me up in a bigger mess. Think about Hagar and Ishmael. A bigger mess, right? Because they didn't trust. Have you found that your lack of trust has made the problem better? By you still coming to church and sitting in your pew but not really trusting God with your problem? Oh, it's easy to sing the songs. There's a song, Turn Your Eyes Upon Jesus, and there's a phrase that says His word shall not fail you. What he promised Believe him, and all will be well, right? And we sing it. And then we go home And not trusting. You can trust God because He knows about your problem. Do you know that God had never met Sarah personally and he knows her name? Where is Sarah their wife? Do you know he knows exactly what you're gonna have the baby? Do you know it's gonna be a son? You know he knows what his name's gonna be? God knows everything. God knows everything about your future, my friend. Everything. But he's wetting you to trust. Trust the God who knows what's coming. You say, well I'm not very good at trusting. I've seen I've trusted him before and the bottom fell out. Trust him? Trust him again. Simply trusting. Trusting as the days go by. I lost the verse. Trusting him. Ma ma ma ma ma. Something like that. Even when your faith is small. Remember that? Trusting Jesus, what's the rest of it? You don't have any other option. Because the devil's waiting for you to say, no, no, he's not faithful. No, no, he's faithful, but not to you. And you've got to say, I defy you in the name of Jesus. I'm going to trust him. Bob Jones Sr. said, trust him if the stars fall. Job says, though he slay me, yet will I trust. The last thing is this, and we're done. Can I get one more helper? And the girls are chicken. They don't want to get the square that's gonna make them feel guilty, amen. Push off on these poor boys. In every situation, that you'll trust God at His Word. He's going to bless your life. He's going to intervene for you. He's going to be there for you. Remember the three Hebrew children? Our God is able to deliver us. But if not, they didn't even have a word that God was going to deliver them. But he said, if not. We're still gonna trust. We're not gonna bow down. We know that. And who shows up in the fire? Very rarely will you find it in the Bible that this person shows up. Like he did in this chapter. And the king says, Who is that? He looks like the son of God. You know, maybe God is waiting for you to trust him, my dear lady, so he can show up in your problem. So that in a little while here you can stand up in church and say, I trusted God in the against impossible odds. And he met me. So we know the story and we're done. Did God do what he said he would do? Did they have a baby? Did that baby have a baby? Did Jesus eventually come out of that line? You know, what was God up to? If if Sarah would have known You can't blame her, she's just like you and me. But God had a big stake in this thing. Because he's going to bring Jesus that's going to bless your life. And in your life, my friend, you've got a big stake in it. He's trying to do things. Maybe the devil's up in heaven again saying The only reason she serves you is because you blessed her. Like with Job. The Lord says, no, no, that's not why I'm he's serving me. In fact, who started that conversation? It was God who said to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? God knew he was going to be so faithful that he even gave permission for Satan to go in there, and the very first thing Satan does is kill off Job's ten children. Now would you trust God if all your family was lost in one day? And Job did not charge God foolishly or sin with his lips, it says. And his wife comes to him, who was also grieving, and she says, It's not worth it. Curse God. And then die. And he's like, no, I'm not going to do that. Maybe you're a man and wife and one of you is struggling with trusting and one of you is trusting and the other one's struggling with unbelief. Can you get back to trusting, my friend? Maybe you need to bow here a little bit at your seat or at the altar. The Bible says we walk by faith, not by sight. God's not going to change the rules. For me, I'm going to have to trust His Word. 1 Chronicles 5. 20 says they cried to God in the battle and wasn't he was entreated of them because they put their trust in him. Do you have any thorny problems that have just gotten more complex over time? Get back to trusting God. If you'll just quiet down when you get home and think, what is God's word? What is his next word about my problem? Maybe you're struggling with bitterness towards somebody. Because they've actually done you wrong. And and and maybe God's gonna say to you, you know what, you're gonna have to forgive. And maybe you tried to forgive, but you're just going to have to come back here and find out what is his word to you today. And you take that word and you depend on that word. A faithful God is counting on you to trust him. And he's going to come through for you. He already knows about this. He knew this before you knew about it. And he also knew that what he wants of all his children Is to trust him. There was a man one day who was sick, and his sister sent for the person they knew would help and said, Come, Lazarus is sick. And the Bible says when Jesus heard that, he abode in the place about two more days. And then he shows up. And the sisters meet him. And one of them says, Lord, if you had been here, what? My brother would not have died. And that gives us out of that story the chance for him to say, your brother's going to rise again. And she goes, I know he's going to rise again the last day. And he says I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Aren't you glad that verse in the Bible? And it came out of Martha's situation of saying, I believe he's going to be in the resurrection. He's like, no. I want to go on record right now saying if anybody believes in me, I am the resurrection. And she probably still felt like, Well, that's great. My brother's dead. Then he meets the other sister and she said the exact same thing to him. If you'd if you'd been here, my brother would have died. Jesus weeps. And he does a great miracle. Remember the miracle? He raises Lazarus from the dead. Now let me ask you, what's the greater miracle? Raising Lazarus from a sickbed or raising Lazarus from a tomb? And God has allowed you to get into a problem and He's looking to do great things. And if you go the wrong way with it and cast aspersions on him, like God could have answered that prayer years ago, or he could have kept that tragedy from happening, or he could have kept me from being sick Whatever it is, don't do that. Because in John 11, 40, maybe this will be a helpful verse to you, he says to Martha, after it's all done, he says, Said I not unto thee If you would believe. What's the rest of that verse? I lost it. Can you turn to John eleven forty real quick? John eleven forty, and then we're done. Thank you guys. You can sit down. Thank you very much. There is a verse. I already thought of it. Do you have it? Said I not unto thee, If thou wouldst believe, you would see the glory of God. Isn't that interesting? And she did. And my friend, if you'll just trust God today, it's almost like he's saying, sit I down to you, if you would trust me, you'll see me come through. A year later, something happens to Sarah. You go with me to Hebrews chapter eleven. Do you have it in Hebrews eleven? It says verse eleven, eleven eleven Through faith also, I'm going slow because I hear pages. That's good. Through faith also, I think we're there. Through faith also, Sarah, here it is. Herself received strength to conceive seed and was delivered of a child when she was past age. And here it is, I've got an underline in my Bible. Why? Because she judged him faithful who had promised. My friend, she had a baby a year later Not because God did some miracle in in Abraham and her body and took him back thirty years. No, it's because God can do whatever he wants to. But she judged him faithful who had promised she went back to the first box And said, I'm gonna believe him. And my friend, she made it into the hall of faith at ninety. Can I say to you, it's never too late to start trusting. Do it today. Get back to the faithful God who has given you his word. He's given you his word You've got to trust him with that fear. You've got to trust him with that anger. You've got to entrust that situation back into his hands. You've got to trust the unknown future back to him. You've got to trust him. And if you will, today you will have the blessing of God. And when you wake up tomorrow, you trust him again. And what you're going to find is you're going to become a very spiritual person because you're doing what makes spiritual people is you're trusting God. And Job says, when I'm tried, I'm going to come forth as gold. That's what God's up to in your problem. Let's pray together, if you would, please.