So you should be in Psalm thirty-six or excuse me, one thirty-six. Psalm one thirty-six. And before we read through it, I will ask the question, one of the questions that I'll ask. Is what stood out most if you if you if you were able to read it this week, what stood out most to you about this chapter? Mercy. Mercy. And so the message tonight, you see it there at the top of your sheet. It's uh this is a psalm, Psalm 136, and it's a tribute, a a song, a poem that is written. uh uh about mercy. And we're gonna learn about it tonight and we'll we'll study it and this is a very uh a topic that is very expansive And we we really won't scratch the surface, but it's important for us to, I I hope we can get just a baseline understanding of what this mercy is about. And I want to just read through it and it hopefully you will take some time and we'll we'll go through this passage and then we'll go through a couple uh uh a short outline of what this this uh And kind of how we break down this chapter or this psalm, and then we'll go into just a couple truths that I think are important for us to apply kind of in general as a whole So let's look at it, and hopefully you're in your your Bible there in Psalm 136, and I'll read this to you, and uh you can follow along there as you look there. The Bible says this. It says, Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good. For his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the God of gods, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks to the Lord of Lords For his mercy endureth forever. Now we're going to do this responsively. So I'm going to say the first part, and then you're going to say we're going to say together, for his mercy endureth forever. All right. in each of the next ones. To him who alone doeth great wonders, for his mercy endureth forever. To him that by wisdom made the heavens, his mercy. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters. Mercy endureth forever. To him that made great lights. His mercy endureth forever. The sun to rule by day. The moon and stars to rule by night. To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn. And brought out Israel from among them. With a strong hand and with a stretched out arm to him which divided the Red Sea into parts. And made Israel to pass through the midst of it. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. To him which led his people through the wilderness, to him which smoke great kings. The slew and slew famous kings. Sihon, king of the Amorites And Og the king of Bashin and gave their land foreign heritage for his mercy Even in heritage unto Israel his servant who remembered us in our low estate. And hath redeemed us from our enemies. Who giveth food to all flesh? Oh give thanks unto God, unto the God of heaven. So what happens here is, I don't know, some of you maybe have been in a church. I know I have been in a church where there's things that happen that are like that. There's it's called responsive reading. It's someone says something and then there's a response. And someone says something and there's a response. And a lot of times what we see is there's a lot of repetition. And the Bible talks about vain repetitions. And so we have to be cautious about vain repetitions, all right, because they just become Plain, they become common. They become insignificant. But when we look at this passage It's important for us to focus on that last phrase. Why is it repeated so many times? And the reason is because it answers itself for his mercy endureth forever. The psalmist is making a point that his mercy is enduring. It is something that is eternal. And I don't want to get ahead of myself because I do have this a little bit later, but it's something that is. continuing from the beginning of time and until the end of time. His mercy is always going to be there. His mer because it's part of who God is. And so when we look at that passage, don't don't just uh kind of get into just a a repetitive habit because that that That phrase is trying to teach us something, and that is that his mercy is eternal. It endures forever. So when we look at this passage, we don't know who wrote it. We do know that it was a familiar song. It was something common. In the book of 2 Chronicles, you'll see that at the dedication of the Temple of Solomon There was a point, and I'll read it for you, uh, that there was a sacrifice that was made and God uh Put fire down and consumed the sacrifice. And then the Bible says in Second Chronicles 7:3, and when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory of the Lord upon the house They bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement and worshipped and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. So there's this phrase that is constantly found in uh the the language or in the writings of the Israelites. It was something that they mentioned to each other often. And we see it even uh even later. We see it in verse six of that same chapter uh because it says uh the priests waited in their offices, the Levites also with instruments of music of the Lord. which David the king had made to praise the Lord, because his mercy endureth forever when David praised by their mer ministry And so we see again, it's mentioned again i it it's a common thing to to, you know, many times when when we're in church, we say amen, or we'll say Praise the Lord. And and when we communicate to each other, we say, Hey, you know, we hear something good, oh praise the Lord. And and it's it was a common phrase that they knew about. And that common phrase was that his mercy endureth forever. It's also mentioned in 2 Chronicles. Now, when we look at this, because we don't know, we can maybe make some guesses, but the way this Psalm is written and some of the things that it references, it's possible that this was written after the exile. And I'll point that out uh w when we get to it. But one of the reasons is because in verse 26 It talks about, it says, Oh, give thanks unto the God of heaven. And the God of heaven is referenced by other people in that period. So Ezra mentions the God of heaven. uh that phrase by itself. So that's one of the reasons why people think maybe it was after the exile. And really as we put as we look at how it's written, that's very possible. It is called the Great Halel or the Great Praise. And as we look through it, one thing that I found that made it easier to me is that I Type this passage out or I I copied and pasted it over and then I took out the the the for his mercy endureth forever so that I can kind of get a uh uh uh an idea of what w you know, what all we're talking about here so I can it can flow in my mind. And so uh that's kinda how I I broke it down. So as we look at this, I'll I'll read these uh we'll we'll talk through it uh just a little bit. Let's just walk through this passage. It says, I'll give thanks unto the Lord For he is good. And it's certainly true that God is good. God is good, and we say it all the time, and all the time, God is good. And and This is something that maybe we we don't you know we we don't always understand correctly. There that we we we need to make sure that we realize that God's way Is good. God is good. And then it goes on. Oh give thanks unto the God of gods. Oh give thanks unto the Lord of Lords. To him who alone doeth great wonders. So understand that God didn't need any help to accomplish what it is that he did. On his own, because he always existed, because he has always been there, God did all these great wonders, and it's not like he needed help. It's not like he needed uh someone to come along and to assist him in that. Or he needed to, you know, something else in order to make create something. No, he did it all on his own. He did not need any help. But then it goes on, it says, to him that by wisdom made the heavens. When we see that, that's kind of an interesting phrase because it says that God made the heavens, he made space, he made the universe, and he made it By wisdom. And so that shows that it wasn't just something that he just said, okay, we'll just maybe we'll put this here and we'll put this here. No, all of it he put together and he had a purpose in it and he did it in wisdom. And so there was a great purpose in what God did and what God made in as he created the universe. To him that stretched out the earth above the waters, to him that made great lights, the sun to rule by day, the moon and stars to rule by night. So he's talking a little bit about he's explaining and he's uh He's uh uh giving some examples of some of the things that God has done. And then it goes on and it talks a little bit about the history of Israel. To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn. Obviously, that's a reference to the history of Israel. And brought out Israel from among them. So again, he brought out Israel from the nation of Egypt with a strong hand and with a stretched out arm. So again, it's talking about God's process in bringing uh the the the people of Israel out of servitude, out of slavery. To him which divided the Red Sea into parts. So we see the reference to the the Red Sea and the crossing of the Red Sea. where Moses and the people came and the the the Red Sea was parted and the people walked on dry land. And made Israel to pass through the midst of it. Again, same reference. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. So it's pointing out here what happened, and again, this is something that's confirmed, uh uh uh was mentioned in the book of Exodus and in other books. It's something that's a part of the history of Israel. And so what they're doing is they're making reference to it and reiterating it and reinforcing uh what happened. But again, it's something that God was doing Something that God did. These are victories and these are things that God did. It wasn't something that the people of Israel did. It wasn't something that they did in their own strength. It wasn't something that you could look at and say, well, maybe it was because of this situation and they had this military power. No, we're talking about a nation of slaves who overthrew and who who who completely decimated uh Pharaoh, who was the leader of the one of the strongest nations in the world at the time. And so it was something absolutely that only God could do. And when we're looking at this See that. See that very closely. It's things only that God can do. It wasn't something that, you know, uh we're not talking here about uh uh people and and the wisdom of people and the things that people did, it was all about what God did. To him that verse 16, to him which led his people through the wilderness. Again, it was something that he did, that he guided them. We remember the story in the Bible that talks about he guided them in the day by a cloud, and he guided them at night by the pillar of fire. In verse 17, to him which smoke great kings, and slew famous kings, Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og the king of Bashon Now, these two kings are mentioned over and over and over again through the scriptures. And sometimes I wonder, I sit and I look at these names and I'm like, why were these two guys so important? Why do they always mention these guys? And uh the best that uh I I can come up with, the best that I've I've researched in, is that these were the two first kings as they came to the nation or the part of of Canaan that was gonna be their land. When the the they were going to start dividing the the the the land to the different tribes, these were the first two kings that were conquered. These were the first two kings that were defeated. And so the idea here is that this was the beginning of them being brought into the land. And so Sihon and Og You see them all throughout the scriptures, all throughout when you're they're talking about the history of Israel, they're always talking about, yeah, we conquered Sihon and Og, these two great kings. And they were great kings. Again, this is something that was impossible to do. You have a nation that was just again, just a multitude of people. They didn't have formal training. They didn't have They were nomads. They were just roaming around as a big group of people. They didn't have a fortified city to protect them, but again, they had God to protect them. And these people conquered two of the greatest kings that were in the nation of, or in the land of Canaan at the time. And so this was the beginning of their victories. Sihon and Og represent the beginning of the victories that Israel was going to have as they were going to inhabit that land. Then it goes on to verse 21. And gave their land for inheritance, even inheritage unto Israel his servant. Again, we're talking about the land that they were put into. Now, this is where I believe. There's a possibility that this is referring this these are references to the the time where Israel was sent into captivity. The Bible says here in verse 23, who remembered us in our low estate. So after we go through the history of Israel and being put into the land and uh a heritage unto Israel his servant. So again, almost the idea of reference of they they had a nation, they had a kingdom. Then in verse 23, who remembered us in our low estate, and then look at twenty-four, and hath redeemed us from our enemies So it's almost could be that it's a reference to the went the time that they were taken into Babylon and again this is a reference who hath and hath redeemed us from our enemies almost like because they were pulled out. And so that's why it's possible that this was written after the captivity. So that's just something to think about. Verse 25: Who giveth food to all flesh, O give thanks unto the God of heaven. So I've broken down this this passage like this, and you should see it uh there in your in your in your handout. The first three verses, it's a tribute. And over and over we're talking about mercy, and it's a tribute to the Trinity. Verses 1 through 3. Verses 4 through 9 are a tribute to his work or God's work in creation. We see it's talking about him creating And especially in space and the sun and the moon and things like that. And so it's a reference to his work in creation. It's a song. It's a tribute to his work in creation. In verses 10 to 15, we see a tribute to his work in delivering Israel. So in the process of getting them out of Egypt, we see these references, verses 10 through 15. Then in verses 16 through 22, it's a tribute of his work to his work in raising the nation, in developing this nation of Putting them into the land, giving them land, them conquering these kings, and then them becoming a strong uh a strong nation. And then 23 and 24 is a tribute to his work in returning his people And again, could be a reference to the time of captivity. And then lastly, a tribute to his mercies to all. So these are something, these are things that everybody sees, right? We all see 25 and 26, or uh who giveth food to all flesh, oh give thanks unto the God of heaven. And so again, it's something that we we everybody sees. That he gives everybody sees that across the world. It's not just specific to Israel. So I'll give you this outline. Maybe you want to take these notes, but This is from Warren Weirsby's uh commentary, and he had a nice little uh breakout of this of this psalm, and it it was neat, so I figured I'd share it with you. And uh the first one was the creator He brings verses 1 through 9, he brings forth. Then the Redeemer, verses 10 through 12, we see that he brings out. The shepherd, verses 13 through 16, we see that he brings us through. And it's the idea of God leading his people there. Then the conqueror, verses 17 through 22, where he brings us in, where we see him again conquering nations for Israel. And then the deliverer, he brings us back, verses 23 through 25. So just a couple different ways that we can look at it and that we can see this passage But what I wanted to focus really our attention on tonight was this word mercy. And If you really stop and consider the mercy of God, it is one of those things that is going to be very difficult for us to really wrap our minds and really understand. We can look to the scriptures for some truths about mercy, but I don't know that we can ever truly understand the mercy of God. And we'll as we look at what it means and what it is, it's just really amazing. So, this word, mercy, is found many times in the scriptures The Hebrew word that we we that is translated mercy is found 248 times. And mercy, we find that just that word mentioned more times in the scriptures, but there's also maybe about 50 or so times That that word, the root wording is in Greek is found in that in the New Testament. One of the interesting things is We look at the Old Testament and we think of the Old Testament as the law, and we think of the law as rigid And we think of God as a just God and a God of judgment and a God of rules. And then we come to the New Testament. And we think of the New Testament as grace. And we think of the New Testament as love. And we think of the New Testament as mercy. But the Old Testament mentions mercy. Many, many, many more times than the New Testament. What's interesting, and there was one preacher that said uh It's it's found four times more. I didn't get a chance to exactly count because there's a lot of different words that you could use, mercy, merciful, mercies. So I didn't get a chance to count myself, but one one preacher said that mercy is mentioned four times more in the Old Testament than it is in the New. That's something interesting to consider But the first thing for us to understand tonight, and it's there under our notes, the first item is that mercy is an attribute of God Mercy is an attribute of God. Many times we think of mercy as something that we experience under what the Bible calls grace. But mercy comes before grace. Mercy comes before the law, because mercy is eternal Mercy is part of who God is. It's part of his character. And here's the thing that is that I want to drive home a little bit. Many times people can come up with their own ideas of God and what God is and what is good that God does and what is not so good. And there's some, uh I I think it's even I I I think there's uh an atheist that that has written a lot of books. Um it's it's one of the English guys, but he he wrote this book and he made this statement that essentially that was saying that God is a big bully. God is just a an evil person who would allow all these things to happen if the bi if what the bi and and he's looking at it completely wrong. Because we have to look at what this what the scripture says and the scripture says that God is full of mercy, that He has mercy, and when we understand really what mercy is and w and especially about How this is an attribute, it's something that is part of God, a part of who God is, then we really have no room. To think at all that our idea that we can truly understand God's mercy. And that's really what I'm trying to get to. Other places in the Bible, this word can be used. It's called loving kindness. So there's different parts Ways to look at mercy. One of them is kindness. It's being kind to someone, being merciful to someone in that way. But there's another part of it that gives us the idea of forgiveness. of forgiving somebody. And then there's another part of mercy that is compassion when you are compassionate towards someone. But all these things, when they come down to it, it's shown in action. Shown in action. Now, I can be I can be I can be sympathetic to somebody And I can feel bad for somebody. And I can look at a situation and say, man, that's tough. That person's in a tough spot. Or that person's in a difficult situation. But it's not mercy or it's not compassion until I actually do something, until I take action. And so when we look at mercy, I want us to think about that because a lot of times we think God is love, and you know, when we look at what the Bible actu truly says about love, Let's stop and think about that for a moment. What is love? Love is action. Love is sacrifice. Love is putting yourself down and putting someone else in in place of somebody else. And the Bible says that God showed his love. God commended his love toward us. He showed us his love. How? We see it over and over again. By sending Jesus, by giving us opportunity. So here's the thing. The nation When we look at the plan from beginning to end, God establishes a nation, God establishes a people, God puts them in a certain land, all this is happening for what purpose? to the point to get to Jesus Christ. To a point so that, again, fulfilling prophecy so that there is a place where Jesus is born, so that there's a Savior, so that there's a Redeemer for us to have. And all that was planned from the beginning, from the foundations of the world, is what the Bible says. God had that in his mind. To show mercy. And when we talk about his mercy enduring forever, we see it all throughout history. All throughout the history of Israel, all throughout the history of time that we're in the church, we see God's mercy. Mercy is not something that we can put a boundary on. And that we can say, God's mercy will. If you look at what the scripture truly says, there's not something where we can say That God's mercy stops. It doesn't. But we will never truly understand the fullness of God's mercy. So, mercy gives us the idea of withholding a just condemnation. Mercy is God giving us what we do not deserve. So here's the thing. Mercy goes beyond grace. That's why I'm saying that mercy goes beyond grace. Because mercy is something that God has given to us, and it's something that we don't deserve. I'll share with you this story. There was a mother that once approached Napoleon seeking a pardon for her son. The emperor replied that the young man had committed a certain crime twice and justice demanded his death. The mother said, I don't ask for justice, I plead for mercy. Napoleon said, But your son does not deserve mercy. The woman cried, Sir, it would not be mercy if he deserved it. And mercy is all I ask for. Well then, the emperor said, I will have mercy. And he spared the woman's son. So the idea is that mercy is something that is given to us that is completely undeserved. That we don't deserve. And so this goes back to really seeing God at work in our life. We don't deserve his blessings. We don't deserve his goodness to us. We don't deserve his salvation. But he offers it to us anyway. Now, many times we think that we are something special and There's kind of a balance here because obviously God cares for us. And God loves us and God Looks to us and he provided salvation for us. Why? Because he desires to have a relationship with us, with you and with me. Alright? However, all that is undeserved. The problem would be if we got to a point where we're thinking, well, of course God would want to save a person like me. Now I've been there. I remember as a young person, you know, when when I was in church, I remember thinking that way and saying, well I'm pretty, you know, I'm pretty smart and uh I I'm pretty good at things and Man, God's sure lucky to have somebody like me. But we're nothing We are nothing. We're useless. We are incapable of saving ourselves. But God still gives us mercy. See, we need God's mercy. We need God's mercy for anything that we do. And it's God's mercy, again, that's a part of him. It's who he is, and it's something that he has offered to us. Which brings me to the next point. Mercy is a gift from God. Mercy is a gift. Now I'll mention these just to consider We can pray for mercy. We have many instances in the scripture where people referenced God's mercy. We see that Jacob had a prayer about mercy in Genesis 32:10. Abraham had a prayer and talked about God's mercy as well in Genesis 24. Moses made reference to God's mercy. David prayed for mercy. The remnant, the remnant of the people of Israel that went uh uh with Nehemiah, they prayed on mercy. Jonah as well. Jonah makes a reference and he says, I know that you're merciful God. And that was in Jonah prayed for mercy. Or Jonah made reference to his to God's mercy, and the publican prayed for mercy. He said, if you remember, he said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner And he was asking for mercy. So what I've done is I've taken just a few things of what the scripture says. To help us to understand about this gift that God gives us. Mercy is extended. Alright? The Bible talks about In Ezra, they make reference to, I'll read it for you in Ezra 7. 27, Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers. which hath put such a thing as this in the king's heart to beautify the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem 28, and hath extended mercy unto me before the king. So there's this idea of God extending mercy. And so that's a beautiful picture if you really stop to think about it. And the the the word extend means to stretch out. to spread out, to hold out. And so there's this idea of, you know, many times we get the thought that God is up there somewhere. And uh we can't really see where he is, but he's probably very far away. But the idea is that he extends that mercy. That mercy comes down from where God is, and it comes down and it reaches his people. That's pretty amazing. God extends his mercy. Mercy is also obtained. In Hebrews 4. 16, it says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy. When we pray, we obtain mercy. When we pray and when we ask and when we talk to God and ask Him for things, We are being given. That's what it means to obtain. We're receiving mercy. Another beautiful reference in the scripture is that in 2 Corinthians 1. 3 Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort So there's a reference there to God being the Father of all mercies, where mercies come from. In Ephesians 2. 4, the Bible says that he is rich in mercy. In the Psalms, it talks about God being plenteous in mercy or full of mercy. First Peter 1 3 talks about him being abundant in mercy. And so this idea But again, if you stop and really look at what the scripture is talking about over and over and over again, they're talking about God's mercy. In Lamentations 322, it says, it's of the Lord's mercy that we are not consumed because his compassions fail not, they are new every morning. Right. His mercies are renewed. We have this renewed mercies. Now Last next thing to see is in Romans 12, mercy enables us to serve. The Bible says this in Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren. By the mercies of God. So I ask you, I beg you, brethren, by the mercies of God And then it goes on that ye present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. So the ability. that we have to live for God, to live in a way that is pleasing to God, is only enabled by God's mercy. So mercy really what it comes down to is there is no salvation without mercy. Mercy is eternal. So because it's eternal, it has no beginning, it has no end, it has no limit. And there's a wonderful picture that the song Come Thou Fount talks about. It talks about streams of mercy never ceasing. And that's a beautiful picture when we think of just a river flowing, a stream flowing constantly of God's mercy, and the source of it is continual. It's perpetual, it's never-ending. So, just like as I mentioned, real love, true love according to the Bible, is about action. It's about giving, it's about sacrifice. Real mercy is about action. Mercy is not about us. Mercy is about God. But He has offered us mercy When we look at this, the view today is that we don't need mercy. But mercy is something that is offered and that we need. It's given to us. It's a gift of God. It's something that is necessary. Now In the Christian life, we also need to give mercy as well. Not just to n you know, n not towards God, but towards people. And so that's where we need to, you know, take this and we need to, all right, how do I use this in my life? We need to show mercy to people. We need to show loving kindness to people. We need to be merciful. Full of mercy as well. One last thing. When you look up the definition of this word, there's this statement at the bottom of the dictionary that I was using. And it says To be, you know, we we've we've heard the the the reference like, you know, I I throw myself on the mercy of the court. So so what does that mean? It says to be or lie at the mercy of is to have no means of self-defense. But to be dependent for safety on the mercy or compassion of another or in the power of that which you can't fight against. That is to be at the mercy of a foe or of the waves. So this idea of mercy, if we are giving ourselves to the mercy of God, that means that we're out of control. We're not the ones that are in control. And so we see this idea of mercy, how important it is for us to understand What mercy is, what mercy is about, but to understand that we also receive it from the Lord. Right. And that's who he is. God is a merciful God. It's one of his character traits. It's something about who he is. And if you if someone will say to you that God is some cruel sadistic being, that's not true. He has offered us mercy Mercy that is unknown. Mercy that is eternal. Mercy that is limitless that we will never understand. And so I again just hope that we just scratch the surface on understanding mercy, understanding that God is a God of mercy, but understanding that God desires for us to have mercy on others as well. So that's kind of where we're at tonight and uh we'll certainly close there. Uh why don't we close in a word of prayer and then we'll go over to the homework for next week. So Father, we do love you. We thank you for the day. And uh Lord, I do thank you, Father, for your mercy. And uh Lord, you've shown it to us in the morning. In so many ways. I know you've shown it in my life. Father, again, it's something that I did not deserve. Uh, but Father, your mercy is so wonderful, and I pray, Lord, that you would just help us to understand how great and how wonderful it is to have your mercy extended to us. And Lord, I pray that you would help us to turn that around to to be able to be merciful to other people, uh, that we would be able to show them And point them to the mercy of you giving salvation to us. Lord, we'll thank you for it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.