Hey, I really enjoyed myself. You guys are fun. Either you're really under conviction or you're getting nothing. I'm not sure which, but anyway. Hey, while they're doing that, I did uh I did find some things that you all would enjoy. Um Thank you so much. I appreciate you doing that for me. All right, thank you Alright. Hey, I thought you might like this, okay? Hey listen, I'm fifty-six years old, turn fifty-seven next month, and I don't like age to be honest with you. And um Hey, how many of you guys were athletic when you were younger I had the word younger. And uh I just have not I've lost it. I I just it's kinda sad to be honest with you I'm heavier than I've ever been in my life, and it's really discouraging, to be honest with you. And I saw this and I thought you would enjoy it too, just in case you can relate. My wife caught me sucking in my stomach while I was on the scale She said, that's not gonna help. As she laughed. Actually I said, it does. It's the only way I can see the number. Oh my goodness. You know, if that wasn't so true, it'd be funny. Alright, I like this one too, you'll like this one. A wife got so mad at her husband, she packed his bags and told him to get out. As he walked to the door, she yelled, I hope you die a long, slow, painful death. He turned around and said, So you want me to stay? I know, you guys didn't think it was funny. Alright. Alright. You know, I s I heard another one. I'm s I'm trying to find it. I don't think I got it here. The guy was at the magic show and the guy in the crowd, man, he did this the man the magician did this really unique trick. The guy from the crowd says, can you show us how that's done? And the magician said, if I showed you, I'd have to kill you He responded without thinking. Would you tell my mother-in-law? Some of you like your mother-in-law. Good for you. My mother-in-law's not here, so I can say whatever I want. Anyway, praise it. All right. You didn't like my last joke, so I'm just gonna preach now. I have no choice. Got your Bible? Turn over to the book of Samuel. I want to look at uh with you 2 Samuel chapter 7, or 2 19. 2 Samuel chapter 19. I know what the book says. Becky Travis. Not retarded. He must not know it, first Samuel. I can hear ya. Hey, my brother in law said it didn't matter what I preached. I'm taking him up on it. You know, uh he asked me uh to come and um they asked for the notes and to send notes and You know, honestly, I prayed about what the Lord has, and of course communication is one of them. And by the way, it's very interesting when it comes to communication. The top four reasons people get divorced today, believe it or not, I don't know if it's a certain order, but there are four top reasons. The first reason would be in-laws in laws put their nose where it doesn't belong. When a person gets married, you should leave them alone. But I'm just telling you there's a lot of people Yeah. They messed their kids' marriage up like they they think they can fix something they didn't fix in their own marriage, so they gotta fix somebody else's marriage, all right? Hey, can I give you a story that we are right? Thank you. Um we're talking about My oldest one got married and when she got married they had their first child. And when they were having their first child Um, they were gonna go to the hospital instead of letting us have the children, they were gonna take the children to the hospital, alright, with them while she's gonna have this baby. Not that the kids were gonna be in the room, but the kids are just gonna sit in the hospital and wait waiting for them And I thought that was dumb. So I called my son-in-law and said, Hey, what are you doing? You shouldn't you should not you should not have the kids there at the hospital. It's very sweet. Take care of them. Well, I'm going to tell you something. I put my nose where it didn't belong. It was like the Holy Spirit said, you preached all your life to leave your kids alone after they get married. So two weeks after she had the baby, I had to I had to have him uh we met together in a restaurant and I said, hey, I just want to tell you I'm sorry, it will never happen again. You married her, thank God. You m I didn't say it that way, but you married her. And so ever since then, I don't I don't put my nose in my kids' business once they get married, right? Second one got married And I want to tell you something, as a as a dad, there's things that you maybe like for them to do differently, but I want to tell you something, you're gonna hurt your kids' marriage. If they want your opinion, they'll ask for it Okay, that went over really well. Hey, the second big reason people get divorced is finances. Alrighty, and I'm gonna tell you as a pastor I've seen it both ways. Where a fella can't control the By the way, I think the fellow should leave when it comes to finances. But I have had cases where the fella just could not go by a budget, could not spent on a whim And he didn't communicate with his wife and tried to bring them both in and say, Listen, you've got no choice. You're going to work with this your wife or you have to give it to your wife because no one will tell you what you're doing is wrong. Right So finances is a big trouble when it comes to marriage. Now by the way, ladies, I've had it both directions. One guy came to my office one time and said, Pastor, I don't know if my wife should be spending money. Well I thought he was teasing You know, every woman spends money. It's like part of their DNA. And he said to me, he says, Pastor, I'm not kidding I said I've I've limited her all the credit cards and she just went out and signed up for another credit card and there's already ten thousand dollars on the credit card Alright, now if you do stuff like that, someone needs to commit you to an insane asylum. But anyway, so finance is the next one. A third reason for uh for divorce, the third reason is actually romance Alrighty? And it looks like there's a bunch of romancers here, so that so that's not going to be an issue. I was joking, by the way. The last one's in your book, and I I don't know what I'm going to teach on it, but it's communication You know, communication then is is probably one of the one of the reasons people don't they get divorced is because people don't talk to one another. They don't sh they don't allow the other person. And by the way, my wife and I were um we had 17 hours together, she was talking about my communication skills. She said, you know, one thing that you do, I'm confessing my faults, alright? So feel sorry for me. So sh she said, you know, one thing that you do is sometimes You know what you're thinking, but you don't actually tell me exactly what you're thinking. Fellows, come on now. Does your wife do that to you too? So here's what she said. She says, this is what she'll do. She says, you have institute class at 630. So you tell me, because we communicate. I try to communicate. You tell me you're gonna go to institute at 630 and in your mind you think that tells me that we have to have supper at 530, but you never tell me we're gonna have supper at 530. You better learn from this. Now, I I see honestly she's true. That is true. Sometimes by the way, fellows are the worst communicators Now maybe you're not. Maybe you are, but you're one of the few I'm just telling you. Alright? Fellas, we're we're just poor at it. We have to work at it but more than and by the way, just think about it, okay? The average woman speaks twenty-two thousand words in a day. Now just look it up. The average guy speaks 19,000, 3,000 words less in a day. Of course they're communicators. They talk more. Did you get that? Okay, good. Just make me sure. Hey, so we have to work at communication. But I don't want to teach on communication. I wanna I want to preach on something else. Alright, so you're in second salmon, not first Samuel. Are you there? Are you okay? You guys get me nervous when you act like that. Communicate. I can give you all the answers, but he'll do it later anyway. Second Samuel seventeen, look at your Bible. I'm sorry, nineteen. I said nineteen, forgive me. Second Samuel nineteen I want you to jump down to verse number 31. 2 Samuel 19, verse 31. If Barzilei the Gileadite came down from Robelims, 2 Samuel 19, verse 31. It's in the Old Testament for you guys to keep flipping here And Barziliai the Gileadite came down from Rogalim and went over Jordan with the king to conduct him over Jordan. Now Barziliai was a very aged man, even fourscore years old, and he has provided the king of sustenance while he lay at Mah Mahanaim. For he was a very great man. I want to talk to you on that phrase for just a little bit on a very great man. It's the only time it's mentioned in Scripture. And it's not just talking, it says man because it was barzillii. But it was because he was a great person. And I want to tell you when it comes to marriage, you ought to be the greatest wife that there is. And when it comes to comes to marriage, you ought to be the greatest husband there is And I want to tell you something, I know we fall short these things, but Barzillii did three things that caused God to say, that's a very great man. And when it comes to marriage, I want God to say the same thing about me, and I know you do too. So we're going to look at those three things this morning this afternoon. Would you pray with me and ask the Lord's blessing? Heavenly Father, thank you again for allowing us to be here. I ask you now, please bless your word. Lord, would you again fill me with your spirit? Lord, would you please help fill them with your spirit as well? Lord, help us to take from this, Lord, what we need for our families, for our marriages. And Father, thanks for what we've heard thus far. Thanks for the fun that we've been able to have. And Father, please help your word to do the work in our heart. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Young Sir Finley, we if when you follow this particular story, and again try to stay away for just a little bit, I'll be I'll be quick, alright? I promise you that I want you to think about what's going on in the story here because I'm in chapter 19. The reason I I hesitate in chapter 17 is because chapter 17 is where Barzillii has mentioned first Barzilli meets David while he's on the run from Absalom. Most of you know your Bible. David's on his run from Absalom. Barzillia goes out and meet him. He gives him beds, he gives him food, he gives him animals to be able to try to take care of the king. He was weary So he sees the king on his way out. Then we have the war, the civil war. Absalom, David. Absalom is killed. David now is on his way back in to Jerusalem in chapter 19. And guess who shows up again? Barziliai shows up again. And the Bible says about Barzilliai that David here is going to have this communication with him. Look what he says now in your Bible. In verse number 33, it says, And the king said to Barzilliai, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem. In Braziliai said unto the king, How long have I to live that I should go with the king unto Jerusalem? I am this day fourscore years old, and I can I discern between good and evil Can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my Lord the King Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king, and why should the king recompense it with meaning with such a reward? Verse 37, let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again That I may die in mine own city and be buried by the grave of my father and my mother. So behold thy s my thy servant Shemhan, let him go over with my with my Lord the King And do to him what shall seem good unto thee. And the king answered answered, Shimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good unto thee, and whatsoever thou shalt require of me That will I do for thee. Verse 39, we'll close with this one. And all the people went over Jordan, and when the king was come over, the king kissed Barzilliai and blessed him, and he returned unto his own place Hey listen, when it comes to a husband and wife relationship, every day of our life is really a a day to really prove ourselves, uh you know, as far as doing what God's will is for our life, but as far as our family our wife. You know, as a husband it's so easy to forget things. I know wives forget things too. But as a husband it's so easy to forget things. Some of the fellas I don't have to tell you that we're all made differently because may I tell you what God made us different. Alright? Hey listen, when we walk into a room like this The girls might look inside, they look the look how everything is organized and how beautiful it is. It's like going to a meal and you sit down at a candlelight meal and you know she's looking at the plate setting and she's looking at the silverware and she's looking at you know oh or the surroundings and the music. If you're a fella, you walk in and say, what are we eating? It's just that God made us so different. And so when you bring two people together in marriage Sometimes it's a struggle because we're made different. It's not so much that he's a bad person, it's just that he's a guy. Alright? I even say it that way. But but that's what God does. God made us differently. Fellows will say something. You better be glad that God made a woman like she did, otherwise your kids would all be in jail And they'd have nobody to think about. They'd say, hey, what does a guy do when you're when one of your kids fall down? Get up, suck it up, buttercup. What does mom do? Come here. And and and like you know, here are the kids bleeding on the D and mom wants to kiss it. Come on. I'm just trying to tell you that God made us differently. But I can tell you this, no matter what our personality is, whether we're male or female, we ought to be the best husband or wife that there is Now when I look at this particular passage, there are several people in the Bible that the Bible calls great, but this is the only person in the Bible that God said he was very great. Now, if you don't mind, from what I understand, we're going to go eat after this. Everyone's going to want to supper. Am I correct? Is anybody hungry? Say amen. All right? Very good. So we don't want to be very long, somebody say amen. Hey by the way, I was at brother uh brother Charles' church last night and I preached last night The lady came up to me and said, I just want you to know, I really enjoyed your preaching, but there's one thing I didn't like. And I stopped her. And I said, I can tell you what you don't like. And she looked at me and said, seriously? And I said, yes. I said, I talk fast. And she said, yes, you talk too fast. Now I just want to tell you something. The average person can listen to 800 words a minute. The average person speaks 400 words a minute. So it's not me speaking fast, you're listening too slow. Ridiculous. Now, with that said, let's quickly look at these three things. Here's the first one I was going to notice that's very interesting to me. Why did God call Braziliai a great man? What's going to make us a great spouse? I want you to notice in chapter 19, verse number 32, the Bible says, Now Braziliai was very great, very aged man, even four-score years old, and he had provided the king of sustenance. Would you put back two chapters and see what that means? Chapter 17, look at verse 27. Chapter 17, verse number 27, it says, and it came to pass when David was come to Mahanium, that Shobai, the son of Nahash, of Rabbah, of the children of Ammon, and Makura the son of Amil of Lodabar, and Barthiliai The Gileadite of Rogaland brought beds and basins and earthen vessels and wheat and barley and flour and parched corn and beans and lentils and parched full, and honey and butter and sheep and cheese of kind For David and for the people that were with him to eat, for they said the people is hungry and weary and thirsty in the wilderness. Now I got a question for you What relation was David to Barzilli? He would David was what to Barzilli? His what? His king. Now the Bible tells us the reason he was considered a great person is because he because he cared about the king. He took care of the king. He was thinking about the king Now I want to tell you, I know it goes back to our first lesson, but what's going to cause you to be a great spouse is your concern about the king will determine your concern about your spouse. Do you understand what makes a great spouse is a person who is a great Christian. Amen You understand, a great Christian makes a great spouse. They tr they go hand in hand. You say, Oh man, are we going to talk about this thing again? Yes, we're going to talk about it again. Because the root, the elementary The foundation all goes back to a good marriage. It's always the spiritual side, never the physical side. Well, I wish my wife would think about this, or I wish my I wish that I wish my husband would do this No, what you're saying is the fruit of a good husband comes from the spirituality of a husband. And if a person was right with God, then a person would think more of another person. I'm just trying to tell you that what made this fellow a great person is because of his concern for the king. Flip over to John chapter four with me. John chapter four. If you're still with me saying that, John chapter four, this is the woman at the well. John chapter 4, look down verse number 21. Do you say unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when you shall enter, neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father John chapter 4, verse 22. Ye worship, ye know not what. We know what we worship for salvation of the Jews. Jesus is speaking, and he knew salvation was of the Jews because he was a Jew. Alright, look at verse number 23 it says, but the hour cometh, and now is when the what's the next two words? Two worshippers shall worship the Father in what? Number one? Spirit, and number two, for the Father seeketh such To worship him. So he speaks the kind of person who worships from spirit and truth. Verse 24, God is the spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in what? Spirit. Spirit and truth. Alright, now searching with Paul, we stay in here If you want to be a great spouse, I'm going to tell you what you've got to do. You've got to worship him in spirit and truth. You've got to make much of the king. You've got to show concern. By the way, he seeketh such to worship him. Now can I define the two words for you, spirit and truth? The Bible says in Ephesians 6. 18 It says that we pray in the Spirit. Alright, now several other verses that talk about that. But praying in the Spirit always. Alright? Of course, there's three all in that verse. But the idea is that when we pray, that Spirit, what's truth? John 17, 17. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. So how do I worship God? Every time I spend time in prayer, every time I read the book, I spend time worshiping Him See, listen, when I don't know what your pastors do, but on the average, at least I know I have always had, whenever I do marriage counseling, the very first lesson is the triangle. It's the very first lesson. I mean you've seen it a thousand times. I don't have a board down here, but you just basically draw a triangle. You've got the husband on this side, the wife on this side, you've got God at the top of the triangle. The closer the husband gets to God, the closer the wife gets to God, the closer they get to each other. You know why? Because it always goes back to the people who care about the king care about the other person. You don't really want a good marriage. Do you understand that everything we do in spirit and truth that draws us closer to the Father is another step for me to draw closer to my spouse? Why is it so important to be faithful to church? Why is it so important to serve at the church? Because what I do with my spouse that gets us both closer to God gets us both closer to each other What made but Barzillii a great person? Because he cared about the king. Amen. Amen. Care about God? And I think as a Christian there's certain things you shouldn't have to discuss. In my marriage I'm not going to discuss if we're going to tie, that's what God told me to do. In my marriage, I'm not going to discuss how often we're going to show up to church. I'm going to show up not forsaking the assembly of myself yourselves together as the manner of some edge. I'm going to show up when the church doors are open. There's some things that are not up for discussion because if I want my marriage to work and I want to be a great spouse, I'm going to make much of the king Whatever pleases God is eventually going to please my spouse. Follow me now, let's do the triangle again. If you have a husband that's getting closer to God and you have a wife that's not They're naturally not going to be together on things. Right. It's just a natural natural tendency. The closer I get to God, that's what causes me to be close to my spouse. You know, you want to be a good spouse to your wife, then be a spiritual Christian to your wife. If you want to be a spiritual wife to your husband, then you or a good wife to your husband, then the best thing you can do is to be close to God and care about the things of God, what God wants in your life. That's what's gonna happen. Go back to Barzillia, let me just show you these other two quickly. Not only did he care about the king, but I want you to notice in verse number 33 David tells 2 Samuel 19, verse 33, David tells Barziliai, hey, come back to Jerusalem and I'll take care of you. In verse 33, the last phrase, I'll feed you there in Jerusalem. I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem. Verse 34, Barziliai said unto the king, How long have I to live? Verse 35, I'm this day four score years old and can I discern good and evil? Can I servant taste what I eat or what I drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Wherefore then should thy servant be yet a, what's the word? A burden unto my Lord the King. I want to tell you something. This guy could have been taking care of the rest of his life. Food and drink and servants and a house to live and not have to pay one thing out But you know what Barzillion I said? I'm not going to do that because I don't want to be a burden. Hey, can I tell you what makes a good spouse, a great spouse? A person who doesn't want to be a burden. You got your Bible? Turn over to Galatians 6. I'm going to show you the two verses that are close to each other here in Galatians 6 when God talks about being a bird Galatians chapter 6. Look at verse number 2. Galatians 6. 2 says, Bear ye one another's, what's the word? And so fulfill the law of Christ. But you're assuming the law of Christ is to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, and mind, love your neighbor as yourself. That's the law of Christ. What causes us to fulfill the law of Christ is to bear one another's burdens. But look at verse number five For every man shall bear what? His own burden. Hey, you know what a lot of the struggles that people have in their marriage? They're trying to get the other person to carry their burden. You know what the struggles that we're having in marriage? They're not willing to carry the other person's burden. Bear you one another's burdens, bear your own burden. Remember the law first mentioned? You remember when we look at a word in the scripture, we find out when it's first used in the scripture to be able to help define that word as far as what it's talking about? The very first time you're going to find the word burden is going to be with Jethro Jethro comes along, he's Moses' father-in-law, and he sees that he's basically trying to leave the children of Israel and take these judgment calls from day until night. And he says, Hey, that's too much of a burden for you. Here's what you need to do Now I'll tell you something. That's really contrary to Galatians 6, because he was Moses was supposed to bear somebody else's burden. And whether we like it or not, the truth of the matter is when it finally came time For him to get those other seventy people to help him judge the people, the Bible says that God took up the spirit that was on Moses and put it on the seventy, which means there was enough spirit to take care of what needed to be taken care of. Our problems in marriage is simply this. You're not willing to carry somebody else's burden, and you're more than happy to let somebody carry yours. My kids like it when I babysit. Of course my two of the youngest at home right now are 14 and 16, so it's not much babysitting. But I don't know how to cook. I'm sorry it's a fall on my life. I can't cook anything. If I boil a hot dog, it splits over Macaroni and cheese directions can be on the box, but it never turns out like what the box says. So I don't do any cooking. I've done zero cooking. I don't know how to cook. I'm gonna starve to death and it hasn't happened yet. But it could starve to death Zero cooking. So when I'm babysitting the kids, the kids don't mind that because they know dad's going out to eat My wife had a baby shower this last Monday and so the two girls were me, fourteen sixty and I said, Okay, listen now, it's time for supper and I'm cooking, so I've got this new place that I want to try out and so You were supposed to laugh, but it did happen. But anyway. So I take them to this place, it's a rat place. But it was rats and It was kind of different and it was actually kind of expensive and so I sit down there with my two little two dollars, not a little anymore, but two dollars and we ate and my One daughter eats one bite of it. I knew she I kind of knew she wasn't gonna like it because it almost like Mediterranean type food. It was not it's not what was normal for us. And she took one bite and and then she stopped eating. She didn't say anything, she didn't ask for anything else, but I felt kind of bad You know, here I'm taking them out to eat, it's supposed to be about them. I got my rap, she doesn't like it. So I said, Hey listen, I'm not gonna let you starve. Pick something else on uh this but I already another sandwich. Uh I'm good. I'm good. And women do that. I'm good, I'm good And us fellas, we can read into that one. Let me define that. I ain't good. Anyway She's practiced in our night. Anyway, so I said that's fine. So then we went to Freddie's nest. Time for a second meal. And we got some more food there and got some ice cream while I was there. This is good. Anyway, but you know what? I I can't cook. But I know this one thing. There are times even though I can't cook one stitch of anything I don't tell you how many times they say listen today somewhere to bring food home or we can go out and get you something to eat. She's doing a lot at the church. I don't want to have to go home and cook too. And and to be honest with you, it's not that she can't and it's not that she won't. Because she never asks But you know what? I don't want her to have to carry her own burden. I'm supposed to carry her burden for her. Now I'll tell you something. Some of you guys are married to a good woman and she thinks about everything about you. And by the way, you know, God made her for your she should be a helpmeet She thinks ahead of you. In fact, before you even get to it, she's got it taken care of. And man, you've got to thank God for a woman like that. But you know what she's doing? She's bearing somebody else's burden. That's what makes your marriage so happy. She thinks about you and she thinks ahead. And she wants to take care of you. But I'm going to tell you some fellows are not like that. Fellows are thinking about their job and what they gotta get done that day. They're not thinking about what's my wife doing. And I'm saying some of you guys got little kids at home? Goodness gracious, she's she's pulled her hair out all day long with you know some of you guys you you have them year after year after year and I don't think there's anything wrong with that. We had eight of 'em. Alright? And uh I was telling the guys in the other class our first two kids we we adopted Uh the first one we adopted after seven and a half years of marriage couldn't have children, so we adopted our first one. And then after five more years, the girl that got pregnant, she got pregnant out of wedlock, she got pregnant again, and so we told her we adopt her, but at the same time my wife got ex was expecting So we had our second one, and then eight days later we had our own after twelve years of marriage, and then another one, and another one, and another one, and another one And um and so I know there's times when those kids are that small, you know. I I honestly believe that the wife is supposed to be the help meet to the husband. But that does not take away the fact to bear another person's burden. Bear another person's burden You know, I no shall I say. You're not gonna like this probably. I'm gonna tell them. Stage, how many diapers have I changed? I've changed two diapers in my lifetime. Now women you don't like that, I'm sorry. I'm just telling you. If I didn't do it now, I'd put it in the wrong I put it over its head somehow, I'm just telling you, I've changed two diapers in my lifetime. Um I I know it's sad. I know it's sad, but some of you are hip back and you change them all the time. So I didn't mean that, but what I'm trying What I'm trying to say is, if my wife would have asked me, I I I want to help her. Alright? No one changes a after not having children for twelve years, my wife didn't care about changing a diaper. Some of you have me immediately, we didn't have a child for twelve years. Man, my wife, they were endeared. to my wife and as far as that and I could care less if she changes the diapers so let it happen. You know, when our kids first got married I'm sorry, when we first started having children, everything was unusual for us, especially the two that were right to right next to each other Because when we had our children we never wanted to say this was adopted, this was the birth child, and so we wanted to make sure that they were all treated the same and we did. But when the when we first when we had those the second and third ones kind of rough because they raised things apart And so every time someone see them, you know, they would and they'd they say, you know, which you know, twins and I said, no, I said this one's adopted, this one's birth. And we I got tired of it. I told my wife, we're in it we're not doing that. I don't want my kids growing up about their life saying, okay, we're segregating. This one's adopted, this one's birth So sure enough the next week we went to a grocery store and this is the time where they used to check you out, you didn't self-check out, but we come through and the lady behind the thing said, Oh, twins. Well I had determined I'm not staying adopted in birth. I was done with it And I said I just went, mm, mm-hmm. And then she said, Well which one's older? And that was easy, because I knew eight days. I said, that one's older. had to keep going. She said, which what by by how much? I had gone too far. Eight days. Hey, I want to tell you something in this nerd thing. You're in this thing together, you've got to help each other. You gotta help each other. Now in case my wife's unusual, my wife made sure that I was not getting up with children because I was up the next day. My wife was able to be a stay-at-home mom when our kids were younger. And so when the kids cried or needed something, they didn't come to dad's side of the bed, they came to mom's side of the bed. My wife has always looked out for me to make sure that everything runs smooth and I want to chase them maybe to a fault, to a degree, but I want to chase them. I've got a good wife and I've never I I guess I never thought about all the stuff that she did to make sure that I didn't have to try to take care of she said she told the kid said listen your dad's gonna get up she's gotta go to work the next day you don't wake him up at night we never kept our kids in the room with us So I couldn't sleep. They stayed in the next room. My wife had an ear. If there was a problem, they were crying. She got up and she took care of the kid. But my my life was very never even though all those years we didn't have children and had children. My life didn't get up get thrown upside down because of having a baby in the house. And I want to tell you why, because my wife is willing to carry the burden. I'm just trying to tell you what made him a what made Barzillia a great person is because of his care concern for his king, and the second thing is because he was not going to be a burden to people. Yeah, we get all over our wives, but the truth of the matter is it's not our wife. We're not willing to carry their burden. As far as what their needs are. And I'm going to tell you something. I think that things have gotten out of whack when it comes to the wife being a helping to her husband. I'm just telling you It's just amazing to me that we now we make we make packs with one another. Okay, it's your turn to get up. Okay, now it's your turn to get up. Okay, now it's your turn to change the diaper in case now it's my turn to change the dia Please, I'm not going to say anything to offend you if you just read. The Bible, and the Bible says in the book of Genesis, it's God created the woman for one purpose, to be a helpmeet. Now, fellas, that does not exclude the fact that you're supposed to also help carry the burden. That's what makes a great spouse. Okay, find it out when your wife's having a tough time and taking care of the kids. Find it out when your wife's having a struggle and sending her something But somehow, some way, I'm gonna lift this burden because I you know why? I want to be a great husband and I want to be a great wife. Quickly here's the last thing I'm done. I don't want to be a great wife. You want to be a great wife Verse coming up 37. Go back to 2 Timothy 19. Here's the last one to be done. Let thy servant, thy praise thee, turn back again. Barzilei, just talking to David here Let thy servant I pray thee turn back again that I may die in my own city and be buried by the grave of my father and my mother. But behold thy servant Shemhan Let him go over with my Lord the king and do to him what shall seem good unto thee. And the king answered Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him That which shall seem good unto thee, and whatsoever thou shalt require me, that will I do for thee. And all the people went over Jordan, and when the king was come over, the king kissed Barzillah and blessed him. Alright, three things that made him great, and we're done First thing that made him great, his care for the king. Second thing that made him great, he was willing to carry the burden. Or he didn't want to be a burden. David 13 made him great. Hey David, I'm not going to go over with you. I don't want to be a burden to you But you see this guy over here, his name's Shim Ham. You can take care of him. Hey, you know what my Brazilian grade thought is somebody else? He thought of somebody else. Someone's foreign in it. It's almost foreign for us. You know why? Because our sin nature is so self-centered. That's what we are. We are so self-centered we are not willing to think about anybody else Can I state this way, Barzillia was the Good Samaritan in the Old Testament? What did the Good Samaritan do in the New Testament? He went over to a person that he saw Did the Levite pass and the priest passed? But he went to him. And he helped him get on his beach and he took him to an end and he paid the price. Why? And I know it's a picture of Jesus Christ. But can I tell you that's the picture of a marriage? What shows that we're like Jesus Christ when we think of somebody else? Amen. Correct. It's easy to be a self-centered. You know how different our marriages would be if we would not be self-centered? It was just thought of somebody else. That's what the Lord wants you to do. You want to be a great spouse? Then do what Berzilii did. And I want to tell you something. If God called him very great, I think God calls the spouse very great when the spouse does the same thing the Berzillia did. Make much of the Lord And those care about the king. Don't be a burden and think about somebody else. That's what the Lord wants us to do. Would you bow your hand, close your eyes, and you think about some of these thoughts? Let's pray together. Father, thank you again for your word. Lord, I know it was on communication and I expect that you would again use every thought, Lord, to be a help and Lord can bless these people. Lord, help us to ponder our marriages. Help us to think about what we can do better. Lord, may not be thinking about what needs fixed on the other end. Father, may we think about what needs fixed within us. And Lord, help us to be a better spouse. And Lord, just be a blessed every marriage is represented. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Un test