Let me just encourage you to participate and be part of our we have a daily Bible reading schedule this year as a church. We're reading one chapter a day Very easy to do, and uh you can get one of these books and it has in here the date and the chapter that we're reading together as a church family. And a spot to write down just a thought from the chapter, uh, one verse maybe you could meditate on each day, or a thought that you can do for that day. As a church, we're working through this. We also are writing The staff and I are writing a devotional that we're sending out via email every day. You can get that devotional free of charge if you're interested in it. Go to our website, click on the devotional, put in your email. your social security number, your bank no, I'm just kidding. Uh just stick your email in there and we will send that devotional out to you. It gets sent out every day and it goes with the chapter that we're reading as a church that day. And so it will give you a little bit of insight into what's happening in the chapter. Sometimes uh it takes it a little further and kind of develops a thought for you, uh gives some application and and And maybe just spurs your your thoughts along that chapter. So uh many of the church family have found that very encouraging and a big help. So I would encourage the rest of you if you're not Enjoying that already, then please avail yourself of that. You can turn your Bibles this morning to Luke chapter 18. Luke chapter number 18. In the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke. Not one of the harder ones to find for sure. You want to get over to chapter number 18. Now we have in Sunday school really over the last two years been looking at the parables. Uh we we'll look at two or three of them and then we'll go on with another subject or something else will happen and then it'll be some months And uh we won't get back to it, but we'll get back to it and we'll look at a few more. And so in Sunday school we've been studying the parables and we've actually studied out and looked at thirty-one of the parables given to us by Christ thus far And this morning I decided to switch it up. I took the message that would normally have been preached in Sunday morning service, and I gave it in Sunday school. And the lesson that I would normally have taught in Sunday school, I'm going to give to you in church. Now, there's several motivations for that. One is I want those of you who don't avail yourself of Sunday school to see what it's like. And maybe be motivated to say, hey, I enjoyed that. I would like to be in Sunday school and hear lessons like that. But also this thought this morning, uh, I felt is very important that as a church Everybody get it. Everybody get it. It's something that we need. The Sunday school lesson that I dealt with this morning in Sunday school was on fasting, a very practical lesson about fasting as a believer. and that God wants us to be fasting and and taking part of that. And that Sunday school lesson goes hand in hand. With this morning's thought, this parable that we're going to look at, because this parable is on prayer These two lessons go hand in hand. If you have any interest at all, our messages are available online, and the lesson that we taught in Sunday school this morning will be available later this week online. You can listen to that on fasting. But they go together. Fasting without prayer is just a good diet. But the reason to fast is that we might get a hold of God. So we need to spend the time in prayer. So they go hand in hand. This morning, the parable that we're looking at is the widow and a weary judge The widow and a weary judge, given to us in Luke chapter 18, verses 1 through 8. Follow along with me in the Bible as I read the Word of God this morning. He says here in verse number one, and he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint. Saying, there was in a city a judge which feared not God, neither regarded man. And there was a widow in that city, and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of my adversary. And he would not For he for a while, but after he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her. lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And sh and shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him Though he bear long with them, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? This passage here of a widow and a weary judge, we're going to take the same outline that we take in Sunday school with every one of these lessons we've gone through and We've dealt with the telling of the parable, dealing with the context and the characters of it. We don't deal with the truth of the parable. What is the truth that it's teaching? The translation of it, giving uh the translation of the parable, and then the teachings So those are the directions that we're heading this morning with those particular points, dealing here, first of all, with the idea of the telling of the parable. Let me just by way of introduction, maybe to get us all uh that when Sunday school we we've been teaching this and I taking for granted this morning maybe some things that everybody knows uh what a parable is Herbert Lockyer said that in the entire realm of literature, there is no book so rich with parabolic material as the Bible. The Bible has in it the amazing stories given to us that teach principles that God would have us learn. One meaning of a parable or a definition of a parable that many people know and understand is that it's an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. A story that God gives us that kind of deals with things dear down on earth, that we understand, that makes sense to us. But he gives that to us that we might understand and make sense of spiritual truth. Somebody put it this way: a parable is a divine truth clothed in human garb. A truth given to us by God that maybe otherwise we wouldn't understand, except that it be displayed out for us, you know, in simple terms. In the New Testament, there are parables that deal with and teach us about the kingdom, the character of the kingdom, such as the parable of the mustard seed. Or of the leaven. Some teach us about the character of the king. Some of those parables talking to us about the character of the king, and that is like the parable of the workers in the vineyard. And then there's parables that teach us about the character of the king's subjects. That's us. Teaches us what we are to be like. What we're supposed to do, like a very familiar one of those would be the Good Samaritan. How many of you have heard the story of the Good Samaritan? That is a parable teaching us what we're supposed to be like. The characters of the individuals in the kingdom, the subjects And this morning, this parable, this persistent widow, the one who continued to come, a widow to this weary judge, tells us about us and how we're supposed to be. First of all, dealing with the context of the parable, the telling of it, everything, every parable was spurred on by a particular reason. There was something that happened. Many times the Pharisees would ask a question. And Jesus would answer the question by teaching them a parable that they might understand the definition or the explanation that he gave. In this context here, the instruction is coming. to us just after in chapter 17, the last few verses in chapter 17 is dealing with the coming of the Son of Man. He's dealing with the fact that one day Jesus, who is recognized as the Son of Man, is going to come again. He's going to set his feet here. He's going to come in in the clouds first. We which are alive and remain are going to be caught up together with him in the air. Those that are dead in Christ, they're going to rise first. Jesus is coming again. And he talks about in chapter 17, there's some discussion there. He says, hey, as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be in the day of the coming of the Son of Man. And you know, he talks about in the days of Noah when every man did that which was right in his own eyes. When every man uh was careless and gave no thought for the future. And then all of a sudden when Noah and his family got in the ark, it started raining and the floods came and then it was too late. And then he goes on and he talks about, as it was in the days of Lot. How wicked and vile was that city of Sodom. And he says, as it was in the day of Lot, so shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. When Lot and his family were removed from the city, judgment fell. He's saying it's gonna be like that. It will be like in those days. Days That would not be conducive to faith. Days where it would be hard to be what we call a Christian Right. It is getting harder and harder to be a Christian in today's world. To act and to live in faith. So Jesus talks to them about the life of faith in a day when man, for the most part, is devoid of faith. We are living in these days that he indicated when men's hearts are failing because He talks about how two men will be in the field. They'll be working in the field. And then all of a sudden one of them is going to be gone and the other will be left. He gives several illustrations there at the conclusion of the chapter, and in the context of discussing this, days in which faith is hard to be practiced. He goes on and introduces what we have here at the chapter number 18 of this parable of the prayer. And praying in faith in a day when it's hard to be praying. He follows this immediately, this parable, with another parable on prayer dealing with the Pharisee, where the Pharisee comes and says, I'm glad I'm not like other men. And the publican comes and says, Lord have mercy on me, a sinner. So sandwiched between these two things, we find the parable that we're looking at this morning. Let me just say, if you're here this morning, that Jesus is coming again, and you need to be ready to meet him. That time's gonna come, just like when the flood started to come and when the judgment came down on Sodom and Gomorrah and it was too it it was too late. Once Jesus comes, it'll be too late. You can't say at that point, oh, I changed my mind. Sorry. The opportunity now is the day of salvation. The opportunity is now, and if you're here this morning and you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, you haven't confessed your fact that you're a sinner and you need a savior. And you trusted and prayed and asked Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sin and take you to heaven when you die. Let me just say today's the day of salvation. You can have salvation today. Don't wait until it's too late. Our parable here is written to those who have done that already, to those who know Jesus Christ, who have a relationship with him, because he tells us here that uh how God cares for his elect. For those that are his children. You have the judge, the judge was an unjust judge. It's customary for a judge in this period of time to travel from city to city. He would set up in the gate and he would administrate or uh determine the different cases that were brought before him. This was very ordinary, as something that happened on a regular basis in the Old Testament. Many times you see the king serving in this capacity, where the king would come and he would sit in the gate and he would judge matters. That happened with the people and solved the problems for them. You have the woman here, the woman who was a widow, who did not have an adversary, come and plead her case before the judge The truth of the parable is given to us here. It's a simple parable in that the truth of it, the definition of it, the explanation is given to us in the first verse. And he spake a parable unto them to this end. So he tells us right in the front, he says, this is what I'm telling you this for. That men ought always to pray and not to faint. So the truth of the parable given to us here is that if you're a child of the kingdom of heaven, if you're a child of God You should be a prayer warrior. Nothing should get in your way from praying. You should not stop. You should not quit. You should continually pray. And in so doing you'll not faint. The translation of the parable is that the judge The judge is not God, although uh some people have misinterpreted that, and uh it's uh it's hard for me to understand uh how because of how the parable reads, but he was an unjust judge. God is not unjust. God is just. He says in the parable that he regarded neither God nor man. You see, there is contrasting language given here with both of these characters that are found in the parable. You see, it's a contrast against God. Here is a man, a judge, who's serving as a ruler, who does not regard God or man. Can I ask you what is the greatest commandment? Both of them are the same thing. Engage your brain. Yep, a lot of you got it. What's the greatest commandment? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. With all thy souls, And what is the second that's like unto this? Love thyself. Love thy neighbor as thyself. Do you see that these two, the greatest and the second greatest, commandments Given to us in the Word of God, this judge very clearly says he has no regard for God or no regard for man. We're giving contrasting language here of the difference between this unjust judge And the true judge, who is God, and who has all compassion and care for man. Then you have the widow here in this passage. And the widow is contrasting language as well, because in the society of that day, a widow was somebody who probably did not have a means to In which to provide for herself. She didn't have a way to take care of herself. She was very needy. If there was anybody in the society of that time that had need of an advocate, it was her. You see, a a lady without a husband didn't have somebody that could go before the judge and plead her case. She was without an advocate. This is exciting. Do you know that we as believers we have an advocate? We have an advocate. Jesus Christ is the mediator between God and man. Jesus pleases our case before the judge. We aren't in the position of this widow who has no advocate. And he's giving us here contrasting language. He says you have an unjust judge. Who wouldn't care for God and doesn't care for man, and you've got a widow who has nobody to plead her case, yet because of her persistent coming. The judge granted her what she wanted. He says, How much more would your heavenly father, how much more would your God Who loves and cares for you, who you have a relationship with, who you have the Son of God mediating for you with, how much more would He grant to you? His son, his daughter, what you ask of him. Because of this, men ought always to pray. There is here a idea. People a lot smarter than me determined that in the Greek There's the tense. The tense of this word is a continual tense. Like I might say I went to the store. That's past tense. Or I might say, I'm going to the store. That's future tense. Some of you ladies might say, I'm always at the store. That that might be what he's talking about here. The the tense of the Greek here is a continual coming. It's a tense that means I'm always doing this. Or that she persisted. I mean, any of you that have kids, you've gone through this with your children. Mom, can I have this? Dad, can I have this? Not right now. When? When can I have it? No, not today. Can I have it tomorrow? Can I have it tomorrow? Mom, can I get this? Can I I mean the continual coming Finally, as a parent, you say, you know what? You can have it. Because why? Because you're tired of them asking you for it. You just want them to stop. You're like mine. You can have it. And the kids learn that at an early age, that if they keep asking, they're gonna get it. Come on, Christians. How straightforward is that for us as believers? God is saying, Hey, I love ya I want to answer your prayer. Would you keep asking? Would you keep coming? It's amazing to me that we have in our ability, through the power of prayer, to bring God To the point of answering. He gave us this illustration here that this judge wasn't going to do it except for her continual coming And there's a times when maybe God is uh waiting, and we're going to teach you a little bit about why he waits. God wants to answer your prayer. And he wants you to keep coming, to keep asking. He argues This from contrasting language for us. So let me give you the teaching of the parable. This is where we've taught in Sunday school that there is only one interpretation. A parable can only teach one main truth. But there are different applications, different ways in our life in which we can apply the parables. Let me give you some of the teaching here, some ways that we can apply this to us, some application to our lives. First of all, there's the encouragement to persistent prayer. There's the encouragement for us to persist in prayer. He says here, men ought always to pray Some are just naturally given to prayer. Some are easily taken to the place of prayer. It was said of the late C. H. Spurgeon that he glided from laughter to prayer with the naturalness of one who lived in both elements. With him the habit of prayer was free and unfettered. His life was not divided into compartments, the one shut off from the other. He lived in constant fellowship with his Father in heaven. He was ever in touch with God, and thus it was natural for him to pray as it was for him to breathe. Prayer sprang as spontaneous to his lips as did any ordinary speech. Men ought always to pray. We only become As CH Persian was there described to be able to flow from Prayer to conversation, to be in a spirit of pra prayer. That only comes when we begin to learn how to pray in secret. The persistence in prayer is that we faint not. You're either going to live a life of fear or you're going to live a life of faith. When we stop praying, we have lost faith that it will be answered. Some have thought that to ask repeatedly is to doubt. I mean, if I truly had faith, wouldn't I just say, God, would you give me this? And if I had faith, it'd be done. I wouldn't pray again. But God is teaching us here how to pray. He's giving us the example and He's telling us that we're to continue coming. You understand that to stop asking is to stop believing that it'll happen. You see my kids, they come to me and one of them might ask me, Dad, can we do this? And I might not hear them or I might not answer. And they might come back a few minutes later and they may say, Dad, can can we can we do this? And I don't answer. And they don't come back. Now you tell me why don't why don't they come back? Because they believe that it ain't coming. They believe they aren't gonna get it. They think well either Dad doesn't want us to have it or he's gonna say no or or you know he I might not have even heard them. I get pretty focused at times. Don't ask Mary about that. The other night, I was downstairs working Thursday night after church. And I was here working and everybody was everybody left. Everybody's gone. And I I was here and I I was here pretty late. It's about midnight. And uh I I went home, and of course Mary had already put the kids to bed. She she called me about 10 30 and says, What do you want me to do? I said, put the kids to bed. So I came home and I told her, I said, you guys left and didn't say anything to me. No, you guys didn't say goodbye. Nobody told me you were leaving or nothing. She says, I did. I walked right into the hallway and said, we're leaving now. See you later. She said, but you didn't answer. I'm like, oops. Sorry. Uh I was pretty focused on what I was doing. You know, s but sometimes the kids don't ask again because they don't think it's gonna happen. You see, to ask again is to dis to to continually display faith that God can do that. That he has the power to. And we display that faith by our continually coming to Him. We have The encouragement to persistent prayer. We have the example given to us of persistent prayer, this woman who continued to come, her continuing to the point that she wearied the judge. The judge was weary. He was just tired of it. He says, I don't care about this woman at all. And I don't care what God thinks about it, but I just want her to shut up. By the way, ladies, I'll just throw this out. I don't think this is a good approach for your husband. Nagging does not help. That was free. They have the example of a persistent prayer life to keep coming. Look in verse number eight. He says, and I tell you that he will avenge them speedily, nevertheless, when the Son of Man cometh, Shall he find faith on the earth? That question is given to us. He's saying, Shall he find faith on the earth? Will he find a group of people? Who believe enough in God and God's ability and power to answer that they are praying? Will he find us as believers, as Christians? praying to him. Will there be anybody on earth that has enough faith in God to continue to pray? Will he find faith on earth when God comes again? We are to be encouraged, the example of this lady continuing in prayer. The only reason that we should stop praying is one of two things. One is that it's answered. Amen. The answer was given. But secondly, that Jesus has come. And he's here. Other than that, we will continue to pray. James Duncan. Preaching with great unction and power, was asked, what is the secret to such preaching? The secret, he said, was thirteen hours of consecutive prayer. When asked the secret of his spiritual power, C. H. Spurgeon said, It's knee work, my friend. It's knee work. We need to be a people of prayer. I'm asking the church family, the theme of this year. On a big banner out in the foyer is pay the price. Pay the price. Would you be willing to pay the price? And we want to see God do great things. Will we pray continually to see that happen? You have needs in your life, you have burdens, you have challenges that you're facing, you have things that you need answers for. Will you pay the price? to spend some time continually in prayer that your heavenly father would give you and provide for you the answer. The effects of the persistence in prayer. What is the effect that we do this? Persistence establishes our position. By continuing in prayer. Why would we persist in prayer? Is it just that we might get what we want? Why would God want us to persist in prayer? Why would God call us or ask us, will you continue to come? Just continue to come Is God just holding the carrot out in front of us just for fun and saying, go get it, go get it. Whenever you pray enough, I'll give it to you. Is this God's motivation? Is it just that we might finally get the carrot that we're chasing? No. You see, it's so that he can get us where he wants us It's not that we can get what we want, it's that God can get us where He wants us. We have a need in our life that motivates us and brings us to a place of persistent prayer. And God desires and wants to answer that. But first, you need to take this step. First in your life you need to grow right here. You need to commit to this level of Faithfulness in your life. You need to take this step. He's trying to motivate us to get us to the place where he wants us to be. For certainly in an hour of prayer under great need, we get to the point where we're willing to say, God, whatever you want. Am I wrong? When we get to that place in our life where we have truly a great burden and a great need, And we call unto God, we get to the point where we say, God, whatever you want. Then God's starting to get us where He wants us. And He can answer the prayer. Sometimes my kids ask of me, Dad, can we go ride the four wheelers? And I say, after you clean your room? And they say, well, I don't want to ride the four wheeler that bad Come on, are you applying this to your life, Christian? We go to God and say, God, can I? And God says, After you clean your room. And we say, oh, I don't want it that bad. You see, God didn't get us where he wants us and he's not ready to give the answer. So God withholds that answer, caused us to come persistently, that he may get us where he wants us. What do we need to change in our life? What do we need to clean up? What is God trying to bring us? What place is He trying to bring us to? If it's truly important, we'll be willing. To change whatever is asked of us. The effect of persistent prayer is that God establishes our position where He wants us to be Get us where he wants us to be. He says here in this text, he says, I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. That God will give them. That means God will give them the answer. It's not that you'll get the answer fast when you pray it's going to come What he's saying, he says, when the answer comes, understand this is in the context of his second coming or of the rapture. That he's going to come as a thief in the night, he's going to come in the twinkling of an eye, just the blink of an eye, he's going to come, he's going to give the answer speedily. When God gives the answer, it'll come quickly. It's not saying that you'll get the answer quickly. But when God gives the answer, it will come quickly. Persistence establishes our priorities. As we persist in prayer, we begin to see what is truly most important to us. It's very clear by our prayer life to determine what is most important to us What is it that we value most in this world? Persistence establishes our prayer life. Do you understand as Christians we are to exercise what would be called spiritual disciplines? We are to, the Bible says, by the reason of use Become established in the Word of God. We grow in our ability and understanding of the Word of God. We grow in our ability and understanding of how prayer works. And by persisting in prayer, by continuing in prayer, we are learning about prayer. We're learning about faith. We're learning what God wants to teach us about this Christian life. Persistence establishes our prayer life Stonewall Jackson was a man of prayer. He said, and I quote, I have so fixed the habit in my mind that I never raise a glass of water to my lips without asking God's blessing. I never seal a letter without putting a word of prayer under the seal. I never take a letter from the post without brief sending my thoughts heavenward. I never change my classes in the lecture room without a minute's petition for the cadets who go in and out, for those who come in and out. James Gilmore, a pioneering missionary to Mongolia, was a man of prayer. He had the habit of writing his letters, and he would never use a blotter. He had purposed in his heart that he needed to be a man of prayer, and instead of using a blotter, anytime he would write with that old quill, instead of blotting the ink that he might continue. He would pray until the ink was dry before he went on. Finding a way to spend time in prayer. Beloved, I think in today's society we have got, I mean, we don't have to wait for ink to dry today. We don't have to wait for anything today Our life is so rush, rush, rush, rush, and every moment of every day is consumed with something. We can't we can't even sit at a stoplight for a couple of minutes without pulling it out. What do we do? Oh quick. Is it green yet? No, it's not green. Okay. Is it green? No, no, it's not green. It's green. It's green. Just a second. It's green. I mean how long is a stoplight? We could fill our lives with things where we don't have opportunity to pray. We learn about prayer by continuing to do it. The call this morning is as believers, as members, as friends, as part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, you would be motivated to spend time. In prayer, you learn about the faith and what it means to see God answer. You learn about God Himself by persistent prayer. What items maybe have you dropped off your prayer list? That by removing those you've displayed your faith that that's just not going to be answered God is a loving father and he wants to answer you. Maybe he just wants you to get to a certain place before that answer comes The parable of the widow and a weary judge teaches us to be people of prayer. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.