Turn your Bibles to Colossians chapter number one. Should be familiar with moving to the book of Galatians, uh, since we've been there on Thursday nights, you just move a little bit further. So we're going to be in the book of Colossians tonight. For our text, there is an admonition found here in Colossians chapter number one and verse number ten that to me has always struck me so uh just powerfully uh for uh me as an individual, just the Lord has used it in my heart. It's kind of ever before me and uh a goal or ambition of my heart to strive to do as we are encouraged here. So we we'll begin reading in verse number nine and then read down through verse number thirteen for our text this evening. He says, for this cause we also Since the day we heard of it, do not cease to pray for you, to desire that ye might be fulfilled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long suffering with joyfulness. Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son. Beloved, this morning we uh took a few minutes and looked at the realities and the horrors of that place called hell. And obviously for those that know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, it is Just a stark reminder of the blessings that we have, that we have been given deliverance from having to go and pay for our own sin in such a horrific place. That Jesus Christ paid our sin debt, and we uh have escaped the horrors of hell, not because of anything that we've done, but because of what Jesus did for us. And we see here in our text in verse number ten, he says, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord That it's ought to be a desire of each and every one of us to walk worthy, we serve a worthy Lord. Amen As uh Pastor Gus was saying as we've been talking about the songs tonight, we don't necessarily praise him because we feel like praising him. We praise him because he's worthy of praise. And there's times when you don't feel like it, but you still ought to do it. How many of you every of you remember my father's story about the day that he got his dear John letter? He got a dear John Letter, Pastor Gus does, maybe a couple of others, but he uh was it was just before chapel. He's going into chapel and he went to his mailbox and grabbed his mail there at college and walked out, was headed towards chapel, and he opened a dear John letter. Young lady that he was obviously very uh interested in and felt like this is probably the future for me. And he got a little letter that said, Nope, I'm not your future. Sorry, buddy. uh you know you're on your own. And he walked into chapel and he was so uh disheartened and discouraged and he didn't even want to be in chapel and then they stood up and said, Grab your songbooks and begin singing, you know, and and he didn't want to sing He didn't want to lift up his voice, but he had been taught when the church is singing, you sing. And so he stood up and he's just kind of like mm you know just barely into it at all, just kind of going through the motions He said, but then the message of the song and and the uh message of what God was teaching uh through even the song, he began to hear it and began to uh get into it a little bit more and he said by the end of the song service he said I was just lifted my voice in praise to an Almighty God because God is worthy to be praised In every situation wherever we're at, we serve a God who's worthy to be praised. Tonight, Andrew gave a testimony just thanking the Lord for uh you know his great father and and all all the good things that uh He was just praising the Lord for uh you know some some of his heritage and I could echo that because I stand uh indebted tonight to the heritage that I have that God has seem fit to allow me to be born into a Christian home and to be loved and to be led and and to be shown the the way of the truth and and taught the Word of God from the youngest of ages and and just being in church my whole life and then the privilege to serve Him, I'm saying that through from the beginning until now, there's been so much that God has done for me And I'll tell you what, I stand indebted to him, to whom much is given, much is required. And the thought for this evening, the title of the message is a worthy walk, a worthy walk. We need to, as God's people, uh have a worthy walk, boy, because he is worthy All that He has done for us, He is a worthy God. Revelation 5. 12, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing. He is worthy, amen. And after all that he's done for us, it ought to move us, it oughta behoove us, it oughta it ought to encourage us to say, Hey, he's done all this for me, I want to do whatever I can for him. I want to strive to be as worthy of a servant of God, as worthy of a soldier of the Lord Jesus Christ as I can be for his honor and glory. Ephesians four, verses one says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy, that ye walk worthy of the vocation whereund you are called. First Thessalonians two twelve says that ye would walk worthy of God who hath called you into his kingdom and glory God has done so much for you and I, it ought to be a desire, as Paul said, that you and I would walk worthy of God. And what a high standard that is I mean on our best day, are we really worthy of the Lord and Savior that has uh saved our soul from an eternity in hell? But it ought to be a desire to strive to walk and be as worthy as we can, or walk Beloved is our lifestyle. It is what we do day in and day out. It's what people know us to be. We know the old adage, your walk talks louder than your talk talks. You know, you can say a whole lot, but it doesn't mean so much unless you have a life to back it up. So your walk talks, and that's what he's saying here. Hey, what is your walk saying? Is your walk saying that you serve a worthy God? Is your walk saying that he is real and powerful, that he is a risen Savior, and he's in the world today? Is that what your walk is saying How are you living your daily life? Are you walking worthy of the Lord Jesus Christ who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light? He is worthy. That word worthy uh comes from a Greek word uh which I'm assuming is pronounced Axonius. I'm not positive on that, but uh uh I can't read English let alone Greek. So It's what he what but what the Greek scholars tell me is it's referring to uh that word is referring to the idea of a center of a scale. And this is the only place, beloved, that you could look at this, and I know many people feel with regarding salvation that hey if you just put all your good works on one side and all your bad works on the other, as long as your good works outweigh your bad works, you're on your way to heaven. We know that's false. That it's all Jesus Christ. There's nothing that we can do. But because Jesus Christ has saved us, we ought to strive to walk worthy. And so, beloved, the scale is kind of a picture, an idea of everything that Jesus Christ has ever done for you. Every sin he has ever forgiven, every heartache he has ever lifted, every burden he's ever carried, every uh every trial he's ever. helped you through. You put everything that Jesus has done for you on one side of the scale. And on the other side of that scale you put your walk Are you walking worthy of that? Of everything that's been placed on the scale? Of everything that God has done for you and I, boy, I'll tell you what, He's done so much that on my best day I fall far short of truly being worthy of Him. But it ought to be our desire to walk worthy. Walk worthy. So we see here in our text several things that are a description of the worthy walk. What is a worthy walk? I mean we want to walk worthy, so appro okay, preacher, what is a worthy walk Well, there are many things that we can look at. We could look at the other passages in Ephesians. There's several things that are given or in 1 Thessalonians, but tonight, just sticking in this passage here, I want you to see he mentions four things That uh I would like to point out with regards to your walk. First of all, a worthy walk is a fruitful walk. It's a fruitful walk. He says that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful. In every good work. You and I, beloved, are to be fruitful. If we desire to walk worthy of our Lord Jesus Christ, then we are going to be fruitful Christians. We're going to be bearing fruit. To bear fruit, beloved, is a sign of maturity. You get saved, you come along, you begin to grow in the Lord and plants. bushes when they are first planted, apple trees or or other types of fruit things, they they when they're very young they're they they may have no fruit at all or very, very little fruit It's when they start to mature that then they become producers. They really produce fruit. And when we produce fruit, beloved, it's a sign of maturity as a Christian. That you begin to grow in the Lord. It's exciting when we see the young Christians coming to the church and growing in the Lord. change starting to take place in their life and you see the fruit of the Spirit starting to be evident and we see the fruit of them ministering and working and reaching other people. When they start to bear fruit, they're growing in the Lord John chapter 15, verses 1 through 5. If you want to turn there in the Bible, John 15, we know this is the passage of Scripture on the vine and the branches, and he describes for us. fruit-bearing. There's four degrees of fruit-bearing that are in the Christian life. He says, I am the true vine in John 15, verse number one. He says, I am the true vine and my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. So the first level of fruit-bearing is those that are not bearing fruit. The first degree is there are some who are are Christians and yes they have come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, but they're not bearing any fruit. He says, wait, this is not how you're supposed to be He says that you're going to be taken down. The Bible describes it as hewn down. Over in another passage it describes and says, hey, that that tree that doesn't bring forth fruit is going to be cut into firewood. It's going to be used for something profitable. So we're to be bearing fruit. So the first degree of fruit-bearing is no fruit. He says, and then Every branch that beareth fruit, he purchased it. So we see here, secondly, that every branch that beareth fruit, so there are some that bear fruit. You got no fruit, then you got some that bear fruits. And then he says he purged it. So God begins to work in our hearts, in our life, and he cuts some things out and he changes some things. Why? So that we can bear more fruit. If you know anything about orchards and the work that they do, they keep those trees cut back and they don't just let them grow wild They cut unnecessary branches so that all of the nutrients and sustenance that's coming up from the bottom of that tree will go to the fruit, and they'll have so many apples coming out on just a small little apple tree. And the fruit that's coming out on that is so powerful, so rich, so much. Why? Because it has been pruned back. It has been prepared and and everything is going to bearing fruit. So you have those that bear no fruit, you have those that bear some fruit, then you have those that bear more fruit. Your purge that you may bring forth more fruit. He says, Now you're clean through the word which I have spoken unto you, abide in me and I in you, as the branches cannot bear fruit of itself. Except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. I am the vine, ye are the branches, he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same, bringeth forth what's the last what's the next two words? Much fruit. So the fourth level of fruit there, the fourth degree of fruit is much fruit. And I'll tell you what, if we want to walk worthy of God, it ought to be our goal and our desire to progress along that path in our Christian life where maybe there was a time that we were bringing forth no fruit. Maybe there's a time that we just began to bring forth some fruit. But we would love God and we pray and ask God, would you purge me? Would you mold me? Would you help me to get to the place where I could bring forth more fruit? And then as God begins to work in your life and as you abide in him, you reach the place that you bring forth much fruit. That's what a person that's walking worthy, that's what a worthy walk is, somebody that is bearing fruit. We've been studying, just concluded this morning the life of Joseph in Genesis 49, 22. He says, Joseph is a fruitful bow. Even a fruitful bowl by a wall, which branches run over, I'm sorry, by a well which branches run over the wall. A tree that is laden with fruit is going to be bowed down. The more fruit that's there, the more the branch is going to be bowed over here, our uh neighbor right across from Matt and Lord's house here, uh Bobby, they have uh I think is it a peach tree growing right there by the by the house as a peach tree and it had that this spring it had so much fruit on it of one branch. broke off and fell and hit the ground. 'Cause it was it was so heavy and they they tried to cut it and clean it up so that, you know, they could save as much as they could uh of it. But it g had got so much fruit on there that it bowed down and broke. Well, Joseph is described as being fruitful. You know, he was fruitful for several reasons, Joseph was. First of all, he was fruitful because he maintained fellowship with God. We see that in a passage which we just read in 1 John, Abide in me and I in you, as a branch that cannot bear fruit of itself. Joseph was fruitful, he was blessed of God because he abided in the Father He maintained his fellowship with God, that relationship with him, no matter what was going on in his life, he maintained that level of fruitfulness because he maintained a right relationship with his father. He had fellowship with God. Because he was faithful in all that he did. We know Genesis 39, 6, and he left, we're talking about uh Pharaoh there, and he left all that he had in Joseph's hand. He he he was faithful. Everybody that worked with him, whether he was in the prison or in Potiphar's house or in Pharaoh's house, each and every one of them found that he could be trusted, that he was faithful. He that is faithful in that which is least shall be faithful in that which is much. And that's how God sees us. If we're going to bear fruit, we've got to be keep a right fellowship with God. We've got to be faithful. And we've got to be forgiving. We talked about this briefly this morning about Joseph and how his two sons and the one named That means forget to forget. Manasseh, so that he can forget Knowing that that God had allowed him to forget all of his trials and his burdens and his struggles, that name came up. And he named us on that teaching that, listen, I know I've been through a lot, but you know what? I'm going to forget that And it was once he forgot that he had Ephraim, who means fruitful. And God made him fruitful. Sometimes there may be some forgiving that you need to do, some forgetting that you need to do. There's several types of fruit that the Christians should be bearing. If we're going to be uh have a worthy walk, we know of course, beloved, there is the fruit of the Spirit. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. We know this is the fruit of the spirit that should be evident in our life. I'm not going to spend much time here because we're going to be getting there shortly on Thursday nights in our study of the book of Galatians. But the fruit of the Spirit should be evident in our life. We also know that there should be fruit of souls. That we should be a witness. That we should be sharing the gospel with the lost and letting them know about the love of Jesus Christ, the fruit of souls. Romans 1. 13 says, Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purpose to come unto you, but whether But was let hit hitherto that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. He says, Hey, I wanted to come and minister there so that I could have some fruit there So that I could reach some souls there, so that there would be some people in that area that I gave the gospel to that trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. Are we being the witness that we should be? Do we see the flames of hell licking at the feet of those that are bound for there? And burdened about reaching them with the truth of the gospel? If we're going to bear fruit, we need to bear the fruit of souls. Hebrews 13:15 talks about the fruit of praise. He says, by him therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips. Give me thanks to his name. The fruit of our lips, the praising him for how good he's been to us. That's some fruit that we ought to have in our life. We're going to have a fruitful walk. It's also a knowledgeable, a knowledgeable walk. Excuse me. He says in verse number 10, there, that you might have might walk worthy of the Lord into all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge. of God, increasing in the knowledge of God. Beloved, we're talking about the wisdom that comes from God, about God. Are you increasing in your knowledge of Him? This is one of the things that's so powerful and such a blessing about the discipleship ministry is there's people on purpose studying to increase their knowledge of God. learning about God and His Word. Are you increasing your understanding of His will? Understanding, beloved God plans for us to be growing in this area. Our knowledge of God should be expanding. Our knowledge should be growing in 2 Peter 3. 18. He says, but grow in grace. and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. A worthy walk is a walk where we continue to learn more and more about Him. More about Jesus, would I know. Do you desire to learn more of him? The more that we know of him, the more we love him. The more we love him, the more we want to walk worthy of the love that he's bestowed upon us. Songwriter said, The longer I serve him, the sweeter he grows. The more that I love him, the more love he bestows. Each day is like heaven, my heart overflows. The longer I serve him, the sweeter he grows. Beloved, does your lifestyle, does your walk Is it equal to who you are in Jesus Christ? You see, when we're saved, we're just starting out We're not anything like what God would have us be. And we know that. And we know that it's a process that God slowly conforms us into the image of His Son. But I wonder, how are we doing on that? Are we more like him today than we were yesterday? A worthy walk is also a strengthened walk. In verse number 11, he says, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Well the majority of the world today is obsessed with physical fitness. Improving this physical body. Some of you are like, don't know those people Obviously that's not a problem for the church, amen. We live in grace, so we don't have to bother with that. Yeah, physical fitness. Personal fitness industry brought in $32. 3 billion in 2019. As just happens to be the latest statistic that I could find on that personal fitness industry. Listen, but the strength we're talking about is not physical strength. We're talking about a level of spiritual strength. I want you to see several things given to us here in this verse. This strengthened with all might First of all, note the source of this strength. It is according to, what's the next three words? Is glorious power His glorious power. Beloved, the strength that we have, that spiritual strength to live this Christian life, to do as He would have us to do, to be the kind of Christian that God wants us to be, is not something that we can be in and of ourselves. There's no way we can accomplish it in our own strength, but we need the power of His might. Ephesians 6:10. Finally, my brethren, be strong. What? In the Lord. And in the power of his might. It is his might, the source of our strength. Ephesians 3:16 says that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with the might by the Spirit of the inner man. Oh, that great and familiar verse, Philippians 4, 13, I can Do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. It's not us, it's Jesus Christ in us, it's his might, it's his Glorious power. The source of this strength is strength that comes from him, and it is a great power. The psalmist said that the Lord is in the light of my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? If the Lord has given you the strength that you need to live this life, you'll live it successfully. We see not only the source, but we see the sufficiency of this strength here in this verse Notice that twice he uses the word all. He says strengthened with all might. All the might that you're going to need to live and be what God wants you to be is available to you. His glorious power is available to you. And what is it good for? What is all the strength that you have is good for? He tells us there, he says, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. Just before church, Brother Mark told me, I am patient as long as I get what I want right now. He's talk talking about some doctors uh visits, you know, and they want the test results and you guys dealing with doctors, you know. It's like wait hurry up and wait. You gotta go get this and then you gotta wait. You gotta get this and then you gotta wait and And he says it's just the Lord's teaching me patience through it through all this struggle. But he says, hey, I've got strength for you. I've got it's supplied by his great power. The sufficiency of it is all strength. It's all sufficiency. Christ is all that anyone needs for salvation. Christ is all that anyone needs for sanctification. Christ is all that anyone needs to live a life bringing honor and glory to Him. Your power to live right comes from Him. Christ is all we need for our glorification one day. We see the serenity of the strength given to us here. He says unto all patience. That patience there means hopeful endurance. You know, we as long as we have hope we can endure. So we talked about this morning, one of the greatest tragedies of of of spending eternity in hell is that there is no hopelessness. There is no availability or even option of getting out once you're there. It's forever and ever and ever and ever. But we have hope here on earth. We have hope in whatever hardship or trial we're facing because we know that God is with us and He'll bring us through. It's only in the strength, it's only in the storm that the strength of the anchor is tested. You know you you don't need the anchor when there's no storm. You can just kind of float around. You can just drift if you want. You can Be out there and just fish and let the float set. But if there's a wind coming up, or if there's a storm coming up, you gotta anchor the boat down. I think about the tent. We set the tent up many times and the tent's been up in some pretty pretty big storms. We we've seen the uh tent get a little bit loose and the power of that tarp yanking on those forty two inch stakes Driven 36 inches in the ground and that tin can pull that right out of the ground. Rip those stakes out of the ground. We've had to back them up and add second ones and and add more ropes because in some of those aggressive storms, you know what? God gives us the patience that we need. It's His strength that provides that patience. We see the Stoicism of the strength and long-suffering. Not only we have patience, but we have long-suffering, the ability to forbear, to just hang in there, to go through it. Some of you in the midst of some pretty big trials, dealing with some pretty uh heavy and hard things. God will give you the strength to forbear. God is with you through that. It's it's all the power of his might, and it's enough to give you all that you need to get through and carry carry on, to endure, to be able to go through this long suffering, this forbearance. And ultimately we see the satisfaction of this strength because it brings it down to a conclusion. And he says there Unto all patience and long suffering with joyfulness. With joyfulness. You and I both know that when we reach A point in our life that we have failed, that we have not made it to the goal, that we have fallen short. We're so fed up with ourselves. We're so disappointed in our own performance. We wish we could have done so much better. He says, here, if you'll just be patient. If you'll just with the strength of God endure and be faithful just a little longer, if you'll just hang on a little bit, joy comes in the morning. Joy comes in the morning. There's joyfulness that's given to you at the end, and oh the joy of s of reaching the conclusion or just the joy of of being faithful through it all in the midst of whatever trial or burden or struggle that you're enduring when you reach the end and you were faithful through it, you look back and say, Man, I'm so thankful to God that I held on. I'm so thankful to God I persevered. I'm so thankful he helped me to be faithful through it all. When you felt like quitting a hundred times, but you didn't quit. You just kept on for God. You reach that point when there's joy in the morning. Because of God's faithfulness, because you were faithful. That is a worthy walk, Christian. We see forcedly here, a worthy walk is a thankful walk. He says in verse number 12, he says, giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light. You see, thankfulness, beloved, recognizes The work of God. It recognizes that He is the source of the strength. It recognizes where our ability is coming from, where the faithfulness comes from Beloved, when we get into a habit of thanking him for his goodness, when we get into a habit to acknowledge it's he that has provided us health, It's from Him that we have all that we have. It is our friends and our family. Everything in this life, whatever we look at and value, realize ultimately these things come from a gracious God because every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. When we begin to do that, then suddenly we realize How utterly helpless we are on our own. We stop striving to be self-sufficient and we become savior-sufficient. Where we rely on him, that heart of gratitude, that expression of thankfulness, that puts us in the right perspective, realizing where it's coming from. And you talk about a worthy walk. one that is acknowledging where all this strength comes from, where all of the great blessings we have come from. It's honor and glory given to the one whom deserves it. When we're thankful, we turn away from sin and self-reliance, and we say, truly, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Thankfulness acknowledges it's his work in our life. It's been said that a thankless man rarely does a thankful deed. A thankless man rarely does a thankful deed. Beloved, we want to have a worthy walk. We're going to be thankful people. Boy, God's people ought to be the most thankful people in the world. Realizing how much of it all comes from Him. We serve a risen Savior. And He is worthy, worthy of all praise. But I wonder, is our walk worthy? Are we walking worthy of the one who has called us? A worthy walk is one that's fruitful. It's a walk that's continually growing in the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's one that is strengthened by Him and one where thankfulness is expressed.