Our I our thoughts in teaching these lessons and what our reasoning is and why we're looking at that. So we are looking at the Baptist distinctives, why we're Baptist, why we have a Baptist name out front. And we are looking at that from a couple of standpoints. Historically, the distinctives, the biblical doctrine, the principle, what is it? And how did it come into fruition? Why do we have this as a distinctive today? So we're looking at some historical context. And then we also want to talk about the difference. between what we believe the Bible teaches in that distinctive and many of what would be considered Protestant churches today. And uh so again I want to reiterate that we by no means are saying that uh there are no saved people in these other Protestant churches or church that we may mention Uh the matter of fact, many years ago, there were many Methodist churches that preached it straight and preached it hot and and were a lot closer in line with this book than a lot of Baptist churches are today. Uh there through the years have been amazing uh Presbyterian preachers. Uh you know, but what we're taught what we're giving you, we're not saying that every person that ever went to those churches believes this way or doesn't but as a denomination if you look up what they believe about this this is what is as a group they teach and that's w the areas that we're kind of touching on There may be people that are in those churches that understand what the truth is, but they're still in that church, just like uh Miss Kim, who's Sitting here was saved, was on her way to heaven, knew God, knew the Lord as their Savior for many years, but was still part of the Catholic Church That doesn't mean she wasn't saved. She just had not taken that step yet or grown to the point where she saw those errors yet. So uh in Colossians chapter 2 and verse number 8, it says, Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy. And vain deceit, and through the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. We as a people desire to be first and foremost after Christ. We don't let traditions dictate what we do And even Baptists have their holy cows too. They have their traditions that they want to hold on to and say, well, you're not right with God if you you know, whatever it might be, but we don't d the Bible is the final authority that we looked at last week. And that's what we want to be very careful and hopefully you get a foundation where you Know the book well enough that you are not taken by philosophy, by vain deceit, or traditions of men, or after the rudiments of this world, but that ye are uh after Christ. That's our goal. Now Pastor Augusta is going to come tonight and deal with the second topic, the autonomy of the local church, I believe, alright? Okay. All right, what a great place to start there. We'll uh turn over just a few uh pages in your Bible to the book of Revelation. The book of Revelation and Chapter 2, a familiar passage. These are the letters that were written to the churches. And I want to emphasize and focus on a couple things to point out as we talk about tonight the autonomy of the local church. If you're in Revelation, we're going to look going to go through there. We're going to turn over to chapter 3 as well. But as you look at this, again, these are the letters written to the local churches there in of Asia Minor. And it begins in Revelation chapter 2, and it says this in verse 1, unto the angel of the church of Ephesus. Right, these things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. And each of these letters, these messages for the churches begin with a description of someone. Go down to verse 8. Unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write, these things saith the first and the last, which was dead and is alive. If you're not sure who we're talking about there, look at verse 12. And to the angel of the church in Pergamos, write, these things saith, he which hath the sharp sword with two edges. Go down to verse 18. Unto the angel of the church of Thyatira, write, these things saith, the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and His feet are like fine brass. Anyone want to take a guess who we're talking about? Jesus. Go down to chapter 3, verse 1. And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write these things, saith he that hath the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. And then verse 7 of chapter 3 says, These things saith, this is to the Church of Philadelphia, saith, He that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth and no man shutteth and shutteth and no man openeth. And finally verse fourteen, and unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans, write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness. the beginning of the creation of God. All these are a description of the same person, the same individual who is Jesus And go back to chapter 2 and verse 1, and it gives a good description that we're going to talk about this evening. It says, He that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, again, this is Jesus who Jesus walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. The seven golden candlesticks represent the these churches And the one that walks in the midst of these churches is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as we continue in this study of Baptist history and the Baptist distinctives. We're going to over and over go back to the teaching that underpins all of the following weeks, which is the very first one, the biblical authority. Everything, this is the premise that completely underpins our entire study going back to what the Bible says. We look at the Scripture, understanding what the Scripture is telling us, what it is teaching us, and what the Word of God says for us. So when we look at this, the one who walks in the midst of the seven candlesticks or these seven churches. I ask you a question because there's many different answers that you will get if you get a person walking on the street. So the first question is: who is the head of the church? Jesus. Jesus Christ is the head of the church. See, you'll go down and you'll get many different answers. Some people would say, oh well The pastor is the head of the church. Or this individual or this council is the head of the church. Or in some cases with uh with Catholicism, they'll say the Pope is the head of the church. But what the Bible teaches is what we see, and we'll look through it and see some of the verses that point to Jesus Christ is the head of the church. That's what the Bible says. So these this one that walks in the midst of these seven churches, I want us to understand that many times we look at this passage. And there are a lot of teachings that come from it, that in terms of of dispensations and ages and things like that. But a lot of times What gets overlooked, and I want to emphasize tonight is that these places, Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, Laodicea were actual local churches in Asia Minor. They were local bodies of believers. Now one thing that you need to that's important to do is you need to Define your terms. We need to understand what we mean when we're saying certain things. And that's why it's important for us to have a biblical understanding. So we need to define our terms. Now, before I begin tonight, I want to s uh I want to just give a disclaimer. Th there's gonna be a lot that maybe overlaps with the separation of church and state, and so you hopefully you'll bear with me. So there'll be some repetition, I'm sure, when we get to that point. But understand that that all of this centers around what the scripture is teaching. And as it's important for us to define our terms, first and foremost, what do we mean by the word church or church is? This word appears 114 times in the scripture. And the word many times, most of the time that we see is the word ekklesia. Ekklesia comes from the combination of two words ek, which is out of. Klesis, which is uh the root word is caleo, which is calling. So what we gather from this and what the scripture teaches is that it is a called out group. They are called out of something. In other places, the word is used to assemble, so ecclesia is discussed or mentioned as the assembly. And so now we're what the Bible is pointing to is a called out assembly of people. Now understand that when we look at this, The Bible also points to the local, the the the local church, the local called out assembly. In Titus one verse five it says this for this cause lest I thee increed that thou should set in order the things that are wanting and ordain elders in every city as I had appointed thee It's important that we see sometimes we read over it and kind of gloss over it. There's an ordaining of ministers, of pastors here that was going to happen in every city Here, and this was the letter that was written to Titus. And we don't want to overlook that because it's not that it was one person that was overseeing several. It was like, okay, we're going to set the and I'll use terms that we often see like a a cardinal of a diocese. That's not what's indicated here. It was an elder, which is an interchangeable word for the word pastor. A pastor in these cities, of a pat a pastor of a local assembly. And So we see this word church in the scriptures. There's three ways that the church is mentioned. There's church in Acts 7. 38, we see the church is the is is Israel in the wilderness. In Acts 19, 32, the church is referenced as a political assembly, and all the other times in the Bible, the reference to church is Christ's assembly. Now, there's also three times or three different ways that we see Christ's assembly. The majority, the vast majority of the times that we see Christmas in the scriptures, Christ's assembly, the reference is to the local assembly on earth. The local church on earth. Now there's others. And sometimes this causes confusion, and we'll see exactly why that is. The church also references the heavenly assembly of the saints. A better way to reference this, there's another term that the Bible says to speak of this group, it's the family of God. And then we also see the future eternal assembly of all saints of all the ages, so all Christians throughout all the ages. And again, this is the future eternal assembly. And that many times we see in the scripture is reference to the kingdom of heaven. So there's these terms that we need to make sure that we understand, because otherwise we get very confused as to what a church is. Now many times we say, and it's it's true statement, that the church isn't the building, it is the people. Now that's true. But one teaching that has kind of permeated Christianity and will see its origins is this idea that all Christians are the church, and this idea of the universal church. So, do we believe in a universal church or not? We'll see a little bit about it, and then we'll come to a conclusion here at the end. So then we talk the the next the the main point of course tonight is autonomy and that word comes from auto which is self And the other one, NAMI, I guess, is rule, self-rule. The idea of self-governance. And so that's the what what we believe the scripture teaches as it pertains to the churches. So this universal church, where did it come from? When you start looking, especially when you listen to a lot of people on the outside and and and uh uh things that are are familiar. The universal church it it really begs the question, like, where did this idea and this concept come from? It started very early. The first use of the word we see was actually in Latin. For those of you that are good with history, Latin is the language that was used by the Catholic Church And the term was ecclesis universalis. So that's the translation is the universal church. And this idea began in the first century that was made mention by a man named Ignatius and then there was another man that came on later on in about 300 uh uh uh three hundred AD named Aranius made claim that any church had to that was a true church had to be in agreement with the church at Rome. And so all these things at the time seem to to sound uh good. But understand That Acts 9. 31, let's turn there real quick, and then we'll look at uh what the Bible says there. Acts 9. 31. This is an important verse to look at. Then, Acts 9. 31, then had the churches rest throughout all Judea and Galilee and Samaria So interesting thing that in the man this this last year we talked about talked about the King James Bible and how important words were and manuscripts were and the words uh uh that were given. Uh and how the words were translated. Or no, that was two years ago, wasn't it? Uh uh three years ago? Man, how long ago was that? That was two years ago, I think. So when we talk about the scriptures, it was very important that we understand how the words were translated. Now Ignatius and Iranius, they were looking at manuscripts, and this verse actually said, then had the church rest throughout all Judea and Galilee. And so the idea that came from that, just the fact that they use the singular word church, you can understand that there's this regional church. Of Judea and Galilee and Samaria. But that's not the case. Because the Textus Receptus says and was translated that then had the churches, plural. So there were multiple churches in this in this area. So we see that all these things are the the somewhat of the the the foundation, some of the terms that we need to that we need to go over tonight. And so we start off as we look at the autonomy of the local church. First we'll look at this distinctive, the distinctive and what it is that it teaches Autonomy or the self-rule gives the idea of independence, which is why we call ourselves an independent Baptist Church. And when we think about that, understand it means that it's independent. It's not associated with anything. Independent is And by definition, is one who in religious affairs maintains that every congregation of Christians is a complete church subject to no superior authority and competent to perform every act of government in ecclesiastical or church-related affairs. So, what that means, and when it comes down to our religious practice, it means that we are independent of our dealings because the head of the church is who? It's Jesus. So there is nothing that's if the head of the church is Jesus and there's nothing over the church Because that organization or that group of people or that council would be over Jesus, because Jesus is the head of the church. And so when we and that's why it's important for us to see that it's uh uh uh it we're an independent church, we're independent in our dealings. And a lot of the reason we do that is because, or one way that we practice that is there's a lot of churches that practice different things. And you know what? That's their church. We are in we we you know we shouldn't have a a level of of influence uh over another church's affairs. We shouldn't worry about so much about the the things that are going on and saying, man, I don't know if that church should do that. You know, I don't know if that's a good idea. Now we're talking about like-minded Bible-believing churches. And it's important for us to look at things scripturally and say, are are we doing things in line with what the Bible teaches? And we need to be independent in our dealings. The same way that there's no churches that are exerting influence on us and saying, hey, you know what? Maybe you should do this. Or maybe you should do this. Or maybe you should go about this this way. Or maybe you should start this ministry. Or maybe you should back off of this ministry. There's not an overarching organization or another group of people or other churches that have influence on what's going on here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church There's the idea of self-rule. Turn over to Acts chapter number 13. A couple pages there, and then we see in chapter number thirteen, verses one through four, we we see and we we remember this because this is when Paul and Barnabas were were ordained and sent forth, sent out into the ministry Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Menaeon, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch and Saul, as they ministered to the Lord. And fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away, they being the church. And we see that's going on. And the Church of Antioch wasn't a huge church. It wasn't like the Church of Jerusalem that had thousands and thousands of people. And you don't see this group of believers in Antioch that were saying, Oh, let's find out if this is okay with the Church of Jerusalem No, they were an independent body, and they decided, you know what, we're uh with as they were led of the Holy Spirit, the Bible teaches us, they sent out the missionary. And so that is the pattern. The church is overseeing and exercising the church-related things that go on on its own, independently amongst each other. We also see the idea of congregational rule. We'll talk a little bit about this because there's different types of what is called church polity. ecclesiastical policy is what they say sometimes. And there's one that's called congregational. And a lot of times that's interchangeable with, they call it Baptist policy. But in Acts chapter 15, turn over there if you would, Acts 15, verse 22, it says this: it says, Then pleased it the apostles and elders with the whole church. To send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely Judas, surnamed Barcibas and Silas, chief men among the brethren So here were in agreement the apostles and the elders and the members of the church. The Bible says they're the whole church. that were involved in they s they s chose men of their own company to send with Saul and or with Paul and with Barnabas So again, we see this idea of the congregation that is exercising its scriptural authority to send out people. So independent of the the ideas that an independent church is a self-governing church, congregational rule, independent of uh conventions because we see in 1 Peter 5, 1 through 4, I'll read it for you. The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder And a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed. Verse 2: feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof. So they're supposed to oversee the church, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being In samples to the flock, and when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. The idea here is that the pastor is subordinate to the head of the church, which is Jesus. So the there is the the head of the church, which is Christ, The under shepherd, as the the scripture is teaching here, the one that is given oversight, which is the the the pastor, but the chief shepherd, again, it goes back to to Christ. So we've seen also that it's a local church. It's local and and I say this because it you know ru today with our technology, you can have church uh in in a in a remote way. I don't remember if it was my parents or my in-laws. I I can't remember which one, but one of them asked me if, hey, could we become members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church and just tune in online and and And I said, well, uh, you know, that I mean that sounds nice and I appreciate that, but I I don't believe that you can scripturally. Because it's supposed to be a local church. Now sometimes people will say, you know, oh yeah, I'm going to watch church at home, and they're not talking about, you know, they're not talking about the streaming. They're talking about turning it on to, you know, T V and saying I'm gonna listen to some some pastor somewhere else. That's not a local church. And so the church is supposed to be a local entity, a local assembly. There's several things involved in that. There's accountability, there's uh uh fellowship in those things but understand that it's a local church so there's again Christ is the head there's not a vicar Which is what is the Pope is called many times the vicar of Christ. There's not a head of the church, as Pastor mentioned last week. There's not a Baptist church. There are Baptist churches, but there's not a overarching large Baptist church, national or international Baptist church. This is the biblical pattern. God looks at each church as an individual unit. The churches that we see in Acts and in the New Testament, again, as I mentioned, were independent of each other They had no state sanctions or hierarchy of churches. The reason that things were broken up into a diocese, into a region And then into several other groups. The reason for that is because there was centralized control between the state and the church. And so when you see that, especially when we're talking about the Roman Empire, in uh 300 in the uh in during the Emperor Constantine He ruled that the Roman Catholic Church was going to be the church, the true church. That's what they ruled. And with that, he said that the Uh and that was combined with the church and the state. And there's a reason why those two had to be separate. But all this aspect of region of regional breaking things up regionally into smaller groups and into hierarchies. That was for the purpose of centralizing the the control. And that becomes a problem. So when we see that The independence of a church allows God to work in and through the local body of believers. It allows us to exercise our faith in God to accomplish what it is that He wants to accomplish through us. Not through some again random uh remote organization, it's through us, through our church We're responsible for what we have been given and we're responsible for the accountability of the how the church operates and what goes on. And what that's why as we as we look at this and especially you know the best example I can think of this is, you know, recently we've been talking about missions and what it is that we're going to do about missionaries and sh supporting missionaries. And, you know, Pastor's goal, many times, he's he said several times, you know, what do you guys think? Or do you guys have any input in this This matter or and part of that is because there is this congregational there's a congregational aspect of us working together as a church, as a body of believers. Now ultimately the Holy Spirit is going to lead him to make the decision that that to finalize the decision. But understand that we are all to be led of the Spirit, and there may be something that he's thinking of And God may use a member of the church to say, hey, you know, what about this? And that's just the way the Spirit leads in the situation. Because this is a church working together. We're working for the common good for what it is that we're trying to accomplish. As an independent church, we have the biblical authority given to us to ordain men, to send missionaries. to use the the the offerings of the church for for what it is that that the the pursuits and the goals of the church To organize and to plan and to start and to stop ministries as we are led to. And there's another aspect of being an independent church that's necessary, and the Bible teaches about it, is about disciplining members And there are times where that is necessary, and that is something that the Bible points out as very important to the purity of the local church. So we see the distinctive understanding that the scripture is teaching us that we are to be an autonomous, independent church So we'll see the development. Now we have a lot of history to go through, so I'm gonna have to condense this. Alright. I read a lot of history and a lot of good stuff about what went on, how things were pursued, but again, in in the Council of Nicaea in in the year 325 Con the the this idea of the universal church had already been perpetuating again since the first century, but in 325 is the first time the Emperor Constantine affirmed the idea of the Catholic World Church. And the a lot of corruption came through this world church. There was this idea of a Catholic thinker during that time, his name was Cyprian, and he said this. He he Stated uh uh this this idea that it's in Latin and it says this extranulla salus ecclesiam, which means outside the church there is no salvation. And when we think about that concept initially, why was that it doesn't sound inherently wrong. However, the church doesn't save anyone. Jesus does. Salvation is through Jesus Christ, not through the church. And so here we see that that began to How did this become such a problem? Well, people were not as literate as they are. They didn't have access to the Scriptures. They didn't have access to the Bible the we the way we have it. And so they were left to listen to the people that were teaching them, and these were the the priests and the people that were in charge of the church And they were perpetuating this lie and it continued over and over again. And so that is why these these heresies came out, this idea of the universal world church. And the Universal World Church has continued through the even through the Protestant Reformation. It's an idea that many Protestants continued to keep and hold to So many times when you talk about the universal church, many people see that as the all people throughout all the ages that are that are all that are active excuse me, all people living today that are Christians. But the Bible doesn't point to that. There's no there's nothing uh uh we we don't see this this idea of a universal church. And it became a problem because there were some people that were called the Donatists. The Don Donatists went to this great church father named Augustine. About the universal church. And Augustine noticed that there was a problem. And so he adjusted his thinking and they adjusted Catholic teaching for the purpose: okay, it's not a universal, visible church. But now there's a universal visible church and a universal invisible church. And so there's a lot of things that went along with this teaching. But understand, that's why it goes back to as we look at the scriptures, we see a church as a local, visible body of believers. that we can point to and say, this group of people is the church of Thyatira. This group of people is the church of Smyrna. This group of people is the church of Hunt Valley. And we see that over and over, and there's not this other extensive universal idea. And so we need to make sure that that's not something that came from the Bible. It's something that came as things were developing and as wrong teaching and heresy was being introduced into to go along with Scripture. And a lot of these they were saying, okay, the invisible church is the true church. And again, all these heresies that continue to perpetuate from that. Now, the independence of the local Baptist church was something that was important even to the founders of this country. In the in the 1600s, there was a man who was a Puritan and he was one of the founders of the colonies of Connecticut. His name was Thomas Hooker, and he said that the truth is a particular congregation is the highest tribunal. And he was saying that the whole power of governing and disciplining their members is in each particular church. And it was something that they were getting groups of people together in different churches, and they were very concerned even early on in the 1600s about becoming a a something where there was a hierarchy or something where the group had influence on the independent church and it was something that people over and over again said, no, we will not join if that's what's involved in this And they were careful about that. And it's something that we need to be careful of. But now what happens? Today we see a lot of different things it perpetuates differently. See, there's a lot of people out there that will come out and they'll say, you know what, in the spirit of Christian unity, we as believers, we need to get together. And we need to cooperate and we need to work together for the common good. Now again, all that sounds pretty it so it doesn't sound necessarily bad, but you have to be discerning in how far that is going to go. There's this idea of the World Council of Churches. Initially it started off as of an idea of, hey, we're just going to have a bunch of churches. get together that we're going to be part of this council and we're going to uh uh in the spirit of unity work together for whatever common cause Now, in order to be part of the World Council of Churches, there's certain things that you have to be okay with. And this is where things begin to break down. This is where it's a problem. Because if a person, you begin to water down doctrine and the teachings of the scriptures. Things that initially we we we need to be careful of and stay away from. So like what? The World Count some would say there's some churches, I won't say that this is what the World Council of Churches subscribes to, but there are some churches out there That believe that, I saw it written on a poster one time outside of a church. It said, the Lord is still speaking. Now what that is teaching is that the scripture is still open. There is still revelation that we are receiving today. And that's not true. We have the the revelation is closed. The scripture is closed. We've received what it is that God wants us to receive, and it's in this book, and there's nothing that we can add to it. And so there's people that will say, I received this message from God. That's not scriptural And they believe that the scripture is still open, that the Bible is still open. So there's some that would disregard the biblical qualifications and say that they're not that important. Such as the qualifications of a pastor needing to be married to one woman And there are some that would say, oh, you know what? Well i I really like this pastor, so he's a really good guy. Uh and he's but he's divorced, but you know what, his wife left him. It doesn't it doesn't really count That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible's very plain that he needs to be the husband of one wife. That also implies that he needs to be a man. And there are some churches that would say this. This qualification is something that we need to put aside. So, would we there are churches in the world, council of churches, that believe these things. And so with joining up for them in the spirit of unity, we are compromising what we believe the Bible teaches us. We should not do that. Even just in the level of cooperation, let's just say, you know what, they just want us to send them, you know, a hundred dollars a month. And in the grand scheme of things, it doesn't seem like a big deal, but our the what what the what the finances that God has enabled us to give are being used, w we have no accountability into what those things are being used for. And it could be used to perpetuate heresy and wrong teaching. And who's responsible for that? We are as a church. So we as a church need to make sure that we say, you know what, we're going to be an independent church. So with that. There's a statement that I'll share with you. The autonomy of the local church, that means that the local church is an independent body accountable to the Lord Jesus Christ, the head of the church. All human authority for governing the local church resides within the church itself. Thus, the church is autonomous. No religious hierarchy outside the local church may dictate a church's beliefs or practice. Autonomy does not mean isolation. A church made fellowship with other churches around mutual interests, but a Baptist church cannot be a member of another body And that's what we're what we see. So what are the differences? And I'll just kind of walk through some of these. We see different types of polity. that we see throughout the throughout uh uh different denominations. The there's episcopal policy, which we see Catholic Orthodox and Anglicans break down this way. And this is the idea of uh uh uh regions, different areas, and then a hierarchy within that region, and that's that would be episcopal po policy There's other that is uh called hierarchical policy, which we see in the Jehovah's Witness and the Mormons, and uh many times what they'll do is they'll say, all right, there's this uh council. And uh in the Mormonism, there's really tricky names. They have the the Council of the Seventy, and then they have the Council of the Twelve. And all these things sound pretty biblical when you're looking at them, but again, these are hierarchies and organizations and councils that are outside of Scripture. You have a Presbyterian policy where you have a higher council as a, it's called a presbytery, and you uh And you also may you see this many times in uh in the churches of Christ and things like that. Many charismatic churches operate this way. Then you have congregational policy. As I mentioned, sometimes it's called Baptist polity. But the congregation exercises the authority. So very important for us, and I say that because it shows us the importance of the local church. With the associations that we have comes influence, whether we want to believe it or not. Even a small level of association comes a certain level of influence. Even when we look at something, the example that many times we see is the Southern Baptist Convention The Southern Baptist Convention as a whole, it started off, we'll just say, with good intentions. Part of it was The churches didn't have the means or the the centralization to send out missionaries, so what they would do is they would give money to the convention and the convention would pick missionaries and then send the money directly to the missionaries. Now all that was to help the local churches. And it sounded good at the time, but then as a church, you need to understand that As a church, we believe that the missionaries that we send out are, that we support, are in line with our beliefs And are going to continue and uh reproduce churches that are similar to ours. Not in everything. Alright? They're not going to be exact clones, but they're going to work at being a Bible-believing, Bible-preaching, missions-minded gospel-preaching church. sharing the gospel with people, conservatives standing on the King James Bible and things like that. Those are things that we want to see churches reproduce itself. And so what happened with the Southern Baptist Convention is that there were people that said, you know what, we're going to go and we're going to uh send out missionaries, and then they find out this missionary is doing something and they're like, well, as a church, we don't necessarily agree with that. So, but what do we do? And there were people that said, well, what should we do? And it's do you ruffle feathers and rock the boat? And say, hey, this tr this missionary isn't doing what he's supposed to be doing, most of the time, that's not what people do. People just say, oh, well, I'll just leave it be. And so that's many times over and over things like that happened. And we see that happening in so many denominations where W the the teachings and the heresy i is being approved at very high levels. How many I don't know how many of you guys remember? I remember hearing it on the radio like three years ago. What happens when your organization or your hierarchy says, all right, we're going to allow ladies to be uh ordained ministers. There's some people that would be like, oh that's it, no more. But most people would be like, I'm not gonna rock the boat. What happens when in 2015 the Presbyterian Church USA says that we're going to allow same-sex marriage in our congregations? And so as a church or as a church member do we say, oh you know what, I'm going to uh I'm not gonna rock the boat. I'm just gonna, you know, I I don't agree with that, I don't think that that's right, but I'm not gonna rock the boat. And many times those types of things happen. And what else have they done now? Then they ordain openly LGBT people. And so we have these problems where these overarching organizations make decisions. And again, there might be churches out there that say, no, we don't agree with that. Personally, that's not what we're going to practice. But again, they're overarching organizations. is saying this is what we're going to accept. And slowly, little by little, things just, you end up just blurring the lines. And that's how compromise happens. And so when we see that, we need to make sure that we focus on back on to the on the basics. And the basics are we are to be a local assembly Working together for what we believe God desires for us to do through what the scripture says, through what the Bible teaches. And I think the lights are telling me that I need to finish. So we are a local church, Bible believing church, and how important it is for for you know the Bible tells us, and I'll leave you with this thought. We are an independent church. We are a church that's working together. But understand that the church is important. And the Bible says that the Bible that the church is so important that Christ died for the church. And so that should be our how our passion, our desire, if it was something that Christ was willing to die for Then we should make sure that we have a passion and the desire to serve and to operate and to be a part of the local New Testament Bible-believing church. With that, let's close in prayer. And I don't think we'll have a uh uh invitation, but let's go ahead and dismiss in a word of prayer. Father, we love you. We thank you for the day, Lord. Thank you for the time that you give us, thank you for the Lord, your word and that you left it to us and how important it is for us to Lord to be a part of this institution that you gave us, Lord, the local New Testament church. Father, I do thank you for each and every member of this church, every person who calls this their church home. Father, you you've brought them here for a reason, uh, Lord, for a purpose that you have in their life, and I just pray, Lord, that you would help us to. Lord, just to all find that purpose as we get closer and closer to you. Father, there's many that that uh Lord we also need to uphold. And to be an encouragement to in our congregation. And Father, I just pray that you would help us to find those that are in need. And Lord, to be an encouragement and a strength to them. And uh Lord, that we would just be a church that is pleasing to you, Lord, that we would do what it is that your word says and operate how you would have us to operate and to live Father, we love you and we thank you for it and we ask that you would give us safety on our way home today in Jesus' name. Amen.