Well, journal your Bibles this morning to James chapter four. James chapter four, a practical book, a book that I enjoy uh reading, uh that I enjoy teaching from. Uh because I'm kind of a practical type person. I really uh like getting into uh like how does this apply to me. Not real deep Not real theological, but I do tend to be kind of practical. This morning I want to speak to you on the topic of admirable ambition. Admirable ambition. If I I've seen on different interview forms, uh, you know, they have character traits listed And maybe it would be listed a character trait and it'll say one to five or one to ten and and they might have, you know, punctuality. And you're supposed to rate this possible candidate on how you feel their punctuality would be and And uh one of those character traits that I've seen is ambition. Uh how do you feel this individual's ambition is? Is this an ambitious young man or young woman, or would you say that they're lacking ambition? That would not be a positive thing to be described as one that lacks ambition. Well, today we want to talk about admirable ambition, and I'm uh really wanting to get into the idea of here we are embarking upon a new year. Here we are uh the first Sunday of twenty twenty-two. Believe it or not, it's here. And with this year, what is your ambition? What do you want to accomplish? What goals have you set? What desire do you have in your heart? Is it is it Would you be described, especially on a spiritual aspect, as somebody that lacks ambition? You don't have any goals, you don't have any direction, you don't have any stirring in your heart to do or to accomplish a particular thing for God? Would you in your personal life be described as somebody that lacks ambition? You've got no goals set, you've got no desire to see or to accomplish Something new this year. Just whatever happens will happen. I'm going to get up tomorrow and see what it'll be. You know, one of the biggest problems people have is they let life happen to them instead of living life If you live life on purpose, you're going somewhere. You have direction. You have purpose. You have something to accomplish. And I hope this morning that you have ambition. Marcus Aurelius said, a man's worth is no greater than than the worth of his ambition. You're not worth any more than your level of ambition. I don't know if you've ever had the privilege or the burden of working with somebody that lacked ambition. You've got somebody at work and and you you're like, how can you just sit there? How can you not be like looking at what needs to be done and saying Let's accomplish this. Let's let's get this done. Let's let's get it done so we can call today. Amen. We're not just gonna sit around all day. But some people just they just lack ambition I mean you can point it out to them, you can kick them in the seat of the pants, you can do and they're just content to let be what be. But listen, in our in our spiritual life we cannot be somebody that lacks ambition If we took a survey from the crowd and asked you today to describe your idea of ambition If we say, would you articulate the meaning of ambition? Could you somehow explain to us what that might be? There certainly would be lots of different words given, synonyms of ambition, descriptive terms laid out. But all of them would center around the idea of internal drive, of desiring to be or to accomplish more than you currently are. Someone might say use the word desire to describe it. Some might use the word purpose to describe it, or the word longing to describe it. I think of ambition as that heartfelt desire that is so strong it moves you to action. It moves you to action, to accomplish something, to do something. It's more than just a dream. It's a desire that sets in motion action to accomplish the dream, to see the dream come to fruition. I think it would be great to win a marathon. But Yeah, that's what I'm saying. But listen, I do not have enough ambition to go out running miles and miles and miles every day That is something that where area where I lack some ambition. That's not an area that I've stirred internally motivated enough to try and accomplish I know as a young man in in high school we had a uh guy that lived with our family for a while. He was kicked out of his home and we took care of him, but at at 14 years of age he could bent for us 350 pounds He had a goal to be a a heavyweight lifter. I mean he wanted to be a bodybuilder. He he was he was he was stout, man. Now God changed that ambition in his life, but as a young man, man, he dedicated a lot of time to the gym. Because that was his ambition. What's your ambition this morning? My goal today is, I hope, to stir you, to cultivate you, to in your life cultivate some admirable ambition. As you ponder and think about what God might allow you to accomplish over the next 12 months, what changes might come about in your life, what growth you might experience. What ambition do you have? We're going to look at several different types of ambitions. Turn to your Bibles to James chapter 4. If you're not there yet, turn there. James chapter 4 and verses 1 through 5. First of all, I want you to see abusive. Ambition. Abuse of ambition. We see in James chapter 5, verses 4, verses 1 through 5. He says, From whence cometh wars and fightings among you? Come they not hiss even of your lust that war in your members. He says, You got some ambition in your heart You've got some lusts, some desires in your heart that are bringing about war. They're bringing about conflict. They're bringing about turmoil. He goes on and says, You lust and ye have not. You kill and desire to have and you cannot obtain. Do you see ambition there? Do you see desire there? He says, ye fight and ye war. Ye have not because ye ask not. Ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss, that they may consume it upon your lust. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God Do you think that the Scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? I want you to understand this morning there is an aspect of ambition that we can have that I would look at as a worldly ambition. sensual ambition, personal desire that is abusive. It's wicked. It brings about wars and fightings. And that is the type of worldly ambition that permeates our society today, this idea of self-promotion at any cost. I want you to know that that's a wicked ambition. Self-promotion at any cost. It's all about me and attaining whatever goal I have. I'm willing to step on whoever I want, crush whoever I want. disobey or disregard whatever rules I want in order to get what I want. This worldly ambition to achieve and to attain its its wicked friend, and we should not have any part of it Jane describes this as a source of war, as conflict with others. Many times it is that personal ambition that causes conflict with others. One child wants to be liked. And so he Will make fun of another child so that the people in this group will think more highly of him. He will attack or make this child look stupid. So that he looks cool, so that he can gain what is his ambition to be recognized by the group. Not at all worried about the other person, about their feelings, about what they're dealing with, about the rejection that they're enduring. They certainly, young people, would not listen to me, you wouldn't want to feel that pain You wouldn't want that rejection. You wouldn't want somebody that was quick with their tongue to be able to make you look like that. But because you are quick with your tongue, you'll gladly make somebody else look like that. And laugh and and have a good time about it. Why? It's it's a worldly ambition inside of you that stirs that up. It makes you want to be liked by everybody and you're going to do it at the expense of somebody else. Sibling rivalry? Rivalry between siblings? You know what I taught my kids when they were growing up not to be tattletales You know the problem is the reason a lot of kids tell on other kids is not because they're at all concerned about the child. It's because they want their sibling to get beat. They want their sibling to get in trouble They they they they don't care at all about the sibling and the siblings well-being. What they want is to gain favor with mom or dad. And so they'll come running in, Mom, mom, this this. I taught my kids you only tell on another child when somebody's being hurt or property's being destroyed. And really, that was kind of a simplistic way, but really what it is is what's the motivation for why you're telling? You see, is you're telling because you understand that when the child does that, that that it's going to hurt them. And in the long run, that's not what's best for them. So you want to try and help them, and so you inform the authority that might be there. But the other ambition is you want recognition. You want to be promoted. And so you'll go and tell Listen, it's conflict in your home. Sometimes it might be ambition, personal ambition, that's causing conflict in your marriage. You desire and you're willing to sacrifice time or your relationship with your mate to achieve that ambition, whatever it might be. Your hobby. You want to be successful at it, you want to be good at it. So you take time that you could be spending with your mate and invested in that instead of into her. Want to be recognized or successful at work and So you take all the extra time you can or you do things you don't need to, taking time away from your family, because your personal ambition is to be a manager at work or to be a district manager to achieve a level of recognition at work. So you do everything you can to achieve that level because of a personal worldly ambition to do this. But you're letting everything suffer This world's ambition is described as naked ambition or blind ambition. That's not very admirable It's an ambition that knows no boundaries, that will stop at nothing to get what he wants. James describes this as an ambition, an ambition that causes conflict. It's abusive. It hurts us, it hurts the people we love. It hurts the people around us. Not only that, it causes conflict with God. It causes conflict with God. You see that in here? To be friends with the world is to be at enmity with God. Sometimes maybe your personal ambition is allowing you to go after or pursue something that's causing conflicts between you and God. This kind of ambition is never satisfied. You never have enough. You see it often in the world. It i it's amazing it's it's somebody that reaches the level of management in in a company, but just to be the manager is not enough now. Now they want to be a district manager And and and district manager is not enough. Now they want to be a regional manager. There's always something else that can be attained. And when we let worldly ambition be the driving force. Some may go after fortune. They want a certain level of financial freedom. But you know, when that's the driving force, it's amazing how you never really get there. You you want to reach this level and and earn this much money. But the problem is now you've bought a $900,000 house And you own two or three cars. And you and you're you're making so much money, you got money coming out your ears, but because you're you're you're not in control of how you're spending it, you're not in control of your contentment, you're going after the thing of this world, you still are living paycheck to paycheck. You guess somebody making $40,000 a year that is living just as good as you are Because you're not managing your finances, you're going you're letting the ambition be the driving force. Other people look at it and say, Man, if I made four hundred thousand a year, boy, I would be rolling in the dough, I would be rich Oh my goodness, four hundred thousand a year. You got people making four hundred, five hundred thousand a year that are living paycheck to paycheck. It's never enough. That's worldly ambition. You can't ever achieve it. The Bible says that the eyes of man are never satisfied Worldly ambition is not going to be satisfied. It doesn't matter how high you get or how far you go, there's always going to be one more step or one more dollar, one more position, one more area of record. I mean, how many likes do you need? How many followers do you need? One more, one more. If I had just two more followers, if I could hit a hundred thousand followers, boy, I would be happy. No, you won't. Now you want 200,000 or 500,000. You'll be looking over at somebody else that has a million. You think, wow, to get that million follower badge, I've got to do it. And that's your ambition You do everything you can to achieve that. You sacrifice everything else that's good and right in your life. Like the athlete who dopes up in order to achieve his goal. Knowing in his heart that it's chi, knowing that it's destroying his body He knows that this dope could cause him to have a heart attack. It could cause him to have a stroke. It's going to hurt him in the long run. But his ambition, which is abusive, is hurting him. Where he's just willing to sacrifice everything good and right in his life to achieve this one ambition. This is a worldly ambition that we see On every hand. The ambition of the world will not be satisfied. It only leads to conflict. Conflict in your soul. You see people driven by this kind of ambition. Do you see peace in their heart? Do you see peace in their home? Do you see peace in their life? No. It's constant conflict. Constant turmoil behind them. I mean you look at the lives of any any person that's made it as far as fame. You look at their life. Look at the conflict in their life. Look at the turmoil in their homes. The broken up families and the mess that they deal with. And it's just the stuff that you know about. I I would rather nobody know my name and have kids that love me and a wife that wants to hold my hand. For sure, any day, than to have to deal with and live with that conflict that they have. That type of ambition creates conflict with those around you, but it creates conflict also with you. with God and we've got to be careful with it. So uh the obvious question is well then maybe we should abolish transmit uh ambition altogether. Maybe we shouldn't have any ambition Maybe if ambition is abusive, then maybe we should get rid of it. Maybe it should be absent from our lives. I don't want you to understand that that's not biblical either. It's not biblical. I think of uh Caleb who said, I want that mountain. And really that was a a starting point for the study of this message was the idea that Caleb had ambition. He had a goal. He wanted to get to the mountain. He wanted to attain something. He wanted to achieve something. The promises that God had given him. and said that's what I want. I I see the promised land. I see what God has said I can have and I want to go after it. I want to achieve it. I want to accomplish it. But beloved, we've got a book full of promises. We've got a God that loves us. And he's held out per promise after promise after promise to you. But do you have an ambition to go after it? See, that's what I want. Yes, Lord, that's what I want, and I'm willing to go after it No, we're not to have absent ambition. One of the things that's killing our churches today is complacency. It's casual, comfortable approach to our faith. This idea of, well, uh, listen, this is just church, it'll be okay. It's just uh I'll just come in and sit and enjoy it for a few minutes. Where's our spiritual ambition? Where's our desire and our goal and our drive to be and accomplish something great for God? It's not just going to happen in passing. It's not just going to happen because one day we're walking down the street and God's going to hit us and all of a sudden we have God's power. You have to desire and say, I want God's power to accomplish and do something great. And therefore I'm going to go after it. Where is the ambition today? If we apply the level of purpose and drive of the average Christian to our normal everyday life, I think without a doubt, people would say that we lack ambition. And that's just the politically correct way of saying you're lazy. Right? We say somebody lacks ambition, what you're saying is they're lazy bum. Spiritually, Christian, we've gotten lazy. We've gotten lazy. We have no drive. We have no ambition. God wants us to desire some things. And we could go a lot of places in the scripture, but we're just going to show you a couple of them. First of all, God wants us to desire His Word. In 1 Peter 2, verse number 2, he says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that they may grow thereby. We're to desire the Word of God. We're to have an ambition in our life to know this book. I wonder, do you have an ambition to know the book? Do you have an ambition to know the book? If you have an ambition, it's going to be driving you, it's going to be pushing you, it's going to be motivating you to get in the book, to study the book, to understand the book You've got to say, okay, here's what I'm going to do to get into the Word of God so that I can know it. Here's my plan of action. We're desire his word. We're also to desire his work. In 1 Timothy 3 verse number 1 says, this is a true saying, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. Desiring the work of God. To do something for God. Do you desire to do something for God? To do some work for Him? Oh listen, if if you come and ask me, I'll think about it. But where's your desire? Where's your desire to say, here, I want to do this? What can I do? How can I help? Desiring the work we're also to desire his world. Hebrews 11, 6 says, but now they desire a better country. Do you desire a better country today? Are you looking for that heavenly country? Amen. I'm ready to be done with this coronavirus. I'm ready to be done with this all this foolishness in the world. I desire a better country. I can't wait. This world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. Amen. Praise God for his goodness and his glory. I want you this morning to desire a better country. Do you long for it? Do you have an ambition to be there? To get there? I hope you do. Listen, God doesn't want dead, unmoving Christians. God wants Christians that have ambition. That have a desire to do and accomplish something for his honor and glory. Amen? That's what God wants. He's not looking any more than any businessman would be looking for a deadbeat worker. God's looking for Christians that have ambition, that want to accomplish something for Him, that are like Caleb that say, I want that mountain. They're like Jacob that say, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. God, I want something from you that's real and powerful. And I desire it, Lord, and I'm willing to work for it, Lord. He wants Christians that are full of passion for him. So the answer, beloved, is not to do away with all ambition. Listen, this world's ambition and runaway ambition is is is uh i is wicked and we don't want to have that but there is admirable ambition. There is ambition that we should have and that is ambition that's under control. You see, this world's ambition is a loss of control. It's letting yourself go to do and achieve whatever it is that you want The exact opposite of that is godly ambition, and that is self-control, temperance. Getting your goals and ambitions from God and letting Him speak to you, lead you. I think about it like this, a car that has a lot of power, if out of control, is dangerous. But when harnessed and used effectively, it's a powerful tool That's what ambition can be. When out of control, ambition is dangerous It can take you away from God. It can send you down terrible paths. It can cause great conflict in your life. But when in control, ambition can be a powerful tool for good. When you have admirable ambition. Lastly, this morning we want to look at that admirable ambition. Beloved, the defining aspect of admirable ambition is that it's not for self But it's for God. In Jeremiah 45, verse number five, he says, And seekest thou great things for thyself. Seek them not. For behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, saith the Lord. But thy life will I give unto thee For a prey in all places whither thou goest. He says, seekest thou great things for thyself, seek them not. You see, the Lord never taught against desire or ambition. He taught against desire and ambition for self-promotion. The fact is, is God wants us to deploy our ambition to its fullest extent. To accomplish as much as we can for him. Admirable ambition centers on the glory of God and the good of others That's the difference. Abuse of ambition centers on the glory of self and the good of self Admirable Blanche's ambition secrets focuses centers on the glory of God and the good of others. If you're going to have admirable ambition, it's going to take personal sacrifice. Beloved, you've got to resolve to stay away from sin. Daniel made up his mind. The Bible says he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the king's meat. He decided ahead of time, listen, this is wrong. I'm not going to do it. He had purposed in his heart. He had set a boundary, he had set a line, and said, this is something I'm not going to cross. I'm not going to go there. Maybe you need to set some lines in your life this year. Set some say, I am not going to do this. I'm not going to go there. Set a boundary line. Say, I am going to be in God's house, or I am going to have a personal devotion time with God every day. Set those lines in your life. Daniel was willing, like the three Hebrew children were, they were willing to suffer the consequences of their stand. By the way, let me throw this throw this out here because it's fitting with the idea of Daniel and what I looked into. But I I believe that the vaccination should be a choice. I believe that it's your choice. You should get it if you want to get it. I believe it's infringement upon our personal rights for the government to force you to do it. However, I want you to understand as I look in the Word of God. What I see is Daniel requested of the government Listen, I don't want to put this in my body. Daniel asked respectfully. He used whatever means were necessary available to him to ask to not put this in his body. I believe, like the three Hebrew children, Daniel was willing to suffer whatever consequences would have come if he would have said, listen, I can't do that. Like the three Huba children said they wouldn't bow. But they went ahead and went into the furnace. The reason I'm saying this is in And this is something that I've battled with in my heart and mind here because there is questions that have come to me, well, what about getting a vaccine card on the black market? What about, you know, making up something and and essentially lying about the fact that you got vaccinated? Let me ask you something. We tell our children Two wrongs never make a right. Don't we do that? Don't we tell our children that it's never right to lie? I even in my own mind battle with this because you know people ask me, are you vaccinated? And I say, Well yeah. I've been vaccinated, you know, for the measles and a few other things. You know. A lot of years ago I got vaccinated, you know. Yeah, I know what they're asking. They're asking if I've been vaccinated, right? So I didn't lie, but I didn't tell the truth either, right? So in my mind I battle with this and say, Lord, what what is right? What should I do? I believe if you have a biblical conviction and you say, Listen, I I don't think God wants me to put this in my body, that's okay You can request of your government, or you can petition the government, or you can, through the vote, change who's in office as they change the rule But you can't have it both ways. You can't say, well, I'm not going to do what the government wants and I'm going to lie about it, so nobody knows. You have to just be willing to take the punishment. Say this is what I believe God wants me to do. You see, this is where your your faith comes into practice. You know, you just say this is what I believe is right, and I'm gonna suffer whatever consequences there are. Now in a few chapters later in the book of Daniel, you remember a command went forth that Daniel was not to pray. Now you notice in that situation, Daniel did not even have a request to the government. Daniel didn't go to the king and say, Hey, can I pray? Because that is an area that is out of the king's purview, that is beyond the king's control, that is between him and God And the king had no authority to change that. So Daniel had to s to he he here he submitted and he said, okay. The king says I have to eat this meat. King, would it be okay if I don't? Here's why. He requested when the king had authority in that cr in that situation. But then when it was beyond the king's authority, he did not qu did not even ask. He just did what God told him to do because you obey God rather than man. But in this situation, I had somebody ask me. Pastor, I'm not going to be able to go on public transportation. I'm not going to be able to get the aid that I need. Is it okay if I lie? Is it okay if I get a black market vaccination card so that I can use public transportation so that I can get the aid that I need? I'm talking about rubber meets the road question here. And I told him I said I need to pray about it before I give you an answer. And I spent some time praying. I spent some time looking at these passages of scripture. And I came to that conclusion. If you believe God wants you to do something, you do what God wants, but you might have to suffer the consequences But you don't get to just lie about it and hide it. You have to be real to God. Daniel was willing. In order to obey God, to suffer the consequences. He had an admirable ambition. Anyone who ever achieved something for God did so at the expense of something else. You see, you might have to sacrifice your own goals to do God's goals In Matthew 16, 24 and 25. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. And follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, for whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. You see, you might have to give up something. Maybe some of your own ambition. Maybe some of your own goals So that you can do what God wants you to do, to fulfill that ambition that God has put in your heart. It might be some weights, it might be some distractions. The Bible says to lay aside every weight. And every sin that does so easily beset us, some things maybe aren't sin. They aren't wrong to do, but they might be a weight. They're a distraction. They're keeping you from achieving that ambition. The Bible says no man that wareth entangleth himself with the things of this world. Admirable ambition, beloved, is going to take a single-mindedness. One cannot expect to be a world-class runner and at the same time a bodybuilder. You can't both physical ambitions, but you can't focus on both. To be a bodybuilder, you've got to beef up. You gotta put on some mass so that you can build muscle. But to be a runner, you've got to do the opposite. You've got to lose the mass, and you would have conflicting ambitions here. Sometimes, Christians, the problem is that we've got conflicting ambition. Here's what God wants and here's what we want, and we're trying to do them both. And they're they're conflicting ambitions We need to let go of those ambitions that are ours and submit and yield to do the ambition that God has. Christ said no man can serve two masters. You know, it's amazing that even a God-fearing, Bible-believing Christian, his ambition can get hijacked. You remember over there in the Book of Mark? Those two stalwarts of faith. James, John, or walking with Jesus himself. You know, they're walking with him and they said, Master, um, would you do something for us? And he said, What would you have me do for you? Here is that and I'm paraphrasing obviously, but they said, uh, when we get into heaven, can I sit on your left hand and he sit on your right hand? Here, these servants of God, these disciples of Christ, all of a sudden in the middle of their service, they said, boy, wouldn't it be nice to sit on the right hand of God? You see their ambition got hijacked. Lost some focus. Even in the midst of our service, it can become about us instead of about what it's supposed to be. Don't let your ambition get hijacked. Keep it in the right place. That passage goes on, and Jesus explains to them that, listen, he that would be the master is the servant. He that wants to be the head is going to minister to others You gotta be willing to sacrifice to fulfill the ambitions that God has given you. Do you have an ambition this morning? What is your ambition for this coming year? What do you want to accomplish from God? You have some admirable ambitions? Some things that God desires of you. Do you want to know Him and the power of His resurrection? Do you want to be a greater soul winner, a greater witness for God in 2022 than you were in 2021? And you might need to give us some things. You might need to focus on that single-mindedly to achieve that for God. What is the ambition that God has put in your heart? If you if you're here this morning you say, well I just I haven't had any ambition in a long time. Maybe you'd ask God to give you some ambition. Maybe you've been consumed with your personal ambition. You need to ask God this morning to let you give that ambition up to stop pursuing self and self-promotion, your own benefit and gain, and start to look for God's glory and the good of others in this life. Life. Maybe that's what you need. Whatever it is, I pray that you'd submit to God