What do you turn in your Bibles this evening? It's a good thing, huh? A familiar passage of scripture, turn your Bibles to Philippians chapter number four. I'm going to speak tonight on the affliction of anxiety. I thought about announcing this morning, but people know that that was the topic and maybe encourage some to come, but This is not going to be a pat you on the back, affirm your feelings, hold your hand and help you through it, kind of message We're going to deal with it biblically, and my goal and desire tonight is not to uh hurt anybody, but I want to try and help you uh by looking at the Word of God and see what God's Word says uh not what is popular in culture or society today, not what is accepted or encouraged today, but what does the Word of God say regarding this affliction? that seems to be more and more prevalent in our society today. It's a growing problem. There were two ladies talking about their current state of anxiety and how it had been getting so bad and one said to the other, I I tell you my the my list of things to worry about is so long that the stuff that's I I need to worry about today, I'm not even going to be able to get to for two weeks. She got so much to worry about. She's scheduling it scheduling it out. It's it's Going to get to it in a little bit. And we are full of anxiety, but most of the time our anxiety really is about nothing. There was a patient in a mental hospital one day, and he was standing over and had his head against the wall, and he was listening. And he had been there all day. And finally one of the uh nurses came in and they began to speak and began to say, you know, what what are you doing? And he goes, shh, shh. He said, Come here. Called her over and said listen, listen So she obliged and she put her head against the thing and she's listening for a while and she goes, I don't hear nothing. She's like, I know, it's been that way all day. That's the s reality of a lot of our anxiety. It is nothing, and it's been that way all day. Anxiety, it's a physical manifestation of concerns, of stress, of fear, of tension, of worry. It's kind of taking these things all together and and making it one step worse. It it brings it on and uh it's a it's almost an accepted term because it's kind of a medical term. So we want to say, oh well, uh, you know, it's it's okay if you deal with anxiety, it's it's it's alright, because that's something that everybody deals with or many people today deal with. But you know, to put it bluntly, from the Word of God, anxiety is sin. If you are given to anxiety, I want you to know that it's sin. Look with me in the Word of God in our text. These are familiar verses, Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 through 9. He says, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which patheth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely. Whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me do And the God of peace shall be with you. We see, beloved, here that God has given us a very direct command to be careful. For nothing. That word careful does not mean careless. It doesn't mean just don't think and just just go through life. No, it means to don't be overly anxious. to don't be so consumed with worry, to don't let life situations uh run over you What are you supposed to do? By prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God. That's what you're supposed to do. We need to stop excusing it tonight. I want to try and help you. I want to look at it biblically, and we need to understand that if we acknowledge the fact that it's sin, then we can deal with it as sin, confess it and forsake it, and get God's help in getting victory over it. You can't just say, well, I'm given to anxiety, and so that's the way it is. Well, that would be like me saying, well, I'm given to stealing, so that's the way it is Because stealing is wrong. The Bible says stop your stealing and go and sin no more. The fact of the matter is, if we are given to anxiety, what we're doing Do you understand anxiety is the direct opposite of faith? It's the direct opposite of trusting God. When you are under the control of anxiety, you are not trusting or relying on God at all. And so what we need to do when we're dealing with something like this is look at it biblically, acknowledge it from the Word of God, and deal with it. As God says to deal with it. Romans chapter 14, 23 says, For whatsoever is not of faith is sin. Anxiety is the opposite of faith, and whatever is not of faith is sin. We need to deal with it as it is, direct disobedience to God's command to be careful for nothing. Beloved, this thing of anxiety is taking over. It's a shame to me when I hear kids coming into junior church six. Hey, 10-year-old kids talking about how they have anxiety. Okay, there is no children. This could be dealing with anxiety. You say, Oh my goodness, what about life situations now? No children should be dealing with anxiety. Do you know why children are dealing with anxiety today? Because their mom and dad are consumed with anxiety If children are growing up in a secure environment where mom and dad are living in faith and they have confidence and they have assurance from God in their life, That will be translated into the heart of the children, and the children will not they won't know anything about anxiety. They won't know anything about that idea of fear and and worrying about those things And and I'm not saying they won't be afraid of riding their bicycle the first time or whatever. I'm just talking about young people who who are burdened, uh an innocent heart of a child burdened with life circumstances. It shouldn't be that way. And the reason it's that way is because mom and dad are overcome with anxiety, and what we need to do is we need to get victory over it. We need to get victory over it. So can I give you, first of all, the cause? This is very practical and straightforward. We understand the cause for anxiety is the problems of life. The circumstances that we face, everybody has problems. You know, a man is but a few days and full of trouble Our trouble is like sparks that fly upward and and and that it's something that everybody has and we have an abundance of it, but some people can deal with it biblically, turning it over to God, and other people are overrun by it. And it controls their life. Anxiety is brought on by the pressures of life. Sometimes you feel like you've been put into a pressure cooker and they've turned up the heat. There's so many things demanding your time. So many things in life calling for your attention. So many things that need to be fixed right now. So many things that the it it's all just the the pressures of life and the the the work job is expecting too much of you and and at home the dealing with the children is is is too hard on you and and working with your relationship with your mate is is is too great for you and and uh you know, at church they they they want you to serve and do something at church and there's expectations there and and and it's just too much. The pressures of life is too much and you just want to run away. Sometimes anxiety comes from holding on to what we feel are the precious things of life. Those precious things, the things that you value, whatever it might be, you have a fear of losing them. a fear of them being, you know, burned up in a fire or uh stolen by somebody or lost in a car wreck. or you know, just losing it. You know, some of you ladies have your your your, you know, wedding ring on and y you wash dishes and You get done and you feel just to make sure it's still there, because you want to make sure it didn't go down the sink, right? You're like, just make sure it's still present. So I haven't worn my wedding ring in a long time because I injured my finger and it it didn't go back on. So it's been a couple years now I haven't had it on. And uh I was messing with my wife and I told her I lost it. Uh I didn't lose it, I knew right where it was, but that that was fun for a day or two. Um but j just messing with her. You know, but you you have those valuable things. You're like, boy, I don't I I don't want to lose that. And so there's a little bit of anxiety, uh, like, oh what happened to that? Uh some of you have anxiety about your phone Uh where where is it? Oh I set it down somewhere. Oh no, I better ping it. Ping, ping, ping, ping, ping. Where Where's the phone? You got then you get this anxiety, those things in life that you value, and so it brings on a little bit of fear or apprehension because of the precious things We have everybody has some paramount needs according to psychologists that everybody needs and there's a need for survival, our self-existence and When something threatens that obviously there's anxiety, there's need for security emotional and and financial and and just The security that we need, by the way, that is uh of utmost importance to a lady, and that's the job of a husband to provide that security. And it's not just security from somebody breaking in, but it's a stable home. It's a security that things are okay, that things are taken care of, that their needs are met. the security. There's uh we all have a need for some form of significance. That everybody would like to have their life be meaningful and to accomplish something. We have to feel like it's all worthwhile. It includes our own identity and it's accomplishing or fulfilling some goals or purpose in life. There's need for sentimentality, and that is to be loved and cared for somebody to walk through life with. And when one or more of these areas goes unmet or is threatened, it brings anxiety. We look at this great problem in our society today, and when we look at it through the pages of Scripture, we see that anxiety really, if you look at all of these things that we've mentioned thus far, do you understand that the the anxiety is promoted by a wrong perspective? If you look at everything I've mentioned there, and I think everybody would be in agreement, these are areas where People are given to anxiety, every single one of them has a perspective of looking at self. It's concerned about me. It's concerned about what I care about. It's concerned about the things that are precious to me, things that I I don't want to lose, concerned about my self-worth, my significance concerned about the things that I've given my time and energy and effort to acquire in this world, these things, what we need to have is a perspective that looks towards God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Your significance in life is of much greater importance when it's found in God instead of found in yourself. We need to have a correct perspective. I want you to consider with me not just the cause, but consider with me the cost. The cost of giving yourself over to anxiety. Beloved, I want you to know that it will cost you your faith because Anxiety in the heart of faith will not survive. If you have a heart of faith and you're given to faith, that is trusting God, that devil, Satan, wants to bring in that anxiety, wants to bring in that fear or apprehension. And when you have a heart of faith and you're trusting and relying on God, it will kill anxiety. But when you don't lean on faith and you allow that anxiety to come in, It takes your faith. It's out the window. Your faith is gone. You're no longer trusting God. You're now trusting self and full of apprehension and fear because you realize the futality of that. We're going to get back to our our text, but they are familiar verses there in Philippians. But would you look in in Matthew chapter 6 with me, turn to Matthew chapter 6. Listen, if you're if you're given to anxiety and you know where you're at and And listen, if you're not right now, this is a tool that Satan uses on many, many believers. And I would encourage you to take some notes tonight. Write some things down. If anxiety is something that you have a struggle with. And don't just let it go in one ear and out the other and say, boy, that that was good. The goal tonight is to try and help you to be able to overcome this. But in Matthew chapter 6, down in verse number 25 We're going to reference several things in this passage, but we see in verse 25 and 26, he says, Therefore I say unto thee, or unto you, take no thought for your life What you shall eat, or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on, is not the life more than meat in the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap, neither grather into barns Yet your heavenly father feedeth them, are ye not much better than they When we have faith, we're relying on God and know that God is going to care for us and we don't have to be given to fear and we don't have to let that anxiety control our hearts and rob us of the faith that God wants us to have to trust Him. We need to get on our knees and confess that anxiety as as sin and and turn it over to God so that we can let go of it. We're going to dig into that more in a minute, but I want you to see it'll cost you your faith. I want you to see it'll also cost you your fellowship. Turn to Luke chapter 10. We have here in Luke chapter 10 a very familiar story. You have Mary and Martha here working. Here with in the presence of Jesus. One is there enjoying great fellowship with Jesus In the Bible it says the other is troubled. Look in Luke chapter 10 and verses 41 and 42. The Bible says, And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful. You recognize that word? Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. He says, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things. But one thing is needful. Mary hath chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. One was enjoying fellowship with Jesus, the other was careful, uh consumed with anxiety and worry and concern and wanting everything to be perfect and got to get all of this work done and and and she comes and says, Jesus, would you please tell her to get off of her seat and come and help me get this done? Jesus says, no, she's doing the one thing that's needful. She's here fellowshipping with me. When you allow anxiety to control your heart, it'll rob you of the fellowship you could have with Jesus. Anxiety will cost you your foundation. The Bible says an unstable, a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. When you're given to anxiety, you're gonna double question all your decisions. You're gonna you're gonna uh reevaluate and turn back and you're gonna do this and you're gonna change it and then you're gonna do this and and a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways, you're not gonna have the foundation that you need to be stable, to have a solid home, to have a solid family, to have stability. Don't let anxiety control and steal your foundation. Not only that, it will steal your future. Ephesians 5. 16 says, redeeming the time because the days are evil. We know the time we have is valuable, and beloved, can I tell you that unchecked anxiety leads to physical problems and will ultimately shorten your life This is not something that I'm coming up with or that I'm saying this is proven, and if you've been around for very long at all, you understand that the the ulcers and the the problems that come in in a body that's given to anxiety, that's given to fear, that's given to worry, it will ultimately shorten your life Everything from shingles to a heart attack, doctors have directly attributed to stress and anxiety in a person's life. If left unchallenged with biblical thought, it can even lead to suicide. It will rob you of your future. The future that God wants you to have Modern counselors say that many of the mental disorders that people have today are rooted in anxiety, worry, and fear. This is why it's so vitally important that we look at this from a biblical perspective and say, okay, I need to understand this is a work of Satan in my life. I need to acknowledge it as sin. I need to confess it and forsake it. Don't let Satan use this to control my life. We know Proverbs 17, 22 says, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones. A broken spirit. Somebody given to anxiety and under the control of anxiety has a broken spirit. And it will lead to depression. It will lead to panic attacks. It will lead to unbiblical thought patterns that ultimately lead to thoughts of suicide and then God forbid death. One housewife went to the doctor and was complaining about the fact that she was feeling so run down. After a thorough examination, the doctor looked at her and said, uh, lady, you aren't run down. You are too wound up. That's the problem. You're too wound up. There's too many things in your life that you're worried about that are concerns and you're running all over trying to do these things. I heard that she went home and the doctor said, you need to take up something that'll help you relax. You need to maybe take a painting or something like that, something that you can do and and relax and enjoy. So she goes home and Gets through the weekend and on Monday the doctor calls just to check on her and say, how how are you doing? You know, how how was your weekend? He says, oh, this painting is fantastic. I've completed 10 of them already. It's not really what he was saying. She took what was supposed to help her to relax, and now she's got another pressure. Oh, I got to get all of these done. I got to get this accomplished. Listen, it's a tool that Satan wants to use in your life. We also see What some would consider a contradiction in the Bible. For on one hand, we know from our text here tonight that we're to be careful for nothing. but by everything in prayer and supplication let your re with thanksgiving let your request be made known unto God. So we have that aspect that we're supposed to be careful for nothing. But then on the other hand, we read in Matthew 6. 25, the Bible says, Therefore I say unto thee, take no thought for your life, what you shall eat or what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. So that sounds to me like a contradiction, Pastor. On one hand, you know, he's saying, don't take any thought of this, and uh then on the other hand, the Bible says in Luke chapter 1428, for which of you intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first and counteth the cost, whether he has sufficient to finish it. So we're supposed to take no thought for our body, no thought for what we wear, we're supposed to be careful for nothing, but on the other hand, we're supposed to Like who's not sitting down and taking thought ahead of time and planning and considering this? Uh what's true? They're both true. They're both true. You're not supposed to be given to anxiety, you're not supposed to be given to fear or worry, but you are supposed to give thought and consideration to things. You see, beloved, there's a difference between worrying and watching If I was standing on a corner, I'm going to cross the street, I could be consumed with anxiety and worry that I'm going to get hit by a car. But I also could watch and say, okay, it's clear. I can go. There's a difference between being consumed with worry and watching out for what might come. There's a difference between anxiety and administration. He says, which of you, considering to build a tower, sitteth not down first? The idea of planning and making sure, you know, the fact of the matter is a lot of the worry and anxiety that people deal with is because of the lack of planning. Because there wasn't sufficient preparation. Because there wasn't sufficient forethought. And so now They're consumed with anxiety because there hasn't been a good, strong foundation laid in preparation for the steps that they're taking. Jesus told the disciples in the garden to watch and pray. You see, there's not a contradiction there. Both are necessary. The Bible says, a wise man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. The difference, one person could be overcome with worry and make themselves sick. They could be worried about their health so much that they make themselves sick. But another person considering their health Or watching out for their health will think, okay, I need to get the right amount of rest. Or I need to take some vitamins I had tell people tell me recently just because of all the sickness going around, like, Pastor, you know, you need to be taking vitamin C like crazy. You need to be taking vitamin C. You just ward off those germs, you know. Uh there that is watching. Worrying is being overcome and consumed with the fear of getting sick. A wise man is going to plan for the future. You should have insurance. You should have some savings set aside for when the inevitable happens. That's planning. And a little bit of planning could save a whole lot of anxiety. But the difference here, beloved, is there's some things that you can do something about. That's what you need to do something about. But there's some things that you can't do something about. If you can't do something about it, you need to stop worrying about it. If you're They're in Matthew um chapter six. I guess they're in Luke now. Can you go back to Matthew chapter six? We read verse number twenty-five and twenty-six already, but look at verse number twenty-seven. He says, Which of you by taking thought Can add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for raiment, considering the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, they do not spin yet? He says, Hey You you can worry about how tall you all are today, it's not going to add anything to your stature. But he's saying is there's some things that you can you can do something about and you ought to, but there's other things you can't do anything about and you need to stop worrying about it You need to give it to God. You need to trust. So lastly tonight, as we bring this down to the end, what's the cure? How do we overcome it? Somebody said frogs are smart because they eat what bugs them. I'm not sure that's the solution for for your anxiety. But you know a lot of people will try and mask their anxiety. They'll try and cover it up with drugs. They'll try and cover it up with pills. They'll try and cover it up with alcohol. They'll try and cover it up with fun and just put it out of their mind and I'm just gonna if I can just be fun the you know the visitors were here and I took them to lunch on Sunday And uh they have a counseling ministry and I knew that I was studying and preparing for this several weeks ago, so I mentioned to them I'm I'm working on this this message on anxiety and he says, you know, the the one of the biggest problems is people don't deal with the anxiety, but they try and cover the anxiety up. And the problem with that is is they haven't fixed anything and all of it's still there as soon as they come back to reality. As soon as they you know and and you know I asked him, I says how do you deal with or how do you balance uh the the struggle because there is some aspect of life uh and there are chemical imbalances and there are medical situations where people do need some type of of treatment uh that's beyond just, hey, I hope you feel better. Um you know, there's those and so how do you balance that? And uh he says, well The I can tell you story after story after story of people that have gotten victory through the power of God uh through these things. He says, I know that that's the truth and how and how God does it, but I I know there are certain circumstances like that, but most people today their solution is medicated. And if we medicate it, then it's okay, but they haven't fixed it. They haven't fixed any problem, they haven't they haven't dealt with any problem, they've just covered it up. They've just masked it. And beloved, we don't want to mask it, we want to cure it. So how do we cure it? We deal with it biblically. So let me tell you how to deal with it biblically from the text that we've looked at tonight. First of all, you need to resist dwelling on the possibilities. Do you know anything's possible? I mean every one of our homes could burn down tonight You know, it probably not going to happen, but I'm saying anything's possible. And and the problem with so much anxiety is that people uh give themselves to worrying and to to concern and to contemplating and to thinking uh about things that very likely will never come to pass. It's just a a possibility 2 Chronicles chapter 10 and verse number 5, you need to write that down. 2 Chronicles 10, verse number 5 says, casting down imaginations. And every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ And see, here's the problem, beloved. The battle is in the mind. The text which we began with tonight, to be careful for nothing, it tells us there that in verse number eight, whatsoever things Are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of a good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. So that's what you've got to do. You've got to resist dwelling on the possibility. Stop letting your mind run rampant over what might happen and dwell on that which is true, what you know to be true, the Word of God. You've got to cast down those imaginations, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, bring every thought into captivity. Don't let your mind run down those trails. You want to get victory over this anxiety. You need to bring your thoughts into captivity. You need to focus on the word of God, the love of God, the power of God to bring about true change in your life. One of the greatest problems is that man, given to anxiety, has left off thinking in the realm of truth. And thinks in the realm of possibility. We need to dwell on truth. I was reading this week in preparation for this message, Life's Toolbox by Rick Carter. He's a Christian I don't know if he would give himself the title to say co counselor. He's a Christian counselor for sure. He's written a number of books to help people through situations. And he said that when he was in college, he had a professor that said 90% of what people worry about never happens. And he said, well, I thought immediately it must be working really good. It's 90% efficient. That's pretty good efficiency worried about it and we've we've held off ninety percent of the problems that could have happened. Obviously he says I was you know young and a little bit foolish and didn't realize uh that the that's looking at the wrong way It's not ninety percent efficient. It's ninety percent a waste of time and failure. It's not the fact that you know you're you're dwelling on these crazy possibilities, things that will never happen What we need to dwell on is the promises of God that are sure, that are true. We need to think on these things. And so how do you what's secure? Resist dwelling on possibilities and remember the promises of God. Dwell on the promises of God. Remember these promises that are true and sure, and that they fail not. Not one of the promises of God has failed. Maybe you need to get a book or get your Bible and just start writing down the promises of God. Just get a list and and Write it out longhand so that it engages your hand, it engages your mind, it engages your eyes, and it's far more memorable when you do that. A lot more memorable than just cutting and pasting on the computer. And if it's something you're struggling with, you need to get it in your heart and mind. You need to have it there. So write it down and write down the promises of God so you have them to dwell about. Dwell on. You can't remember something you've never heard. You need to get in the book so you've heard the promises. We're going to remember the promises of God in the midst of our anxiety. We need to have dwelt on or considered or thought the promises of God the first time Then we need to recall his past performance. See, God has never failed us. We need to recall his past performance. When anxiety comes, when fear comes, when that troublesome comes, and you look at it and you say, boy, it wants to take over your heart and mind. You can recall the past performance, how God has brought you through time and time again in the past, and stop dwelling upon the what Satan wants to t you know, the path he wants to take you down and dwell upon how good a God has been, how God has brought you through there. David came before Goliath. And part of his assurance, part of his confidence as he stood before that giant, is he says, God delivered me out of the paw of a lion and out of the paw of a bear. He says it's the past performance that he knows that God can do it again. And if you would take time to write down the path the things that God does for you. I'm not telling you you need to journal. Some people like to journal, some people don't, but you ought to record the things that God does for you miraculously. So you have a record. So that you can look back at that and say, wow, uh see what God did. It'll give you confidence to rely on Him when you need Him. This is one of the reasons why it's important for you to share in testimony time what God has done for you. It does two things. One is it puts it in back into your mind. You are replaying the events and you're you're able to say, Look, this is what God did. And it it It solidifies it in your heart and mind for you because you've declared it publicly, but it also encourages others to know what God has done for you. So we need to rely or recall that is his past performance. And beloved, we need to request his protection. He says in 1 Peter 5. 7, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. In our text tonight, he says, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. He says, listen, you've got care. You've got concern. You've got worry. You've got a burden. What you need to do is you need to come to God in prayer. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. First confess the fact that you do have some care. Everybody has care. We have some things that are concerning to us. But when we handle them biblically, we look and see what Peter says. And Peter says, Yes, you've got some care. You've got some things that if you were in your flesh, you would be worried about. But he says, hey, cast your care upon him. That's what we're supposed to do in our prayer. Jim Berg, who again is another Christian counselor, he's written one of the programs that we did here a couple years ago, Quieting a Noisy Soul, if you remember that. But uh very, very smart, many times smarter than I. But Jim Berg said this. A lot of prayer is us just going over our worry list with God. We need to be careful that that's not what we're doing. We're not just going over our worry list with God. We're casting our care upon Him. I did read a story about a gentleman who uh was at work and he had a very stressful job, a very hard job, and um During the day he would get pretty frustrated and he would get pretty irritated and uh that particular day uh they got to work and the basement had flooded and they had to spend the whole day cleaning up all this mess and and they didn't get anything done that they were supposed to get done and then they were gonna go to lunch and they went outside and his truck had a flat tire and so they they had to spend lunch hour and get the tire fixed and get it replaced And so he didn't even get to eat lunch and then he went back and he worked uh the the rest of the day and he went outside but because they were working on the car to change the tire, he had put his keys in the car and and turned it on. And he forgot and then when he went to get in his car to go home, his battery was dead. So he had to try and find somebody to get a jump to go home and uh Then they couldn't find anybody, so his co-worker said, Well, I'll I'll give you a ride home and so his co-worker put him in the car and and and drove him home and and the guy was just very, very quiet all the way home and And and then he says, I'll pick you up tomorrow and I'll bring some cables. We'll get your truck uh we'll get your truck tomorrow, uh, no problem. But he he dropped the guy off at home and and the the guy walked towards his house And he he walked out in the yard and there was a tree there and the guy touched the tree and then he walked up to the front door And he opened it, and the guy sitting in the car saw a smile come on the guy's face And he reached down to pick up one of his children and he hugged them and said, Hey, how was your day today? And just showed love and care and concern and walked in the house with his family like he didn't have a care in the world. And the next morning when he picked him up, he was still mulling this over in his heart and mind, and he he thought This must be some kind of a magic tree in the yard and you touch it and it takes away all your fa I mean uh what what what so he the guy gets in the car and they're on their way to work and he says I just have to ask he says what What's that tree you have in your yard? He says, oh, he says, I call that my worry tree, my burden tree. He says, What I do when I come home from work, you see I have a lot of burdens, but my family doesn't need those. My wife doesn't need to hear about that. My kids don't need to deal with that. So what I do is I come home of a day and I hang whatever burden I have on that tree. He says, then I go inside and I spend the evening with my family, but in the morning, I come back out and pick that back up. Now he went on to say that I do find that many days when I come back out in the morning, what I hung on that tree is no longer there. And you see, beloved, that's how it's supposed to be. When we cast our care upon him, knowing that he cares for you, we're not supposed to go back to the tree and pick it up. You're supposed to cast it on him and turn it over and let him have it. I knew that we were, I knew that I was preaching this. Tonight and this morning in the service we sang this song and I couldn't help but think about the message I had on my mind for this evening. What a friend we have in Jesus, all our sins and griefs to bear What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer Oh, what peace we often forfit! Oh, what needless pain we bear! All because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. We need to request his protection. Turn it over to him, casting all our care upon him, knowing that he careth for you. You know Jesus did that in the garden? Jesus in the garden sweating, as it were, great drops of blood, burdened and concerned about going to the cross, but he went to his Father He says, Lord, if it be thy will, let this cup pass for me, but nevertheless, whatever your will is, he turned it over to him Submitted and yielded to him. You know, beloved, when we are out of communication with the Father, anxiety will rise. But when we're in communication with him, anxiety will subside. You know, let me give you a good real life example. We got a business meeting we've got to get to. Real life example here. I've probably changed 10 starters in my life. If you've worked on cars at all, you know a starter is a pretty easy job. I did my starter on the suburban in the parking lot in like 20 minutes. I mean it was easy job. So I told her, pick up your starter, bring it down. I'll change it out. Wouldn't you know? That the one there's like a two-year period where they put the starter for a Santa Fe up underneath the intake manifold of the of the engine. I had to pull the front end of that engine apart. I had to take off the fuel rods. The fuel disconnect the fuel injectors. I had to pull the air intake, the exhaust, uh, the the radiator, the coolant lines. I had to, I'm not kidding, I probably unplugged 30 plugs Had to pull the whole front end of that that car apart, get it out of there. I'm two and a half hours into this thing, and I'm like, well, I can get it apart. But you know what? It would be good if I had a second pair of eyeballs putting this back together. I just unplugged like whole bunch of junk. Okay? And we gotta get all these plugs back in the right place and every one of these bolts has to go back and I was very systematic and taking it apart and I was taking pictures and I was putting when I was taking it apart I was putting bolts back in the holes they came out of and all those things. But I said, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna call up somebody that has some more experience than me. And I called up Brother Glover I said, hey, can you come down? I hate to do this to you last minute. I said I've got it all apart, but I just would appreciate some eyes, some second pair of eyes that we get this put back together uh and we know it's we know it's good. What I'm saying is I know his ability And that brought a level of confidence to me as we were as we were putting this back together to make sure we did a good job for her. What I'm saying is when you have the ability of God on your side, you can deal with situations in life. That in your own you say, man, I don't know that I can handle that, but you know what? You can call on somebody that can. You can bring them into the situation, bring God into the situation, and He will bring you through. He'll give you that confidence so you don't have to do it with anxiety and with fear and with concern. If we're in communication with the Father, anxiety flees. But when we're out of communication, anxiety clings. Verse number seven, there says, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. You know, Spurgeon said, daily prayers lesson daily cares. Daily prayers lessen daily cares. If we are in communication with the Father. God knows what we have need of. And we need to pray and turn it over to Him. Lastly, you want to have victory. You just rely on His power God is all-powerful, and he can bring you through. Your problems are not new, and his ability is not slack. The word of God says that his hand is not shortened, that he's unable to help. He's able to help. And we need to call on him. Elizabeth Cheney wrote, said the Robin to the sparrow, I should really like to know why, these anxious humans. Rush about and worry so. Said the sparrow to the Robin, Friend, I think that it must be they have no heavenly father such as cares for you and me. I wonder, are we overcome with anxiety because we're living like we have no Heavenly Father that cares for us? Like he cares for the robin and the sparrow. The affliction of anxiety. It is sin. But we can have victory over that sin with God's help. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed?