I let you know this morning that we would be talking about angels. I've titled the title of this message is all about angels. But after I got the message done, I figured it ought to be some about angels because there's not There's uh the topic, although we don't know, there's a lot about angels we don't know. There is really uh quite a lot in the scriptures dealing with the topic of angels. And that we can learn either by inference or example of what they did, uh that uh, you know, although maybe a passage doesn't directly teach something, You can see what the angel did and what his job was or task was, and we can learn from that. And so there's much in the Bible that deals with this topic. I thought it was interesting that our reading today, this morning, if you did our reading, one of the passages in Psalms deals with angels in Psalms chapter 8. This uh challenging Psalms, he says, O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth, who has set thy glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy of the Avenger. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained. And he says in verse number four, What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels. And has crowned him with glory and honor. There's one thing right there in that passage of scripture that we learn about angels, it's quite a quite a bit down in my outline tonight that we learn about angels, and that is that they are slightly higher than men. Uh they were created to be a slightly higher being, and we're going to look at that here in a little bit, but There is, Pastor Derek was telling me just before service tonight, he says, there's numerous questions that he gets in teen class about angels, just this fascination with angels and in the world today and Uh, especially when you think about and look at the dark side of angels and uh demonism and that type of stuff and and there is this this uh fixation almost in society today. And a lot of it has to do with the desire to be more than we are. The desire to have some t some type of power, some type of ability to be struck with lightning or bit by a spider, or to somehow uh be um was like have uh nuclear waste, you know, spilled upon you and then all of a sudden you come out and you have all of this Strength or you have all of this knowledge or you have all this ability that's telepathic and and we're able to do so many things and when they look at angels or uh demons it's uh you know they they like the idea and it it it plays well with the fascination of man to be more than we are. But we can be more than we are through the power of Jesus Christ. And we can be what God created us to be and accomplish things that we didn't think were possible through the power of Jesus Christ. But we shouldn't desire to be like an angel. There's so many things, TV shows, programs, movies, and things today that many of you will recognize that kind of spur our imagination. And sadly, falsely train our thinking with regards to angels and what they do and how they act in the world and how they participate. shows that are quite old and been around a long time that now people are watching the reruns of, things like Touched by an Angel. Highway to heaven, the heavenly kid, almost an angel, angels in the infield. Heaven can wait. Date with an angel. Michael, Gabriel. And I could go on. Literally, there's hundreds Of programs that deal with the topic of angels. And unfortunately, the TV and movie industry are not real concerned with being biblically accurate in their depiction of angels. They don't worry too much about what the Bible says that they do or their abilities or what they uh participate in the world today. They just, of course, try and write a story that will sell, that will grab a hold of the imagination of man. And so many people today know things about angels that aren't correct. The Bible does have a lot to say about angels. We're going to give you a few things tonight, hopefully. Correct some false thinking, maybe give you a little bit of foundation about what angels really are. There's no way we'll cover the scope of what we can learn, and maybe in the future we'll look and deal with specific ministry that the angels have to us. There's a whole part of it we're not going to get to tonight, and now you're going to be disappointed. But our guardian angels. That's a big one. Everybody wants to know about their guardian angel and what's his job and role and do we know him and etc. So we'll deal with that another another night. We're not going to get that tonight. But uh angels do exist. I'm not gonna deal with trying to uh answer that question or prove the fact that angels exist. I believe I'm speaking to an audience tonight that would believe that to be true, and certainly by the answering of other questions, we will have uh adequately addressed that. That will be abundantly clear. The scriptures, someone has counted, there's 273 different references in the scriptures to angels and what angels do. At least 34 of the books of the Bible contain something about angels. Only the Book of Ruth, Nehemiah, Esther, the Epistles of John, and James do not reference angels. With this inordinate amount of information given to us by God about angels I think it's a topic that, for whatever reason, seems to be neglected. It seems like we don't hear much about. There is a lot in the Bible about angels And a lot of our thinking might be incorrect with regards to angels. And so I think that God gave us all this information. We know that all scripture is profitable, right? And so God gave us all this information about angels for some reason. So tonight we want to do a little bit of a study and help us get it a little bit of a better understanding. Now, this is going to be Doctrine. This morning we got all the preach out tonight Gonna be some teaching. Right? Brother Lee was giving me a hard time in our in our meeting uh about being excited this morning, you know Uh I'll try and make it exciting. I want to make it exciting. I want to make it applicable. I want to make it to where it speaks to your heart. But there's just some things we need to learn and hopefully reinforce our thinking with regards to angels tonight. Studying these heavenly beings. So, first of all, the making of angels, the making of angels. We've answered this in our in our little quiz that we looked at, but first of all, they were created beings Angels were created. They're not like God. They haven't always been. God is the only being that has always been, that didn't have a beginning and won't have an end. They were created by God, and I gave you the one reference with regards to that, Colossians 1, verse number 16. All things were created, visible and invisible, and principalities and powers and all of that But there's another reference. I told you Psalms 148 has much to say about angels. Well, the first five verses reads like this: Praise ye the Lord, praise ye the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights. Praise ye him all his angels. Praise ye him all his host. And verse number five reads, let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. So he created the angels. We also learned something about the purpose, why they were created in those verses. And what was the first verse all about? Praise. Praise him. They were created to praise God. And to serve God. They were created by God. They are not eternal beings. They had a beginning, although we don't know exactly when they were created. They were created at least sometime in the early part of creation when God created the world because we know that they were here for the creation of the world. That they observed it, that they saw it. In Job 38, verses 6 and 7, he says, Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? Or who laid the cornerstone thereof, when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. When God created and laid the foundations of the world, the angels shouted for joy. So we know that they were here during that time, but we don't know exactly when they were created, but it's very clear. that they were. We've talked about it already, but they were created a little bit higher than man. Jesus made man a little bit lower than the angels In his classification or hierarchy of his created things, he chose in his infinite wisdom to create man. A little bit lower than the angels. In Psalms 8, verse number 5, we read that one already. That was part of our reading this morning, but also in Hebrews 2, verse number 9, he says, But we see Jesus Who was made a little lower than the angels. It's amazing when you think about that fact that Jesus Christ, by taking on the form of a man, Left his glory in heaven, the praise and worship of all the angels, and was made in the fashion of man and made lower than The angels. God humbled himself and allowed himself and Jesus Christ to be made lower than the angels. For you and I. We are slightly lower than the angels. Angels are higher than man. Although angels are higher than man, we know, as we said in our questions there, that we don't pray to them. We don't worship them. We are only to worship God. Revelation 22, verse 8 and 9. And I, John, saw these things and heard them. And when I heard and had seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel. Which showed me these things. So John saw this, the angel, the messenger. That's what they were. They were messengers, carrying the message of God. And John receiving this message from an angel. I mean, that's human nature, right? Some holy being, I mean, this thing that you see is magnificent. And uh he began to bow down to worship. Then said he unto me, See thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the saying to this book Worship God. So the angel himself told John, he says, Oh, I'm just bringing a message. I'm just a fellow servant. You need to direct all of your worship to God, not to me. And brothers and sisters in Christ, brother, we need to worship direct our worship to God. All glory and honor to God. You know, we in family devotions this week we're reading about David and when he numbered the people. And how fine a line it is for you and I between honoring God And lifting up ourselves. You see, the sin of David there it oftentimes they had a census. In the scriptures we see, and these are the generations of, we see God listing out man. I mean, what was wrong with David numbering the people? Because David was wanting to show his strength, his men of war. He at that point was not recognizing God. He was lifting himself up. And we've got to be careful, Krishna. Sometimes even in our testimony, we can word it in such a way that we are giving praise and honor to us. instead of to God. And we've got to be so careful about that because that line can be very fine. God uses us to do great things beyond our ability, and we praise Him for it. But let me just encourage you, let's get all worship towards God. And not towards us, not towards ourselves. We don't want to do that. You know, let me just let me just throw this out. Angels were created slightly higher than men. Men were created slightly higher than the animal kingdom. This is in God's hierarchy. This is how God planned it And we are not supposed to be worshiping the creation more than the creator either. We're not supposed to be lifting up the animals. I heard this week that in Maryland in Maryland now you can be fined For leaving your dog outside if it's below 32 degrees or above 95. Just this last week, a new law in Maryland was passed We were created higher than the animal. It's okay for me to kill my baby. But I'm gonna get a fine if my dog gets cold. We've got things messed up in this world. We've got to get back to biblical thinking. In line with what God set up. The angels are slightly higher than man, but man is slightly higher than the animal kingdom. He has given us dominion over them. Angels, they are countless in number. Let me just throw this out, and I'm not positive if I got it in my notes somewhere else, but God created all the angels that he was going to create when he created the angels. This is not an ongoing job, not an ongoing, oh, I need a few more angels today. And he no, he created all the angels he was going to create when he created them. And that's amazing because when you think about these verses we're going to look at now, angels are countless in number. They were created by God and they're countless in number. In Daniel chapter 7, verse number 10, we see there's thousands and thousands. He says, a fiery stream issued and came forth from before him. Thousands, thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousands times ten thousand stood before him The judgment was set, and the books were opened. I mean, that's a lot of angels that was created. But it goes on. It actually says in Hebrews 12, verse number 22, that they are innumerable. He says in Hebrews 12, 22, but ye are come unto Mount Sin, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of the Jewish. of angels. It's innumerable. And that's just amazing when you think about it. So the making of angels. That's the making of angels. Now we want to look at the manner of angels The manner, that would be the characteristics, the what are they like? And this is where a lot of questions come into play. People want to know what are angels like, you know, what do they look like? What do we know about them And uh so we want to give you some things about this and hopefully correct some false thinking, you know, like angels don't actually have halos. There's nothing in the scriptures about the halos that are over angels. There's nothing in the scriptures about angels playing harps. Although if you look up on Google for images of angels, you're going to see the majority of them have Probably these three things. They have wings, they have harps, and they have halos. You know, and although some angels have wings, I think that the large or vast majority of them do not. according to the what we know about them, just the seraphim and cherophim, which are a special class of angels, which we'll look at a little bit more later. But um it's amazing how our minds are influenced by the images that we see. And somehow we depict in our, I mean we think of an angel in our mind immediately, what all the images that we've seen are what are there. You know, like the movie It's a Wonderful Life, where angels get to earn their wings, right? They get to earn their wings because they do something good and they they help a human. And if they help a human sufficiently, the bell will ring. And then an angel gets his wing. You know, right? I'm sorry, but that's not actually in the Bible. It's not really there. So we want to know what are angels like. There's several things. Now some of them do have wings. We talked about the passage in In Ezekiel chapter ten, verses twenty and twenty-one. This is the cherubim that is lifted listed here, and it says, Everyone had four uh faces apiece, and every one four wings, and the likeness of the hands of a man. was under their wings. So a description there of the cherubim, a special class of angel that had wings. These were angelic beings. The cherubim and the seraphim both have wings, but not all angels have wings, although I believe they can fly. Uh they might not have wings and they could fly without them. That goes beyond our imagination a little bit. You know, Dad always said when we get to heaven, we'll probably be able to travel at the speed of thought. Probably be able to like, oh I gotta go home. Bam, you're home. You know, just kind of you're there. Uh don't know. He's just kind of thinking about what he could come up with and the Bible says whatever you can come up with in your mind, you know, I hath not seen and ear hath not heard, and neither has it any Entered in the heart of man, the things that He's created for them, so in our own imagination, God's gone way beyond that And uh so uh they can fly. In Revelation chapter 14, verse number six, it says, And I saw another angel fly In the midst of heaven. So they can fly. Angels can fly. Whether they do that all because they have wings or not, that's probably why they get drawn with wings a lot, because they are they can fly, and we know that from the scriptures Sometimes though they appear frightening, as in Daniel chapter ten, verses four through ten, they appeared and they were very frightening. They they scared those that saw it. And Daniel was given the explanation of the dream that he had seen. And uh others that saw it were affrightened. They were afraid. Uh sometimes they appear as regular men, as we see in Genesis chapter 19, the angels that came to Sodom. And they were there and and uh they just appeared as regular men. And you know, don't know whether uh Lot knew that they were angels or they just knew that they shouldn't be treated that way or or what, but uh they sometimes appear as regular men. So they don't all have wings. They don't all have halos, right? Sometimes they appear without us knowing at all. They may be here in our presence and we don't know that we are, as the scripture says in Hebrews, entertained And uh so that's why we need to uh always be alert to that fact and uh treat men with uh respect and compassion no matter who they are or where they are. Because we don't know what that we might be entertaining the angel unawares. We mentioned already that they do not have kids or marry. That's Matthew 22, verse number 30. This verse is dealing with the fact that we will be like them in that we will that we will not be married. Although some, as the question in your thing says, uh, are we going to be like angels or are we going to be angels? When we get to heaven, which a lot of movies portray. Oh, when you you know, if you're good enough in this life, when you get to heaven you'll be an angel. Uh and then you get to come back and help other people or whatever. I mean, this is all false. It's not It's not in the Bible. And this verse, some people would look at that and say, hey, see, we're going to be like angels. Well, you understand that it's talking about we're going to be like them and that we don't get married because they're not married. Not that we're going to be like them and all of a sudden have the abilities that they were given by God Himself. And so are they male or female? Ah here's a touchy question. Uh in every place in the scripture They are given a masculine identity. Every time they've been portrayed or displayed or God revealed them to man, they were revealed in a masculine way. Now, I have no agenda, and I really could care less. If they were all depicted as women, it wouldn't bother me. It's a created being that God made. It just makes absolutely no difference to me It's funny how sometimes people think that you got like this, you're pushing your male agenda. It doesn't matter to me. God created them. I think that quite possibly they're actually genderless. Uh but God portrayed them as men. You know, I I don't know for sure, but We know that God in every instance now if you find one I'll be happy to correct it. Uh uh you just show me one that where they were they were shown as as a lady, and I'll be happy to say that they appeared as men and ladies. But in every instance that we see, they were appeared in the masculine sense. Okay? Given uh give you a couple of references if you want. Genesis chapter 18. Luke chapter 24 verses 3 and 4. Again, examples of them appearing before men. uh man as men. They do possess great amount of power. Different power, and I don't know if they all possess the same amount of power or if they've been specially endued with power to accomplish a particular task. what God sent them to do. But we know a Psalms 103, verse number 20, said, Bless the Lord ye his angels, that excel in strength. They excel in strength, they're very strong, they're gifted, they do have ability, they do have power. What do they know Well, although they're very smart, according to 2 Samuel chapter 40, verse number 20, they're not all-knowing. They're not like God who is omniscient, who knows all. They don't know everything. But they do know and they actually are interested in some things. In 1 Peter chapter 1, verse number 12. He says, unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you. With the Holy Ghost and sent down from heaven, which things the angels desired to look at into. The angels desired to look into the gospel. They desired to know more about the fact that Jesus came and he died on a cross. You know, the angels don't get to experience the forgiveness of God like you and I do. Jesus didn't come and die on a cross and give himself for the angels. And I can imagine the angels up in heaven as they saw God in the flesh come down and be made in the fashion of a man lower than the angels themselves. I can imagine them saying What's going on? Why why is Jesus doing that? Why is Jesus down there with man? Why is he giving himself why is he letting him uh You know, they they followed the beck and call of God and and I you know we sing the song He could have called ten thousand angels and I imagine there was probably ten thousand angels setting On the premises of heaven, saying, Let us go, let us get 'em. Jesus is being killed. From taking Jesus off the cross, from saving him. And this is a whole idea that they don't even understand. Doesn't make sense to them. And they desire to look into it, to know more about it. And so many Christians. Yeah, Jesus died. I know. He forgave me of my sin. We don't really think about it. We don't really desire to know and let it impact our lives like that. Well, the angels in heaven are eagerly anticipating and desiring to know more about it. They don't know it all. They desire to know some more. Do you? Do I? Do we desire it? To know more about Jesus? To know more about what He did. How long are angels going to live? Luke 20, verse number 36 says, Neither can they die anymore. For they are equal unto the angels. You and I, after we go off into glory when we go to heaven, We won't die anymore. We will be equal unto the angels. The angels, although they were created, they had a beginning. They're going to live for eternity. With God. So they're not going to die. And anybody that is trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, all man's souls are going to live for eternity somewhere. Either in heaven or hell, and we know that. But death is separation. The book of Revelation talks about the fact that death is separation from God, where we're separated from God forever and ever. That's the second death that man that has not trusted Jesus Christ is going to have to experience. But their soul will continue to live on. So let me give you the ministry of angels, the ministry of angels. What is their job? What is their task? I'm just going to give you a couple of things tonight. We're not going to get delve into the details of it. I would like to and sometimes in the future look at specific instances in the scriptures about what they did and how that applies to us. We're not going to get into that tonight. We're just going to talk about some of the basics with regards to angels. We mentioned the first one already. Angels were created to work to do I gave it away to do what? To worship God, to praise God, to lift up God. Revelation chapter 5, 11 through verse number 13 very clearly states that out. That's why they were created. They were created to carry the message. That God had for them to carry all through the scriptures, many, many angels that you see in the scriptures, what are they doing? They're delivering a message. They're messengers, and they're delivering a message. You know you and I have been given a message to carry? In that way we are like the angels. We've got a message. You want to be an angel? Deliver the message. That'll preach. Amen. Deliver the message. Be a messenger. Carry the message That's what the angels did all through the scriptures, and as we look at particular instances, we'll see them. But I'll tell you what, look up. I'll bet you probably 80% of the 273 passages that are in the scriptures, probably the met the angels were delivering a message. They're messengers. And that is what they were created to do. A great amount of what we see, these angels delivering the message. They also, though, execute the judgment of God. We know this from Sodom and Gomorrah, when God said that he would destroy them. And in Genesis chapter 19, verse number 13, for we will destroy this place because the cry of them is waxed great before the face of the Lord, and the Lord has sent us to destroy it. They were there to execute the judgment of God upon that place, Sodom. And they did Um we know also uh on Israel when David numbered the people in second Samuel chapter number twenty-four. The Israel the angels came and 70,000 men died when the angel stretched out his hand I mean, can you imagine that kind of power? The angel stretched out his hand at the command of God, and 70,000 men perished. King Herod, at the judgment of God, delivered by an angel, the Bible says in Acts 12, 23, and immediately the angel of the Lord smote him. Because he gave not God the glory. And he was eaten of worms and given up the ghost. Because the angel smote him. So the angels deliver the execute the judgment of God, but angels also extend the grace of God. They deliver a message, they execute God's judgment, but they also extend God's grace. An angel released Peter from prison in Acts 12, verse number 7. He was locked in prison, and God sent an angel to let him go. The angel in Hebrews 1, chapter 14, and they are not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation The angels are sent to minister to you and I, the heirs of salvation, to be an encouragement to us. Angels were sent to encourage Paul during a storm in Acts chapter 27. Acts chapter 27, he says this, for there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul. Thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. So they were given, uh they extend the grace of God as well. Angels come and escort the righteous to glory. In Luke chapter sixteen, verse number twenty-two. And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels unto Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried. The angels come and escort you to glory. So this is some of the ministry of angels. Just a few of the basic overriding principles. There's many other things that we could look at in the scriptures to learn about angels. But I think one of the main things as far as us tonight To consider what we can learn from this. His angels were created to worship God. And they don't ever get to experience the forgiveness of God that you and I do. We stand forgiven by an Almighty Savior. We stand justified because the blood of Jesus Christ. How much more should we worship God having experienced God's grace and God's mercy like that? than a being than a being that was created and cannot experience it. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and eyes closed. Are you worshiping God like you should? Do you desire like the angels to know more about God? Desire to know Him To be what he wants you to be. I hope you do. Lord, we come to you tonight and we thank you. We thank you for this time in your word. We thank you for the practical things that we can learn. And I pray you'd give us an understanding of this area. That is so turned around and misrepresented in the world today. Help us to understand angels and their responsibilities before us and what they do in delivering your message. Extending your grace and executing your judgment. And Lord, I pray that we would worship you even more than the angels. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.