You know? Uh I can't say that without thinking of uh Humpty Dumpty. You know. And uh I tried to find a poem uh that that somebody adapted from all the king's men trying to apply it to something that might be fitting for this message. Uh, but they're all pretty corny. I couldn't find I couldn't find one that that fit what I'm talking about today. But turn to First Chronicles chapter number twenty-seven. First Chronicles chapter twenty-seven. As we begin this this evening, uh let me just say the Bible encourages us or tells us in Hebrews ten twenty-four to consider one another and to provoke to love and good works. And uh that is the thought behind this message this evening. I want you to know that I have nobody in mind. I'm not upset at anybody, I'm not discouraged, I'm not downhearted, I think every uh I mean we are on the winning side. Amen. And hopefully when we dismiss it a few minutes, you will still feel like you're on the winning side. And we won't uh inadvertently undo all that's been accomplished thus far today Um however today's gonna this evening's gonna be a little more practical, although I I I am literally preaching to the choir tonight. I am talking to the church family. This would be the heart of the church. This would be those that are actively and involved in the ministry and doing uh making this church move forward, making this church what it is. And I praise God for each and every one of you in the part that you roll, uh the part that you roll the yeah, the the part that you play in keeping things rolling. However, uh I need to say that. But uh I'm just excited about what God's doing here and and this thought uh came to me maybe uh again I want to provoke the love and good works just to encourage and remind you. And as usual, you know, I know none of you that are under the sound of my voice need this message. It's all the people that aren't here that need it, like Anthony and Tiffany. But but no no just kidding. They're probably they're probably tuning in. I praise God for answering prayer and they were able to stop the uh contractions that she was having and and get her stable. Uh so we pray it continues that way and that she's continues to be healthy and and uh not a problem. Have you ever seeing the president or a head of business as he maybe they're filming him on national television, going from person to person and And of course he he's walking up to people and greeting them by name and acknowledging their kids and and you know He ha how does somebody with all those responsibilities accomplish and do all that they have to do? Well they have a lot of help You know, as the president's walking up to that person, there's somebody whispering, this is Mrs. Johnson and her two-year-old daughter Sarah. And he walks up and says, Hello, Mrs. Johnson, great to see you. How is Sarah today? He has no idea who he's talking to. But, you know, he just got that from from that person that was his aide. You know, uh the president has ghostwriters that write his speeches. And I have been after Pastor Gus and Pastor Garrett for a long time to be my ghostwriter. So I that that could just help me a lot. They just write my messages, I'll get up and deliver 'em, amen. But uh thus far it hasn't happened. You know, but they just have a lot of help. We have here in 1 Chronicles 27 a list of men. Actually, verse after verse after verse goes through men. That served King David. They served King David faithfully. All of these men. And God and his providential knowledge, his wisdom, decided to record in the scripture for us. These men that served the king. Now, I am not going to read these verses and attempt to try and say all of these all these names. I'm going to let Jacob come up. No, I'm just kidding. He could he could probably adequately do that, but I'm not going to put anybody on the spot. What I want you to understand and kind of drawing the the correlation for you this evening is the idea That our Lord and Savior, Revelation tells us that He is the King of Kings. Amen. Our Lord is the King of Kings He is the Lord of Lords. And in Revelation 17, 14 he says, and they that are with him are called, they're chosen, and they're faithful. It is God's expectation that as God's people we serve the King. Amen. We serve the King and we're called, and we praise God for that. We've been chosen and we praise God for that. And there's an Expectation that we would be faithful in our service to the king. To the king of kings. We're all servants of the king From the pastor to the few, everybody here has a job or a responsibility to do in service to the king. And if you say, Well, I don't, well you need to get one. You've got to have something you're doing for God in serving your King, the King of Kings. And I'm going to give you a couple simple thoughts here. Three, because any good message has three Three points. And we're going to give you three three points here tonight and uh we'll be done. And and they're not very long, but just uh maybe kind of uh Exhort you to love and good works in our service to the king, whoever we are and whatever God wants us to do. I want you to see, first of all, the response to service. In verse number one, he says, Now the children of Israel, after their number, to wit the chief the fathers and captains of thousands and of hundreds and their officers that served the king. What's the next three words? In any matter of the chorus, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year of every chorus were 20 and 4,000 That's a big church, amen. 24,000. But what the the point here is that they served the king in any matter that arose. Any need that arose, any situation that they were faced with, month by month, not just today or not just in the summertime when it when it's when it's you know above 60 or whatever. No, month by month. Serving the king in whatever was needed. The response to service was, King, I'm here, I'm available, I'll do whatever you need, Lord. They served him. Let me tell you, beloved, that we should all be involved in the work of God. In some capacity, in some way, we should all be serving our Lord, our King, the King of Kings. This thing that we're involved in, the church, it's bigger than any one of us. It's bigger than all of us put together The work of God that He's trying to accomplish on this earth is an important work. And we are privileged to be a part in any capacity Whatever capacity is, this is an important thing that we're doing. This is not just a social gathering. This is not just a group of people people that like to get together and encourage one another and pat each other on the back. There are matters taking place that are of eternal weight and eternal value It's important. Whatever aspect of service we have for the king is important. Your service might be something that's unnoticed, but I want you to understand it's not unnoticed by God. I think of yeah, somebody else we could get on to today, Mark and Joyce. They skipped out today, you know. So it was it was different downstairs, not having Ms. Joyce there She's always there and she doesn't like it at all that I'm mentioning her right now. You know, she she doesn't want to be mentioned. She doesn't want to be she's like I don't need any recognition. I I Well, we ought all have that spirit. It's important. It might be unnoticed, but God seems The Bible says the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Beloved, we we of course We we know God sees what we do wrong and and uh we we talk about that as a church and in your one another to to refrain from that. Resist the devil and he'll flee from you. But God also sees the good you can do When God recognizes and remembers it, He's going to reward you accordingly. You know, your service might be uncomfortable. Matthew 16, 24 says to take up your cross. He said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross. Listen, our service for the King of Kings is not necessarily going to fit into the comfort zone. Not necessarily going to be exactly what we might determine for ourselves, what we would picture Or how we would like it. We might have to get out of our comfort zone. We might have to go beyond what is our normal self. We might have to stretch ourselves a little bit or or you know just Jump in there talking to Lee this morning. I said, Man, it's freezing outside. He's like, you know, normally he stands outside and meets people. He said, Yeah, I'm standing inside today. I'm uh I stand out there, it's freezing. I don't blame ya. I don't blame ya. It's too cold out there. There's places of service sometimes that just aren't comfortable. You know, but that's part of just taking up our crops and doing what the King of King wants us to do. You know, sometimes it's uncomfortable for me to preach what the Lord's kinda put out my heart to preach. You know, I think You know, this is not I I'd rather preach something else. Uh I look at it and say, All right, who's gonna be mad at me at the close of this message, you know? And and what am I gonna have to deal with come tomorrow And and it would be a lot easier just to leave this alone, Lord. Sometimes what God calls us to is uncomfortable. Sometimes it's unappreciated. You know, maybe nobody says thank you. That goes back to, are you doing it for God or for glory? Maybe nobody says thank you. And I know it's nice. I know it's nice to have people sometimes just say, hey, appreciate you. Thanks for what you're doing doing it and we ought to uh recognize and and thank folks for for their service of of any capacity. But the person serving, your service shouldn't be dependent upon that It ought it ought to be from a heart of of love for the king and knowing that he recognizes it and he sees it and he'll reward accordingly. It's not about somebody else seeing us, recognizing that It's about God seeing it. So here's response to service. And I want you to see, secondly, the responsibility of the subjects In verse number sixteen. You can read all the names in between there and their jobs if you want to, uh, in other time. But down in verse number sixteen he says, Furthermore, over the tribes of Israel, the rulers of the Reubenites was Eliezer, the son of Zikari, the Salmonites, Shipta, the son of Achaia. But we see here that Did I just read verse number 16? Yes, we see that the ruler, the ruler of the Reubenites, they had a job or responsibility. Everybody was responsible for different things. You could read all of these verses coming up to this and you'll see each of these people have a different responsibility, a different job they were supposed to fulfill, and and each verse has several listed in there. They all had responsibilities. Something they were supposed to do. You know, it only function works when people do what they are responsible to do. One proud young man said, Well, in World War Two, my dad was personally responsible The thirty-eight German airplanes falling out of the sky. He is reportedly the worst mechanic in the Third Reich. Okay. Uh There's sometimes we're responsible for things that's not what I mean. I mean being responsible for what God's given you to do. The that position, that job that we're supposed to fulfill. That's we we gotta be responsible for Responsible to be a part. This is your church. This is your church family. This is where God's put you And I believe that it's God's plan that you would be apart in some way in your church. God doesn't save and bring people to the family of God just to sit. Now there are times we all know when when you might go through recovery, when you might have been had an illness, and there's times of recovery, and there's times that you need To just sit. You need to recover. You need to get strength. You need to heal. You need to to let God restore the joy of the Lord in your heart. You need that spirit renewed in you. There's times of that. But our life shouldn't be that. Once we get back on our feet, we should be serving again We should want to be apart in some way. Listen again, I know I'm preaching to the choir tonight. So I guess I'm just maybe encouraging you to keep it up. To keep it up. It takes everybody, beloved, and in their position, doing their job to move forward. I had a dentist appointment this week and I was talking to my dentist. He was supposed to be here for church this morning and I was very disappointed that he didn't didn't come. Uh so maybe maybe another week. Uh but he's been my dinner since probably two thousand and eight. And I've invited him to so and so many big events and special days and all these things. Uh but he didn't didn't make it today but hopefully he'll come another time. But anyways he was talking about the struggle he was having staff in his office. Um and he was just describing it just the the heart just to get somebody there to to do the job, just to be there. The day that I was in the dentist office, his assistant didn't show up. And he worked on me all by himself. And I said, Hey I got two free hands. I can hold that. I g I can hold that, you know. Uh I could do that for you. So give me a mirror and I'll and I'll assist you, you know. Uh And he's like, No, no, I'll make it work. But he's trying to hold this and reach over and grab this and and keep keep everything in place and and uh you know, he he was just struggling mentality that's that's permeated our world. It seems like it's kind of creeped into the church a little. Uh just kind of letting go of the responsibility Listen, God sees and rewards your faithfulness. You know, your reward is not based on how important others think your job is. Your rewards based on how faithful you are to it. You know, sometimes we look and say, Well, it's not that important of a job. But your reward is not based on how important somebody thinks it is. It's how faithful you are to it. We should be excited to do anything for God. For it's all the king's work. We have a responsibility to uh be a part, we have a responsibility to be present. Listen, can I just encourage you? If you have a job, you ought to do it. Amen? I mean whatever it is. Whatever your expectation or established responsibility is, uh, I don't care if it's to turn the light on in the downstairs bathroom every Sunday morning. That's your job. You've got to do it. Every Sunday morning. Faithfully. You say, well it's not a big deal. Anybody can turn a light on. That's not the point. The point is it's your responsibility. You should do it. I mean that's just straightforward practical living You know, I don't have to deal with it much because there's other people that handle the organization of stuff. They handle, you know, who's where and covering what and that kind of stuff. But I hear conversations sometimes. That go like this. Someone and the names have been changed to protect the guilty, okay? Um someone will ask, where's Jessica? She's supposed to be your helper today. Oh, she's in the nursery What? I thought Susan was supposed to be in the nursery. Yeah, she was, except Linda was supposed to sing today and she's not ready. So Susan is covering Linda's spot and singing the special today, and Jessica's covering her spot in the nursery. And I don't have a helper. That kind of thing happens all the time. All the time. And it really should. It really should. Um we have a responsibility to do Listen, if you're in the hospital, Tiffany, it's okay. All right. We covered your class today. Nobody's upset at you, okay? That's not that's not what we're talking about Um but it's it's just it's a mentality or idea that well it's not that big a deal, it's just somebody else to cover it. But we ought to look at it is a big deal. It's our responsibility. Whatever it is. Oh, somebody else can sing today, or somebody else can cover that. Or it's just a spot in the nursery. Anybody can watch kids. But you see, everything affects everything else And because you're not in the nursery, the person that's supposed to be playing the organ is not not playing the organ because they're covering the nursery. And now we can't have the choir special we were supposed to have because we don't have the organ player. And so we've got to sing something else in choir. It's Something small can kind of have a big ripple effect. And we and I just want you to get the understanding or the have the mentality or idea that everything we do for God is important I mean if it's important we oughta we oughta it's worth doing right, right? And if or or else we shouldn't do it at all. So we want to try and have that kind of spirit and and you know have the responsibility to be present And then we have the responsibility to progress, to progress, that is to improve our area of ministry. To have a vision for it, to have a mind of how can I how can I make this better? How can I improve this? How can I take this to the next step How can I play this song more eloquently? How can I prepare for this special more proficiently? How can I sing this and do that much better of a job. Whatever aspect of ministry it is, we ought to be looking at and considering. I mean if my job is to clean the floors and I see that there's some spots on the floor I shouldn't just continue to vacuum week after week after week after week and never think, how can I get those spots up? I mean in my mind ought to be it's my job to keep this clean and j. R. was very good at that. He wouldn't leave something like that. He would find a way to get 'em up. Let's get some type of cleaner. If that didn't work, you'd get some other cleaner. He would order something and say, hey, I think this will get that spot up for us. And and he would try and do it. But it's having vision for what you're doing Whatever aspect of ministry it is. Are you learning? Are you excelling? Are you improving? If you're a Sunday school teacher, how long have it been since you read a book on teaching kids? I mean I know some of you have been teaching longer than Well, we'll leave it that with that. You've been teaching a long time, Miss Martha. Um you've been teaching a long time and you've got years of experience and you have a wealth of knowledge that you can share. But are we ever done learning? You know when we when we take a step of learning whatever it is, you know what that does for us? Not only does it improve our class, but it gives us a shot in the arm. It gives us fresh ideas. It takes our class to the next level. And that kind of spirit permeates into other ministries and other areas of service Where other people are excited about it. Oh, look what she's doing in her class. Man, that's awesome. I could do that in this class. And I could go down the line in different aspects in different ministries, but I just want to encourage you to have vision for your ministry and look at where areas where you may progress. Lastly, look down at verse number 31. I want you to see the that they were rulers of the substance. Rulers of the substance. In verse 31, he says, and over the flocks It was Jazaz, the Agare, and all these were the rulers of the substance. What's the last four words? The substance wasn't theirs, was it? They were rulers of the substance. It wasn't theirs. Beloved, this whole thing doesn't belong to any of us It's not Pastor Caleb's church. Sometimes people come and and they say, you know, they don't mean anything by it, but they'll refer to it like that, oh, this is your church or whatever. But we know this is God's church It all belongs to Him. And we talked about this a little bit on Thursday night, how we're just stewards. We're just stewards of what God's given us And that's an area of ministry, it's an area of service, it's an opportunity to be responsible for something for God, but it's all God's substance It's all the king substance. And we just we want to be the right kind of steward realizing that it belongs to the king, not to us. This is his and we want to do it right. You see, somebody that's a ruler of somebody else's substance, they they are able to stay humble. Because they realize it's not about them. It's not their substance. It's not what they've done. This is all the kings. I'm just caring for it You know, as soon as the king comes back, this this is his, you know, you want to talk about it, that's that's the king's stuff. I'm just here trying to help. You know, it's easy to stay humble when we keep that in perspective. That is the king, not ours. These men were given care over great things, many things, but all of it belonged to the king In Psalms eighty-four ten, that familiar verse, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in tents of wickedness. You and I have been made a steward. Whether it's a doorkeeper, class teacher, or song leader, or uh uh Fire, sound, security, all the areas of interest. We're just taking care of the king's substance. It's all God's amen. The ruler's desire is to be helpful. You know, even when we give to God, we're really just giving back what he gave us. We're just stewards of what he's given us. Have you ever had a ever had one of your kids? Or a kid. Come and give you something that was already yours. They may have even wrapped it. You know, they're so excited about giving you this gift. And you open it and find out it's something that you already own. That's kinda how we are with God. We come and we're so proud of ourselves, God I'm gonna I'm gonna give this to you. God sees your gift, but we need to understand that's already his. That's all it's already. We're just stewards of it. 1 Chronicles 29, verses 13 through 14, he says, Now therefore, our God, we thank thee and praise thy glorious name. But who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this work? For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we give It's all God's. It's God's church, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, and we're all just privileged to serve. In whatever capacity it is. I g I want to encourage you more, you know, in the military a lot of times when people go over to fight in in some foreign place. They may not even agree with the battle with why they're there. But when they get into that situation, you can ask any one of them what it becomes about as you're fighting for the guy next to you. You're fighting for your friend, your fellow soldier in arms. And you fight together and side by side. I want to encourage you and exhort you to fight for one another. Be faithful. Do what God wants you to do. Fulfill the role of your servicers in the church uh for each other realizing that somebody else is carrying a load weight the burden as well We all have different strengths, we all have different areas of finishing, but it all belongs to God. You don't have to be like anybody else, and you're not responsible for anybody else. You know, Matt has a lot of skills. But he is not gonna get up here and speak. That's not his thing. And you know what? That's okay Because what God wants him to do now we have two Matt's back there. That's probably pretty much either one of 'em, but I think Matt Mills would would speak, but Matt What's your name? Morgan. Matt Morgan. Uh he that's not Yeah. He'll help you to the middle of the night to get something done outside, but Not one that's wanting to get up. I'm saying we all have different abilities. Matt Mills would help you through the middle of the night too. So if you need something, call them to you guys. Yeah, I do praise God that we do have a very giving church. We have a very serving church, as I said when I started here, that uh you know There's probably nobody in here that I would hesitate to call on a moment's notice and say, hey, I need some help or something. But we need this at the church. Can you come? And I know that you would respond without hesitation. And I praise God for that. And I don't deserve to pass for such amazing people So so please understand I'm not getting on you, I love you. And uh I guess I'm just trying to lift up the importance of the work we're involved in. And make sure we keep that in our heart and minds And uh as we fulfill this together, that God would be glorified by our servants.