Turn your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. Good to have the Hollingsheds here. Good to see them. It's been some time since we've seen them. at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And of course they they drop in occasionally and see how we're doing. But good to see them tonight and welcome to to church this evening. Uh I don't expect this to be too long. I was just telling Pastor Gus as we were standing up here before the service started that this really is very well dovetailed with this morning's message. You could even take this morning's message as kind of a an introduction or a foundation. to the thought that we are going to share tonight. I told you this morning the title of it is Allowing God to Use Your Strengths In Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 10 is our text verse for laying this foundation tonight with understanding God's plan. He says, for we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Beloved, we are his workmanship. God is the one that designed and crafted each and every one of us. who we are and gave us our strengths and our abilities. Now, beloved, I believe that God has a general will for all of us, uh for all mankind. We know of course that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God certainly wants everybody to be saved. We know that once you're saved, that we know that it is the duty of man to fear God and obey his commandments. This is the whole duty of man, as we've seen in Ecclesiastes recently, and we know that our God's desire and plan for us in a general way for everybody is to bring honor and glory to Him. in all that we do. And we have addressed that in recent days. So there's no question about that. But taking it one step further, I believe that God has a specific will for each and every one of us. Beyond just his general will, I believe that God has uniquely made you and has a plan for you that only you can fulfill. that you are the individual that God has prepared not only in who you are as a person, but what he has brought you through in life. Each stage and step of your life has brought you to this point, and it is you who by God's design is uniquely fitted to fulfilling or accomplishing that thing that He needs done And so God has a specific will for us. We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto Good works, which God hath before ordained, that is, planned, set in motion, said this is what it's going to be, that we should walk in them. So I've got two and a half points for you. The third one I don't even have really a title for yet, or uh or uh it's just I I sent my outline to Pastor Gus yesterday and I said I don't know what the third point's gonna be yet. So we'll see. But two and a half points, and we won't be long. But first of all, I want you to understand that his plan is bound to my composition. His plan is bound to my composition. In Psalms 139, if you want to turn there, Psalms 139, verses 14, 15, and 16. We have a description of God really forming men. He says here, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret. and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned So this description here and in the terminology and the words there may be uh a little less familiar, but could I lay it out in in a simple paraphrase? God had a plan for you before you were ever conceived. And God in your mother's womb determined what you would be. And he began to form you. He began to make you before there was any part of you. Your members were written And he fashioned them and made them before there was any any of them. And so when nobody else could see what you were going to be, God knew what you were going to be, and God began to make you. You were fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of God. So God has for fashioned you. God has made you just as you are. This is important for us to recognize and understand. And really, you need to believe this tonight. You need to hear the word of God because it is vitally important that we realize that our significance is found in who we are in Jesus Christ. This world, especially on the younger generation, uh seems as though they plague them with a a uh thing of of low worth and and this uh I'm nobody and and you see all of these young people struggling with with cutting themselves and abusing themselves because they don't feel anything because they they they are going through such turmoil they feel like they're completely worthless while the word of God says you're fearfully and wonderfully made that you are made in the image of God, that you are in fact not just another person, but somebody that God designed in a divine way for you to have and be exactly what you are. Exodus 4, verse number 11. You don't turn there, I'm going to be gone before you read it. The Bible says, And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? Who maketh the dumb or the deaf or the seen or the blind? Have not I the Lord. Understand, beloved, it was not an accident. That you are who you are. It was not an accident that you have the ability or the disability that you have. I've told you before, my thorn in the flesh is my memory. I feel like I could be a much better pastor if I could just have a memory. You know, we always want what we don't have, right? I'm not sure because on the other side of it, it is kind of convenient to forget a few things, you know. So that does kind of help. Uh but I'll tell you many times not having a memory, but God knew exactly who I was going to be and where I would be in life and what He had for me to do and He made me who I am. You guys know my sister Melissa And uh, you know, of course, was born without part of her brain and she's a precious part of our family. Uh just today Ms. Tina came to me and she says, Does your sister still uh love purses? And I said, Oh yes, she sure does And uh she collects, she has more purses than you can imagine. And uh some ladies collect shoes. Uh I know some ladies in our church that have quite a number of shoes. I won't say anything about how tall they are, but uh oh but they hey, Melissa collects purses. Oh, she has so many purses. I mean more than once we've taken A lot of persons. And taking them to the Goodwill, you know. She's like, I just want to be a blessing to a lot of people. And so she takes them all to the goodwill. And then next week she goes to the goodwill and buys them back Not all of 'em, but one or two. You know. She has done that and and she has fun with it, but she's a precious y lady and and loves God and loves people and just enjoys being around. And she's a a vital part of our family. Well, can I tell you that the government tried to take her away when she was born? They said she was going to be an undue burden on the family, and no family should be burdened with that. It was a very unresearched disease, Purdue syndrome that she had, and they said, listen, uh she's gonna die before she's eighteen years old. Uh by the way, she She's two years older than me, so she's fifty-two this year. And uh she's still alive. They said she would never learn to read or write, that she was disabled, that she would never learn to read or write. And she has about a fourth grade education She can read and she can write. And so God blessed in a lot of ways. But here's the thing. My parents were having none of that. They said, nope, you can't have her. This is who God gave us. This this is who and and we've loved her and cared for her and Mary and I have told mom and dad when when they passed away and Melissa has a home with us. She can come and and stay with us until God calls her home And uh she she's got a place. You know, when we were expecting one of our kids early on, uh they came to us and they said, well, the child was still in the womb that your child is going to be born with Down syndrome probably pretty severely. Uh and uh really what I would recommend these guys are deciding which one. Which child has it, right? They're like, and and they they said, would you do you want to abort the child? Say, no, we don't want to abort the child. What whatever this child has and and we didn't even realize the tests that they were running, but they'll run all those trests to try and by the way, uh young parents, they are wrong as often as they're right on that thing. And you don't worry about it. More often than not, I've seen parents completely overwhelmed by this terrible news about their child going to be born defective in some way. Listen, just trust God. Just trust God, put it in God's hands, and I'm not saying don't make it a matter of prayer, but you know with the rest of our kids we just told them don't do the test. We don't want to know because it really doesn't matter because abortion is not an option, we're not killing them God has made them who they are and we will have them and we will love them as they are. That's God's plan. And we too uh plan to love and raise our children and so each and every one of us are uniquely made. in the image of God and God planned for us to be how we are. Whatever your strengths are, whatever their weaknesses, beloved, there are no accidents with God. God made you to be who you are, therefore you have something to fulfill a purpose in your life that He has for you. God doesn't make any mistakes. And we say that, but you know what? This would solve a lot of the gender dysphoria that's going on if people would get back to understanding that God doesn't make any mistakes. You see, we've got a an entire generation of people that have uh been raised up outside of God and rem removing God and saying it's all just science, it's all just chance, it's all just evolution Well here's here's the thing, beloved, and there's a lot of Christians that are buying into the lie that uh they were born that way Because you've heard it so much on the news, you're beginning to believe that they don't have a choice, that they were born that way. I want you to understand, beloved, that the Bible says that God fashioned them and God doesn't make any mistakes. He didn't accidentally put a lady's mind in a male body. God didn't make that mistake. Sin has corrupted the mind of men and has caused them to go down that road That's what has happened. But we need to get back to following what the Word of God says. God is the creator. God is the one that formed and fashioned man. You know, we read the scripture and we think about it But let's apply it to current society in which we live today. Listen, a lot of this would be uh foolishness would be wiped off the table if we just got back to the Word of God. Beloved God is the one who made you excessively strong. I enjoy having Brother John Norman around when I got something to carry. When I when I've got something I need to lift and I need some muscle around, I mean that's a blessing. God has made some of you less strong. You wish, boy, I wish I had more physical strength, or God has made some of you very intellectual. You're very smart and you you can think through and process things and And others of you are are more practical in nature and you have the ability to be very practical and hands-on and I mean if if they gave you a direction book you wouldn't know what to do with it But you could go figure it out by just give me the stuff and I'll do it. You just there's different skills and different strengths that people have, and God has made you that way. Therefore, what you can do is inseparable from who you are. But God made you that way. His plan for you is bound to your composition How you've been made, how God fashioned you. Beloved, it was never God's plan for Bob Gamble to be our bus driver As much as Bob Gamble would love driving our bus. He would enjoy that. And I I I'm sure that they're watching tonight If they weren't, I I wouldn't have used this illustration. I'm you know I'm 98% sure that Bob and Carol are watching the service tonight, and you know he he loves vehicles and he loves to drive and that would be a lot of fun for him, not maybe for the passengers, but he would enjoy it. And and and but it wasn't God's plan. Why? Because God knew who he was and and gave him the the what people would call the disability and I praise God that Bob and Kara both don't look at that way. It's who they are and they use what they can and skills for God And they use their their talents for God that God gave them. It was never God's plan for you ladies to pastor the church. You understand, beloved, God made you a lady. And God made others in here men. And it it is God's plan uh the the It doesn't matter, beloved, how many churches embrace it and say it's okay and call female pastors. The word of God is still very clear. The requirements for a pastor, a lady cannot meet the first one. The husband of one wife. There is no lady that can be a husband of one wife. And so the first qualification to hold the office of a pastor it limits what you can do in that capacity. But that's okay because there are other things that you can do that the pastor can't do. And each of us need to look, okay, if God made me, that means that dictates where my role is, what my job is going to be, what I'm supposed to do in the will of God and in the plan of God. God has a plan for you and He's put you on this earth for a per purpose His desire is that each and every one of us would bring a meaningful contribution to the cause of Christ. And we do so with in the bounds of who we are. Beloved, if there is some physical limitation that keeps you from doing something that maybe in your heart and mind you feel guilty, like, man, I should be doing that, but but physically I'm not able. Can I tell you you can stop feeling guilty about that? Because God's expectations on you are not going to go beyond your ability. So here we see, secondly, not only is his plan bound to my composition, but I want you to see that my responsibility is bound to my ability. My responsibility is bound to my ability. What God expects of me is not going to be further than what I am capable or able to do. In 1 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse number 7, Paul says, For I would that all men were even as I myself. He said, boy, it'd be great if there was a lot more like me. And you know what? I think Paul's a pretty good guy to be like. I mean if I was going to be like somebody, that would be pretty good But Paul said this, he said, but every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that. Every man has his gift from God. Every man has his particular skill or ability or strength or weakness. God has given each of us our own abilities. And my responsibility will always fit inside of my ability. It's not the Lord's will for me to play the piano tonight Because I can't play the piano. Now, let me chase the little rabbit here. It might be God's will for me to learn how to play the piano if I had the ability to do so. And I think, given enough time and effort, I probably could learn to play the piano. But you guys know there are some people that are as domed tone-deaf as can be And uh musically, they just cannot get it. It just does not click. And you know what it God is never going to expect them to be singing solos in church. There are some people that you guys stop thinking about people, okay? There are some people that cannot carry a tune in a bucket. And and that listen, God's expectations for them do not be hey, you need to be involved in the music ministry, you need to be up here singing in choir and singing is No, I don't think so I think your skills and gifts are better suited in another area. We need to work hard to find out what that area is, but listen, whatever limitations there are. Don't feel bad about not being able to do something that physically you're not able to do because God obviously didn't plan that for you. God has other plans for you. And there are things that you can do, and we need to stop being worried about what we can't do and start focusing on what God has enabled us to do. It will never be Mary's job to fix things around the church. Mary does not fix things. She breaks them. I told her when we got married, I said, there's nothing you you break that that I can't fix. And she has put me to the test. I I've learned a lot in in all these years. Ultimately everything's fixable, right? It's ultimately all fixable, so it's not a problem. And she doesn't she doesn't break that much stuff, but I'm saying it's just not it's not her thing You know what? It's not going to be Mary's job at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, even though she's the pastor's wife, it's not going to be her job to be in charge of decorations. That's not her thing. She can't see it. Now she works with it and she helps where she can, but if it was up to her, that's not her thing She can't see it. She's not sure like is that gonna look good or not? I don't know. Because that's not her thing But you know what? I I don't know that I've met a lady that is more gifted in front of young people teaching the Word of God than my wife. That is her skill. That is her gift. That's what I'm saying tonight, that the title of the message is Let God Use Your Strengths. Say, okay, I don't have to be involved in the decorations. That's not something that I can see. Colors aren't my thing, whatever. That's okay. I'm okay with that because this is what God has l given me the ability to do and I'm going to do that. No Mary helps in the decorations and whatever else helps, but what I'm saying it's not her thing. She's not the one in charge of what happens, where and all that. And I don't know what gifts you have or what maybe uh areas that you struggle or or you might call a disability. But beloved, we need to function inside of our ability, realizing that God is not going to ask of us anything that is not inside of our abilities. In Romans chapter 12 and verse number 6, he says, having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, Whether prophecy, but one prophesy according to the portions of faith. And you can continue to read that, but there's there's different gifts that God gives people. And we know that at the moment of salvation, we believe that God gives everybody at least one gift. And some severally, as he willeth. He gives some several gifts, but you may have a particular gift in an area, or you may not. Your responsibility is going to fit inside your ability. But beloved, we need to let God use our strengths. We need to stop being so worried about, man, I can't do that, and just get busy doing what I can do. Whatever that might be. Whatever your strength is. Some people are not planners. They're not organized. That's just not them But man are they fun to be around. They just they just they they've got a personality and they're just fun to be around and they can engage and talk with people. That's okay. Somebody else can do the planning. You do the entertaining. Amen. That's just you. You engage with people. There's some people that God has given you the gift to communicate and talk to others and and and be able to engage people. Use that gift that God has given you and that strength. And if you don't have that skill or ability, don't worry about it. Use the skill and ability that God has given you to accomplish what God will allow you to accomplish. God has given each of us our own personality. We're all a little bit different. Man, I'm glad we're not all like you fill in a blank. I'm not gonna say a name. You feel, you know, I I'm glad that God made us all differently We all have our own personalities and our and our own quirks and our own issues, amen. We've got our own things to deal with, and but you know, it's okay By the way, that doesn't mean we can't work on our personality a little bit. You know, I mean If I'm not pleasant to be around, it would be good for me to work on my personality a little bit. You know, it it's okay. You can do that. Um I wouldn't mind sharing all the details of this conversation personally, but I don't want to make anybody feel uncomfortable, so I'm going to try and uh be a little bit vague. But somebody was talking to me about uh preaching. And how it's like I'm a different person when I stand up here behind a pulpit than when I'm standing around out here. And uh I acknowledge that. I said that's very true. Because when I stand behind a pulpit, I have a job to do. And I'm called of God to as effectively as I can communicate the Word of God And I and I want to do that as good as I can. So I work at that. And uh basically the question was, well, isn't it kind of just fake? Isn't it just kind of like you're just putting on a show? And the the answer was no. I believe that I'm trying, striving to be as effective in what God has called me to do as I can with the abilities God has given me. But I heard just this week, I heard a great illustration that ties with that, that shows how we can work on areas to improve. And here's the thing. Um if I picked up this instrument And I began to play it. Okay. That's the extent of my playing ability. Um uh here's the thing. Now let's say over the next couple of months I had uh Miss Darcy teach me some stuff. And then in fear and trembling, I got up here and played I can't is the first song Mary Had a Little Lamb or something like that? I don't I don't know what the what the first song uh y you know, I got up here and had my little recital and I played that. Would that be me being a fake? It's skill that I had developed with time, energy, and effort, right? And the more time and energy and effort I put into it, the better I get at it, and the more effectively I can play this. But can I tell you something that our voice And our personality is the same way. You can say, well, I just can't play it. And you can leave it like that, and for the rest of your life, you can't play it. And you can say, well, uh, I just don't have a personality. And you can leave it like that, and for the rest of your life not have one. Or you can say, I want to try and improve that. And you can, with time, energy, and effort, with reading books. With getting instruction from others, listening to yourself. You know, one of the most uncomfortable things is for me to listen to myself. I listen to myself and I wonder why do people even come back here at all? Uh listening to yourself, but you listen to yourself and you say, Oh wow, I need to fix that. I I say um um um um seventy-four times in one message. I probably need to learn how to speak without saying um, right? Now I hope I don't. A lot of times we don't hear ourselves those things, but what I'm saying is that it's it's skill that's developed with time, and so we use that to improve and So what I'm saying is don't use this is the way God made me as an excuse to not improve or to do better. Now there are some unchangeable limitations that are on you that you cannot change, and you don't have to feel bad about that. That's okay because that's who God made you to be. And that is a limitation that's on you. And God's not going to assign you a responsibility that goes beyond your ability. We know that God would have us work on our personality if we can. Why? Because He says, live peaceably with all men. He says, do unto others as he would have them do unto you. He says to esteem others better than ourselves. I mean these things are very applicable. And so we can and should work on areas that we can need to improve. But there are some personality traits and some things that are going to limit what you might be able to do effectively. There are some people that will never teach a Sunday school class. That is just they're not going to do it because that's beyond the skill or ability that God has given them. They they are just too uncomfortable. But that's okay. God has other people that can do that. What has God given you the ability to do? You know, for years I was very content as a church maintenance man. I just wanted to work on the buildings. Quite frankly, I I loved it just being out in the yard working on that or changing the roof or you know hanging doors or whatever. Just working all that all by myself. But God began to change my desire to stop building buildings and start building people. And that's how God brought me from where I was serving on staff at Heritage Baptist Church in Lawrence, Kansas, to where I am today. It was quite a transition. But God brought that change about in my heart over a period of time. You need to play to your strength. Like the guy that was told he had a face for radio. You need to play to your strength. Whatever your strength is Your experience, your education, your life, these things shape who you are, and thereby they shape your mission from God. I believe it was just a couple weeks ago in the prison ministry there was a man that came, one of the inmates that came to the Bible study that was from Brazil. And so naturally they had Andrew witness to them. Now those of you that know, that obviously did not happen. Because Brother Joe is from Brazil. You understand that Brother Joe was uniquely gifted to be able to minister to that man in a way that nobody in this room could? It has nothing to do with how much Bible knowledge you have or he has or how much uh you know background you have sharing the gospel or he has or how skilled you are. No, it had to do with the fact that God prepared him and brought that man to that Bible study where there was somebody that knew Jesus Christ that was from Brazil. They had that connection. What I'm saying is God has a plan for you and I that is uniquely uh shaped and fitted because of who we are, who he made us to be, and the life experiences that have shaped who we are today. You and I are going to be the most successful and have the most fulfillment when we are allowing God to use our strengths. Because, beloved, that's who God made us to be. I told you this morning about how much I hated school. Well, in Kansas, the pastor there, I'm not sure he prayed about it, but uh he made me the principal. I was the principal of the school and you know for almost three years or whatever I don't the time runs together, but you know what Every single day I got to bed, I got out of bed and I looked at my wife and I said, I do not want to go to school today. I hated it. I mean, I I am not built for a classroom. I am not built for that every day. being in the classroom, you know, teaching the kids. That's just not me. And every day for three years I would get out of bed in the morning and I would be like, I do not want to go to school today. It is not who God. What it was saying is for three years I was not functioning inside of my strengths. Now I did what I was asked to do, and can I tell you honestly, to the best of my knowledge, I gave him 110%. But do you know what? Somebody with that skill could have gave 50% and probably done a far better job. Because it took me 110% just to get by. Because it wasn't my strength. It's something I had to work extra hard at to do because it wasn't something I was gifted at And sometimes one of the reasons we get burnt out in ministry is because we're working at something that's not inside of our strength. Not functioning in a role that maybe God has planned for us to do. Philippians 2. 13 says, For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. Love it, when we're functioning inside of his pleasure, that is when we're receiving the energy of God, when we're receiving the gifts and the strengths of God to accomplish his plan and his will for us. And therein we fulfill that role of doing what God has designed us to be. Lastly, I'm going to call it our focus is bound to our future. And I'm just gonna give you some closing thoughts here. Beloved, we need to stop focusing on others. Amen. Here is the big problem. 2 Corinthians 10, 12 says, we dare not make ourselves of the number of company ourselves with some that commend themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. It's not wise. We need to stop looking at others and saying, boy, look at the strength that they have, or look how gifted they they are. And and uh, you know, there are uh so many pastors that are far more gifted in different areas than than I am. Uh-huh But that's who God made them to be. And you've got to be very careful that you're not looking at other people, even other people in the church. And saying, boy, uh, I wish I was more like her. Or I wish I had that person's ability. Or boy, I could do that if I was like them. No, they that compare themselves among themselves are not wise. You go back to the first point and remember that you are fearfully and wonderfully made by the hand of God to be who you are And God has given you some strengths and some abilities, and your responsibility is going to fall inside of your ability. So stop looking at other people. You have different strengths and weaknesses. Brother Mike Edwards said, different doesn't mean deficient. Different doesn't mean deficient. Doesn't mean that you're deficient. Doesn't mean you're not as good as somebody else because you're different than them. You have your own strengths Don't feel like you're less than someone else. God has made you. Focus on the strengths that God has given you. Secondly, stop focusing on Satan. Can I tell you, you're like, I'm not focusing on Satan? Well, stop listening to Satan. Satan is the accuser of the brethren. Satan is the one that's coming into the hearts and minds of these young people and telling them they're worthless. Telling them they have no value, telling them they're meaningless, that there's nothing there. And they're hearing it and they're believing it and they're ruining their lives because of it. Stop listening to Satan. He is the accuser of the brethren. He's going to come and accuse you with anything he can, and he loves to try and convince God's people that they're worthless. In 1 Corinthians 7. 17, the Bible says, But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, So let him walk, as I saw ordained, I in all the churches. God had ordained a plan for each person to walk in a particular place, in a particular way, in the church. Don't listen to Satan. Can I say stop letting others put you into a mold? Others people sometimes get in their heart and mind what they think you should be, or what you they think you should do. Can I tell you that Thomas Edison's teachers told him he was stupid? If he would have listened to that, he would have never invented the hundreds of inventions that he is known for today. Stop letting others put you into a mold. You are who God made you to be. You guys know that I'm uh I'm not an intellectual. I will never be an intellectual, even though I spend a lot of time studying every week. It's not it's just not who I am. I'm a practical person. I I work with my hands. That's why I laid the carpet. And you know what? I'll if we change the carpet in ten years, I'll be the one that probably lays it again. It's just who I am And I have got to play to my strengths. This is who God made me. I am not. Forgive me, I know you guys have all known some amazing pastors. I'm not them. And what I'm saying is I'm never gonna be them. I'm gonna be who God made me to be. And I'm gonna strive to do the best I can inside the skills that God gave me. Which is why on Thursday night at 10 o'clock I went to a church member's house because their well wasn't working. Because that's who I am. Because that I have the skill to do something about that. That that's what I can do. And you know what? There are a lot of other pastors that can't do that. I know I know pastors that are that are very skilled in other areas, but don't know the first thing about any kind of construction or you know carpet or electricity or plumbing or or any of that. And you know sometimes for them that's probably a blessing. Because they're obviously never going to get asked to do it. But for me I enjoy doing it. And What I'm saying, using me as the example, is that you need to find out who you are in Jesus Christ. And you need to get comfortable with that. And don't let the pressure from other people try and push you into a box or push you into, well, this is what You're supposed to be, or this is what that person is supposed to be. You be who God made you to be And let's bring honor and glory to God inside of the strengths that God has given us. In that you will be the most fulfilled. And in that you will accomplish the most. We were here laying carpet late one night and Brandon was hanging out with us and I said something to him. I said, How how many pastors do you know that are probably laying carpet in their church this week? You know? Probably not many. That's not a normal mode mold for a pastor, but it's who I am. And I don't know if you look at that as a strength or a weakness. But it's who I am. And it's what I have to function inside of the skills that God has given me. And so the same for you. God has a strength that He's given you. He's given you some abilities. I don't know what they are maybe. I don't know maybe what your weaknesses or what your strengths are or where your gifts are. Part of my job, I believe, as a pastor is to try and help you find that. And then provide opportunities for you to use it in the honor and glory of God. That's what the church is for. To provide opportunities for you to exercise and use the gifts that God has given you. Now, if the opportunity is there and you don't take it, you're not letting God use your strength. And that's the message tonight. Kind of carrying right off of this morning, finding fulfillment in faithfulness. Being faithful to what God has given you the ability to do. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.