Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Glad to be here this morning. If you take your Bibles, we're gonna be in Hebrews chapter ten. Hebrews chapter ten is where we are. And I'm glad to be here. Sure love this church and uh love your pastor. Uh I met him, I was trying to think, I think some twenty-five years ago I was a freshman in college and uh looking for For some work and I'd done construction before that, and your pastor was doing drywall, so I he hired me on and I worked for him and uh he taught me a great lesson at that time And that was that I do not want to do drywall the rest of my life. As a great lesson to learn young in life. Sorry if any are drywallers here. I don't want to knock your profession. It's a great profession for you. I just know that it wasn't what I wanted to do the rest of my life. And so Praise the Lord for him. Known him all through these years. He's been a tremendous blessing to me. I was an assistant pastor for a short time here in Frederick, in Maryland. And uh I can remember the church being in a storefront somewhere, I think loc locally. And uh and I remember coming and visiting Hunt Valley back then and seeing the ministry and seeing things going through. Praise God that What God has done here, what God is doing here, we pray for your pastor and the rest of them that are out on the missions team. Pray God gives them great traveling mercies as they come back. Hebrews chapter 10 is where we are. I don't know what your uh pattern is here at Hunt Valley, but if you don't mind, would you mind standing out of respect to the reading of God's Word? We'll read this text. I'll have a word of prayer and then let you be seated. We'll get into the message this morning. Hebrews chapter 10. And we're going to begin in verse number 19 down to verse 25. Here the word of God says, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And having an high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith. Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another. And so much the more as you see the day approaching. Father, we come before you this morning This great assembly of your people. God, we are we are gathering, gathered together as the church on the first day of the week. I pray, dear God, that you would meet with us here. We we Really don't need to ask for your presence. You're omnipresent. God, we plead for your power this morning. God, I pray that you would move in this assembly. I pray you'd empty myself of me, fill me with your power and your spirit. Lord, work and use use uh me and and work with your people. Maybe Lord, even in spite of us this morning. God, I just I know things a bit different and disheveled for the folks as their pastor is not here, and maybe many of the key members I pray, God, that uh we would be drawn to the Word of God and then our hearts would be strengthened and encouraged, that you would challenge us. Maybe there's somebody here that doesn't know you as their personal savior God, I pray you'd open their eyes of their understanding, show them their need of you before it's eternally too late. Maybe there's someone here who is not accessing the throne room as they ought. Lord, I pray that you would teach them. Teach us, guide us, instruct us with the word this morning. We'll give you the praise and the glory for all that happens here today. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for standing. You may be seated Hebrews chapter ten, of course, this whole po portion of Scripture is very instructional into our High Priest Jesus Christ And the New Testament, the New Covenant that has been laid down, that every one of us here this morning that are Gentiles are able to access. Amen. Praise God. We find here within the text, Hebrews chapter 10 And verse number 19, a tremendous invitation into the holiest. Notice again in verse 19 he says, having therefore brethren boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. Notice verse 22 again. Let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water What an invitation is given to us today to come into the holiest and to fellowship and to commune and to pray and to worship the God of the true heaven. Now I I might be making a bit of an assumption here. I don't know how many of you might have Jewish blood in you here today. Maybe there are some that that have a lot of Jewish blood, maybe you have a little bit. I can tell you with a name like Wagner, I have almost none. I'm about as much of a Gentile as you can get. And maybe there's some of you could beat me, but uh I uh my my grandfather came over from Germany through Ellis Island They came in with it came in with my great-grandfather and uh and they were Wagners before that. It got switched to Wagner and uh and and Here I am and and on my mother's side uh I have Klinging Smith, which is another uh Jewish name I'm told. I I'm told I have a little bit of Native American, but outside of that, I'm about as much of a Gentile as you can get. I don't know that I have any Jewish blood in me. I as I stop and think about that, well I I pastor in an area right in Butler, Pennsylvania, I pastor in an area that is strongly German and Polish. That's our that's the background of the area Most of the people I pastor are Gentiles as Gentile get. Maybe you fit that category this morning. Think about this invitation given to us to come into the holiest, not just the holy place. But into the holiest. What an invitation is laid out in front of us. We've been invited now to come in, if you could with me this morning try to imagine the the Old Testament Tabernacle. It wouldn't be quite as large a room as this, but relatively close. I I've been to Israel and and into uh Shiloh where they say that the tabernacle was set up for 400 years and you can see still still see some of the sockets where the sideposts would have been in where the outer court was. Uh that inner tabernacle would have been much smaller than than this particular building. But if you could come into the tabernacle this morning with me, uh the the entrance door into the tabernacle would be facing east. I I feel like we're not quite truly facing east, but close to that. Probably a little kick over and we'd be looking right east. The outer tabernacle would uh door would look that way uh if as you came in through the the back doors, as it were, into the holy place Here near where the platform would be, would be the holiest of all, and that's that word that we see today, coming with boldness into the holiest. Could you imagine back in the times of the tabernacle, maybe some Moabite man or maybe an Edomite man, and he stands on the mountain looking down at the camp of Israel? They lay with, as I said, the tabernacle door facing east and and to the to the east of the tabernacle Three tribes are encamped by order. To the south, three tribes are encamped by order. To the west, three tribes are encamped by order. And to the north. Three tribes are encamped by order. There is a specific layout of the tabernacle, its outer courts. And above it, I can imagine there in the wilderness the glory of God sitting right over the holy place And you can imagine this Edomite man may look down upon the setting and the encampment of the children of Israel and say, Wow, what order. God, by the way, is a God of order. What order they and this maybe this Moabite man would journey down into the camp and and see the way the children of Israel encamp and how they they set out in their tents and And their booths, as it were. And maybe he comes to the outer court of the tabernacle. And his curiosity must just burn inside of him to be able to look and see what's going on inside those curtains What must it be like to be inside that place? Remember, these are the gods that destroyed Egypt. Boy. I wonder what goes on inside that court, inside those outer curtains, inside that tabernacle, that tent where the people of God gather around The man of God who speaks to God himself. What must it be like? And maybe he asks a man. I'd like to know what it's like to go in there Could you imagine as that Jewish man looks at the Edomite man and says, uh, uh sir, where are you from? Like who are you? What is your background? Well, I'm an Edomite man. Uh sir, there's no way that you can go inside That curtain inside that inner court of the tabernacle as an Edomite man, you're shut out by the law to three generations Even if you were to convert to Judaism, your children could not come in. Your grandchildren could not come in. Three generations would have to expire before your next generation could come in and actually see what's going on inside this this tabernacle. You run, sir, for you to come in, you'd almost have to be born anew You'd have to have some kind of new birth. You'd have to be born different to be able to come into this tabernacle. You're shut out on the outside. I wonder if we've got any Gentiles here this morning that can feel the isolation of being shut out from the outer court. We don't belong by our race, by our lineage. To be able to come into this tabernacle, we are shut out as it were We're told outside of the outer court later on in the temple period was a court called the court of the women. It's where the women could come into, they couldn't come into the inner court, but they could come to the outer court And outside of that place, God had ordered that they would make these brazen mirrors, these mirrors made out of brass. They polished them really well. And you can see your reflection. You can imagine all the women gathering up in front of those mirrors. That was where they were wont to gather. And maybe looking at them and say, make sure they get their Uh they're they're covering just right and what hair is showing is is is done right and they don't have anything on their face and maybe even some men of our day and age, uh so to call uh would come out there and uh check on themselves in those men but that was the women's court that was outside the inner court they weren't allowed they weren't allowed even though they had the right lineage uh they they weren't uh uh uh they weren't they weren't masculine they weren't allowed to Come in to the inner court But let's just say, let's just say we could pass that first barrier this morning. That our lineage is not right. By the way, if you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal savior He will never enter into the kingdom of God without a new birth, Jesus said in John chapter 3. Except a man be born again, he cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Later on he says, except a man be born again, he cannot even see the kingdom of God. You can't even come, much less see the kingdom of God until you've got a new birth. And brother, coming to church doesn't give you a new birth. Picking up a Bible doesn't give you a new birth. Putting on nice clothes doesn't give you a new birth. Being a member of a church and even going through the waters of baptism doesn't give you a new birth. You must be born again from the inside. That happens by grace through faith If it's happened to you, if something the size of God moved inside of your heart, you know it. If it's not happened inside of you, then no doubt there is some great amount of conviction that God is calling you and drawing you into this family. into this lineage, into the people of God, to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved would be the very first barrier to coming into the holiest. But let's imagine that we have the right lineage today and we can actually come into the inner court. Might I say to you, you're not allowed, even though you've got the right lineage to come into the inner court unless you've been cleansed. Old Testament law tells us in order to be ceremonial or spiritually cleansed. In fact, our brother was talking about the Ascension Psalms And the people of Israel, when they would journey from other parts of the land of Judea and Israel, and they'd come into the house of God, they would come to the lower portion, down below. Now Mount Moriah sits the highest, and below that is Mount Zion And at the base of Mount Zion, as the valleys, the Kidron valley and such flow together, there is a pool down there called the pool of Shalom. You'll remember that a blind man was sent there one time to wash You would start at the pool of Shalom and you would ceremonially cleanse in that mikvah. And then you would turn and coming up the pool of Shalom begin those ascension psalms. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord Uh you can still see the steps today that the Jewish people would climb up. You can't go all the way to the Temple Mount on them because of some private uh uh private property issues, but you can go part way up as those Jews would start to worship and sing those ascension songs or the songs of degree going up to the house of God. There had to be a cleansing before you ever came to the house of God. If you as a man had touched something unclean, maybe by chance you were out in the field and picked up a bone and realized that that was a human bone. You were unclean for seven days if you touched a dead body, if some if some sore or some uh oozing wound was on you uh until that thing healed up and then you were cleansed Are you you who are not allowed inside the house, the tabernacle of God? In order to be cleansed, we're told in the scriptures I believe Numbers chapter eighteen describes how you must take the take a red heifer and bring her the priest would gather her together and one priest would go outside of the camp And he would kill that heifer, and he would burn her, her her hide and her meat and her bones and her blood. He he would burn her to ashes, and then another priest would come with clean garments on And he would gather up the ashes of that red heifer, and that was for a water of cleansing. They would put water into these ashes, and then they would sprinkle that on the unclean. Had you somehow come in contact, touching something that was unclean, and become unclean on the third day, you'd have to be sprinkled with the ashes of a red heifer, and you were not clean until the seventh day. You weren't just allowed to come marching into the tabernacle. Look, I'm just coming to hang out. Here I am. Well, I tell you what, there's a lot of us that spiritually speaking ought to do more preparation in our hearts to come into the house of God. I wonder if oftentimes you come into this tabernacle, you come and hear the word of God preached from this desk, and you go out unchanged because you never prepared yourself to receive anything. We come in already dirty in our hearts. We come in already unprepared. Our minds are already somewhere else other than here And then we expect God to do something great for us. Maybe it'd be good for us to prepare ourselves and come into the house of God. You can't come in though your lineage is right. That's not enough for you to be able to enter into the into this holy place, much less the outer court, if you'd like to come in through the curtains of the outer court and enter into the to the inner court where the altar, the brazen altar and and that and that labor sets where the priests are killing the animals and the sacrifice, you ought to bring a sacrifice as well. You don't come in there without any purpose. You come in to do something. Now you're a Jewish man. You've got the right lineage, and you've come in with a sacrifice, and you've been ceremonially cleansed. And now you come into the inner court, and the first person that you're going to meet is a priest, wondering what kind of sacrifice you're about to offer. Is it a sin offering? We've got certain laws for a sin offering Is the thank offering? We've got certain laws for a thank offering. What kind of an offering? A trespass offering are you offering? What kind of an offering are you bringing in? After you instruct the priest, what kind of offering? Whether you've got a lamb or a bullock or whether you're bringing in turtle doves whatever your sacrifice might be, he would take that sacrifice from you and kill it in front of you. You would lay your hand on that, imputing upon that sacrifice your sin, and he would kill that animal, and then the animal would be parted off. Let me just say that the Sabbath day was not a day of rest for the priests. I could not imagine What Pastor Betrell would have to do, were he the priest, over a church like this, and every sin that you uh committed against the holy God, you had to bring some animal for him to butcher. That man would wear himself out on a Saturday trying to butcher all the animals that you would require. And the priest would have to cut those animals, and some of that would be burnt, and some of that would be given to the priest's family, and some of that would be the blood would be poured out. And some would be sprinkled, sometimes on the on the priest, sometimes on the altar, sometimes on the worshipper. But you come in with your sacrifice into the inner court. Uh these were all restrictive measures that keep you out. Once you come up to the altar, you can go no farther. Not only must you have the right birth to be able to come into the inner court, you must be cleansed, bring a sacrifice, have a purpose there. Psalms 24:13 says, Who shall ascend into the hill of God? Who shall come to this holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart. We don't have the technology today to be able to do this. But what if we could look inside your heart and see what's been going on? What if we could see your hands? The Bible says if you've not been a soul winner thus last week, Their blood their blood will be required at your hand. If Paul said, I am free. From the blood of all men. What Paul was saying is that every chance I got to witness, I've done the best I can. I didn't win everybody to Jesus, but I tried I at least gave them the gospel. I gave them the opportunity to accept it or reject it. And they may have rejected it, but I'm free from their blood, because I gave uh the best witness I possibly could to them. I wonder how many of us this morning could come and hold our hands up. The Bible says lifting up holy hands. Without wrath or doubting. Wonder how many of us don't lift up holy hands because we don't have holy hands to lift up. Clean hands and a pure heart. There's a lot of things that you can hide underneath the suit. There's a lot of things that you can hide, ladies, in a in a Sunday dress in our heart, things that other people can't see. We don't have a little window, we don't have a little screen that tells us whether our heart is clean. But I can tell you this: there's a God in heaven that knows. If we're to come in, we must come in clean if we're at expect to worship God in the beauty of holiness We can sing, we can make a beautiful sound with our mouth, but if it's not true in our heart, uh Lester Roach used to say it's as wicked to sing a lie as it is to tell a lie Sometimes we sing in our precious hymns some tremendous truths that don't apply to us because we never prepared ourselves. Must be cleansed. You must have the right lineage to go any further than the altar. The priests had their order. They came on rotation. They would work for several months, and then they would rotate out in a new company of priests would come in and begin to do the sac the sacrifice and the service of the altar and they would come in. They had to be sure that the fire of the altar never went out. Aaron's sons messed this up when they brought strange fire before the Lord and the fire of God came out and consumed them. Though their lineage was right, though they were leav they were they were children of Israel and they were in the Levitical priesthood, they had brought a strange fire before the God. And the fire of God came out and consumed them. They're in their garments, the priests' garments. Here they were. uh i as it were they had made everything else right but something wasn't right in their heart. Now they come before the altar and they had to make sure that the fire never went out. As they fed that fire, you can imagine a lot of ashes built up. If you've ever had a wood stove And one of the big things you have to deal with is getting all the ashes out. And the priest would gather those ashes of the altar and pour them out in an unclean place and get rid of them outside the camp and bring fresh wood in. There was a lot of work to do in the in the service of God. You can't go beyond this brazen altar. Brass, by the way, being a type of God's judgment. You can't go beyond the altar. You're not allowed beyond that. It's the job of the priest. From here on. You give your sacrifice and you receive your justification, as it were, and then you walk back out the tabernacle. The rest of this area is reserved to priests Brother, I can't even claim Jewish lineage. Much less to be ceremonially clean as according per according to the Old Testament law. And how would I dare come any closer to the holy place than the altar of judgment? And find that I'm not fit to go any farther, but let's assume this morning that we can go in beyond that brazen altar We find a labor that by the way, when the priest would come and he would wash his hands and cleanse himself continually, the closer we get to God, the more unclean we find ourselves. You don't get close to God and feel holier than thou You don't get close to the holiness of God and say, boy, aren't I something? No, no, no, no, no. Every person we've ever seen in the scripture that got close to God said, Woe is me. I am undone, I am unclean, I am not worthy. God uh depart from me. Moses said that at the burning bush. John said that on the Isle of Patmos and others that came in contact with God felt unworthy to be even in his presence Come to that laver, and as we're washing, that high polished laver would give a reflection of yourself. And that priest could see himself. He could see Not only on him he had to be a priest, he had to be Levitical, but he had to have the right garments on He didn't just come waltzing in there. The garments were cleansed by the ashes of the red heifer. The priest was cleansed. He was set aside and holy, and God warned him. Don't you ever come in here drunk if you've got alcohol in your system? God had a zero-tolerance policy for his priests being drunk. Silly argument today that God's okay with alcohol in the believer's life. Not if you believe the Bible. He said you're kings and priests unto our God Get a zero tolerance pol you want to claim the priesthood of believer, brother God has a zero tolerance policy for alcohol in his priests. In the Old Testament he said for kings, it is not for kings, O Lemuel. It is not for kings to drink wine or princes to drink strong drink. We have been set apart for God's service, and God expects us to be a certain kind of person As we come into uh closer and closer to the holy place, we find more and more restrictions. Our brother said in Sunday school he was talking about Korah and Dathan and a biram. You know what went on in the heart of Korah? He got looking at Moses and Aaron. He saw those priestly garments on Aaron. The linen and the epit and the bonnet And all those accruchments to the priests and Korah said, You take too much upon you, Moses and Aaron, seeing all the people are holy. He tried prematurely to claim priesthood of the believer, but he forgot the children of Israel at Mount Sinai said, don't let us hear the voice of God anymore. Moses, you go up. That's where the priesthood was established when the people of God said we're afraid of the thunderings and the lightning and the voice of God as he melts Mount Sinai You go up and talk to God and come and tell us what God has said. We want to go between between us and God. They have distanced themselves from the Lord. And the priesthood was established in Aaron and in his sons. And now Korah says, I think I should have the right to come. Well, Korah had the right lineage. He was a Jew. The 250 men with censors were Levites, but they were not the priesthood. Levites had other jobs within the tabernacle. Some of them had to carry the post for the outer court when the camp would move. Some would Some would carry the coverings of badger skin and such that covered over the tabernacle. Some would carry the altar Some would carry the labor, some would carry the golden candlestick, and some would carry the ark of God. They had their jobs, Mirari, and others would have their designated jobs to do, but it was not the priesthood. They weren't allowed And you know what God did after those 250 Levites that fell out with the rebellion of Korah? After God killed Korah, Dathan and Abiram swallowed them up. And the earth shut its mouth over against them, and they were the first to go down into the pit, body and soul into hell. You know what God did? Fire came out and killed the two hundred and fifty Levites who were carrying censures. And God said to Moses, You send Aaron and his sons in, to gather up all those censures out of their charred bodies Because that brass is sanctified unto God. And they brought the censors back, but they wouldn't use them as censors anymore. They beat them out into sheets and they made a covering. And you know what they covered with the with those beaten pieces of brass? Remember again, brass is a type of God's judgment. In the rebellion of those Levites, God took their censors and he covered the ark of God. The mercy seat of God was covered with a brass covering. out of the out of the rebellion of those men. God said, I'm going to make it even more of a distance for you to come close to me. Because if you're not of the priesthood You don't belong beyond the altar. You don't belong beyond believer. You can't even get into the holy place. Let's go into the holy place, if you will. Feed through those curtains and enter into this very special place. Without the light it would be pitch black. There were several different coverings that would go over this place And and if it weren't for on our left hand side a menorah burning brightly, and on our right hand side uh the table of showbread, and immediately in front of us the altar of incense, you wouldn't even know what the furniture was in there, were it not for the lamp burning. And you didn't just get to go in there because you were curious. Several years ago, my wife and I were in Israel and we got up on the Temple Mount. And uh I had been there one time before, but this time while I was there, they were working on on that on that uh that uh dome of the rock up there, and the door was open, and in curiosity, I wanted to go in I wasn't about to convert to be a Muslim, which is what's required for you to go in that place, that that shrine, but I was very curious, and I got as close as I could while the door was swung open, and I looked inside that little m Mosque and was peeking around inside that place until some people came out and didn't want me a Gentile Christian there and kind of shoo you on. You don't belong in here. This isn't for you Maybe with great curiosity we would want to look inside there. But it wasn't just any old priest who got to hang out in there. They had divisions and order of when they got to go. Remember Zacharias was in there to offer incense Remember John the Baptist's dad before John the Baptist was conceived and he went inside the holy place, he had the job of the incense, and he was going in there only to do that job and then get back out. It wasn't a hangout place. It was a holy place. He had to be a priest, he had to have his garments, he had to have a reason to be in there, he had to be given a designated order. Not everybody got to go in and do that. And while the people waited on the outside for Zacharias to come and he carried. Because the angel had met him there and told him about a man like no other men had come. John the Baptist would come and preach. Uh they were all wondering what's going on in there, what's happening? And he came out, he couldn't talk. And they said, Boy, he must have he must have talked to God. Something must have happened in there. But you and I, how do we come in there? I'm telling you, the Jews likely would not even let you come through the camp to the door of the tabernacle. And if you'd have tried to assault and run into the inner holy place into the outer inner court, I'm sure that some guard of the temple would have killed you, would have slain you with a sword, had you made it into the priest There's a bunch of men covered in blood holding knives and swords. They're not letting you by. And should you have run to the holy place and open up the curtain, if God hadn't killed you, one of those priests would have tackled you. You weren't allowed in there. Could we dare go one place closer? In beyond a veil, a special veil, I'm told that by its construction you could put that veil between two four-wheel drive pickup trucks And you couldn't tear that thing into two. It hung between the holy place and the holiest of all. Behind the holy the the veil uh in front of the holy place was a piece of furniture that was the holiest thing on the face of the earth. It was the ark of God. Inside of that piece of furniture were several items. There was a bowl of manna There was Aaron's rod that budded. And there were tablets of stone that had the law of God. Did you know every instrument that God placed inside that piece of furniture? Mankind had offended the holiness of God with. Remember when Moses got the stones and he came walking down off the mountain? And what do you see the children of Israel doing? Much like a lot of America today. They sat down to eat and they rose up to play, and they were naked to their shame before their enemies. When Moses saw that he took those tablets of stone that God had written with his own fingers and he broke them on the mountain. God said now I want you to make another set and you're going to put them in the ark as a memorial that I know more than gave you the law and you already broke it. The bowl of Nana, angels food. What did we say when we ate angels' food? When people got the opportunity, angels' food. They said, ah, we're bored of that. We're bored of that. We want me. Give us flesh. Isn't that what the people of America cry out for today? It's a desire for the flesh. that God's people, even God's people cry out for today. And they despise the manna that God had given them. So God said, you put a bowl of manna in that thing. Aaron's rod that budded. Do you remember what Aaron did Moses went up on the mountain, that thing was shaking and quaking and lightning and thunder and fire and the top of the mountain was melting and smoking. And Moses went up there and the people said, Well, he's gone Come on, let's make us some gods. Let's make us some leaders and go back to Egypt. As for this man, Moses, we don't know what happened to him, but he's been gone a long time, and nobody's carried any food up there or water to him. We figure he'd probably be dead by now. So Aaron Make us gods. And old Aaron was a compromising preacher. He sat there uh uh w rubbing his hands and nervous, he didn't know what to do, he didn't really want to leave the holiness of God, but he wanted to appease the people, so he said this. You look in your Bible He said, tomorrow is a day of worship unto the capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, Lord. You bring your golden earrings, throw them here before me. Aaron's account of the story was that he took these earrings, threw them in the fire, and now pop these calves. Wow. Do you know anything about smelting metals and metallurgy? You do not throw gold in a bonfire and it come out looking like a calf. Not gonna happen. God's account was that Aaron Aaron made them molten calves and then graved them with a graving tool. He was a liar and a compromiser. Meanwhile, remember what he was holding? Aaron's rod. And when God showed his favor upon the priesthood of Aaron, he made that rod bud and he said, You take that rod now and put it in the ark. All three items that we put in the ark were things that we had offended the holiness of God in. And then he covered that ark with holy cherubs. By the way, if you want to know how powerful a cherub is, Satan is a covering cherub. You think you can go up against the devil? That that that creature was made to be in the presence of a high and holy God. You'd last longer on the surface of the sun than you would the presence of God But Satan was designed to be able to be in the very presence of God. Even today, he walks into the throne room like he did in Job's day, and God said, Where have you been? Oh, walking to and so and up and down in the earth. And he he accuses the brethren before God. You couldn't even stand in your physical body before that holy God. Your body couldn't make the trip much less show up once you got there and be in one piece. These cherubs covered over the place where God would sit. It was a holy place. It wasn't just holy like the people of God were. It wasn't just holy like the outer court. It wasn't just holy like the instruments of the outer court. It wasn't holy like the holy place. It was holier than that. It was the holiest of all. The ark of God And the priest, not just any priest, the high priest was the only one allowed to go in there And he didn't go get to go whenever he wanted. So man, it's noisy and busy out here. Everybody's kind of talking and yapping, and I need a quiet place. Think I'll go into the holiest of all. And I'll just hide in there for a while. Bible says he better not. The only day he's allowed in is on the Day of Atonement. One day a year. And he better not come in there without the blood of atonement to atone for his own sins and the sins of the people. And he wasn't there to hang out. He was there to offer the blood before the mercy seat. I'm told, I've not found anywhere in scripture about this, but I'm told that that at times they would have bells The Bible didn't tell us about this, but history tells us that they would put bells around the fringe of the priest's garments so they could hear him while he's moving around in the holy place. And I'm told that at times they'd have a rope tied to his ankle. Again, I have no biblical record of this, but they said if that fellow were to die in there, nobody's going in for him. So they pull him out from underneath that that uh that uh uh veil, they pull him pull his dead body out just in case he had offended God. And he was the high priest, the highest of all. He was allowed only on the highest day, the Day of Atonement, and that not without the blood. Can I tell you, church, and I don't have much more time to preach on this, but can I just tell you, to have an invitation into the holiest ought to blow your mind. That God would let you come in? Could you imagine remember when the people of God uh they they lost the ark of God and it went to the Philistines, and the Philistines had it for a while and said, Man, we've got to get rid of this thing. And they sent it back all the way to Israel. And when it came into the land of Israel, the children of Israel were curious. They weren't priests, but they wanted to know what the Philistines had done with that ark. And they wondered if they stole those precious items outside the box. And so some of them, in great foolishness, looked at the lid of the ark and looked in to see if the law was in there. And the manna was in there, and the bud, the rod of Aaron that budded was in there. And when they looked in, the Spirit of God poured out upon them and killed thousands of them in that valley For disrespecting it. Remember when Uzzah tried to just settle the ark from shaking when David was moving it? And he reached out to steady the ark so it wouldn't break. And God smote him and killed him there. And they put called that place the breach of Uzzah from that day on. Would you if I set up in this day and age an exact replica of the tabernacle, would you march in there boldly? Well, maybe because you say you're not a priest, you aren't Moses, God didn't order you to do that, and the Ark of the Covenant's not in there. You might come boldly in out of curiosity to look through the thing. But let me tell you something, if you had any sense about you and you thought about the holiness of God, we'd come in and I don't know about you. I'd I'd peek through the veil. I'll send you in first, make sure you live. Then I'll come in and check it out. Can I tell you I wouldn't march in boldly? But God told us in the text, boldly, brother, walk in like you belong. Like you've got a right to be in there. What makes you think that you've got the right to come into the holiest of all? Do you know the holy of holies wasn't the holiest spot? It was the holiest place. But the closer we get to the to God and God Himself, by the way, God wasn't going to fit in a tabernacle I couldn't get my big toe into what you built. But he saw, the heavens of heavens don't can't contain me. You think I'm going to live inside the house that you built? But he said, I will put my presence Right there on that mercy seat underneath those cherubs, and I, God, will look unto that place, and I'll watch for when you put the blood of the atonement on the mercy seat. Oh, by the way. If you'd have named it, what would you have called it? You're God and you made this restrictive measure. The children of God get to camp around. The men of Israel get to come into the inner court. The priests get to come. among the among the altar and the labor. Uh and certain priests, higher priests, get to come within uh within the holy place. And only the high priest gets to come in the holiest of all. And only one time a year, and boy inside this box I've got a remembrance of all the times that you've offended and mocked and turned against me. And what kind of a seat would I put there? I'd put the great white throne right there. And I'd judge you for your sin. If it were me, it might be the beam seat of Christ, the judgment seat of Christ. It would be a judgment seat if I made it. But what did God call that seat sitting on top of that box? The mercy seat of God. I got so many verses I want to turn to, and I don't have time to turn them all. Let's go to Hebrews chapter 9 though. Hebrews chapter 9. While you go to Hebrews chapter 9, let me read Ephesians chapter 2. You're at Hebrews chapter 9, we'll begin when we get there at verse number 1, but Ephesians chapter 2, notice with me in verse number 6, the Bible says While in verse number three he said, Among whom also we have all had our conversation in time past in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. But God, thank the Lord for those two words. But God, who is rich in judgment. No, he didn't say judgment. But God, who is rich in wrath, boy, he didn't say wrath. But God, who is rich in mercy. Amen For his great love, wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. Hath quickened us together. How do you do that? With Christ, by grace are ye saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ. For by grace are ye saved through faith. No, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who call who are called uncircumcision by that which is called the circumcision in flesh made by hands That at that time ye were without Christ being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the Covenant of Promise. having no hope and without God in this world, but now in Christ Jesus, who ye who are sometimes afar off are made nigh by the blood of Jesus Christ. John MacArthur, he's tried to backpedal and then he throttles down on it again, has said over and over, it's not the blood. The blood of Jesus didn't do anything for you. He said, It's not special blood. It fell to the ground and turned to dust like anybody else's blood would. He said there are actually, he said, there are actually people Who believe that there is a literal fountain of literal blood somewhere up in the heaven where sinners literally wash their sins away. He said, what a silly song. I said John you may not have read Romans. Because he said Moses made a pattern, he made a copy of the true that is in heaven Amen. And Jesus told Mary, don't touch me. I've not yet ascended unto my Father. He ascended on high as a high priest. And he presented the blood. Not like the high priest of our day who had to give the sacrifice for his own sins, but he went in once for all and made atonement for us. Amen. who were Gentiles afar off. Look with me again at Hebrews and chapter 9. You're there. Hebrews chapter 9. Let's notice verse number 1 Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service and worldly sanctuary, where there was a tabernacle. Where there was a tabernacle made, the first wherein was a candlestick and the table and showbread, which is called the sanctuary, and after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the holiest of all which he he uh which had a golden censer and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about the gold roundabout with gold wherein was the golden pot that had manna and Aaron's rod that butted in the tables of the covenant And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercy seat, which we cannot now speak particularly. Now, when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God But into the second went the high priest alone, once every year, not without the blood, which he had offered for the people and for the error for himself and for the heirs of the people The Holy Ghost, this signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made while as the first tabernacle was standing. Which was a figure for the time then present, in which we're offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience which stood only in meats and drinks and divers washings and carnal ordinances imposed upon them until the time of Reformation. But Christ, Amen, being coming high priest, praise God, of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood. He entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of the heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh, how much more? shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve a living God. And for this cause he is the mediator of a New Testament. that by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions that were under their first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of a testator. God is saying here Jesus Christ offered himself once for all and opened up for us a way into the holiest. Praise God, the day that Jesus Christ died, our text said in Hebrews chapter 10 that he rent the veil. That veil was a picture of his flesh. And his flesh was broken for us when we observed the Lord's Supper. We take that bread and we remember the day that his body was broken for us. The veil, as it were, Hebrews 10 says, his flesh was opened up That centurion standing at the foot of the cross, seeing the earthquake and the sky go dark, and Jesus cry, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And un Lord, into thy hand I commend thy spirit and the dead coming out of the graves. And and the Bible says that the veil of the temple was rent in twain Some some uh Bible theologians suspect that where Jesus was crucified, you could have looked right into the eastern portion of the temple and looked right through and saw the veil which covered for the holy place and and he says because the scripture says when he saw these things he said surely this was the son of God Do you know some sorry priest had to go into that holy of place? Take down that ripped veil. And put that away, that picture God had given that the way into the holiest had been made plain. And try to cover again With a new veil, his own veil, his veil of flesh and dead works, and try to cover the holy place and keep people out. But I'm here to tell you that even us Gentiles have a way right into the holiest Not just to come into the inner court, not just to come beyond the brazen altar where our God suffices the wrath of God, not just to come to the labor where we find a washing a fresh and anew in Jesus Christ by the washing of the of the water of the word. Not just come into the tabernacle of the holy place and see that golden candlestick who is Jesus Christ the light and to see the table of so-bread, who is the bread of life, and the altar of incense, who is a sweet smelling savor unto God. But to come into the holiest of all. Amen. As he said in Hebrews 10, the holiest to come in there. And we don't just come before and what look at those cherubs covering the mercy seat. But the Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2, 6 that we are seated with Christ Jesus in heavenly places, as though it wasn't enough for God to have us come into the holy place. As a loving father, he reached down and took his son and set him right on our on his lap. And said, you're going to sit down on my throne, just like I sat down on my father's throne, and we'll all be one. It is a wonder, I'm sure, to all of heaven, that we don't spend more time at the holiest of all. It must shock the angels. All the Old Testament saints must wonder at us, who have free course right into the holiest. And we could spend a week. And if it weren't for how much we eat, we'd probably not pray at all. Many a church has a prayer meeting, and you can barely hit your knees before everybody's done, and it's over. That wasn't the old-time church brethren who had power with God. They got on their knees and they stayed in the holy place and wept and prayed and spent time with God and found power like our age has not yet seen. But you and I are invited to come boldly into the holiest of all. Why on earth don't we? Let's stand at our feet with heads bowed and our eyes closed. You've been very attentive this morning. I appreciate that. If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, there is an offer, an invitation given to you to come right into the holy the holiest. You don't need a priest to do the ministration for you, for there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus And he is waiting with open arms and an ear that is open to your cry. And whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You, if you don't know Jesus, can be saved and come right into the holiest. Some of you who've been saved many years have not spent many days on the mercy seat. And I can tell you when we get to heaven, we sing the song by and by when we look on his face. We'll wish we had given him more. We'll wish we had spent more time on that mercy seat, seated with Jesus in heavenly place. Right in the holiest. May God stir our hearts to come boldly and find grace to help in time of need. Father, We've asked you to meet with us this morning and your word has been spoken. Your word has been preached. You said that it would accomplish what you sent it out to do If there is somebody who needs to come and trust their Savior today, God let them come boldly and find grace to help. And 1 John you said that we can know that we have eternal life. I pray that they would know it before they leave the room today. God, for those who are children of God and they've grown distant and cold, more interested in the world than they are interested in the things of God. Lord, would you let us come closer and closer? and nearer, still nearer, close to thy heart. Lord, let us come right into the holiest of all with boldness. As a child and come and obtain grace to help. Grace to help. Ask in Jesus' precious name. Amen. As heads abowed and eyes are closed, the piano is playing. God spoke into your heart.