Alright, you guys ready to get started? Two boys were walking home from Sunday school after hearing strong preaching on the devil. One said to the other, What do you think about that Satan stuff? The other boy replied, Well, you know you know how Santa Claus turned out? It's probably just our dad. Research shows that laughing for two minutes is just as healthy as a twenty-minute jog. So I'm now sitting in the park laughing at the jogs. Oh my. Government regulation, you like this one. The Department of Water is there somebody from government regulation? The Department of Water Resources represented it stopped at a Texas ranch. He talks to an old rancher. He tells the rancher, I need to inspect your ranch for water allocation. The old rancher says, okay, but don't go in that field over there The water representative says, Mister, I have the authority of the federal government with me. You see this card? This card means I'm allowed to go wherever I wish on any agricultural land. No questions asked or answered. Have I made myself clear and do you understand? The old rancher nods politely and goes about his chores. Later the old rancher hears a loud scream and sees the water representative running for his life, and close behind him is the rancher's huge bull. The bull is gaining at every step The representative is clearly terrified, so the old rancher immediately throws down his tools, runs to the fence, and yells Show em your card, show him your card. So anyway, I think things are cute. Alright. Hey Mrs. Let's right talk first. Father, would you again bless our time together and Lord I I say I should please again give the words to say and Lord help us us uh in the word not to become angry that let's be in control of our emotion as well as our actions. Father again bless this time, bless my wife as well. She teaches a beauty Um I asked my wife before she walked in wherever I met her, I asked her, I said, Hey listen, am I an angry person? And uh her answer Oh no I did. So you ought to ask your wife too. I have, that's why. She said you have a tendency to But that um but that I'm not. I mean as far as getting angry. And by the way, all of if you're a man, there's time you're gonna get angry. You know the Bible says be angry and and that's a that can be a tough one. It really is You know, Caleb knew my father, Pessar, I'm sorry. We were brother-in-law, so. But anyway, my father was an angry man. There's no doubt about it. You know, my dad, he was a he my whole family's heavy, like super heavy. Dad died of a heart attack. Huge man. But Dan was a very angry man in the sense that if he got mad, now he was a teddy bear when he wasn't mad, but many when he was mad he would yell, all right? And so whatever was happening with you, everybody knew two blocks down the street. Uh I can't describe how that was. Now by the way, you know Yeah, I know the pendulum goes both directions. I think some fellows need to get angry. You know, there has to be things that you get upset about. You know, our sometimes and by the way it goes back to acting and reacting Okay. But people see how we and I'll use the word react, but how we and we're supposed to act. But people see how we react about certain things which teaches them something. What are you going to do with smite the scorner and the simple beware There's times that you're supposed to say, okay, that's enough. We're not gonna do that. Okay, so for instance, your kid doesn't make his bed, then you go into some listen, go back in your room and make your bed Okay? But once when he lies to you, we don't say, okay, just I'll never do that again. You know what I'm saying? So there our reaction is important As far as what we're talking about, what we're trying to do is not to lose control. Alright? You've got that book, but I'm going to go ahead and give you some answers as we walk through this. And if you've got your Bible, you can turn over to 2 Chronicles with me. 2 Chronicles Again, I'll do my best to try to stay with this. But what is anger? The definition I know I don't have a board to put it on, but the definition of anger is a violent passion of the mind excited by real or supposed injury. It's a violent passion of the mind. I get upset about things. Um and and then what happens is is whether it's real or supposed, I show it My family and I just got back or not got back. I don't remember what it was, it's too much a couple months ago. But we went to um Branson with my kids And uh it wasn't too long, but anyway I went to praise with my kid and my kid is twenty twenty-two and twenty-two my son, twenty-two years old, so I let him s schedule the escape room for the family. Alright, so he schedules escape room And we showed up now listen now I have eight with eight of us, my wife and I and six kids, and we're gonna do this escape escape room as a family, and I was really looking forward to it. And when I got to the escape room, the lady says, two other people, strangers started to walk in with us into the escape room. Well I'm from Kansas. You don't do that. When you register for an escape room, you registered for the escape room. It's ours. So I the two people, the strangers, walked in in front of us. I'm I said, we're not doing this So I walked back to the front desk with my whole family. And I said, hey, I'm sure there's just an escape. I said, we rented this escape room. There's eight of us. And you just put two more people that we don't even know in with the into the escape room with us. I said I prefer not to do that. And she says, well, our policy is that if there's open spots, we're allowed to put whoever we want. And I said, I kind of I wasn't happy. And the lady knew I wasn't happy. And I'm a pastor, so I'm not that's not I'm not yelling. I mean if I was my father. Listen here, you idiot. I didn't do that. But I gave her a hard time. It embarrassed my children. So the next day the kids they were at the hotel where we're at, and I left early and I went by that place at nine in the morning. Just to apologize to the stranger that I didn't know. Because you know what they did? I had offended her so much that they gave me an escape room for just my family. And I said, man, I'm not trying to hurt you with this in the first day. I'm not trying to hurt your feelings. I'm just saying I didn't know that that was the case. She says, well you did hurt my feelings. So the next day I went back and apologize to the workers that were there and say, listen, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to do that. I'm really sorry for being offensive. I don't want to be some I don't want to be that person. Guys, you know people that when you go to work or somebody maybe it's in your own house, you have to walk an egg cells around them. Because you don't know if they're gonna lose it or not. And I would guess the guys in this room, most of you are not like that But I will tell you this, inside every one of us is anger. How do you know that? Because Cain killed his brother. Alright? How do you know that? Jonah, the preacher that had the revival in Nineveh, it was God who said, Doest thou well to be angry? Right. Nebuchadnezzar through three guys in the primary first is because they wouldn't bow to an idol. I'm just trying to say that all that anger is in all of us, and so we have to make sure that we're careful how we react about it. The story is about Asa, who portrayed anger is Asa and here in 2 Chronicles, chapter number 16. If you guys have the Bible, I'm going to read a few verses with you. 2 Chronicles 16. I'll do my best to try to speed through this. In verse number one, it says, In the sixth year, in the thirty year of the reign of Asa, Basha king of Israel, came up against Judah So in other words, Israel, the ten tribes, come against Judah, the two tribes. Asa is the king of the two tribes, and he was a good king, by the way. Verse number two, then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasuries You notice the last part of the verse and sent them to Ben Hadad, King of Syria. So basically, instead of Asa going to God, he goes to the King of Syria and says, hey, listen, I need your help. The king of Israel with his ten tribes are are building a battlement against me, and I need you to go attack his country. All right, look what happens next Um verse number uh so all that takes place, jump down to verse number seven. And at that time Hanannah the seer, verse seven, the seer is the prophet, came to Asa, king of Judah. And said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria and not relied on the Lord thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria escaped out of thine hand. So here's what the prophet tells him, so listen You hired somebody else to get somebody off your back that were just gone to God, you'd have got him off your back and taken care of an enemy, all right, the king of Syria. So he didn't do that Verse number eight, he says, Were not the Ethiopians, the Lubims, a huge host, and very many chariots and horsemen, yet because thou dost rely on the Lord, he delivered them into thine hand. He's referring to chapter 14 that 20 years earlier, a million-man army came against him from the Ethiopians, and God killed them all. Alright, he took care of it. He says, You know, you rely upon God twenty years ago, but you can't rely upon God now. Look what he says next, verse number nine. For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth. To show himself strong on the behalf of those whose heart is perfect toward him, wherein thou hast done foolishly, therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars. Now look at his reaction. Alright, Asa was an independent Baptist. Look at ten. Verse 10. Then Asa was wroth with the seer. Now case in the people who sat in the church service got mad at the pastors before, don't don't nause it, don't say it. I'm just telling you. I pastored long enough. Can I say preachers are not, I know what you say, you can think whatever you want. Preachers are not trying to make you mad. Right. I can't speak for everybody, but I I'm I can't remember if I said this here or there or where I said it, but preachers don't preach sermons, preachers preach messages. That's a big difference. A sermon is informational message means somebody told me to tell you. Big difference. It's like a person sitting out a torrent. Oh you really slept on my toes. I can't tell you how many times a a man has come to me and said, did my wife talk to you? Come on Is if you're so important that I'm going to target you in a service. By the way, preacher be shooting himself in the foot if he had to target everybody Well you have more to do than try to figure out what you're doing in your home. You know why those kind of messages come across? Because there's a what? A Holy Spirit going on in your home. And if he's getting a message from God, God knows exactly what you need. So here he gets mad at the man of God. By the way, don't you think that's the craziest thing in the world to get mad at the messenger instead of get mad at God's trying to tell me something? Yeah. How many remember the day you had a newspaper? How many remember the days of the newspaper boy? How many were of the well were how many of you were a newspaper boy? Remember those days? Can you imagine as a newspaper boy, he's going down and what what's your first name again? Mark, Mark. Mark's going down as a young man, he throws out his papers, throws out his papers, throw out his papers, and the guy that comes down his side sidewalk or down to the he picks up the paper he opens it up and he reads all the bad news going on. You know, it's President Obama's president right now There was an earthquake that killed fifty thousand people. I mean ten planes went down. He's reading all this bad news. Can you mention the guy that came out of the house? Hey, Mark, come back here Mark comes back to the internet and says, Do you see this in the newspaper? 50,000 people died in the earthquake. President Obama is still president. And he slaps it. Says, I don't like the news. Joshua, it's the craziest thing for a person to get mad at the pastor. He's just the messenger boy. You know, the same thing happens with a soul warning. We tell somebody about Jesus Christ, and they get mad at us. We're not the one that told you you're a sinner on your way to hell. The Bible told you that Look what look what happens next now in verse number twelve. The Bible says and Asa in his thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased in his feet. Until the disease was exceeding great, yet and yet in his disease he sought not to the Lord but to the physician. And Asa slept with his fathers and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign. Alright, so obviously he was punished for what he had done as far as what he did wrong. I'll probably quickly go through uh practical ways of not being angry. But I just want to show you the three things that are mentioned in this passage here on why Asa became angry. Alrighty? And I I think it's the same three reasons why we become angry. And I want to tell you someone I want to I don't want to be that person. You know, my because my father by the way, I've used the word stupid while I was here, okay? I'm not even using the word idiot while I was here. That's because my dad used those words. I used a few other cuss words, but I mean jerk, you know, idiot, stupid, retarded. Are you dumb? Retarded? Yeah, and so growing up, those are them. And sometimes when I'm preaching th they they come out like that. But but can I just tell you that I don't want to be the person who loses control Alright. Alright, so let's look at the three reasons that Asa lost control, put the man of God in prison. I want you to notice the first one there in your book there and uh there's three reasons. The first one is not relying on the Lord. Not relying on the Lord Look what the Bible says here in verse number seven again, the middle of the verse says, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria and not relied on the Lord thy God. You know what? We wouldn't become what is anger? Anger is a heated passion that happens because of what are either real or supposed uh injury. Alright? In other words, a person makes a decision uh mentally in the heat of things because of the what what their perception is. Alright? Can I just tell you something? Our perception would not be what it is if we relied upon the Lord for everything I don't know if you can see how they balance themselves out. You know, when you get a flat tire, when somebody runs into your car, when bad things happen. Our first response is not about the person who ran in my car. My first response is, God, thank no one got killed. Our first response is God, what are you trying to teach me? Why am I late for something that I want to be on time for? God's got a purpose for everything. Can I just tell you anger would not be so much in our home and our family if our really our first reaction is to rely upon the Lord? What is the proverb He says, in all thy ways, and he shall direct that path. So if we got into a habit of asking the Lord about everything Then when something happened, there would be a God consciousness, not an anger reaction, but a God conscious of what God's doing in my life. Can I just tell you when a million-man army came against him 20 years earlier, his first reaction was God we can't do anything. We need you That was his reaction. What was his reaction when Israel comes against him? Hey, King of Syria, I need you to help me out. You know what happened? He lost the God consciousness of putting his trust and relying upon the Lord. Fellas, if we could get to the place where we did Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, it would change our lives. In not with just anger, but in everything. Alright, think about it. In in all thy ways, Him. Alright, what's the word all? All means? All. Okay, so I look at it this way. That means if I had a choice of which class I had to go to today, I would ask the Lord which one you want me to go to. That means when you get up now Chris I'm not at home so I I brought my clothes and when I was at home I asked the Lord which days I'm supposed to wear what and he shows me that So every morning when I get up and I go uh I first thing I do in the morning is I just get I leave a set of clothes, I put a set of clothes on and I leave the house. That's usually the first thing I do in the morning. And then I come back to get ready. So when I come back to get ready, I open up my underclosed drawer and I I ask my Lord, which pair do you want me to wear? Which t-shirt do you want me to wear And sometimes put a hand on the first one or second one. I don't even think this is crazy. And when I come to getting dressed, I have a whole world of pants tonight. Which pair of pants? Sometimes I don't get a direction, so I'll start touching each one of the hangers. You won't wear this one, you won't wear this one. And then when it comes to the shirt. Now I don't hear any voices, so don't think I'm crazy, okay? But if on all thy ways acknowledge him, is all thy ways acknowledge him, then we're supposed to pray about everything And if we could get to the place that we were God conscious about everything, anger would not even be a factor because the very first thing that we would think about is, okay, God, what are you doing? What do you want in my life Last night he cut us out to eat. And so when I look at a menu, I ask the Lord, do we need that? Now Uh when I go out to eat with my uh uh brother-in-law, he knows what's good. All right. So I asked the Lord before he even ordered, hey, what do you think? Let me just have whatever he orders And I'm sure glad I did because he had steak last night. I don't get steak very often. And uh so I I would exactly have. He had steak and french fries, I had steak and french fries. Man, was it a good meal Man, it was a good deal. Now I want to tell you something. I think that a person ought to acknowledge God in everything. And if you could get to the place where you were like finding God on everything, you wouldn't become angry because when anger started to happen, you'd acknowledge God God, what are you trying to do here? What are you trying to tell me? In all thy ways acknowledge him. What's the promise? He should direct thy paths. It's not a spooky thing. I mean you understand that God impresses upon our heart what he wants. What do you do during an invitation time when the pastor preaches, okay, heads bowed, eyes closed, if the Lord spoke to your heart, would you come? How why do people come to an altar? Because they are impressed by the Holy Spirit of God. Yeah, I want to talk to you. Get down to that altar. So all I'm trying to say is anger would not be such an issue in our life if we would rely upon the Lord, and rely upon the Lord just simply comes from acknowledging Him in everything You know when when when Israel came against uh Asa, his first thought should have been, okay God, you've done this before, what do you want to do this time? Right. Wrong thought. That's why he became angry. That's why he threw the man of God in prison. That's why he got the disease in his feet. That what that's why he died a year and a half later. I will tell you what, because he did not acknowledge God. Look at the second thing quickly. It's interesting. Not only on your book there you got he didn't not relying upon the Lord, second of all not accepting reproof. Of course we get that from Hananai. Hananai in verse number seven says, hey listen, you didn't in verse number eight he says, we're not the Ethiopians and the Lubims, a huge host, million-man army. He says, but you didn't listen. He said verse number nine for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro. In other words, here comes the man of God, and he pinpoints Hey, remember what Paul said in the last chapter of 2 Timothy 4? He said, preach the word. You remember that? Preach the word be what? It's an in-season out of season. Now what's in season? In season when it's not opportune. Out of season means when it's not when it is opportune. In season, outseason. When it's inopportune, when it's not opportune. Alright, so a preacher is supposed to preach when it's easy, when it's not easy. When he feels like it, when he doesn't feel like it. Alright? But here's the next thing He says, preach the word begins in in season, out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort. With all long-suffering and doctrine, right? Alright? Reprove means to bring to life. Rebuke means to scold sharply. Exhort means to urge by strong argument. Now, can I just tell you, what did Hananai do to Asa? He reproved him. You know what reprove means? Means to bring to life. Are you able to turn the lights on again, brother? Uh thank you. Well they go off completely. You still figure out what we're doing. Alright. Okay. That's right. If you can I don't have to do it. I just try to see. That's right, it's loosely like this. Okay, yeah, you have to pretend with me, okay? By the way, if you got that light off, it would be completely dark in here. Right? What's that? But then three can only Wow, I guess I don't know anybody in the dark. If it was completely dark in here and I was the only one with a flashlight, whatever I put that flashlight at fault was Don't become angry, okay? Whatever you put the flashlight on It brings it to light. If it was completely dark in here, the only thing you would see is what that light is upon. You know what God does in our life? He reproves us. Yeah. You know what reproof is? Reproof is when God brings something to light in our life, and then we have to decide what you turn it back on. Thank you so much. You then we have to decide whether or not we're going to accept the reproof that God brings into our life. Fellas, who's the hardest person it is to accept reproof from? Your wife. Your wife. And by the way, she's not supposed to be the leader. Believe me, I don't believe that at all. Okay, I believe that has to be the leader. You know, God reproves you from the Word of God. The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise. And we understand that reproof comes from the Word of God. We also understand that reproof comes from the pulpit as far as the preaching. We also understand that the reproof, according to John chapter 14, that the uh the spirit of truth, which he says uh the comforter, will reprove us. So we understand the Holy Spirit brings reproof into our life. Okay? And can I tell you sometimes God uses people too? You know, I had a guy one time, a person at his work who was a lost person, was was telling me, Listen, I don't want you doing this anymore, and he got all upset. I'm the Christian here. He doesn't know anything. Can I remind you that Nebuchadnezzar was a lost person, but yet God called him his servant? I'm just saying that sometimes God uses the most unopportune person to bring things to our light in our life Guys, can I tell you this? In criticism, not at all, in um in almost all criticism, there's usually an ounce of truth. Like for instance, we have a discrete church member A disgruntled church member doesn't really have a leg to stand on because they're backslidden, this is what they do, is they find one thing that's not quite right, and then they blow it way out of proportion. You know the problem with us as men is God breaking proven our life and so that's not true. Because we're looking at the proportion instead of looking at the ounce of truth. Yeah. Okay, so you know Okay, I can tell you my fault. Don't tell my wife, okay. She already knows it. You know, as far as my wife goes, I I knew before she ever said that I have hard time apologizing, I have hard time apologizing I know that. Uh I know, you know, I was going through that paper. Did you guys go through that paper when I asked you all questions about the response? I didn't like the paper. You know why I didn't like the paper? Because I I was not minding you I was the answer to almost every one. I might have had just one or two or three that would have been my wife and I got thinking, how do you write a whole paper about me? I kinda kinda felt bad about it. But there's an ounce of truth in that paper, whether I like it or not. Right. They won't tell you something the needle's going to cause you not to become angry. Accepting or improv. Accepting or improved Along with somebody who say listen that's not really what you should be doing or you know, you got angry. And you know how we do. I didn't get angry Really So again accepted reproof. Last one is not is this I want you to think about. Not only as far as Asa, not relying on the Lord not relying on the Lord, he not not accept the reproof, but the last one is not having a perfect heart with God. In verse number nine it says, For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro through the whole earth to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is what? Perfect toward him. I find this one interesting. Can I just say five minutes to spare it within I'll let you guys go early, but can you can you turn or turn over to Matthew chapter five? That word perfect is used in Matthew chapter five, the last verse of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew chapter five. Alright, last verse of Matthew five, of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. I think there's five things the Bible actually says you're supposed to copy God. We're supposed to copy God in love. We're supposed to copy God in forgiveness. We're supposed to copy God in mercy. We're supposed to copy God in holiness. Be ye hol Holy Prime Holy, we're supposed to copy God and last of all perfection And it's this verse right here, Matthew five, verse number forty-eight. The Bible says this it says, be ye therefore what? Perfect, even as your father which is in heaven is perfect. Now in context it you remember now, it used the word therefore. And whenever you find the word therefore, you have to find out what was said before that word Because he tells us everything and he says, okay, after we telling you everything, therefore, be perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect. What is that what is Matthew V talking about? Message number 5 says, hey listen, you said it's okay. You said that you shouldn't kill, I'm telling you you shouldn't hate your brother. You said that you shouldn't commit adultery, I'm telling you shouldn't lust everyone. You don't you say you shouldn't lie, I'm saying you shouldn't be taking oath So what is he trying to say? He's trying to say these are great commandments, these are least commandments, and I want to tell you what a perfect person is. A perfect person is one who's complete that does the great commandment and does the least commandment as well Are you all with me? So what causes a person to not become angry is a person whose perfect his heart is perfect toward God, he is trying to be the complete Christian, not a partial Christian. Guys, I'm gonna tell you something. Every one of you guys, we can have stand up. And there's things that we can say that are good about you. But if we're not careful, we become satisfied with all the goods. I get up and have my devotions, I provide for my family I try to tell people about Jesus Christ, I'm faithful to church. We get so comfortable with all the good things that we're doing that we don't mind allowing something like anger not to be a big issue. Now I'm just telling you something. You know why you become angry? Because your heart's not perfect toward God. You're not willing to get rid of even the little thing. But the little thing becomes a big thing. You know, I'll close with this. You guys have been very gracious. But when I was um, I'm very much like my father, and I know that, okay? You know, when I get to heaven I'll find out I'll have perfect knowledge then. But I I can be a very angry person because my father was, okay And I don't feel like I i i I'm I I don't expose that I I I very if it does have it's very rare and it's not and I don't yell. But um part of it's the grace of God. Part of it's the level of personal spirituality, part of it is how much scripture you put in. You know, thy word have I hidden my heart that I so it's just a combination of things But I will tell you this. There are times that I'm not where I should be. You know, my dad was alive. He died at 58. And um one of the last times I was with my father, I went back to Song Village. I was past I was pastoring ten years before my dad pastor, before my dad passed. I thought I'd take his church, but the Lord didn't let it happen. But anyway, I was I came back from Kansas to South Village in the Chicago area. And I came back for graduation And uh on that particular night, uh, we always did a parade after the at the end of the graduation. The graduates would get in the convertible, they would drive down the street, and everybody would follow them. And South Village only had 8,000 people in it. Okay And we'd all uh that we'd all drive around South Village, you know, I don't know if it was three miles or whatever, and we'd all hunt on horns and sh it was graduation night. We'd done it all the years I was growing up there until I graduated, we did it for the seniors. On that night, I was the visitor. I came home. We got in our cars. We did the parade through Saw Village. And when we got to the end of the parade, a police officer showed up. The police officer puts on his light and he gets out of his car. We've made our way back to the church and all the cars are starting to pull back in. And the police officer starts yelling at my dad. And of a very rare time in my dad's life that he didn't lose his temperature. It just, it's like my dad, and we're sorry shouldn't have happened. But I got mad. I looked over to my dad, and I'm an adult man. I said, what does this guy think he's doing? What what in the world? When I Did that something clicked in my dad and he lost it. Everybody from the school to church were there, and all the cars, they're all getting out of their cars. And my dad walks over that police officer and said, you get your car right now and shut your mouth. And he did. But when that happened, my heart smoked me because I was the one that caused it. I went home that night and I was so discouraged. You know Proverbs chapter twenty two, or twenty-four and twenty-five, says, you know, as far as uh being a uh being don't go with angry men, lest thou also be like unto them. I don't want to be that person that is the spark. So somebody becoming angry. I don't want to tell you how you don't do that. You rely on the Lord. I I want to tell you how you do that, you accept reproof. And how you do that, you keep your heart perfect toward God. Hey, if you keep the root right, the fruit's always gonna be good. You don't keep the root right, the fruit's always gonna be bad. Now I would guess from in here and none of you are are angry people. Well we're here. But I will tell you this. It's always going to be there I wish there was a day in my life I said I don't ever become angry. It's not. That's why Paul said I die. You've got to stay close to God. The closer you are to God, the less you're going to be angry. They're just simple things is all they are. Um I if you have I'm gonna go ahead and close that okay with you? All right, let's go ahead and pray. Heavenly Father, thank you again for the opportunity to talk about anger and what I ask you to speak up all of us.