Asking the Lord as we're going, I'm like, What are you sure you want me to preach on what I'm preaching on? I mean, I feel like I ought to be preaching on heaven, amen, about our going home. I was thinking about that until then and and uh the idea that, man, just looking forward to that day, amen, when we're called out of this world. Can I tell you that it's not going to be long It's not going to be long. The Lord is coming back. Maybe today, maybe tomorrow. We don't know exactly how long it's going to be, but it's not going to be long. In the grand scheme of things, in the course of life, our years are but a drop in the bucket. What is a life but a vapor that appears for a little time then vanisheth away? The years pass fast. Sometimes the days feel long, but the years pass fast. Anybody that's over the age of forty knows that. They know they pass fast. And uh thing what I'm saying is this we're not long for this world. We're not long for this world. But until then This weary world with all its toil and struggle may take its toll of misery and strife. The soul of man is like a waiting falcon when it is released, it's destined for the skies. But until then my heart will go on singing, until then with joy I'll carry on, until then the day of mine eyes behold that city. until the day God calls me home. Until then, beloved, we're called to serve and be faithful to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Until then, we're called to stand and be a light in this old dark world and that God may draw men into himself until then, until the day that we're taken out of here, we got a job to do. And there's only one way that we're going to be able to do that job, and that's the direction that I'm going this morning with the message that I have for you. Would you turn to 1 Samuel chapter number 10? 1 Samuel chapter number 10. If God will allow me, I try and draw from our lessons in Sunday school, from the passage of Scripture that we're looking through. Because we already studied these. We already we looked at we know the context of what's happening as we're studying the Old Testament survey in Sunday school. I would encourage any of you to come and And be a part of that. It'll give you a good foundation of what God was doing. History we know is his story. And uh that's what we're looking at, the Old Testament, what God was doing in the world and Ultimately, the delivering of His Son as we get to the New Testament. But seeing that week by week and studying those things can be a help to us And I have tried to, when I can, draw from that to further apply to our lives the truths that are there for us So if you're in 1 Samuel and chapter number 10, I want you to see our text verse for this morning. We are going to be looking at verse number 6. We've been studying the life of Saul, that man that was chosen to be the first king of Israel. He steps onto the scene. To lead God's people as a king. The first time. It's never been done before. Israel's never had a king before. But we see in our text that God gives him what he needs. 1 Samuel 10 and verse number 6. And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and thou shalt be turned into another man. The Spirit of God was going to come upon Saul, and although Saul would still be called Saul, and although Saul would still be Saul as an individual, with the Spirit of God he was going to be another man. And I would like to preach for you that to you this morning the message entitled Another Man. The same man, but another man. Beloved, we need God to do a work in our heart and our lives to change us. Into another man. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts as we try and preach this message this morning? Lord, we come to you right now. We're grateful for your love and your goodness, Lord That we pray that you would take the thoughts from your word, from what you did in the life of this man Saul, and anointing him and empowering him to do the work that he was called to do. Lord, we pray that we would see the ability that is there for us today to be another man. We don't have to live a life of discouragement and defeat. That we have the power of the Holy Spirit to live a life of victory. Lord, we are on the winning side. I pray, God, with your Spirit's power, we would claim the victory. Now we would be victorious Christians in the light that we ought to be until you call us home. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I have five points this morning, although they probably are not going to be very long. We're going to move through this relatively quickly. You know, in the Old Testament, the Spirit of God came upon men for a period of time. It was uh they were anointed or the Spirit of God came and dwelt on them for a particular plat task. We saw that with Samson. where the Spirit of God came and empowered him to do miraculous feats, even all the way at the very end, where the Spirit of God came and rested on him one last time and he was able to take more of the Philistines and the enemies of God out in his death than he did in his life. We see the Spirit of God coming and dwelling on Saul here, anointing him and empowering him to do a particular task. It is evident in the life of David with the killing of Goliath and the slaying of a lion and a bear and with the victory over his enemies that the Spirit of God came and dwelt on him in particular times. Well, you know, in the New Testament, at least I hope that you know, that in the New Testament, after Jesus Christ came and gave himself, that Jesus went up into heaven, he sended up into heaven, and he said, I will send unto you a comforter And that upon the moment of salvation, when you trust Jesus Christ, the Spirit of God comes and dwells in you. So we have the Spirit of God in our hearts 1 Corinthians 3. 16 says, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you I hope that if you put your faith and trust in Christ and ask him to forgive you of your sin, that you know that this morning, you know that you're saved, you know that you're forgiven. And you know the Holy Spirit dwells in you. The Holy Spirit does lots of things, and this is not a lesson on the Holy Spirit, but I want you to know he empowers you to do what God has called you to do. No man is able to be all that he needs to be this side of heaven outside of the power of the Holy Spirit. That is why, beloved, men go year after year still struggling with the same sin. That's why men continue to live failing Christian lives. The same battles that they were in last year. I'm talking this morning to Christians who are tired of being fruitless, tired of living powerless, tired of being defeated, tired of that repeat cycle of dedication and rededication, tired of empty Bible reading and uh powerless prayer Christians that want to see God do more, they are the same man, but they need to be made into another man. That you this morning, the Spirit of God, is available to you. God is there. You have been empowered by the Spirit of God to do what God calls you to be. You are the same man, but you can be another man. I'm talking about a new dad. A new mom, a new employee, a new husband, a new teacher, a new bus worker, a new nursery worker, a new soul winner. A new school teacher, a new parent, a new child. You can be the same child, but a new child. Such a drastic change can be brought into your life through the power of the Holy Spirit that your mate will be looking at you and saying, W What happened? How how how did you change so what has brought this about in your life? How is it you used to be an angry disgruntled person but now you have joy in your heart in your life? How did that happen? It is with the power of God. If we are going to live this side of heaven how God wants us to, we must be empowered by the Spirit of God. Let me give you some truths from this passage of Scripture I want you to see first of all that it is not size or fortitude that gives you the victory in your Christian life. Look in chapter 9, 1 Samuel chapter 9, in verse number 2. We see about this man Saul that he was head and shoulders above the rest. 1 Samuel 9. 2 says, and he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man. A goodly, and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people. Can I tell you that Saul had physical presence? Saul stood head and shoulders above everybody else. He had personality. When he came into a room, people took notice He commanded the presence of people, the attention of people. He just had that presence. There are some people that can come into a room and their demeanor and their stature and the way they are, they can blend into the crowd and people hardly even notice. There's other people when they come into the room, uh the whole room stops Whatever was going on, pauses. And they just command attention. That was how Saul was. Saul was a man that had personality, he had presence, he was head and shoulders above all the rest, but I can tell you that's not what gives you spiritual victory. That's not what empowers you to do what God wants you to do. It's not about your size or your fortitude. It is said of Paul, the Corinthians said of Paul, they said, your speech is contemptible. Your bodily presence is weak. They said, Paul, you're not much of a man. Paul, you can't hardly communicate that well. But beloved Paul was a giant for God. Because he had the Spirit of God empowering him to do the work of God. Paul was changed from Saul He was the same man, but he was another man. Saul used to be a persecutor of Christians. He was more zealous than all the rest in squashing out this rise of Christianity. But when God came on the scene and the Holy Spirit filled him, he was changed from Saul to Paul. Some of you this morning need to be changed You're the same man, but you need to be changed from an angry man to a happy man. You need to be changed from a bitter soul to a blessed soul. You need to be changed from somebody who is struggling with a particular sin to somebody who has victory over that sin. Because the Spirit of God wants to and can give you the victory this morning. We're told, beloved, to be filled with the Spirit in Ephesians 5, 17 and 18. Wherefore, be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. And be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. When you're filled with the Spirit of God, you're the same man, but you're another man. The example given there in Ephesians is a man that's drunk. You all know that a man that's drunk is the same man, but he's another man. He's completely different. You give uh alcohol or liquor to a man who is quiet and all of a sudden he's boisterous and loud. You give alcohol to a man who is voicerous and loud and all of a sudden he's sullen and despondent and in despair. Liquor changes a man. He'll do things under the influence of liquor he would never have done before. And can I tell you this morning that when you're under the influence of the power of the Holy Spirit of God, you can have victory in your life that you never had before I I have the most real example of of being changed, uh somebody doing what they wouldn't normally do in my own life, and I know some of you have heard of it before, so forgive me. It's just I'm gonna be here another twenty years, so you'll probably hear it another ten times. But uh I was uh working at uh Heritage uh Baptist Church Sermon. It was Saturday night I worked till about four o'clock in the morning. I I I actually climbed in bed about four a. m. , maybe four twenty or so. I had fallen asleep and around five o'clock in the morning, uh Somebody was in my bedroom and they were shaking my leg. And I had just gotten into a sleep. And I I woke up and I look up and here is a stranger. A man that I have never seen before in my life and haven't seen since standing there. And when I wake up, the alarm on my face alarmed him, and he jumps back and he goes, whoa, whoa, man, don't go ballistic on me. I just need some help And I said, You get out of my house and I'll talk about helping you. I convinced him to get out of my house. Now my gun, which I normally keep in my dresser, my dresser was on the other side of him. So what my gun wouldn't have done me any good if he was there to hurt me. But I went outside, he went out of the house, and I went outside to find out what the problem was, and he said, Man, my car is in the ditch. Can you pull me out of the ditch? Well his car was in the ditch, but it was in the ditch because he was drunk He had driven his car off the road into the ditch, and I said, well, I'll tell you what I can do. I can call you some help. They come in cars with red and blue lights on the top. And I'm sure that they'll be glad to help you. I'm not putting you back on the road where you can hurt somebody else. What I'm saying is this man, you would not in your right mind ever walk all the way into somebody's house, go all the way to their bedroom, and shake them. If you weren't if you were sober, the guy was out of his mind drunk. He didn't know what he was doing. And what I'm saying is when you're on You'll have victory in your life. You'll be the kind of witness You never thought you could be. You thought, where did that come from? I never spoke up like that before. I didn't even know I knew that stuff. Where did those scriptures come from? They came from the Spirit of God that came into your life and changed you. You're the same man, but you are another man. Being filled with the Spirit of God, God changed many men in the Word of God that the Spirit came on them. The maniac of Gadera was changed. Oh, that dishonest corrupt tax collector Zacchaeus was changed into an honest man who repaid all of his debts because he was the same man, but he was another man. Listen, when the Spirit of God comes, the drunk is made sober, the smoker is made a non-smoker, the drug-add-addicted drug addict is an ex-drug user, the God hater becomes a God lover, the the angry man becomes a happy man, the fearful man becomes a confident man, the critical man Becomes a kind man, the disobedient child becomes obedient child, God changes your life. All things are new when Jesus comes on the scene. Now you have to allow him to do this. At the moment of salvation, you have all of the Holy Spirit you're ever going to get. But you have to yield to him and allow him to take control of your life and be obedient, which we saw in Sunday school, how Saul did not do what he should have done, and therefore he did not yield to the spirit that God had put upon him and did not have victory. He could have, but he didn't. You can and I can. I want you to know, beloved, it's not size or fortitude. I want you to know it's not success or failure We see in chapter 9, verses 3 through 5, and those that were in Sunday school know the story of what happens here. Saul's father sends him out to find some donkeys. And the ass of Kish, Saul's fathers, were lost. And Kish said to Saul, his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, arise and go seek the asses. And he passed through Mount Ephraim, and he passed through the land of Shishel, and they found them not. They passed through the land, and they were they were not. And he passed through the land of the Benjamites, and they found them not. And when they were come to the land of Zif, Saul said to his servants, that was with him, come and let us return, lest my father leave caring for the asses and take thought for us. He says, Man, uh let's let's go back. Let's go home. Not only did Saul fail at the responsibility given him, But he was going to quit. He said, man, it's been three days. We've gone all these places. We've looked all these places. There's uh we can't find it. Let's go home. So what I'm saying is victory in the Christian life is not dependent upon past, success, or failure. You cannot determine what tomorrow will be based off of yesterday Too many of you are allowing Satan to come and sit on your shoulder and say, Oh, you tried that already. You thought you were going to be victorious, but you weren't And so no use even trying. You're letting Satan stand there and tell you that past failure defines your future, but it doesn't have to. You can, with the power of God, be victorious if you will yield to him and allow the Spirit of God to give you what you need to be victorious. Let me encourage you, please don't let past failure keep you from present victory. The Apostle Paul said, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling of Jesus Christ. Forget those things. Yesterday is done and gone. You can't do anything about it. Confess it, forsake it, and go on in the power of God to be what God wants you to be. It's not success or failure, beloved. It's not station or family. Look in 921 And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Wherefore then speakest thou to me? He says, listen, I come from a tribe that's nothing. And of that tribe that's nothing, we are the least of the families of that tribe. He's saying, I am nobody special. Now, unless you are an out-and-out narcissist, every one of us has felt that way in our life. I'm nobody special. I I I I I have nothing to offer. I I can't I can't do this. I don't know what and we look at it and say, well why would God of heaven empower me? Why would God use me to do this? Why would God Enable me to do that. But I want you to know, beloved, it's not your station, it's not who you are in yourself, it's who you are in Jesus Christ. That's what Saul found out. Saul was saying, I'm a nobody. There's no reason anybody should be looking at me Yet God came on the scene and says, I'm gonna, you're gonna be the same man, but you're gonna be another man. Another man. General Booth, in a conversation with Queen Victoria, she said to him, Mr. Booth, you are not very talented, are you? Mr. Booth said, no, I'm not. She went on and said, You appear to have very little to no education, Mr. Booth. And he says, No, ma'am, I'm not very educated. She went on, she says, Then why tell me, is God using you in such a mighty way? He said, I guess, ma'am, although there's not much of me, God has it all. And that's the difference, dear friend. It's not about how big we are or how special we are or our family or our size, our fortitude, our success. That's not what it's about. It's how submitted we are to the Spirit of God. How much we allow God to work in our lives, we can be the same man but another man. Are you submitted, turned over to him completely? The old time saying, lock, stock, and barrel. If we're going to be victorious, I want you to know that's because of salvation and forgiveness. Look at chapter ten and verse number one. We see in chapter ten, verse number one, then Samuel took a vial of oil and poured it upon his head and kissed him and said, Is it not because the Lord hath anointed thee? to be captain over his inheritance? Can I tell you that God chose him God went out among all of those men that were there, that were available, the children of Israel. God went to him and God chose him. Can I tell you this morning that God has chosen you? God has a task for you that God of heaven, the creator of the universe, sent his Son to die on a cross, and He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The portals of heaven to over 2,000 years ago, and he saw your wretched soul, and he said, My son is gonna die. That that man, that that lady could have a savior named Jesus God wants you to put your faith and trust in Him, to ask Him to forgive you of your sin. It's salvation and forgiveness. How we get the Spirit of God and His power in our life. Jesus came down into this sin-sick world and died to purchase the redemption for men. Then, as you begin to grow in your life, God, through circumstances, begins to draw you to himself. Many times there's heartache, there's trial, there's things that have happened, and each of you here could describe and tell the story in your life of what God used to draw you to Him. God did not just leave you. You didn't go find God. God was searching for you. He chose you. He came to where you were and he sent men into your path to say, hey, what you need is Jesus Christ. Don't turn away from him. Come back to him. There was men that God used to draw you to himself. There were messages that God used to draw you to himself. Sometimes there might have been some hardship that God used where you would look up because you had nowhere else to look. And God was drawing you to Himself. God might be drawing somebody here today. You don't know for sure your sins are forgiven. I want you to know God wants to save you today. He wants to forgive you of your sins. He wants to give you the power of the Holy Spirit to live a changed life. It's salvation and forgiveness. The moment that you yielded to Him and called out for salvation, can I tell you that as a child of God, He anointed you? There are those that talk about a second anointing, a third anointing, getting the the Holy Spirit, but I want you to understand a lot of that is semantics. Because the Holy Spirit, we believe in the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. We believe they are all God and they're all one. They're individual. And they are one. How do you explain that? We'll we'll get to explain it real good when we're in heaven. Right now we can try, but can't really understand all that with our finite brains. But the Bible says it and I believe it. I hope I hope you believe it. Well that's what we believe. Well if you say, Well, God the Father, we think about him. God the Son, and we say, Oh yeah, we we understand that. God the Holy Spirit, uh well can I tell you, if the Holy Spirit came and dwelt in you, you didn't just get the foot You didn't just get the arm. He is a V. He's an individual. The Holy Spirit came and dwelt in you. You got all of the Holy Spirit that you're going to get. You don't over the course of your life get more and more of the Holy Spirit. The description there in the Bible in Ephesians saying to be filled with the Holy Spirit kind of gives us the idea that we can Maybe get more and more of it. But I believe that what the Bible teaches is that you have all the Holy Spirit you're ever going to get right now. The difference is how yielded are you to the Holy Spirit? How much of you does the Holy Spirit have? Being filled with the Spirit really is being 100% turned over to Him. Being yielded to Him, letting the Holy Spirit have command control of your life and empower you to do what God wants you to do. The problem is most of us want to do our own thing, and then we call out for the power of the Holy Spirit in our moment of need. We've been running our own life, doing our own thing, running our own way, and in our hour of need we say, wait, I need some power. And the Holy Spirit's like, whoa, whoa, wait. When you've been yielded to him, he will empower you to do what God wants you to be. You'll be another man. You see, beloved, we're never commanded to be sealed by the Spirit, or sealed in the Spirit, or of the Spirit. We're not commanded to do that because that's a work that He does That is done at the moment of salvation. You're sealed. That's done. It's not on us. We're not commanded to be indwelt by the Spirit. At the moment of salvation, the Holy Spirit dwells in you. Know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Ghost? The Spirit of God dwells in you, but we are commanded to be filled, and that is to be yielded to Him, to let the Holy Spirit have His will and a way in our life. The problem is, is many of us want to lie to the Holy Spirit. We want to resist the Holy Spirit. We want to grieve the Holy Spirit. We want to quench the Holy Spirit. And then in our hour of need, we want to call upon the Holy Spirit. But if we're going to be another man We need to be yielded to the Holy Spirit. It starts with salvation and forgiveness and ultimately is accomplished through submission and following. When you and I are filled, it results in some things happening in our life. First of all, I want you to know that you're a different man Look in chapter 10 and verse number 9. Chapter 10 and verse number 9, he says, And it was so that when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him Another heart. And all the signs came to pass that day. You need a new heart? Another heart. You're changed into another man. God gave him another heart. Can I tell you that when you submit to the Lord, your heart desires change? The Bible tells us very clearly that our own heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Man can't even know the desires and directions of his own heart. And yet we can have another heart from God. A heart that's yielded and directed by Him We know that when God was calling, took his spirit off of Saul and was going to anoint David. Samuel was going and he was looking at David's brothers. And that familiar passage of scripture that We love to look at because we want to live how we want to live and do what we want to do instead of be what God wants us to be. And we like to quote this verse. But the Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance, for on or his height of his stature, because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. And what he's saying is how yielded is the heart of that man. It's not his size or stature. It's not his family. It's not his success. It's not the things that you look at and say, boy, that man is going to be the king of kings. That guy's going to hit a home run every time. I remember a few times picking up uh uh teams for softball. And uh, you know, you've got people that you've never played with before you don't know, and you see this great big old guy and you're like, that guy's gonna hit it out of the park. And you you're looking at him, you're like, all right, you you pick him and you get him on your team, and the guy strikes out. He he can't he cannot hit a ball for anything, and you're like, oh no. I thought he was going to get some home runs for us, you know. You look at the size, you looked at the man, you thought, boy, that guy is going to do it for us. But God's saying, hey, it's not about the outward appearance It's what is his heart like. And beloved, the heart of man is desperately wicked, but we can have a new heart. Given to us by God. I was talking to a young man just this week as I was out with Tim and some other young men were there, and I was talking to them about how God gives you the desire of your heart. And ultimately, it starts with God giving you the right desire. God giving you the desire of your heart is not that you just get whatever it is your heart wants. But God changed your want to be what He wants. And your desires and your passions and your focus changes because you have the same heart, but you have another heart given to you by God. Saul was given some signs that these things were going to come to pass, that he was going to be the next king, and that God had empowered him. We're not going to read all of the verses, but chapter 10, verses 2 through 4, there he describes it. There's three things he says is going to happen. First of all, the donkeys that you were looking for, well, they're found. Can I tell you when you yield to God, some of the stuff that you were laboring over, trying to figure out a way to solve, trying to figure out what to do, that God takes care of those things? Saul was out looking for three days trying to find these things and couldn't find them anywhere. He comes and he yields to God, and God in his power says, Hey, that problem you had, that's taken care of. Can I tell you, sometimes the reason you're not yielded is because you think you've got to fix everything first or you've got to solve these problems first. But if we would yield to God, some of those things God would just take care of He says, Hey, those donkeys you're looking for, they're found. Can I tell you that he goes on? He says, When you go down the road a little further, you're going to find three men, and you know what? Those three men have some food for you. They got some bread and some wine and they're going to feed you. They're going to give you sustenance You know the Bible still says my God shall supply all your needs, according to his riches and glory. I don't know about you, but I'm telling you to me this is rich. This is powerful. See in this in the story of Saul and how He came to God and he yielded to him, and immediately the problem that he had God solved. Immediately God says, Hey, I know you have needs in your life, but don't worry about those needs Because I'm going to take care of them. My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Not all your wants, not every car you ever thought you needed or would like to have, but he's going to preside provide your needs. And I praise God that your needs will be met. God is going to do that for you. If you would yield to Him and allow Him to lead you in your life instead of taking the reins back and doing what you want to do Boy, and he says, then you're going to go a little further and you're going to find some prophets. Some men that you're going to meet. They're going to give you some direction. Can I tell you that when you come to God, you get some new friends? When you start yielding to him and your life begins to change, old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. You start to get some new friends. Some other people that desire to be pleasing to God, other people that would encourage you in your faith and you encourage and strengthen one another. If you want things to be different, you have got to do different things. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. There's going to be some signs of faithfulness. In our walk. God calls us to walk worthy, to walk worthy of God. The location that He's called us to, are you walking worthy? Is your walk different today? Can I ask you, have you ever been accused of being a Christian You know, uh growing up, many times we were in another town, another city. We'd be on vacation and traveling and Many times growing up I remember people we would meet in gas stations and hotels and and uh theme parks and And wherever we were, people would would say to my father, they would say, You know what? I knew you were a preacher as soon as I met you. I was just waiting for it to come out. You know. They're like, I just knew there was something y y I I just you just had that look. Uh Dad was a truck driver for six years and his handle on the C V radio was the Silver Preacher. And uh he he would be on the on the road and he was the silver preacher and that was fun when we got to ride with him. But listen, people recognized him in tollbooth. We'd be driving, we'd go through a toll booth and somebody would say, Hey, Roger Bontreau, Pastor Montreux, good to see you. Now there's no people in the toll booth, it's all electronic, but I'm saying, does somebody recognize you as a Christian? Can somebody look at you and say, boy, I saw Jesus in you Do you have a new walk that is sufficiently different? Is the fruit of the Christian life evidence? The Holy Spirit of God will produce that. It is the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, these things is the fruit of the Spirit. And those things will be part of your life if you're allowing the Spirit to lead. You'll have a new walk. Lee Robertson used to say: your daily contact with headquarters must have five things. Daily Bible reading, daily prayer, daily worship, daily meditation, and daily dedication. The five things in your new walk with Jesus Christ. Do you have a new walk? Do you have some new wants? Have your wants been changed? We see in 1 Samuel chapter 10, verse number eleven, if you would look there with me. And it came to pass when all that knew him before time saw that. Behold, he prophesied among the prophets. Then the people said one to another, What is this that has come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets? You see, beloved, they saw him there and they saw what he was doing as a new man, as a changed man, and everyone that knew him before looked at him and said, Whoa! Is that Saul with the prophets? Is that Saul over there? Is he one of the prophets now? Is he somehow empowered by God to prophesy? They noticed that something had changed. Can I ask you this morning? Do people see a change in you? Do they take a second look and say, wait a minute, is that so-and-so on their way to church? Is that so-and-so carrying a Bible? Is that so-and-so being a witness? Is that so-and-so standing for Jesus Christ? Is that so-and-so whose light is shining? Are you a changed man this morning? D. L. Moody was holding a meeting in Chicago and nothing was happening. It was dead and it was dry and he called for a prayer meeting of all those that were preaching or involved in the services all around the city of Chicago. They gathered together ministers and preachers from pulpits from every corner of the city gathered to pray with him in one morning. He prayed, Oh God, give us ministers in every pulpit this Lord's day in Chicago, men that are filled with the Spirit of God Those men went from the prayer meeting that day and they walked to their pulpits. The same man that had before preached, the same messages that they had before preached, but they stood in the pulpits that morning. And the people all over the city were saying, is this our preacher? It is our preacher, but it's not our preacher. He is the same man, but he's a different man. What I'm saying is you're the same man. There's no question about that, but are you another man? A changed man by the power of God. You can be. Have you ever invited anybody over for dinner? And you were being very honest with them. You told them, listen, make yourself at home. Eat as much as you want to eat. Dig in, there's plenty. There's more in the kitchen. What's here, this is not even all we have. And you see that they just kind of nibble at their food. You know they don't eat like that at home. They're sitting there just nibbling, just you know, eating enough for a hummingbird And and you're like, eat up, eat up, come on, there's more where this came from. I got I got three pies in the kitchen. You gotta eat some of this or we're gonna be sitting at home with you. You know, you you're you're like, come on, eat up, and they're just nibbling at the food. Listen, I think sometimes that's how the Holy Spirit is. He's called and He says, you can be filled with the Spirit of God. You can have power that you can't even imagine to live the Christian life that God wants you to live if you would yield to Him and instead of getting full of the Holy Spirit, instead of being yielded completely to the Holy Spirit, we're just nibbling We're just playing around with it a little bit here. Oh yeah, maybe a little here, maybe a little there. Instead of being all that we could be in God, we're playing church I ask you this morning, are you tired of being full of self instead of being full of the Spirit Are you tired of failing again and again? What we need is to be changed into another man. Changed into another lady Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed