And uh how God called this man, who was a publican and a sinner, to work to ministry. Look in Matthew chapter number nine, verses nine through fifteen. He says, And Jesus passed forth from thence and saw a man named Matthew sitting in the receipt of customs, and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. And it came to pass as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinners? For when Jesus heard that he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician. But they that are sick. But go ye and learn what that meaneth. I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. Then came to him the disciple of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast off, but the disciples fast not? Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridegroom mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? For the day will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and they shall fast. This morning we dealt with and talked about the idea of almost almost committing to Christ, almost following through, almost being what God wants you to be. I've personally been challenged by the level of commitment and surrender uh that the missionaries uh that we have i in our uh church family, the missionaries that we support that that commit to go around the world and and you see their level of commitment and you see their level of fervency to to go after Christ and And I was very stirred and challenged by Nitin and and his uh tenacity and and drive to to make a difference. in his home country, uh for for Christ because of what Christ did to him and him realizing the need and and just going all out to to reach his countrymen for the Lord and Savior. You know, in contrast to that kind of person is the average Christian That when they come to Christ they only take a step or two. They just barely leave the gate, as it were It's almost as though Satan has them on a leash. They're saved, they're on their way to heaven, but it's you know, I I think about our dog Odie and and you know, he's been on this leash for a long time. He knows how long the lease is, but he still runs to the end of it all the time, you know. He'll be out in the yard, he'll be excited about something and he'll he'll run after something. And you're like, oh, that had to hurt. Oh wow. Because he mean he just runs to the end of the leash and the leash just stops him and pulls him back. Sometimes I think Satan's got Christians in that kind of a grab. Or they're taking a step for God, or they're going start, well, I'm going to go for the Lord, and yet they've left too many things in their life, and that leash is still attached, and Satan's able to pull them back. We want to see Christ free Christians to accomplish and do all that God wants him to do. He didn't just free us from the bondage of sin, but he freed us to be successful Christians. Tonight from this story of Matthew, I want you to see a life of a saint who gave it all. who was called and committed and and did what God wanted him to do. First of all, we see the character of this man, Matthew. This man we see that he was a man that you know it verse number ten and it came to pass as Jesus Jesus sat at meat in the house. Behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples. And they saw it. The Pharisees said, Why eateth your master with publicans and sinners? There's a great contrast between Matthew the apostle and Matthew the apostate And you know what, beloved, there should be a contrast between somebody who has come to Christ and somebody who is still yet to find Christ. There should be a big difference in our lives. Christ should make a difference in our lives. Now I know, especially in today's world, maybe as popular as it's ever been or more popular than it's ever been, the mindset or the idea that, hey, Christ loves you the way you are. You are who you are. You're fearfully and wonderfully made and God loves you just like that. And you know what? That is true. But I believe it was Spurgeon who said he loves you too much to leave you that way. And the fact is, is God wants to bring about change in our lives. Salvation is supposed to bring about change. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. There is been and there has been a great change since Jesus came into my heart. I don't know if he's made a great change for you, but Every Christian that I've seen that grabbed a hold of salvation and understood what God did for them, it brought about change in their life. Now there's numerous that have professed or said they they believed on Jesus Christ, but there has been no change. There's been no difference. There's been no desire or drive to to know God or be what God wants, and you wonder. Did they get saved? Did Jesus Christ redeem them of their sin? Christ should make a difference. There should be a contrast between one who's come to Christ and one who is yet to Matthew was a tax collector. A tax collector for the Roman government. There's a couple of things wrong with that statement. I mean, you you throw government and taxes together, that gets uh gets uncomfortable or bad for everybody. You see, the Roman government would set themselves up as God. You know, the statement, there is no God but Caesar. Caesar was God. The Roman government established themselves in this government was everything. It was the ultimate benefactor. And men were to look at government in that regard. And the Roman government would put a burdensome tax on all the people. So Rome would find individuals that would be willing to be loyal to Rome and collect that tax. And turn it over. People knew what these tax collectors were. It was understood by all that The tax collector, the the duty, what was owed, might be, you know, two talents, but the tax collector, if he could get it, he might look over here at Eli and say, Man, these are spit. fifty dresser and look at them shoes he's got on. I bet he could afford five talents. Your tax is five talents. Everybody knew that the tax collectors did that. And anything above and beyond that he could he could swindle people out of, he could pad his pockets with. It was understood, and everybody knew that this was the kind of person that a tax collector was. Matthew was involved in this bad business. Tax collectors were the kind of people that really didn't care what anybody thought. It didn't matter to them that people knew they were cheats and swindlers. That didn't matter. Because he was earning money. They were universally despised or hated. In Palestine, they were actually put on par with harlots. Tax collectors were put on level a level of the harlot. But this didn't matter to Matthew because he was engaged in this occupation, he could get more money than in any other occupation. To him, the attainment of that wealth was more valuable than what people thought of him, than doing right. Money was the driving force. And we look down on that with shame, don't we? Why, how in the world could he do that? Have no scruples at all. No, no uh desire. I mean, it's just shameful, this man. And yet it's not too far from the way we live our lives. I'm not gonna say not what we would say, but I'm talking about the way we live, what we do. You know, you you take a job that pays well. You take it because it pays well, even though you know you're gonna have to serve alcohol. You say, well, I I have a belief against that, a conviction against that, but this job pays good. So the acquirement, the attainment of money is more valuable than your scruples, then your integrity. You see what we say speaks a lot louder than what I'm sorry, what we do speaks a lot louder than what we say. That's the truth of it. You know, you take a job that requires you to miss church God is the most important thing in my life. I love him more than anything else. I'm going to put him first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Amen. Amen. But then there's a job that comes along that offers a little bit more pay than what you currently have and you take it and you say, Well, yeah, I'm gonna have to miss church, you know, two Sundays a month, but So the attainment and acquirement of of that wealth is more important. You know, I was pondering this thought and I believe that our relationship with Jesus Christ and the church we attend is of utmost and vital importance to our life. And we encourage and true and we we tell people, you know, hey, don't follow the dollar. God's will is not determined by the dollar. Right. But you know, as I pondered that, I'll bet you if you went you can go to any church in America, any church you want, if a church is running 500 I'll bet you can't find five people in that church that moved there for that church to be in that church. But I'll bet you out of 500 you could find 400 plus that moved to that area for a job and then they found the church. So you tell me what is the way we live, say. Are we very much different than Matthew? The publican? This man was a tax collector. He was a sinner. Not only was he considered dishonest. But he was considered disloyal, for he would gladly throw his own countrymen under the bus for wealth. They looked at him as even worse because he actually was part of their tribe. He was actually part of their people, and yet they he would betray them and take their money and give it to Rome. He was he he was not only dishonest, he was disloyal. I suppose by every indication we have here, this man, Matthew, was as secular as you could get. He had no commitment to Christ and no desire for righteousness. And yet I want you to see the call of Matthew. That's the kind of character Matthew had. But we see here in the scriptures the call. And Jesus passed forth from thence, and he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the receipt of the Matt. And he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. Jesus came by and called Matthew. Jesus' calling of Matthew assures you and I of the truth that Jesus came to seek and to save that which is lost. Jesus came to save sinners. Jesus came to reach those who were unreachable, those who were bound for hell and need to be on their way to heaven. Jesus was not just looking for the righteous. But he states very clearly in verse number 12. He said, But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, That they that behold need not a physician, but they that are sick. Go ye learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy and not sacrifice, for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repent. I praise God tonight that Jesus came for sinners. Because I fit in that category. Jesus came to save sinners and he reached down to this man that everybody else in the community looked at as a publican, as a sinner, as somebody that you wouldn't want to be around, that you wouldn't want to hang with, that wouldn't be worthy of your time, and yet Jesus walked by and called him. Are you thankful tonight for the time when Jesus called you? When Jesus reached down to where you were and called you. I see Matt back here holding his arms around his two kids, raising his kids up in church. I think back to the time when Backyard Bible Club was in their neighborhood. They'd been invited to come to Bible Club and Melissa wanted to go to Bible Club So like a good parent, they said, well we want to go and see what this is. We're not just going to send the kid down there all by himself. We don't even know those people They came and saw it. Came to church the following week. I was able to go to their house and present the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Both he and his wife bowed their head in their living room. Jesus called them that day. They trusted Jesus Christ. And now for these many years they've been raising their kids. I mean you you Matt comes from a rough from a rough background. We used to go pick him up. I loaned him my car one night. He took my car to where he lived and and it got butt broken into. They ripped the steering column out and everything else. That's the kind of neighborhood he lived in. He can't God saved him out of that. And God saved you from where you came from. Jesus came to seek and save the unrighteous sinners. And he reached down and grabbed Matthew when nobody else would. Those Pharisees, those other religious people around there, they looked and they're like, why is Jesus, why is your master talking to that center? Because he needs a savior. The call. It's amazing. I think about Matthew. His own life looking at this situation. He might have watched Jesus from a distance. He might have seen the life-changing power of Christ and what he did for people He might have seen lame people walk in blind given sight. Matthew probably from a distance watched some of these things, and he might have, in his heart, hungered to know this man, to know Christ. But he probably was bound by shame and thought he wouldn't have anything to do with me. Jesus wouldn't want to spend any time with me. That master who's who's changing lives and giving hope to the hopeless Wouldn't want to spend time with me. He might have already faced the fact that his life of self-serving sin was unfulfilling and left him empty He would gladly give it all up to know the fulfillment that comes from Jesus Christ. Yet he didn't go after Christ. Christ went after him. Christ found him. Matthew might have felt completely unworthy. He saw himself as who he was, for none of us are worthy, but Christ called him. You see, the thrill is that Jesus saw Matthew for what he could be, not for what he was. That's the glorious thing about our Lord and Savior is he always sees the potential, not the problem. Boy, we are so man man looketh on the outward, right? We're we're so bound by that. It's an affliction. Or we see somebody and we we we look at them and immediately we think, well there's no hope that they would ever get saved or There's no hope that they would ever be sold out for God. There's no hope that life could that God could change or transform their life, but God can Because God sees the potential. Just like an engineer can see a working prototype from a pile of parts. Christ sees what you can be. Just like a gardener can see fruit ripened and ready to pick. When he's in the store looking at a package of seeds to me all I see is a lot of work. I don't have a green thumb But somebody that does they look at that and they see the fruit that could be brought. And Christ sees what you can be. And he saw what Matthew could be. You and I never know what the potential lies dormant in the heart of a sinner. What God might or could do through somebody that just submitted to him I mean who would have ever thought when Anthony and John Smith knocked on that door? That family that rode the bus to church would one day be here Saying we're going back to India with the gospel that we heard in this church and carrying it to another nation. You see, we don't know the potential from one soul that just surrenders to God I would like you to consider the cost that Matthew had. He says there in verse number 28, and he left all. He rose up and followed him. He left it all. He held nothing back. He said, all this has not supplied me anything, it's not given me any hope, not provided me any peace. None of this has anything to offer. I'm leaving all this behind and I'm following Christ Boy, when Matthew came to Christ, he gave it all to him. Why is that so unusual today? Why is it so unusual? People come to Christ and they only partially come. They they they continue to hold on to so much of the world and the flesh and the devil Man, sometimes we see somebody come to Christ and they and they start to get on fire for God, and what do we say? We look at and we say, man, they got it. They boy they got they didn't just get saved, they got saved. You know, I mean we talk about it how their life changed, but really that oughta be the norm That shouldn't be the exception. That ought to be the norm because Christ changes lives. Man, that's what we ought to see in Matthew. He he gave it all up. You look at it and say, Boy, it cost him everything. He forsook his business and his livelihood. He forsook the hopes and the wealth that he could have had because of it. I'm sure he had to walk away from his companions and any friends as that he had such as they might have been. He forsook any luxuries and the wealth that he could have had as a tax collector and said, I'm done with all that. I'm following Christ And if you know the story, Christ was not uh Christ didn't soft pedal what the disciples were in for. Christ didn't uh, you know Why is my mind blank? I butter it or make it light or fluffy. I mean he told him, listen, you're going to suffer persecution. You're going to die for my namesake. Matthew said, sign me up. I'll forsake it all. You know, some of the things that Matthew gave up were not even sin. But he gladly gave it up to be what God wanted him to be. He just gave it up. What we need to understand, beloved, is that Christ never asked of you anything that's good for you He only asks of you to give up things that would hold you back. Things that would be weights that would keep you from being able to do what God wants you to do He only asks of you to be willing to give up that which would hurt you. You know, you go to the doctor and We'll be praying for Brother Aaron this week as he continues to go through some tests and takes some new medicine he's starting tomorrow morning that helped his help his heart, but the doctor comes and says Hey uh you've got a heart problem. What you need to do is you need to do this and this and take this medicine. Probably need to to stop eating that or stop eating that. No, doc, I ain't I ain't gonna do that The doctor's only trying to help you. He's only trying to get you to give up things that are hurting you. Things that are keeping you from being healthy or maybe even will take your life. And we understand that on a physical and practical level with a physician. But what about God? God comes and says, would you give that up for me? What, Lord? Why? Why do I have to give this up? Oh, I want this so much. But could we just give it up for God? He only asks of us to give up things that will hurt us, or weights that will hinder us. It's kind of a misnomer, really, when you say The cost. Because although he gave it all up, I don't think Matthew felt it was a cost. Lastly, this evening, I want you to consider the compensation that Matthew got. First and foremost, His soul was saved. He now was on his way to heaven. Yes, he gave up everything to follow Christ, but I want you to understand the Bible is very clear. What shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world? and lose his own soul. You could gain everything this world has to offer, and if in the end you lose your soul, you but you're the loser You're the loser. So if you give up something that this world has to offer and you gain your soul for eternity, you're the winner. He gained far more than he ever gave up. And that's the way it is with Christ. He gained the salvation of his soul You know, beloved, if that's all he ever gained. He gained more than he deserved. And that's the only benefit he ever got out of giving up everything and following Christ was that his soul was saved. You know, from that day till now, he's been in heaven. And I can tell you what. He has said a hundred thousand times or a million times over, I did the right thing. He's never been disappointed. If that's all we ever got as Christians was the salvation of our soul, we got more than we deserve. But he got so much more than that. You got a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ went to his house, sat down with him, and began to teach him, began to work with him. began to show him what great things he was going to do through his life. And Matthew was able to gain the satisfaction that we get from service. Although Matthew ignored the sneering comments of all of his countrymen for being a traitor and being a dishonest tax collector, he couldn't ignore his own conscience. And I can imagine that Matthew's conscience plagued him in the quiet of the night after he cheated his neighbors. After he defrauded people out of their money. I'm sure as he went to the store and was even spending some of that money to buy a grocery for his family, he just thought about those dollars were stolen. Those dollars were stolen. I imagine his own conscience was beating him up. I can tell you what, one of the one of the greatest benefits that he got by coming to Christ is he got a clear conscience. You got a conscience that all that was wiped clean. Every sin was forgiven. Man, there's nothing that can replace that peace of heart, that peace of assurance and a clear conscience before God and man Amen. That's what he gained was a clear conscience. Matthew had no idea that he was going to be used of God to pin the first book of the New Testament. You see, God saw the potential. You and I don't know what God will do through anyone in here. Any of these young people? And we look at the young people and we say, man, God's going to use them in a great way. We have no idea what great things God's going to do down the road, some of these guys, maybe missionaries. Pastors, pastors' wives, servants in churches, fulfilling God's call for their life. We look at the potential there and say, man, God's going to do great things, but it doesn't end there. It's also the rest of the pews. We don't know what God will do with you. All the way to the oldest person in here. I'm not gonna guess who that is. Maybe it's m Matt Morgan. He had a birthday today. He turned he turned thirty. But God's not listen, as long as you're still breathing, God can do something with you. You you just can't even imagine what it might be. You you look at it and say, well, I'm not sure what else I I can do. Miss Gracie found a place to minister this week. She found some neighbors that she could pray with and read some scripture to, encourage in the Lord. She could find some time on her knees to pray for God to do great things and meet the needs of people. We don't know what God's going to do through you. But one of the privileges and the joys of knowing Jesus as our Lord and Savior is He wants to work through us. And we get the satisfaction of having God Almighty direct our steps and lead us to accomplish His will. in our life. What a joy to have the fulfillment of service as we work for Him. I ask you tonight Christ is coming by like he did with Matthew. And he's saying to you, follow me. Follow me. The question is, is will you rise and follow him? You might have been saved for a long time, but are you following him? Are you letting him work through you? Will you be willing to go down the path that God wants to take you? Will you follow him? Do you hear his voice tonight? As he passes by and says, follow me