To first Timothy chapter three. First Timothy chapter three First Timothy chapter three, the Bible says, in verse one, this is a true saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good Good work. A bishop, then, must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach, not given to whine No striker, not greedy, a filthy lucre, but patient, not a brawler, not covetous. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you for your word. I pray, Lord, that you would speak to each and every heart tonight, Lord, speak to them individually, help them, Lord, to Do you get something from your word that they specifically need for themselves, Lord? Lord, I pray that you just work. Give me the words to speak. I pray, Lord, that you would just work in the hearts tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So here in verse 1, you see it says, this is a true saying, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. The office of a bishop there being the office of a pastor, of an elder, it's it's term in it's used in other places in the Bible. But you can we could go through all the qualifications, but that's not what I want to look at tonight. I want to look at verse 1. This is a true saying if a man desire The office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. You know, God cares about our desires God cares about what we want to do, what we desire to do, what we intend to do. God is not a God that just, you know, here you are, live life, serve me God goes further than that. He says, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good thing. And you know, God wants his people to desire what he has laid out for them to desire in the Bible. You know, right right here it's it's it's specifically talking about the office of a bishop. But you could read the entire Bible. There's many, many different things the Bible talks about. You know, serve me this way, God says. He lays it out. Serve me this way. Do this If you love me, keep my commandments. But you know, God doesn't want us to just obey. God cares about our heart in it too. We'll look at some other passages to kind of go with this. If you would turn to Luke chapter 12. Luke chapter 12. Verse thirty-four Luke chapter 12, verse 34, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. You know, that's a very common verse. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And you know, if our focus in life if our focus, if our desire in life is perhaps wealth. You know, we all have to have money to live. We all understand that. You you You can't really live in this world without money. It doesn't work well. But perhaps our focus isn't on money. Maybe it's on sports. And you know, those sports are not wrong in and of themselves if they're in a wrong time, if they're in a wrong place, if they're in the wrong place in our lives. They're wrong. And you know, perhaps it's it's something else, worldly music, whatever the case may be, family, though that's not a bad thing If family gets in the way of our service to God, it's out of place. And you know there's there's a right place for it, but if it's out of place, it can be a wrong thing. And you know, God cares about these things. Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Go over to Philippians chapter 1, if you would. Philippians chapter 1 Philippians chapter one, verse twenty The Bible says, according to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor Yet what I shall choose I won't not, for I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith Here you have the Apostle Paul in verse 21, for me to live is Christ, that I has gained. Verse 22, if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. Yet what I shall choose I won't not. Paul says, if I live in the flesh, the reward I get in this life, that's what I've got. That's it. That's all I've got. You know, maybe I'm serving, living my life for wealth You know, you can have wealth, but that wealth is not going to heaven with you. You can have wealth, but you're not bringing it to eternity. And you know, if you're lost and you die without Christ, you could own everything, and you will still spend an eternity in hell if you die without Christ. But, continue on here, verse 23, I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh. Is more needful for you. Paul says here, you know, I would rather go be with Christ. I would rather go to heaven to be with my Savior But for your sake, I would rather suffer on this earth to help you. That's what Paul's saying here. Go over to 2 Corinthians, if you would, 2 Corinthians chapter 11. I want to just look at a couple things real quick that Paul went through here. 2 Corinthians chapter 11 Verse twenty three The Bible says, Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. For I am more in labors, more abundant. In stripes Above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft. Of the Jews, five times received thy forty stripes, save one. Thrice was I beaten with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I was suffered shipwreck, a night and a day have I been in the deep in journeys oft, in perils of water, in perils of robbers, in perils of mine own countrymen, imperils by the heathen. In perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, in weariness and painfulness In watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fasting often, in cold and nakedness. You see the apostle Paul here, by the time he's writing in Philippians, he had suffered all these things The Apostle Paul, his body by this time was a little bit of a mess, physically speaking. You know, he had been beaten, he'd been shipwrecked, he'd been stoned. You don't you don't just live through all of those things without a scratch. You know, his body, he hurt when he got up in the morning. He hurt probably all day long His body was worn well. But you know, he still says, verse 24 in Philippians chapter 1, nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. You see, the Apostle Paul was willing to temporarily trade his home in heaven. He wasn't giving it up, but he was temporarily willing to wait on that to help these believers here. Does that tell you something of the desire in the heart of the Apostle Paul? It should. You know, he was willing to give up. He said I'm in a strait betwixt two heaven, a desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. His body was a mess, but he still said, God, let me help these Christians. Let me help this church. Let me help these believers get on the right road. Even though physically, I'm sure he didn't feel like it. Physically he was a mess. But I want you to see some examples of how people respond to God's calling. Go to Genesis chapter 22. Genesis chapter twenty two Genesis 22 verse 1 And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham And he said, Behold, here I am. You see, God calls Abraham. Abraham's immediate response is, Behold, here I am. But look at what God commanded Abraham. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac, whom thou lovest. And get the end of the land of Moriah and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of And Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clay the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place which God had told him Here, God calls Abraham. Abraham immediately responds, behold, here I am. But then God gives Abraham this totally bizarre command. What we would think is totally insane, take your son and go offer him for a sacrifice. And you know, Abraham, he just backs out and said, God, that's too far. I'm not going to do it. No, he doesn't. No, he doesn't. Verse 3, Abraham rose up early in the morning. Abraham he didn't he didn't drag his feet, he didn't delay. It says he rose up early in the morning and went on his way there. Go over to Genesis chapter forty six. Genesis chapter forty six Verse 1, and Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. And God spake unto Israel in v in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here uh am I. And he said, I am God, the God of thy father, fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will there make of thee. A great nation. Here you have Israel, Jacob, he's an old man, but God still calls him, and his immediate response is still, here am I. It wasn't God, what are you gonna ask me? God, I'm old, I can't do much. His response is Here am I. We could look at Moses in Exodus chapter 3, but let's go to Acts chapter 9 for sake of time. Acts chapter 9 Acts 9, verse 10, the Bible says, And there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. You see, God calls him, his immediate response is, I am here, Lord. But then, verse 11, and the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the street which is called straight, and inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus. For behold he prayeth, and hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him that he might receive his sight. Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem. And here he hath authority from the chief priest to bind all that call on thy name. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and children of the children of Israel. Here you have a man, Ananias. God calls him, his immediate response is, I'm here, Lord. And then God gives him this command, go to Saul. And Ananias knew who Saul was. And Ananias is like, God, are you sure? God, this doesn't seem This doesn't seem like a good way to end my life. God, this guy's gonna He's got authority to kill me. He's got authority to bind me But God reassures him there in verse 15. But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me. And here you have Ananias, verse 17: And Ananias went his way. Here you have a man. God called him. He was willing. God gave a command. He questioned. Now God reassured him and he obeyed. You see that in verse 17. The question I have tonight is: Do we have a desire to obey God, to follow God? Do we desire to follow God? And then do we have a willingness To make that desire happen. Do you have a willing heart? Let's continue on here. Go to Romans chapter 12, if you would, please. Romans chapter 12. Verse one is probably a very familiar passage. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God You know, we I was talking to the young people there last night, but verse one, it says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies A living sacrifice. You know, if you look at the Old Testament sacrifices, those lambs that were offered, they were spotless lambs, right? They were pure, they were perfect. You had to separate them off to make sure they did not have a blemish. They had to be perfect. You couldn't offer a blind lamb. You couldn't offer a lamb with a broken leg And you know, God says, present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know, God will use us No matter when we turn to Christ, no matter when we get our hearts right and we desire to follow Him, He will use us from that point on. But ultimately, God desires our hearts, our lives to be pure And through him they can be. You see, it says, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable servant. You know, oftentimes we go, God, if I give you my life, I've done so much, God, I've given you my life. But God says here in His Word, it's your reasonable. service. If you give him less than your life, you have gypped God. You have not given him what he expects. You have not given him what he asks for. It says, which is your reasonable Service. But it doesn't stop there and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect. Will of God. Go over to Matthew chapter 5, if you would. Matthew chapter 5. God desires clean. Pure sacrifices, living sacrifices, Christians that will give it all to Him Christians that will not hold back. Christians that will serve him no matter the cost. And you know that does not mean That God is going to call you to be a missionary or an evangelist or a pastor. That does not mean that. You know, God wants holy Christians In churches. God wants holy Christians in churches that are witnesses for Him. Christians that are on the job. That are witnesses for him. You know, you know people that I will never meet. You come into contact with people that I will likely never see That perhaps your pastor will never see, your pastor will never know, and if you don't give them Christ, who's going to? Because the world's not. The world hates God. But look at Matthew chapter 5, verse 13. Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt hath lost his savor, Wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and trodden underfoot of men. Ye are the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your father which is in heaven. The question is, is God doesn't call everybody to be in the ministry full-time, but He does call everyone to be a witness. Are you being that witness? Are you serving God in what He has called you to do? We're all called to be that witness, no matter where we are in life. We're called to be That salt, that light. Are we being that? You know, if you are lost, then you are called to salvation. God is calling you Romans talks about that, Romans chapter 3, verse 23, Romans chapter 6. We're not going to turn to these. But God is calling you to salvation. God loves you. He cares for you. He died for you. You know, so often we belittle God's work on that cross. But do you know that if it was not for a God that loved you, a God that cared for you, a God that sent his son to die on that cross, we would all be condemned to hell with no escape. It is only through him that there is an escape. Go, if you will, to Ezekiel chapter 22. Ezekiel chapter 22. Ezekiel chapter twenty-two, verse twenty-three And the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man. Say unto her, thou art the land that is not cleansed nor reigned upon in the day of indignation. There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof. Like a roaring lion ravening the prey, they have devoured souls, they have taken the treasure, and And precious things they have made they have made her many widows in the midst thereof. Her priests have violated my law and have profaned mine holy things They have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they showed difference between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my Sabbath, and I am profane among them. For princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. And her prophets have dabbed with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord God, when the Lord hath not spoken. The people of the land have used oppression and exercised robbery And have vexed the poor and needy, yea, they have oppressed a stranger wrongfully. Sounds a lot like America, doesn't it? Sounds a lot like America. Verse 30, I sought for a man among them That should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none Therefore have I poured out my indignation upon them, I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath. Their own way have I recompensed Upon their heads, saith the Lord God. The question I have tonight is, is according to verse 30, God was seeking for someone. It says, I sought for a man among them that should make up the heads that should stand in the gap. before me for the land that I should not destroy it. My question is tonight, if America depended on your testimony, if America depended on you solely, would God spare the land? Or would God see a Christian that isn't living like a Christian? Would God see someone who, though they're saved, though they're on their way to heaven, They're not that one that's standing in the gap. They're not that one that's standing against sin. They're not that one that's standing for righteousness. Would God see that in you? Or though you were saved, if the land depended on you, would God still destroy it? I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none. You know if Christians do not stand for truth, if Christians do not stand for righteousness, if Christians do not stand for Jesus Christ, who's going to? Who's going to? The world is not. They hate God. They're not going to stand for Him. If you don't, who will? Because no one will Go over to Isaiah chapter six. Isaiah chapter six Isaiah chapter 6, verse 8. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. Are you willing to serve that God? Are you willing? To be a witness for him? Are you willing to live your life as a testimony to him? Or are we off distracted? Are we off on something else? Is our focus On something other than what God has declared for us. You know, we can all get off focused in life. It's easy to do Maybe not our whole life, but there are times in our life, I know personally, where you desire to serve God, but your eyes they stray a little bit, and you get off on something else. And I know we're guilty of it, but do we get back on track? Do we get back on focus with God? Do we get back on focusing on what He desires? Go to Romans chapter 10, if you would. Romans chapter 10. Verse one The Bible says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved, for I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. See, verse 3 there, I believe, sums up religion right there as a whole. You can take all false religion. You can sum it up right there. They're going about to establish their own righteousness, but they've not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. And you know, sometimes Christians We get off focus a little bit, and that's what we start to do. But look at verse 1. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be Do you have a desire to see lost people saved? Do you have a desire to see people one to Christ? Because you know, if we do not have a desire to serve God, if we do not have a desire to see souls saved There's a good chance we're not going to see it. There's a good chance we're not going to focus on it enough to ever see it. You know the Bible says where your treasure is There will your heart be also. Where is your treasure? Where is your focus? Where is your desire? Is it on the things God would have it to be on? Or has it strayed? Let's pray