All right, good evening. Open your Bibles to First Kings chapter seventeen this evening. First Kings seventeen. Thankful for Pastor giving me the opportunity to preach. Thankful for him having the opportunity to get away for a while. That's one of the hardest things as a pastor is to get away. And then Pastor Gus bothered him today. Amen And you're definitely going to have your Bible open this morning because we're going to spend a little time here. And we're actually going to start reading in chapter 16. The message is going to come from chapter 17. We're going to start reading in chapter 16 just to kind of set the stage, get some context, what's going on. So 1 Kings chapter 16, we'll start reading in verse 29. The Bible says, and in the 30th and 8th year of Asa, king of Judah, began Ahab, the son of Omri, to reign over Israel. And Ahab, the son of Omri, reigned over Israel and Samaria 20 and two years. Now Pastor did the whole Old Testament survey. Hopefully you were here for that. Or you at least understand where we're at in the history of Israel. There's a northern kingdom, there's a southern kingdom. Southern kingdom has two tribes, Benjamin and Judah. They are the more godly kingdom, the more godly group And in the north we have Israel, which were the other ten tribes. The north had no godly kings. All the kings in the north were considered unrighteous. And of course they were taking it taken into captivity. Both were taken into captivity. The northern kingdom was taken into captivity 136 years earlier than Judah because of their ungodliness. So not my opinion. That's what God did. Okay. So we're Ahab is the king over the ungodly kingdom. Verse 30. And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. And it came to pass as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the sons of Nebat, that he took to wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal which he had built in Samaria. And Ahab made a grove, and Ahab did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him. So we've got the divided kingdom, northern kingdom is the ungodly kingdom, and Ahab is the cream of the crop. He is the worst of the ungodly kings in the northern kingdom. I love how I love the King James Bible over the wording of it. As if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam That's just like very poetic, wonderful language. And um Jeroboam is known as Jeroboam son of Debat who caused Israel to sin. That's repeated throughout Kings, I found 12 times. I'm not sure if that's exactly right. But many times throughout the the Old Testament, the Book of Kings, especially, you find Jeroboam, son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. And so his son Ahab just took it to the next level. And he says as you know, as if it were a light thing, Ahab added to that. I I I gotta make it simple for myself. Ahab was a bad guy. He was a very ungodly man, he was wicked, he didn't care. He he you know, some people are wicked or ungodly and and they care. You gotta at least give them credit for that, right? Ahab just didn't care. He he was ungodly, he was wicked, I don't care, you know, about any of this. I'm gonna go and do what I want to do Um and that's not my opinion. That's what God is saying about him. So we know it's true. I could stand here and tell you emphatically that Ahab was a very wicked man. And God says it, so we absolutely know that's true And now that kind of just lays the groundwork. This is what the situation we're dropped into here. This is where Elijah picks up, many of you know the prophet Elijah in chapter 17 and verse 1. Elijah the Tishvite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook chariot that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there That's not the football team, that's the birds, okay? God's commandment they didn't exist yet Verse 5. That's the Baltimore thing, right? Verse 5. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Sherith that is before Jordan. The ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook. It came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. The word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarepheth, which belongeth to Zion, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went to Zarepheth. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there, gathering her sticks, and he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise, and behold I am gathering two sticks that I may go go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. Elijah said unto her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first. and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruise of oil fail, until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And she and he and her house did eat many days, and the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. Now I want you to go back to verse 4. We're going to look a couple times here. We see a word that's repeated here. In verse 4, the Lord tells Elijah to go, and he says, I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. In verse 9, he says, Arise, get thee to Zarepheth, which belongeth to Zion, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a wanted woman there to sustain there. So we see this word there repeated several times. And God says, you know, Elijah, I'm going to take care of you, but it's got to be there. It can't be just wherever you want to be. I need you to go to this specific place, this very specific place, and if you go there, I will take care of you Even in the midst of a drought and all the things we're going to see today. So the message tonight is, are we there yet? So let's pray and then the message. Lord, we love you. Thank you so much for the Word of God, Lord. Thank you that we can know about these things, Lord, about Ahab and all the things we're going to learn about tonight. Lord, I pray that you would just Help us, Lord, to see the truth of your word. Lord, help us to examine ourselves in the light of scriptures, Lord, to see if we are there where you'd have us to be We pray for Pastor as he's gone. Bless him, his family, Lord, give him a time of great rest and relaxation. And I pray that this evening, Lord, you would meet with us individually and speak to our hearts. I pray that you would just help us to be more conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that you give me the words to say, that you would speak through me. We ask all these things in Christ's name. Amen. So we have this story, and you know I think the first thing where we need to start is that we need to understand that God has a specific plan for our life. He wants you there. Whatever that is. He created you and he knows what's best for you. I think we've lost sight of the fact that we are a creation of God. I think the devil evolutionists have convinced us that we are a product of biology and not a creation of God. Jeremiah 1. 5, before I form thee in the belly, I knew thee. Psalm 139, 16, thine eyes to see my substance yet being unperfect, and in my thy book all my members were written, when as yet there was none of them. Don't ever lose the fight sight of the fact that you're a creation of God. The world, the devil, scientists, they've all done a very good job of pushing science and in this case biology above God. I was in health class in 1989 or 1990, I'm telling my age, and I was told that I was a product of biology. And that is not true. I am a creation of God. God is in control, not science. He's the one who created you, not biology You're not a product of some randomness as is pushed in school. Now God uses natural things to do supernatural things. But don't ever lose sight of the fact that you are the way you are. You are who you are because God made you that way With with whatever shortcomings you supposedly have, whatever height or shortness you have, whatever you have is all because of God. It's not not just some randomness Now God does use natural things to bring about his purposes, and he does use biology to bring about his purposes. But that's not what drives it. It's God first, then biology. And the world, the devil, they've done a very good job of reversing those too. When the nation of Israel left Egypt, remember they they they crossed the Red Sea over dry ground. I was watching a documentary one day, and they said something about it wasn't God who did that, it was the strong easterly wind that caused the water to part Well, that's actually true. Moses stretched his Exodus 14, 21, Moses stretched out his hand over the east over the sea. The Lord calls the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night. But I think you have to be very intellectually dishonest to say that that wind was just random. It was no accident that when Moses stretched forth his hand, the the wind blew by. It was God. And yes, God used wind to part the sea. The Bible tells us that. That's not not unexpected. We don't have to leave our intellect at the door to believe what the Bible says. When the Nation of Israel walked around the city of Jericho and blew the trumpets, I was watching, I call him the mad scientist. I don't know his name, his guy on YouTube. He's a mad scientist. He's a physicist, and he is like the stereotypical wild hair, Albert Einstein-looking physicist guy And he he's he's crazy. But he he was talking about resonance one day and he said, you know, when the nation of Israel walked around the walls of Jericho and blew the trumpet, it was probably resonance that caused the walls to fall. But again, that wasn't the uh that may very well be. Maybe that God had the perfect tune, the perfect um measure, or what is it called? I'm I'm out of my realm of music stuff. I don't know I was sitting next to the trombone earlier, like, oh man. You know, the the nutty professor said it could have been resonance and it could have been. But there's no way the the the Jews that were walking marching around that wall figured that out They just followed what God said and God took care of the science part. Right? Saren, uh Sarah was barren and had Isaac. Hannah was barren, she had Samuel. They were all created by God. And so were you. And he God's created you and He has a very specific plan, a very specific purpose for you and your life. We all know Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9, for by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, lest any man should boast. Verse 10, verse 10 says, For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. Before you ever were you, God knew what you were to be doing. God had a purpose and a plan for your life, and he wants us to be there. Now it's Thursday night. If you're here this morning tonight and you're not saved, I know where there is. There is at the foot of the cross. That's where God wants everybody to start. We all start on the same ground. He wants you at the foot of the cross and he wants you to be saved. Once you get saved, It it gets a little more complicated, right? Because God has a different purpose and plan for everybody's life. But once you get in the family of God, God still has a purpose for you. He always has, but you have to be in the family first before he's going to reveal it to you So God created Elijah. We know nothing of him. This is the first time that he appears on the pages of Scripture. There's very little written about him prior to this event. God created Elijah for a very specific purpose and plan. He had a place for Elijah, and the first time we see or hear of Elijah is standing in front of the most wicked king. King Ahab, and he's pronouncing a drought, which is an absolute disaster in an agrarian society. He is pronouncing the fall of this society. You know, I I'm not sure if you would have asked Elijah ten years earlier, hey Elijah, what you think you're going to be doing in ten years? I don't think Elijah would say, I'll be skipping to stand in front of the king and proclaim a drought. I'm not sure he would have outlined his life the way God had it planned. Even if you don't know anything else of the life of Elijah, And and I know many of you know a lot about the life of Elijah, you should. Um but even up to this point, it's pretty remarkable, just him standing before the king and proclaiming a drought. But just like God had a plan for Elijah, he has a plan for you. He did not create you just that you can exist. He created it for you for his pleasure and purpose. And he has a specific plan for your life, and he wants you there. Now, sometimes there makes perfect sense. Elijah goes in the king, he declares that there will be a drought. Now, Elijah's a wicked king. And, you know, we're told that in 2 Kings chapter 1 and verse 8, we're told that Elijah's a hairy man with a girdle, a leather girdle. He's a very blunt man. I mean today we would call him a tinfoil hat guy. I mean just being honest, right? You know, and and he's going before the king. This wild-looking hairy man goes before the king and says, as the Lord God says, there's going to be a drought in front of a very ungodly king. Now, I mean most of us read that and we just think that the guy just sat there. I imagine that King Ahab had a good laugh at Elijah's expense. Gee, this idiot. Look at this guy. This guy can't even comb his hair. What's wrong with this guy? You know, I I imagine they laughed him. They Ahab paid no attention to him It was written down by whoever writes those things down. Ahab said, yeah, okay, whatever, pal. Next. It just dismissed him, right? The Bible doesn't tell us that, but I mean he's just a worldly man, a worldly king, and that's just the way that the world usually looks at people who are talking about anything of the word of God. But there was a lot of prayer in private about this this proclamation. James chapter 5 and verse 17 says that Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain. And it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. He prayed again, and the heaven it gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. Now you know him as Elijah the great prophet, right? Are we all together here? This is but you know, James says that he was he got scooped out of the same cookie dough that you and I are made from. He was a man, he was a man of subject to like passions as we are. He got scared. He he got nervous when he went in front of that king. He wasn't the great prophet Elijah. He was just Elijah, the man. with a great big God. And yeah, we know all of his exploits. We know everything that he did for God. I mean you know about the great contest with the prophets of Baal, Mount Carmel. We know about all that, but he was just a man He wasn't the great prophet Elijah at this point. He hadn't done anything great at this point that we know of. He's just Elijah, just following what God says to do, okay? He was scooped out of the same cookie dough that we were. And after he makes the pronouncement, the Lord tells Elijah to go to the brook Cherith. And there he's promised by the Lord that he would be fed by ravens, that he would be able to drink from the brook. Now there's about to be a drought. Where better place could you be than by a brook? There's not going to be any rain. Water's going to be scarce. God says, hey, you you you you go you go to the brook Cherith. Now I know it's hard to picture this in your mind, but imagine we have that beautiful waterfall out front. It's really nice when it's on. When it's warm out, you know it's hot out, you go sit by, you just feel cooler just sitting by the running water, right? That babbling brook sound and And it just the running water, it just makes you feel cooler. God has has the ravens door-dashing in food every day. They're bringing him food and something to drink. It makes perfect sense. I look at that and I say, well, humanly speaking, that's got to be the easiest thing in the world to do, right? There's going to be a drought. I'm going to go sit by a brook and God's just going to deliver food to me. I'm going to have time to rest and relax. But hey, when you're hungry, anything tastes good, right? But it it just seems like a very normal, natural, sensible thing. And I imagine, you know, uh quickly Elijah learned to trust that God was just going to take care of him But hey, I'm going to go to this brook and I'm just going to wait there for God. And I don't think Elijah was there just, you know Strung up a hammock and laid there all day and with his feet kicked up. I think Elijah was was communing with God. I think he was spending time with God. You know, the water being a picture of the word, spending time, he's getting bread, he's getting fed I think God is just growing Elijah's faith at this time. Because we know him as the great prophet Elijah, but he was just a man He was just the same as you and I. And God uh just just uses these things to provide. But you always have to remember that it's God who's providing. God is using the ravens. God is using the brook And you know, many times when God wants you somewhere, it is a perfectly sensible place. I think sometimes we think that being in the will of God has to be some exotic thing. It always has to be something exotic. You know, the one thing I don't want to do is this, and I know God's going to make me do it. No, not necessarily. It may be that the thing that God has you, that God has spoken to your heart about doing may be perfectly natural. It may be something that comes easily to you. It may not be hard. At least humanly speaking. And you know, God may just be building your faith. And that's what I think he was doing with Elijah here. He knows the drought. He's prayed for the about the drought. He's pronounced the drought. The drought has come and God says, okay, you did what I want you to do. Go to by the brook and I'll take care of you. And Elijah through that time, his his faith is growing. There at the brook, it involves getting fresh water, eating bread, feeding on meat, just growing your faith. Realizing that God's going to do exactly what he says he's going to do. Learning to trust him. Why? So that he can stretch your faith. Sometimes you can look at at circumstances You can look at your place of service, you can look at where there is, and it is just perfectly logical, sensible, you can see exactly why the Lord has you there. People go to school to to study to be a teacher. And God hasn't been a teacher at a Christian school as a Sunday school teacher. It may be some i it could just be very simple. It could be very natural and and you know it doesn't have to be some exotic thing. Sometimes the place that God wants you is just humanly speaking I can see it, and everybody else can see it too. But then look at verse 7. It came to pass after a while that the brook dried up. Because there had been no rain in the land. You know, sometimes the the time then comes when the Lord moves there to somewhere else. He was being obedient. I I don't know. I mean I try to put myself in these people's shoes sometimes. And I I you may be a whole lot more spiritual than me, but I'd be like What's going on? Lord, Lord, what's going on? I've done exactly what you asked me to do. I'm exactly where you want me to be. Why is the water running out? Maybe you're more spiritual than I, but you know, I I just, again, Elijah was made of the same stuff we are. And I think God wanted to teach Elijah an important lesson here that we need to trust in God rather than things. You know, often we get secure in our dependency on things, and God allows us uh will allow things to show us the foolishness of trusting in him. Elijah had to have confidence in God, not in the brook, not in the ravens. And everybody loves comfort, but by but and you may be serving the Lord and you may be right there where God wants you to be. But it's just not the same. You know, it's not it's not as exhilarating as it used to be. The brook may be drying up. And that time may come. And I love how unspecific the Bible is sometimes. Verse 7 starts with, and it came to pass after a while. Not after a year, not after two years, not in six months and eight days. It came to pass after a while. You say, when's that going to happen? When does that happen? I don't know, after a while. After a while. If God put in there it came to pass after three years, we'd be like, it's been three years, what's going on now? If God said this after one year, we'd be like, all right, Lord, it's been a year. Now, after a while, and I don't think Elijah was looking looking for that time. I think it just happened. I think he just woke up one day and like, oh man, that brook is down to nothing. God has a specific plan for you and he in in your life, he wants you there. Sometimes that makes perfect sense, at least humanly speaking, right? Boy, sometimes it's a doozy. I mean sometimes it'll leave you scratching your head. Verse uh seven uh chapters uh 1 Kings chapter 17 verse 9. Um God says, Arise, get thee to Zarepheth, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Now, as much as that first one makes sense, And it's logical, and everybody can see it. The second one makes no sense. Because first of all, he tells Elijah to go to a widow woman. Now if you're poor and destitute and broke and you need money, you are not going to seek out a widow. And I mean no disrespect to any widows who may be in here. Uh you just usually aren't the first person that you would think to affect we take care of widows rather than expecting widows to take care of us, right? So first, God tells him that he's going to go to see a widow woman, not a rich person who could provide for him, but a widow. And an extremely poor widow. We know that from 1 Kings chapter 17 and verse 12 At the very end of that verse, she says, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. They're on their last meal. This is not this is not a a rich lady who could take care of him. This wasn't somebody who could easily provide for his needs. This was, you know, she's preparing her last meal. So first God tells him to go see a widow woman. Totally illogical. Makes no sense whatsoever. Secondly, he tells them to go to this place. The name of the place is Zarepheth. It's a city that's located between the cities of Tyre and Sidon. And we could turn to the back of the map, I could have, or the back of the Bible and find maps. I could have had Pastor Guts put it up. But we're just going to use the Bible to figure out where this place is at, okay? Because we already read it The specific location, this pin dot on the map is not as exp as important as you understanding where this place is. 1 Kings chapter 17, verse 9, arise, get thee to Zarepheth, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain there. Who lives in Zidon? Zidonians. Okay, is that everybody following me? You know, who lives in Maryland, Marylanders. You know, who lives in Zidon? Zidonians. I like the Visayan. It's very simple Taga. Tagga means from, you know, Taga, Zidon. Th there's no you'd have to figure out what the ending means at all is just Taga wherever. Taga Maryland, Taga Cebu, Taga Zidon. But in in this case, who lives in Zidon? Zidonius. Now go back to chapter 16 and verse 31. That wonderful verse. Came to pass as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam and the son of Nebat, that the that he took the wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbael, king of the Zidonians. So I just just so we know how this works. Princess Jezebel of Zidon married King Ahab and became Queen Jezebel of Israel. Because that's how the royal stuff works. Not including Meghan Merkel. So the Lord is sending Elijah. I just wanted to see who paid attention to that stuff. You all still wait. So the Lord's sending Elijah, not just to a widow woman, but a widow woman right in the middle of the queen, the current queen, princess, princess's backyard, which is still controlled by her father. I mean dead smack in the middle of enemy territory. In the worst place where he can possibly hide out while he's being hunted, because now this drought has taken hold. And he that that king that was laughing at him earlier ain't laughing at him no more. He's hunting him. It'll end, right? So where does God send him? He sends him to Princess Zeze Jezebel's hometown. Right there in her area. Not to a widow woman, not just to a widow woman, but a widow woman right there in the Queen's backyard. And we know for sure from the uh we know that for sure from the Bible. That part is indisputable, right? You just saw it for yourself. There are commentators that say that Queen Jezebel, or Princess Jezebel at the time, had a home there specifically in Zarepheth, where she spent a great deal of time. I can't prove that to you. I don't know if that's true or not. I can absolutely tell you though that Zidon was where she was from And Jezebel took after her daddy. She's described as uh as this. Jezebel has stamped her name on history as the representative of all that is designing, crafty, malicious, revengeful, and cruel. She is the first great instigator of persecution against the saints of God. And the Lord came to Elijah and said, hey, I want you to go there. I want you to go to her hometown to a widow woman who is about to have her last meal with her son. She's so poor and destitute. This one makes perfect sense, right? There's gonna be a drought, go to the brook. This one is like, huh? You you want me to do what? You want me to give up everything I have and go to Saudi Arabia to spread the gospel? I mean that's essentially what he's been told to do here. And and that makes no sense to me. I have the utmost respect. I can't remember their name, the family that was here. Um they're older, they're going to Myanmar, I think They were they're they were working out at the school. They have grandkids. The armor cost, thank you. They're gonna give up everything. I mean, they're gonna give up their grandkids. I learned when I had kids that my parents don't care about me as much as they care about their grandkids. I stopped getting Christmas presents, birthday presents when the grandkids, when my kids came along, they all went to the grandkids They're going to give all that up. I have the utmost respect for them. It doesn't make sense. They've served the Lord all these years, and God's going to have them move halfway around the world? That's where there is for them. And and it doesn't make sense. You sit there and like, why would God it doesn't make sense? But that's that was God's plan for them. And in verse 9, we find out that Elijah, he passed the test. He wasn't being stubborn. He wasn't, well, you know, I've always just been here by the brook, so I'm going to stay by the brook. He said, you know what, God's moving me, I'm going to move In verse 9, he just went. He arose, verse 10, he arose, went to Zarepheth, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there. And you know the story. I mean we read it just now, but you you know the story. Elijah goes and and and not only did he get saved, not only was he You know, saved was sustained, but so was this widow woman who was about to die and her son who was about to die. When he got there, what did he find? He found God's promises He found exactly what God promised. Just like he did at the brook, which made perfect sense. And when he went to this this odd place that God had called him to, that God had sent him to, this weird there He found the same thing. God is faithful. Elijah was able to sustain him. And here he is in this, I mean it's how unlikely, right? There's a manhunt most likely for Elijah at this point. And the the, you know Um Elijah's you know hidden. Where where where's the last place you would think to look for you know a a man who's hiding? Uh who's who lives up there? Oh widow woman. Uh they're not gonna Some poor widow won't. Well we'll just skip that one. We you know, I I was a soldier. We'll skip that one. It's okay. We we won't check that one out. So, you know, sometimes we get into situations and we we don't we we we say like what God why do you have me here? And and you know, you're in God's will, you're at the brook cherished, maybe you're here tonight, you're you know you're sitting up comfortably at the brook cherished. God's providing for you. He's building your faith. He's feeding you. You're getting fed by the Word of God. You're getting fed meat and bread and and the water. And God may be moving you somewhere that just doesn't make sense to you. It may be out of your comfort zone. It may be more than you think you're capable of. It may be something that will stretch your faith beyond what you think is reasonable. And I would say this, that's the place to be There is the place to be. When you are totally dependent upon God, nobody else can take the credit. Even you. When we were in the Philippines, uh we had a young man that started coming to our church very early, the De La Torre family. We went to their house. They had our first church service in the Philippines was in their living room. They had the cart the the the the dogs playing cards, the the picture on the wall. And that just sticks in my head. And Chris wasn't there at the time. Um and he came a few a few he had just graduated from co um high school. He came a few months later and uh Chris Chris was a really nice guy, good guy, young And it was only Nathan and Cookie. Nathan was twelve, eleven, twelve. He was young. I I mean they were little kids. It's hard to believe they were little at one time, but they were little kids. Cookie was little. It was Chris's sister, April. Chris's brother, Jeff Rends, was there, his mother. Uh my wife and I, right? So a really small group of people. We met in our living room. Um and I asked Chris, it had been a few months, and I said, Chris Would you like to teach Sunday school? Okay, pastor. Now I I I was very new to the Philippines. I learned afterwards that if I asked him to do anything, he would have done it. If I would have asked him to climb to the top of the roof and jump off, he probably would have done it just to not say no. I didn't know that at the time. So he said, okay, okay, Pastor, okay. And Chris was kind of a shy guy. He wasn't real well, he was kind of outgoing, but he was in his own way. And um I I kid you not. So the next week he stands up. I mean there's four kids there. Two of them are his brother and sister Nathan and Cookie, these little kids, he's, you know, 19, 18 years old, and he stood up and uh uh no joke, no exaggeration, probably an underexaggeration Uh uh he couldn't he couldn't he had stuff prepared, he couldn't read it, he but couldn't say anything. And you know, he was ashamed, he had his hand in his mother's his notes and she taught Sunday school and I said, Oh Lord, what have I got into? Chris today is an assistant pastor. What'd he do? He just got by the brook. He got fed. He got watered. He grew. God used him. We eventually got him doing some games in junior church. And then um You know, got him just just just he nah hee nigh long. Just little by little we got him doing different things and he got more and more comfortable and finally he was able to stand up and teach Sunday school. And then he was able to preach. Then he was able to do all kinds of things and go off on his own and go to Bible college. That's what being there is, right? You know, God doesn't always give you the end. I tell you, if God, if I knew where God would have me when I walked into church for the first time, I wouldn't have gone. No way. Uh-uh. No way. Give every give up my entire life to move halfway around the world to a third world country? No, thank you. But you know, God just kind of brings you along. At first he had me there, and then he had me on a bus route, then he had me start a new bus route, and then God was like, you need to be a missionary. You know, their move. But I if if it would have started with just being a missionary, and I don't know with Elijah, maybe if God would have just told Elijah, head needs you to go to the widow woman to enemy territory, back behind enemy lines, this place that makes no sense. Maybe Elijah would have run away. Bible says he's a man of like passions like us. I know we know him as the great prophet Elijah, but he is just like you and I. God tells him to do something that's uncomfortable, and he says. When the first time I wrote a roller coaster was super duper looper. When I rode the super duper looper, it was the roller coaster because it went upside down. I am old. It was the only roller coaster, big roller coaster at Hershey Park. I know, that's hilarious today. If you ever go to Hershey Park and you go through the lines, they have those really long cue lines for the super duper looper and you look at them and you're like, who in the world is going to stand in line this long to ride this ride? And we did like you all do. When you're little kids, you go up to you know to the little things and like I'm not tall enough yet, I'm not tall enough yet, and finally you're tall enough and you can get on the super duper looper. And we got in the line and we sat and stood in line for an hour in the middle of August. Sweating, miserable, our parents more miserable because we were making them more miserable, whining and crying about it the whole time. We finally got up. We're the next ones to get on. The train before us takes off and it stops On the on the incline. What have I gotten myself into? They got all the people off, something had happened, some somebody accidentally hit the emergency brake, we were told, and everything stopped. Now, my parents had convinced me. We sat there and watched that stupid roller coaster go around so many times, they were like, look, there's wheels underneath. There's wheels on the side, there's wheels on the top, there's a ratchet thing that goes down over top of you. Look, there's big fat people sitting on that thing, and they're not flying out. You know, the speed of it will keep you in your seat. You're perfectly safe in it. But when the gates opened, we had to step on. And we had to strap in. That's how I think of faith sometimes. God says, I'm going to take care of you. And yeah, it's dangerous And I promise you, if you say you're going to I don't care where you say you're going to Alabama to be a missionary, you're going to have everybody in the world text you every single horrible thing that happens in Alabama from now until the time you leave. I don't care where in the world it is. All of a sudden everybody's going to become an expert on that and tell you how horribly dangerous it is to go there. And maybe you shouldn't go there. You just gotta get in and strap in and hold on. And you know what? The first time I rode the Super Duper Looper, it was a lot of fun It was scary. It was exhilarating, but it was a lot of fun at the end. You know, when you get in God's will, You go there where God wants you to be, whether that's a city, a country, some entire group of people that needs to hear the gospel, you know, God will take care of you. I I think about, you know, this this kid, this this widow woman, oh man, it's late. I think of this widow woman whose son is sitting at home. He he he knows the situation. Kids aren't stupid. They're not as dumb as we think they are sometimes. He knows what's going on. He knows he hasn't eaten a lot. He knows mom is depressed and getting down. That kid has no hope You know, there's kids sitting at home right now with no hope. And they're just waiting for somebody to come, hey you want to ride a church bus? W we have a bus that comes on Sunday. You want to come? You know, it just needs a man who'll step up and and help Brother John with the the bus ministry or take over a whole new route. Wouldn't that be a great problem for a pastor to have? Where are we going to get another bus from? You know, and it may be that God has spoken to your heart to go there and you're just resisting. I don't want to sit here and give you examples because I don't want to speak in place of the Holy Spirit. Well, I'll let God speak to your heart But there's any number of areas where God wants you to be. You may not see it. You say, I I'm not a teacher. I can't stand in front of people and teach. You'd be amazed what God can do. There's all kinds of excuses you can make. You sit there and you say, Me? Really? I don't Yeah. That's when you need to trust him. Those are the best situations. When you know you can't, you're totally dependent upon God. He created you. He saved you. He had a path laid out for your life before you even came into existence. Sometimes that is going to make perfect sense and sometimes it doesn't. So the question is, how do you know? Am I there? How do you know? Well, fortunately, God tells us in both situations. Look at 1 Kings chapter 17 and verse 2. In fact, let's do this. This, since y'all are falling asleep because it's warm. I don't know if it's warm out there if it is up here. You guys are going to read 1 Kings chapter 17 verse 2. And you all are going to read 1 Kings chapter 17 verse 8 at the same time. Ready? Let's see what kind of coordination you have. I'm going to be like the conductor. One, two, three, go. The word of the Lord came unto him. You got it? Same thing, right? When it was going to the brook of Cherith, what happened? The word of the Lord came to him saying When it was going somewhere exotic, where it was going somewhere dangerous, where it was going somewhere that made absolutely no human sense. The word of the Lord came unto him saying, How do you know? He still speaks Right here. You'll pick up your Bible and you know I read this for a long time and all it said was the Philippines. I don't know how or I don't know how that happened because it doesn't say that anymore. The word doesn't appear in there. Philippians is not the Philippines But uh uh everything was like, yep, that's what you need to do. You know, it's just clear. God makes it clear to you, he's about Making you play a guessing game. He will make it clear to you if you're truly surrendered in your heart. God will let you know. Are we there? Right? Am I where God wants me to be? Am I willing to move if God dries up the brook? That's probably the bigger question, because I think that first one's easier for us to get into. But when it starts, that brook starts to dry up, things aren't just what they used to be. Am I willing to move to where God wants to be, even if it humanly doesn't make sense?