If you're in the book of Job, turn to Job chapter number fourteen. Job chapter number fourteen. Where we're gonna be this morning. There's a lot in this chapter. We're going to be looking at a couple of verses in the middle, which is kind of a real contrast that's given to us. Um I think just so that we have uh an understanding, it's not usual that I would read the entirety of a chapter. But maybe you could follow along and and just read along with me and we'll read this chapter, at least twenty-two verses here. From some of these verses are familiar to you as well. You'll recognize them as we begin the first one, something that I'm sure many of you have heard and the statements have been said. But man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower and is cut down. He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. And dost thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee? Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? Not one. Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass. Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down. That it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease, though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stalk thereof die in the ground. Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth grows like a plant. But man dieth and wasteth away, yea, man giveth up the ghost. And where is he? As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up, so man lieth down and riseth not, till the heavens be no more. They shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. Oh, that thou wouldst hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret until thy wrath be passed, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time and remember me. If a man die, shall he live again? All the days of my appointed time will I wait till my change come. Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee Thou would have a desire to the work of thine hands. For now thou numberest my steps Dost thou not watch over my sin? My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sawest upon sowest upon mine iniquity And surely the mountains failing cometh to naught, and the rocks is removed out of his place, the waters where the stones Thou wash away the thing which grow out of the dust of the earth, and thou destroyest the hope of man. Thou prevailest over ever against him And he passeth, thou changest his countenance, and sendest them away. His son come to honor, and he knoweth it not. And they are brought low, but he perceived it not of them. But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn. Can we pray this morning as we begin the message? Lord, we come to you. We need you to open our eyes, as was sung by the choir. Now I can see. This is a supernatural work that's done through the power of God to enlighten the minds and hearts of men. We understand today, Lord, that we need the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth. So we approach your throne today in all humility, requesting of you that the Holy Spirit give us ears to hear. Lord, that you would anoint me with the power to preach. May I do so in the spirit in which you would have it done today. As I intend to lift you up this morning, I pray God you would draw men to yourself. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We are all somewhat familiar uh with the story of Job. I don't know uh all of your stories. We have several here that uh are relatively new to the church and some that are here as guests and I don't know what your exposure or understanding of this is, but I think as as a general rule, most of us would know the story of Job and and what he endured the horrific circumstances which came into his life, a a level of of pain and suffering that really to us is incomprehensible. uh the attacks upon him that God allowed to come into his life. And the Bible says that he endured all of that and yet without sin. It's really quite amazing when you consider and think about what he endured. Chapter two tells us about his physical pain. It says that he uh had intense itching. Have you ever had an itch? You ever had something that just scratch it just bothers you, you know? And chapter two talks to describes for us he had this intense itching Chapter five, chapter seven describes for us the fact that he had worms or what would be like magots that were in the ulcers that were in his body. Chapter 7 verse 14 describes the terrible nightmares that he had. I can't imagine if you know the story here, the pain that he endured of of you know in some respects I mean he he lost all of his possessions but although we value our possessions Our possessions pale in com I mean they're they're nothing compared to our health. I mean you may have drove a really nice car in here today, but you would give that car up in a heartbeat. If the difference was between having that car and having health. Your physical health, you would give you give that up. I mean possessions, although we value them, sometimes things happen in our life that real make us realize they really aren't all that important, are they It's, you know, our health, but you know what? When you go a step further and you think about how Job lost his whole family, you know, our own personal health many times I mean, it's almost a greater suffering to watch somebody you love go through something. You see your child suffering and think, you know, what can I do or how can I help them? And I think you know this this chapter talk talks about nightmares that he had, this pain, and many people that I've talked to that are that have gone through great tragedy or great loss. For them, the every one of them talked to me about the fact that the hardest part of the day is nighttime when they go to bed. When they're calling it a day. And I can't imagine The battle in the mind of Job as he called it a night each evening. Chapter 16 describes the tears that would flow from his eyes Chapter 30 tells us he had literally had erosion in his bones. Chapter 30 describes a blackening and a falling off of his skin. I mean this description that he of his life and the pain that he went through is amazing. And then you know, if you know the story, you know that Job had three friends. Three, you know, three friends, Job described them as miserable comforters. Have you ever had a miserable comforter? Somebody that maybe they meant well but they were just putting salt on the wound, right? Or they were just causing more more hurt than harm and you're almost like, you know, I appreciate your help, but it would be better if you if you didn't do that this. You know, it's it's sometimes hard. Uh Job had some miserable comforters. These these friends that came to him and they looked at him and they said, you know, Job, if you were right with God, you wouldn't be going through this. And they they literally attacked Job when he was already being under attack, right? They called him a liar. They called him a hypocrite. They just they they called him a sinner, literally a wicked man, they said. Um miserable comforters In the midst of all of this, Job responds to his friends and talks about or describes to them life. That's what's found in this chapter here. In verses 1 through 6, he describes man's life as a whole. In verses 7 through 15, he describes man's death. And in verses 16 through 22, he describes the nature of sin or the corruption that is brought by sin in a man's life We are familiar with these verses, especially the first six here verses that we talks about, you know, man's days are few, but full of trouble. You know, that's part of life, trouble. Amen? That's that's what we have. We have trouble and and that's part of living is you're gonna have some hardship. But the focus here is on the fact that the days of men are few. No matter how many days you have, in comparison to eternity, it's just a few. We only have a few days. Whether you live to uh be forty or ninety four. It's just a few. It passes quick. Every every person I've ever talked to has described that, man, it was quick. Life passes fast The days are gone. Just seems like just yesterday I was in high school, or just yesterday I got married. Just yesterday. You know, it's just quick. Our days are but a few, he says. In verse number two he describes it as a flower that quickly dies. It passes away. You know, when you cut that flower from the from the stem, it's beautiful. It's full of life. It's pretty. But how quickly does it fade and petals start to fall? That's how man's life is. He describes it that way. He describes man's days in verse number five as days that are determined. Our days are determined, beloved. It's a set number of days that you and I have. And you can't change that. In verse number six he describes our days as a hireling. You have only a set time to work. You know, when you went to work last week, you didn't clock in and say, okay, I'm here Indefinitely. No, you you had a set time to work. Uh Anner was telling me this morning he had uh a hard day yesterday. He had to do a double shift. He worked his first shift and they said we need you to stay and he had to work a second shift. But you got the clock out, amen. Got to be in church today. There was an end, but see it's like a hireling. There's just a set set amount of time. Now some of you that own your own business You wish you could clock out, amen. You wish you could call it a a day. Sometimes owning your own business that goes a little bit different, but the idea of a hireling is just a set amount of time and it passes. In verse number 14, he says, man's days are appointed. We know, beloved, that our days are appointed. We know the Bible tells us that it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. We look at life sometimes and we think about life as uh the the tragedies and the heartache that we have and circumstances that come up and And and we look and sometimes we look at it as an accident or as bad luck or uh if only we would have done this, but beloved, if we believe that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord Then we believe that God is in control. And if you see this text here, and he says the days are appointed, God has established and set your days. The boundary of time that you're going to live has been established. It's been set. And we're not going to change that. That appointment's going to be kept. No matter how much money you have, no matter how prosperous you are, successful you are in this life, the day's gonna come when we take our last breath. That's what Job is telling these men. In verse number 16, actually, he says that our steps are numbered. Every step is numbered. And beloved, if every step is numbered, you understand that every step I take puts me one step closer. I'm not taking any more steps. You understand that one step closer to my last step That day is going to come when my steps are done, and God knows when that is. And if my days are numbered and my time is appointed, and there's a bound set up that I cannot pass If my steps are literally numbered, then beloved, I ought to make sure that every step is valued and appreciated We ought to make sure that every day is lived with two things in mind. First of all, are you ready to meet God? Because the bounds of our habitations are set, the day is going to come when we meet God. Are you ready to meet Him You've got to take the steps you have now, the days you have before the bounds of your habitation come to a close, and be sure you're ready to meet God. Afterwards, it's too late. And beloved, if you have in your heart and mind, you know that your sins are forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. You know that, then we ought to be taking the steps we have and the days we have to live our life to the fullest. And I don't mean that in a worldly aspect of eat, drink, and be merry. Seize the day, Carpeneum. I don't mean that in this worldly aspect that we ought to just, you know, have as much fun as we can because life's too short. No. What I'm saying is we realize how short life is. We've got to live each day with eternity in view and making what we do Be impactful for eternity. Not just today. It's not just about today. It's not just about having a moment of satisfaction. It's about making a difference for eternity. Living each day with that in view. Because the days pass fast, and the opportunity to do things for eternity is going to be gone. The Bible tells us that as Christians we're to be salt and light. That our presence here on earth is to be influencing this world. For the tailor said it as he closed with that verse, let your light so shine before men. We've got the responsibility as Christians to be impacting eternity, letting our light shine, be installed here during the time we have. As exciting in verse number 17 there, he tells us one of the four things the Bible says that God does with our sin. We know that if we confess our sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. This verse number 17 Bible says there that he takes our sin and he puts it in a bag and he seals it up. Another place in the Bible it tells us that he takes that sin and casts it behind his back, not to remember it anymore. Another place in the scriptures it tells us that he takes our sin and uh that he cast it as far as the east is from the west. Of course, you know the east and west never meet. You you start heading east, you're gonna always be heading east. You never reach a point where you where you're all of a sudden heading west. You just keep heading east. They never meet. Then he says that he cast it in the deepest ocean, the deepest part of the sea. Now, I don't know how many of you are like me, but uh How many of you are good fishermen? Jesus has cast that sin in the deepest part of the sea. It's been forgiven and forgotten by God, but we like to go out there and Dig it pull it up, don't we? We like to pull it up and say, Oh, look what I did. God's forgiven you. You need to let that go. Joe's describing for his his friends these aspects of life And in the middle of all of this, through the inspiration of God, he gives to us a lesson here. Right in the middle of the chapter, when he's talking about life and death and the corruption of sin of men, he gives us an example in verse numbers 7, 8, and 9. Would you look back at that this morning? He says, For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stalk thereof die in the ground, yet through the scent of water it will bud and bring forth rose like a pant. You see, in the middle of this he gives an example. And he says, something that was dead Can have life through the infusion of water. Here was a plant that was dead and and it was it was hewn down, it was cut down right at the ground and From all aspects it looked, and you you said this plant is dead, and and the roots began to wax old in the ground, but through the infusion of water, something that was dead can live again Now, if you've been in church a while and you've got a little bit of Bible knowledge, your mind ought to start turning. Your mind ought to start applying some things here because you know, beloved, the Bible says that we were dead in our trespasses and sins. But something that was dead can live again through the infusion of water. That's exciting this morning. Something that was dead that had no life, had no possibility of living again, can live again through the infusion of water. Now the question is, according to the Word of God, what is the water? Would you turn your Bibles to the book of John? John chapter number four What is the water? These are familiar verses as well, stories. This story here, but first of all, I want you to see I preach to you this message entitled Are You Thirsty? Are You Thirsty? What does the Bible say the water is? Something that was dead can live again through the infusion of water. Well, are you thirsty? Let's see first of all what it says that the water is. In John chapter 4, verses 10 through 14 Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him And he would have given thee living water. Then hast thou that living water. Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well and drank thereof himself and his children and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up unto What's the next two words? Everlasting life. The first thing that the Bible describes is, well, I want you water, I want you to see. is the Son. Jesus Christ, he is the source of eternal life. Jesus is the source of eternal life. That which was dead can live again through the infusion of water. Beloved, you and I are dead in our trespasses and sin according to the Word of God. We were born that way. Every man, woman, boy, and girl, the Bible says, For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We know that all of us are sinners, and we have no hope of paying for that debt of sin ourselves, but Jesus Christ Died on the cross, became a savior, so that we could be forgiven of our sin. So that we could have that sin washed away. That water which is provided, and I'm not talking about the water of baptism this morning. That water in the baptismal tank doesn't wash anything away. Except maybe some dirt if you haven't had a bath in a while. We have baptized when we did baptism a few times. Sometimes the top of the water is like, whoa, I'm wondering. We just gave them a bath. Amen. But that doesn't cleanse your sin. Only Jesus Christ can do that. And somebody that was dead and had no hope of eternity can have it through the infusion of the Son, Jesus Christ. I want you to understand, beloved, that this world is now and always has been looking for a way to quench their thirst. Looking for a way to quench that thirst, that appetite that's in their heart. For some, that thirst is so strong it brings an uncontrollable appetite that they even the actions that they do, they know it's destroying them, yet they continue to do it It's an appetite inside of their heart that they continue to pursue after, even though they know it's hurting them. Beloved, sin is never satisfied. And the appetites, the thirst that's in the heart of man, and some people thirst for success. They thirst to be uh successful or search for power, or some people thirst for some type of illicit activity, and some people uh have a thirst for for drugs or alcohol or some people have a thirst for some other thing in this world but I want you to know those things will never satisfy. They will never satisfy. It's only Jesus Christ that satisfies And we desire, like this woman at the well, you know the story here, the woman at the well is there, and uh Jesus says to her, Call thy husband. And and she says, Well, I don't have a husband. And he said, You said that right. Because you've had five husbands. And the guy you're with right now is not your husband. You see, Jesus knew this woman had a thirst, and she was trying to fulfill it or satisfy it through these different men, whatever her thirst was, maybe for connection, maybe for love, maybe for acceptance. I don't know what the thirst was, but it was there. And she was trying over and over and over again to fulfill and satisfy that thirst. But Jesus said, You could be satisfied and never thirst again Can you imagine the revelation that came upon the mind of that lady? As she had lived her life looking for this, desiring to have that need met. And Jesus looked at her and said, This is how the need is met. For so many years she had longed and been hungry for and desirous to have this particular thing. And now Jesus said, I can give you that. I can meet that thirst. With everlasting life. She had looked and looked and looked and had never found it. But praise God that day she found the Son That day she found the Son of God and had a drink of the living water, which you'll never thirst again. Our life used to be about what we could get out of life, and now it's about what we can give. Our life used to be about uh us and and nobody else, and now it's about others and not us. Can I ask you this morning, do you have the Son? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Son of God is Forgiven you of your sin, that you've partaken of that living water, and you have everlasting life because of Jesus' sacrifice on the cross. If you don't have the sun, if you don't know that beyond a shadow of a doubt, I would encourage you in a few minutes that we have an invitation to come and let us show you in the Word of God how you can know that. The first thing the Bible tells us that gives life, the infusion of water brings life, is the sun. Second thing that we see that brings life is the scripture. In Ephesians 5. 26, the Bible says that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. The washing of water. by the word. Back when Mary and I were teaching in school and I had the privilege or the burden of being a principal for several years. Uh but we were teaching in the school there. Uh we had an art teacher, very gifted man. Very skilled. He did a lot of other things, but his specialty was art and he would teach art and one of the aspects that he would teach is working with clay. And uh he had a potter's wheel and he would get some clay and he would stick that clay on the middle of the potter's wheel there and turn it on and You know that clay is just a lump, right? And if you've ever seen anybody work with that, if he wanted to start to mold that clay, what did he have to do? Does he just turn it on and just start? There's a there's an element missing if he wants to mold the clay. What's the element missing? Water. He'll take a sponge and he'll drip some water over the top of that and then the wheel will start spinning and then he'll start shaping it. But you know what happens inevitably after after a couple of minutes? That water soaked in, some evaporated, and what does he have to do? Oh, add more water. He's got to add some more water. He's got to keep adding as long as he desires to continue to mold and to shape that clay into something. He's got to continue to add water. He's got to continue to keep it wet and moist with that water. Well, beloved, the Bible tells us very clearly that he is the potter and I am the clay. And if we want God to have the liberty to mold us, To shape us, to make us into a vessel fit for the Master's use, to make us into a vessel of honor. It takes Beloved, a continual saturation of the water of the Word of God in our lives that we can be moldable. God desires to shape us, and sometimes we may even pray and say, Lord, would you change me? And God's trying to change you, but it's been so long since you've had any time in the Word of God that God has no moisture there, no power there to be able to change you because you haven't yielded your heart to Him through the Scriptures. It takes water. Water brings life back where there was death. Sadly, many Christians have long since ceased to be moldable. Because they've stopped applying the water. You're still a Christian. Praise God you don't lose that. Once you know your sins have been forgiven, they're forgiven You are on your way to heaven. You've been forgiven. Praise God for that. But we've stopped being moldable because we've stopped taking the word in. Beloved This book is a spiritual book. And it brings spiritual life to the one who takes it in. The scripture brings spiritual life Maybe you're saved and you're on your way to heaven. You know you have eternal life, but you don't have much spiritual life. Are you struggling in this life? Are you struggling to live as a Christian? You're looking at it and saying, man, it's so hard. It's so hard to be a Christian. You don't have spiritual life because you're starved for the water You need the water. This is a spiritual book. You see, beloved, this book is quick and it's powerful. This book brings spiritual life. Either we believe everything this book says about itself, or we don't. Either everything it says is true, or none of it's true And the Bible is quick and powerful. It's a supernatural book. It's a powerful book. And when you read the Word of God, it does something in your heart. And in your life. You may read it and you may see, well, I don't feel it. You know what? Some of you here, you're kind of healthy people. You enjoy taking vitamins. I've talked to several of you, Betty. Um I mean uh no some of you enjoy vitamins. And you know what? Uh Whether it's because of a doctor that told you that, hey, these vitamins will help you and your your conviction is based on you know what he tells you is true, or You've been doing this long enough that you know by personal experience that those vitamins make a difference in you So you take those vitamins. Now there's some people they're like, oh, that's bunch of baloney. Those vitamins don't do anything. You shouldn't take those. that's a waste of money, a waste of time. But you know what? Nobody could convince you because you know by experience that those vitamins make a difference in your life. Right? If you would get into the Word of God, start getting into the Word of God on a daily basis, you too could know by experience. Nobody could convince you that this is not a powerful book that changes lives because you have experienced it in yours. But it It takes getting into the word. It takes time. You've got to experience that. But this can and will change your life. It is the water of the Word that begins to mold God can mold you and shape you and make you into what He wants you to be. You've got to have spiritual life this morning. Beloved, it's not about you, but it's he that worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure If it's so hard to live the Christian life, it's because you don't have spiritual life helping you do it. It's God that lives through you when you spend time in His Word When you take of that life-giving water. I remember one time, one year when I was a teenager, my dad, I don't know where he got the idea, I don't know who challenged him to do it. But my dad was challenged to read the Bible in its entirety every month for a year. I don't know for sure that he made it every month. I know it took about four hours a day. Seven days a week. for him to read the Bible in its entirety every month. So maybe he missed a month or two. But he just felt that's what God wanted him to do for one year. He read the Bible in its entirety every month. And you look at that and you say, Professor Caleb, there is no way I could read the Bible in a month. Could you read a chapter? Could you read two chapters? You know, sometimes we look at things as really difficult because we've never done them. Some people would look at reading five chapters a day and say, man, that's that's crazy. There's no way I could sit down and read five chapters of the Word of God every day. It's because you've never done it But maybe you could start and read one chapter. We just finished a Bible reading program for the church here that took three years for us to read the Bible. We read the Bible through from the beginning to end, one chapter a day, just one chapter a day, and we read through the whole Bible. Could you read one chapter a day? This is a living book. It's the water of the word. It's every day applying a little bit of water so God can shape you. But do you know what happens? In the old world we live in, in our life, we get distracted, and the water that was applied yesterday starts to dry up, starts to fade away, starts to have less of an impact. So we've got to apply a little water tomorrow. So that God can mold us again. Does that make sense? The life can come with an effusion of water, and this is the water of the Word. The question this morning is, are you thirsty? Are you thirsty? Do you want the Word of God to have its work in your life? Thirdly, this morning I want you to see that if you're in the book of John still, turn to John chapter 7. Don't you see the third thing the scripture describes as water? In John chapter 7, verse number 37 through verse number 39, we see that the Spirit is described here, and the Spirit brings supernatural life. He says in John chapter 7, verse 37, he says, In the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and he cried, saying, If a man thirst, Here's the question, do you thirst? Do you thirst this morning? He says, if a man thirst, let him come unto me and drink He that believeth on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. Verse 39, he says, but this spake he, what's the next three words? Of the Spirit. You see, Jesus was there, the verse goes on, he says, which they that believe on him should receive, for the Holy Ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified. So he said, the Holy Spirit is not here yet. There's not a Spirit yet, but if you believe on me, you'll be given the Holy Spirit that comes to you. Dwell in your heart. Out of his belly is going to flow living water, an abundance of water, because the Holy Spirit lives in the life of a Christian. And it gives you the ability to do supernatural things. You understand this morning that it's not natural, it's not part of our human nature to get out of bed and to come down to church and to listen to some stranger talk for 40 minutes? It's not natural. It's not normal. But there's something supernatural happening in the heart of a Christian that says, I desire that. I want to hear the Word of God expounded upon. I want to be preached to. I want to sing songs of praise to God. I want to gather with the saints. There's something supernatural taking place You see, the Spirit brings supernatural life. The Son is the source of eternal life. The Scripture is the source of spiritual life. And the Spirit is the source of supernatural life. Doing that which we wouldn't naturally do. Do you know, beloved, it's not normal to go up to a complete stranger and hand them a gospel track and say, hey, can I share this with you? It tells you about Jesus. That's not normal. Why would we do that? Because there's something inside of us, a Holy Spirit, that says this is important. People are dying and going to hell and they need Jesus Christ, and I need to share Jesus with them. And so we come out of our comfort zone and we we we pushed ourselves and as a church there was over 430 or 50 something tracks taken. The people committed to to give out. By the way, you only have a week and a day or two to get that done. You haven't got your ten out. Uh find it find a grocery store with a bunch of people in it. Amen? Get those tracks out for the end of the month Why would we do that though? Because there's something supernatural inside. Why would you get out of bed in the morning before work and get down on your knees and pray and talk to God? The natural man doesn't want to do that. But the spiritual man does, and he's empowered to do it by the Spirit of God. The infusion of the Holy Spirit into the life of a Christian causes us to do the supernatural. You know, Isaiah 44, verse number 3 says, For I will pour water on him that is thirsty. And floods upon the dry ground, I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring He says, I'll pour water on him that's thirsty. The question is, are you thirsty? You know, there was a I heard I read a story of a lady that was had some disease. that uh really was brought on by never drinking water. Now I understand I'm preaching to myself, okay? She didn't drink she she had all she had to do was drink water and the problems that she had in her life or physical problems would the doctor was very clear with her, if you just drink water, it'll take care of this And she would not drink water. She didn't like water. And I can relate completely. She didn't care for water. And she didn't want it. But she was supposed to drink water, and she wouldn't drink water, and her husband was at her wits' end. And one of her one of her husband's friends said, hey, if you'll go along with me, I'll bet I can get your wife to drink water. And and the guy's like, hey, I'm I'm willing to try anything And so this guy who was an engineer and he was, you know, respected and people knew he was pretty smart and whatever, but he went to uh this man's wife and he says, Hey, I've been doing a lot of research And uh I have found this stone that has been infused with uh it's called an electrostone, and it's been infused with electrolytes. And uh there's several other technical terms. I don't remember the story exactly how he just you know, engineering terms, Clever could give us some of those. But he was talking about this process in which this stone Would, if left in water for six hours, would specially infuse water with life-giving property? And what he said to her, he says, if you if you will put this stone in the water and let it sit for six hours, that water will then have everything that it needs to cure you of this disease. And he said, Would you would you drink it if you had this stone? Now the stone is normally it's very, very expensive, but I will buy it and give it to you if you'll do it. And she said she would. So he went out in the backyard and got a stone and he took it in the shop and filed it down and made it kind of a nice shiny shape, you know. And he took it to her and he says, Now put this this stone in in your pitcher of water, leave it for six hours. Don't it gotta be six hours. Put it in there and then take the stone out and drink the balance of the water every day. And it'll take care of the problem. And she did it. And she was healed, but it's just water. You see, what's amazing, Christian, is we have the answer. It's just we're not thirsty. She the water that she had available to her was all she needed to be cured of this problem, but she just wasn't thirsty. She thought if she had this stone, this special thing that maybe it meant more or was more. But we already have all we need, Krishna. Jesus Christ did it all on the cross and he paid sin's debt and we can be forgiven of our sin and on our way to heaven today because of the Son. He brings eternal life Beloved, we can have spiritual life. Spiritual life to live as a Christian as God intended and not be so much struggle and battle and heartache to be a Christian because we have spiritual life if we would just get in the Word. Are you thirsty this morning? And we've got the power given to us, the supernatural life, the ability to go beyond. How many of you like to experience something supernatural? Something beyond us. Something that we look at and say, man, God did this in my life