Take your Bibles with me and isn't it amazing to think that we have God's word in our hands? Oh anyways, that was free. Um Matthew chapter sixteen is where we're going to be this morning. Matt Matthew chapter sixteen. And we're gonna read verse twenty-three. Actually um we'll start in verse twenty-two through verse twenty-four. We read, then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, that This shall uh Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savest not the things that be of God, but that But those that be of men. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, I pray that you would meet with us in this Sunday school hour. Lord, there's nothing that I can say that is of any value, but I just pray that you take your word and speak to our hearts. Lord, if there's anybody here who does not know you as their Savior, that you would save them this morning. In Jesus' name, amen. Everyone in this room is following after someone or something. You see, we live in a day and age where I think we've watered down the mean As we're going to see this morning, if you were to ask the disciples, and we're going to look at this passage earlier, if we were to ask the disciples, Peter, James, John, what did it mean, or what did it entail? When you followed Christ, I'm convinced that it would be just beyond mere just occasionally following Christ. Christ. You see their whole lives changed the moment that Christ came and said, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. The title of the message this morning is Are We complacent or courageous followers. You see here in this passage we see Christ challenging the disciples concerning following him Now, in the context here, obviously Christ is talking to the disciples. If you're here this morning, you have not accepted Christ as your personal Savior. If you're relying on anything other than Jesus Christ to get you to heaven. The first step is you need to be saved. But if you're here and say, yes, I've been saved, well, then we must follow Christ. This is something that the Lord's been working in my heart. Am I a true follower of Christ? Yes, I've been saved. But am I truly, wholeheartedly following Christ? Well our actions would really determine whether we're really following Christ or not. In Acts four thirteen, the Bible says, Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were unlearned unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Folks, when we are following Christ It should be evident in our life. By the way we live, the way we talk, the way we act or react to the circumstances of life. But this morning, the first point I want us to look at is the choice to follow Christ. You see, God gave each person a choice. If you're here and you're not saved, God gives you a choice. You can either accept the gift of salvation or reject it. If you're a Christian, we have a choice. Are we going to follow Christ or are we going to follow our dreams and whatever we want to do? That little word if is a really powerful word. I remember on deputation with my parents, I'd be b I grew up with three older sisters and Of course, being the youngest, I was always sweet to my sisters. But I'd be teasing them and all of a sudden my mother would say, Geneziah Robert Duarte! Usually when it's full name, you know it's usually not too good. If your dad has to pull this car over. Something was gonna happen. You see that if it's a conditional folks, in this verse we see if any man will Will come after me. We have a choice. Will we follow Christ or will we not follow Christ? Will we follow Christ or will we follow our ambitions and our dreams? We have a choice this morning. Are we going to follow Christ or not? Are we going to follow Christ or are we following the world? The subpoint number two under that is if we're gonna follow Christ it's not gonna be by chance. I remember growing up in Brazil, the traffic in Brazil is worse than Atlanta. I know it's a bit south, but probably worse than Philly or D C. It's bad. The traffic down in Brazil is very, very horrible. And every once in a while there'd be an instance where You had to follow somebody through town in a vehicle. That was hard. If you were to follow that person It takes focusing. You got thousands of motor mo motorcycles on either side zooming by and they don't respect the law. So you got like I get so tense when I'm driving Brazil to make sure you don't run into somebody who's not following the the the signs and so forth. But if we will follow Christ, it's not going to happen by accident. It's a choice. If any man will come after me. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 4. Matthew chapter four We're going to read verse eighteen through And Jesus walking by the Sea of Galilee saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea of Galilee. See, for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of man, of men. Verse 20, let's go to verse 20 also. And they straightway left their nets and followed him. As I mentioned before, if we were to ask the disciples, what did it mean to follow Christ? Their life changed. You see, they spent their lives focusing on a temporal fish that would rot. Yes, they could maybe sell it and make money in it, but it had no eternal value. And Christ challenges them saying, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Well, folks, when we are following Christ, we will not be so focused on the right here and right now on temporal things But as we follow Christ, our focus will be turned away from the temporal to the spiritual. Now the follow-up question to that is. Are we focusing more on the right here, right now, than on eternity? Only one life. soon be past. Only what is done for Christ will last. It's so easy, Pastor, here in the States to just fall into the American dream mentality. If you do your work and you do a good job, you just climb up on the letter of success. But folks, if we will follow Christ, if we will choose to follow Christ, we will turn our focus away from the temporal. And into the spirit. So follow me and I will make you fishers of men. So that means that if I am truly following Christ I'm gonna start loving what Christ loves. I'm gonna start having a passion or burden for what Christ had, and over and over and over again you'll see in the Bible. And when Christ saw the multitude, he was moved. With compassion on them. Right. Eight point seven billion, I think. No, seven seven point six billion people in this world. Most of whom have yet to hear the gospel. Are we focused on the temporal and the spiritual? So the question to us is, as we saw here in this passage, if any man will come after me We have a choice. Will we choose to follow Christ? I was just this last week, um, got to spend some time with With some missionaries from the Middle East. I wish I I wish I had asked him, what does it mean to you to follow Christ? One of the missionaries, he they spent ten days hiding in their home just with water to try not to let the Mus the Islamic people uh the the um the terrorists get to them. You see for them the connotation following Christ is totally different than ours. I'm convinced that if we get serious about wholeheartedly following Christ, that'll change the way we see Hunt Valley. in Baltimore and DC and the surrounding areas. You see, Satan knows how to distract us. If he can keep us from distracting of wholeheartedly following Christ, then we start focusing On the temporal, on the right here and right now. Christ was constantly rebuking the disciples concerning tonight. I'm going to speak on this. Don't on the just right now. I'm trying to teach you something more. Folks, there's more to life than just making money. Yeah. Amen. There are souls. Vacation Bible school is coming. What an opportunity to reach young people. Just imagine you could have an impact on a young child's life that'll Change their lives forever. Amen. If we're going to follow Christ, well, first of all, we have a choice. It's not going to be by chance. If you're here this morning and you're not saved You need to get saved. And then you can follow Christ. If you're here this morning and you're saved, let's get serious about following Christ. So highly You see folks, when when we're and this is a challenge to myself, when we're being complacent and indifferent, right here in the US where we have freedom of religion, Religion? How are we going to be faithful when persecution comes? You see, it's a matter of The choice. It's a choice of the will. Will I follow Christ or will I follow myself? Will I follow my ambitions, my dreams? Secondly, the cost for following Christ. Come back to the passage here. Then said Jesus unto his disciples: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Here in the scriptures we see that Christ challenges the disciples. If any man, if you're gonna follow me, then you're gonna have to say No to yourself. In Brazil they really like soccer. I kind of was around some soccer players and it is shocking to see how these men will change their whole lives, their diet, their sleep, their schedule, their rest, everything about what they do is so that they can be Why should it be any different for us? They're willing to say no. Um Brazil, you know, these are unsaved. guys but um the the FIFA is very, very particular when it comes to drugs, which is good. And if you're caught, you know, with any kind of substance of drug and you're you know, that's pretty much the end of your soccer career. So these guys will tell say no to drugs, to drinking, to a lot of things, so that they can become the best at the best athlete Or something call uh temporal. For maybe a trophy, for maybe more mu uh making money in Europe and playing in a big club. Empty Temporal. Folks, why should we not be willing to say no to the temporal ambitions that of this world so that we can be the best follower of Christ, the best Christian that we could be Some people take sadly take this passage out of context. They think that in order to be saved, if they deny themselves and take up the cross. They can be saved. Folks, salvation is by grace through faith. The Bible tells us that it's not of works, lest any man should boast. You see, you're not gonna get to heaven by denying yourself or by taking your cross. Salvation is a gift. Christ paid the full price at Calvary. And if you're here this morning and you're not saved, just come to Jesus. Jesus. He died to save you. Pastor or I'm sure anybody from church would love to take the Bible and show you how you can But for the Christians, again, Christ is talking to the disciples. He said, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. To deny has the idea, to forget oneself or lose sight of one's own self or one's own interest. What are you willing to do for the Cause of Christ. What are you willing to forsake so that you can follow Christ? Maybe the American dream? Maybe our shyness when it comes to knocking at a door Maybe it's saying no to a game we're watching so that we could witness more. What are we willing to say no to, to deny? To ourselves, so that we can be a true follower of Christ. Are you willing to say no to worldliness, to our comfort zones, or our ambitions But secondly say if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross You know, when I think of the cross, the cross was a tool of, you know, pretty much, and I heard this this past week, you know, the cross was what today would be the electric chair. It wasn't anything pleasant. You know, but the c the cross is a picture of humility. Folks, if we will follow Christ, we must say no to our ambitions. No to our Temporal, the temporal things that allure us from focusing on what really will matter in eternity. We must take up our cross The cross was a simple humility. We must humble ourselves before the Lord and realize that, Lord, would you use me? Lord, my co-worker is lost. He needs to be saved. Would you give me the words to be able to to witness to that person. Andrew Murray says, humility is nothing but the disappearance of self in the vision that God is all. Pastor, I think the community has yet to see what would happen if we I say we in in general, not only the church here, but we as Christians were to truly be devoted to following Christ. We were to humbly realize that what I want in love doesn't matter. Lord, I want your will for my life. When I think of taking up the cross, you're not gonna win a popularity contest if you take up your cross sometimes. Because the cross is a symbol of humility. Turn with me to Philippians chapter two Philippians chapter two. We're gonna start at verse three. The Bible says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing, but every man on the things that be of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. who being the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being founded of fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. Here we see the humility of Christ. Although Christ was a hundred percent God, he was a hundred percent man, yet without sin. And as God, He took the form, the limitations of the human body, so that he could die in that cross for you and me The cost for following Christ. Let him deny himself and take up his cross. You know, the cross is a symbol of humility. God Allowing his creatures, the men and women that he created, to nail him to a cross. What greater picture of humility You know the cross. You know, showed the commitment of our Lord to fulfill salvation's plan. The cross It's painful. Wasn't glamorous. Yeah, I think of our Lord Jesus Christ as he took that cross up to the hill of Calvary. Probably every step he took, thinking of me, of you and how he loved us. Humility Folks, if we will follow Christ, first of all, it's a choice. Secondly There's a cost. But in light of eternity, what is it saying no to my American dreams As we think of take up his cross, we think of the humility of Christ. If we will truly follow Christ, we must be willing to take up our cross. That might be somebody telling us to go out of their neighborhood. Imagine that. But it's for higher costs. Folks, we cannot be a halfway or a social disciple. Again, I think of the brothers in the Middle East. Wow. They constantly have to be on watch for their life because they're following Christ. Imagine if we had that commitment concerning following Christ. I think we'd see the shift of this nation which is going down Downhill way too fast. Turn back again, and we would see revival breakthrough. So the cost for following Christ really, this is the premise that I want us to go away with is in light of eternity, why should I not be willing? to give up the temporal earthly treasures. You see, if you were to measure the cost of denying ourselves and taking up our cross To the rewards in eternity or to the souls that will be in heaven because we followed Christ and we were the witnesses we should be. You can't compare the two. But again, if we get discouraged and start following other things, then we start becoming complacent. Lastly, um let's take a look at the companion When following Christ. Saw the choice, the cost, the companion when following Christ. As I mentioned before, when we follow Christ, doesn't mean you're going to be the most popular, especially for the millennials. Sorry to break that to you, but Being a follower of Christ doesn't automatically mean you're gonna be the most popular person in the block. But as in return is we have the Christ Himself. We have the Holy Spirit. I think of you know when Christ promised the Holy Spirit to come, we have the promise that the Holy Spirit can guide us into all truth. Wow. That means that if I'm filled with the Spirit and I'm walking with the Lord, that the Holy Spirit and the God's word will guide me to every step that I should take. Wow. That's amazing. Very well. I remember when I surrendered, I fought and fought and fought against the Lord's will concerning surrendering to God. And then when I came to where I knew that if I I would you know the Lord would let me have my way, I'd be miserable outside of God. God's will. And it was a Sunday night. I surrendered. Said, Lord, you know I want to do this, but I know you want to use my life Just do with me whatever you'd wish. That night, the peace that I had in my heart You see, when we choose to follow Christ, we have his companionship. We have the Holy Spirit within us that can guide us and make us the most effective Christians that we can be. You know when we're truly following following Christ, there's sweet fellowship. Just think of the disciples as they f physically follow Christ, the fellowship with Christ Christ, sweet When I think of following Christ and thinking of the companion that we can have if we're truly where God wants us to be. I think of Hebrews four, fourteen through sixteen, if you want to open there with me. To think that the that Christ Went through everything that I will ever go through, yet he was victorious. That gives me hope Hebrews chapter 4, verse 14 says, Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed into the heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast thy profession. For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the infirmities, with the feelings of our infirmities, but was an all point Tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly before the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need God can help me because He's been there. Yet He was without sin. where we can come boldly before him, the companion. He is right there. One prayer away. It's striking how we can go days in and day days day after day with some between us and the Lord. And all we would take is us getting on our knees and say, Lord, that thought was wrong or that action was wrong. I shouldn't have gotten mad at that person who cut me off in traffic. We have a companion. You know when we're truly following Christ, we have a clear conscience because we know we're in the center of God's will. In John chapter twenty one, verse twenty two Let's open there real quick as we close. John twenty one. Verse 22 says, And Jesus said to him, If I will tarry here, um, if I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. The context here Christ, if you look at the passage before is he asked Peter, Peter, do you love me? He said, Lord, you know that I love you. But it goes on that Peter is worried about other disciples. Like, Lord, how about him? If we're not careful, we're so worried that so-and-so is following Christ that we forget the fact that we're accountable for how we follow Christ. So this morning, how are you following Christ? Are you letting the cares of this world distract you from being the witness you should be? from being as close to the Lord as you should be. If you're here without Christ, Romans Ten, verse nine and ten says, If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made. Who are we following this morning? And I close with this story in the eighteen hundreds. A Welsh missionary went to a northern tribe in the country of India to the These people who were known to be very antagonistic to any religion other than their own. This missionary faithfully witnessed over and over again Not very many he didn't see much result until finally a family got saved. The dad, the mom, and two children. Eventually the church official or the town official started persecuting this missionary and he left the country. But that family remained. And these city officials decided to make an example to anybody who would convert So he took to jail this family and they s uh the story goes on that say that they got the two children in front of some ar archers and They gave the dad a chance, hey, recant or renounce Christ, and we'll let your family go. We'll let you live. And he said I have decided to follow Jesus and there's no turning back. They killed his two children. Shortly after that they got his wife and Okay, they gave him a second chance. You recant Christ, you don't have to keep following him. And the man said, though no one is going to go with me, still I will follow Jesus. And as they executed his wife, then they turned on him and he said, The world can be behind me, but the cross is before me. It is supposedly from this story that we get that small little hymn that we sing, that chorus, I have decided to follow Jesus. But have we? In the face of persecution or opposition, would we be willing to not turn our backs on the Lord? If with the comforts of the American dream we're willing to not follow Christ. So the question is, we have a choice. Are we following Christ? There's a cost. But in light of eternity, what is it? Nothing. We have the companion, the Christ Himself and the Holy Spirit within us. How are you following Christ this morning? Let's pray. Father, help me to be a true Father. Would you speak to our hearts and do a work in our hearts in Jesus' name? Amen.