Chapter number sixteen There's a very sad statement that is said about Samson three times in this text. This man who was empowered by God to do great and mighty things You know the story. I don't have to tell you the entirety of the story or even explain it all, but as we read through the text tonight, I want you to see in the Word of God where It explains that he was going to become as any other man. God had a plan for him. God had empowered him. And yet. Because of sin, he was going to become as any other man. Let's begin by reading our text this evening. Judges chapter 16. We have a rather lengthy text, but it is kind of a story form, so shouldn't be too hard to follow along. And I would like you to see the three times where it describes him becoming as any other man. We're gonna read verses six down through verse number seventeen. And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green whits that are never dried, then shall I be weak and be as any other man Then the Lord of the Philistines brought up to her seven green wits which had not been dried, and she bound him with them. Now There were men lying await, abiding with her in the chamber, and she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson and he broke the wits as a thread of toe is broken when it toucheth the fire. So his strength was not known. And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou mockest me, and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that were never occupied, then shall I be weak and be as any other man. Delilah therefore took new ropes and bound him therewith and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there were liars in wait abiding in the chamber, and he break them from off his arms like a thread, and Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me and told me lies Tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound, and he said unto her, If thou weavest seven locks of my hair with a web And she fastened it with a pen, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awakened out of his sleep, and he went away with the pen of a beam and with the web. And she said unto him, How canst thou say? I love thee, when thine heart is not with me. Thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth And it came to pass when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him so that his soul was vexed unto death. That he told her all his heart, and he said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head, for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb. If I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak and like any other man. I would like to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on a thought as any other man. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Lord, we come to you tonight and I bow humbly before you These are your people. They've come tonight with hearts that are hungry, that need to be fed from your word. Lord, I pray that you would remove from us the cares and the burdens of this world that weigh heavy on the hearts that are here. Lord, we all have areas and things that draw upon our mind and our thought processes. But tonight, I pray that the urgency and the importance of the topic covered here this evening from the pages of Scripture Would feed the soul of your people in a rich and powerful way. I ask you, God, you would draw us into your presence. Allow heaven to swing low for a few minutes. And speak to our hearts in Jesus' precious name. Amen. This is the Sunday Before Missions Conference. Just a few days from now, we are as a church setting aside some time to lift up our eyes and look on the fields that are white unto harvest. It is our goal that we would see the need of the lost and dying world around us. Beloved, when a church stops seeing the lost, They have ceased to be what God intended the church to be. We need to see. And so we have this week of missions and We emphasize and focus our hearts on it. But let me ask you, do we have missions and do we lift our fields on the fields that are white under harvest, with our eyes up to those fields? Because we need to give to missions? The answer really is no. That is not the underlying goal, although ultimately we're going to be talking about giving and ultimately talking about the the need to reach the world and it's done through supporting these missionaries and so as a church we will establish and set our capacity to give to worldwide missions through this week. But, beloved, the financial aspect should simply be an outpouring of a heart that has been touched by God to reach the lost. It should be a heaven-cent burden on the heart of man for the lost and dying world that that need is there. Not just So that we would pull out our wallet and give some money each week, but that our hearts would be moved and we ourselves would become a soul winner and begin to carry the gospel with us And present the gospel to people we come into contact with, that we would go forth weeping and bearing precious seed that we may doubtless come again rejoicing. The goal of this week, beloved, is not just that as a church. We would give more to worldwide missions, but more so that we as a church would have broken hearts for the loss that are around us. That is the burden. That is the overwhelming need. It is sad that the world laughs at the church because we have no power. The world turns away from the church because we have no compassion. The world, and yea. Many times even the church pew is full of average, ordinary men who are just as any other man. I heard a story many years ago about a man named Ordinary. I'd like to read it for you. Ordinary lives in a town of Familiar. His family does all their shopping down at Familiar Foods. The town is filled with nobodies, of which Ordinary is one. Ordinary and his best friend work down at their usual jobs. Every afternoon, as they finish the day's work, they come home and sit in a chair and watch the news until supper. They eat, they prepare for bed and Go to sleep, because in seven hours ordinary will have to be up and go back to work with his best friend at his usual job. And then they will come home and watch the box until supper, and then get ready to go to bed One night ordinary had a dream. He awoke and his heart was pounding because in his dream, he dreamed that somebody could take a nobody and do something with his life. ordinary thought that day maybe I could go out to a leave familiar and quit being a nobody and do something great with my life. But when he told his best friend about his dream, his friend said, Oh, you better not. If you do that, you won't be one of us anymore. You're likely even going to have to move outside of familiar, and you don't know what's out there I wouldn't do it if I were you. This struck a chord of fear in Ordinary's heart, so he went home and he put his dream away. He went back to working at his usual job, coming home, watching the news, eating supper, getting ready, going to bed But he became increasingly sad, just ordinary. One day, when he went over to his parents' house, his mom went down to familiar foods to buy the food that nobody ate Ordinary took that opportunity to tell his dad about his dream. He said, Dad, I had a dream that I could do something great and that I would uh not have to be a nobody anymore. And Dad said, Son, I had a dream once as a boy as well. I had a dream that I could do something great. Only I was a nobody, and I worked at my usual job, and every day I would come home too tired to do anything but sit and watch the news and eat supper and go to bed. I found that I waited too long, and soon my ability faded, and so did my dream. So ordinary purpose that he would fulfill his dream and find the one that could take a nobody and make him somebody. He started on his way out of familiar and soon reached the edge of the city and read a sign that said comfort zone, and as he walked on by, everything seemed a bit different. The sound, the trees, the roads, everything was different because he was no longer infamiliar. And as he continued, he hears cries from behind him, don't do it, don't do it! You're you you won't know the people. Some are gonna laugh, some are gonna mock, you're gonna be all alone, he heard them say. But the more he walked toward the one that could take in nobody and make him somebody, the more joy he had the less alone he felt and the more victory he experienced. You see, beloved, the world is full of ordinary The world is full of people that are just like anybody else. Just like any other man. They're living their lives without purpose and without power. Can I tell you it was never God's plan for Samson to be just as any other man? That was not God's desire or will for Samson. God had a plan for him. Can I tell you tonight that God has a plan for you? God has a plan for you, and it is not that you would be ordinary or be as any other man, but that you would be the man or the woman that God intended for you to be fulfilling His plan in your life. When you are living and functioning inside God's plan and God's power, it puts joy in your step. It gives you a reason for living. But you've got to stop living for yourself and start living for him. We see it all the time. Men. Mostly it's men. Sometimes maybe it's ladies, but we see men who are in their forties or fifties. And they go out and they buy a new sports car and they shave their head and dye their hair purple or something, you know. I mean I I they just they just what what are they doing? What does the world call it? They're going through a Midlife crisis. You know, beloved, what it is is ultimately they've reached the point in their life where they say, man, my life is just ordinary. I've accomplished nothing. What is this all for? All I'm doing is going through the motions. I'm getting up every day and going to work and coming home and eating some food so I can get up and go to work and come home and eat some food and and and there's no purpose for it. What is it all about? Well, I'm just gonna go out and spend all this money and I'm gonna buy a new car and I'm gonna try and relive what relive my youth and the reason is is because they've found that their life does not have meaning. They're living ordinary, plain lives just like any other man. Beloved, can I tell you that you were born with a purpose? It was not that you would be weak like any other men. That statement at the end of the verses that we read, where Samson became weak like any other men, God's purpose and God's plan for him had changed Men live today with no drive and no purpose and no power. Most have no idea what they want to do, let alone what God wants them to do. Even Christians are just trying to find the purpose for life. What is it all about? Why are we here? Can I tell you, beloved, God has a purpose for you? Just like Samson, who was born a Nazarite, whom God had set apart, who he had uniquely empowered, he was given a plan, God's plan, for him to work, God's purpose in his life, to magnify God and to Deliver his people. Well, God has a plan for you as well. The day that he fashioned you in your mother's womb, God had a plan for you. The day that God in his mercy drew you unto himself and allowed you to come into contact with his son And you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and you were forgiven of your sins, can I tell you that God has a plan for you It doesn't matter who you are here tonight. We have somebody here that was just saved recently. Can I tell you God has a plan for you You look at and say, man, what can I do? I'm not like Pastor Caleb. I don't know all that Bible stuff and I don't have any I don't I don't have all that background. That doesn't matter, friend. If you get a hold of God, God will take you and To take you and push you forward in a way that you can't even imagine. If you would just yield to God and let God do his work in your heart and in your life. God wants to do some miraculous and amazing things with some men in here, but we've got to have some men that are tired of being like any other man. Tired of just living meaningless, empty lives without any drive or any goal or any ambition, and they say I want something more. God, would you show me and empower me to do your will That's what we need. We need men who are not content to be as any other man, but they want to fulfill God's plan and God's purpose, and that means we stop living for ourselves and we fight against the sin that wants to destroy our lives and we pursue God and His plan for us. You're not regular. You're not plain. You're not ordinary. Can I tell you tonight that you are a child of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the God of heaven, the creator of the universe, and the Savior of your soul? And he has a plan for you. You have been uniquely prepared and specifically empowered to do that plan. Beloved, I am not content to be normal or average. I have a burning desire to do and to be what God wants me to be. Do I always get it right? No. Far from it. But I'm headed in that direction. My purpose, my drive, my goal is to pursue God and His will, to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. Many have a dream of doing great things for God. They wonder, could I be used to win somebody to Christ? Could I be used to teach a Sunday school class? Could I be used to do something great for God? Can I tell you that there is no greater thing that you could be used for by God than to lead another soul to the Savior? To point somebody else to the fact that they're lost and on their way to hell, and they need a God, the God of heaven, who sent his only son, that they might know the forgiveness of sin and be on their way to heaven. There's no greater thing that any of us can do than that. But it's a sad reality that many Christians will go through the entirety of their life and never be used of God to lead another person to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I would be greatly concerned today if I was unable to accomplish the purpose for which I was created, the plan for which God saved my soul, the reason that I'm still here. There's a reason we're still here, beloved. It's not to work a job. It's not to increase our 401k, even though I was talking about your Roth IRA. You gotta plan and prepare, but Lord willing, Jesus will come back and we won't have to worry about any of that. Amen. Be on our way to heaven. That doesn't matter If you and I are going to do great things for God, we need to be ready to leave the familiar, to walk past and out of our comfort zone. Step out and begin to live a life of faith. For without faith it is impossible to please Him We've got to trust him. Do what he asks us to do. I believe that God wants to call some people to the mission field out of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. God may be calling, but sometimes people aren't listening. God could call somebody this week. If we had a group of people that were tender and willing and ready to hear the call of God and as Brother Gordon is preaching or Brother Mike Smith is preaching Sharing the truth, or maybe Brother Sasser, God would reach down from heaven and touch your heart and say, Boy, this is what I want you to do with your life. But it's going to take somebody willing to leave their comfort zone. And trust God, live by faith, and go do what God wants them to do. I wouldn't trade the privilege that's mine to serve the Lord in full-time Christian service. For the highest paying job in Baltimore. I wouldn't trade it. You know that guy doesn't matter what his salary is. He he f lays his head on the pillow at night and he wonders what's it all for. What does it mean? Why am I doing this? You know, even as a Christian, when you understand and know what God's plan is, What you understand is that the job is just a means to an end. The job is just a means through which we can earn enough money to be able to pay our bills and and also maybe a means through which we can be a witness to others or that we can glorify God in our body. And so we realize that's just a means to an end. That's not our goal or our ambition in life. uh to reach the top of the corporate ladder, but it's just a means through which we can be used of God out in this world. I've said it before, and I'll say it again. I can't I can't say it emphatically enough, the privilege that it is to be able to serve God full-time To be able to invest my life in God's people, in God's work. You say I want my life to count for more than free to lay. Or Procter and Gamble. You know, uh or uh whatever company you want to put there I want my life to count for more than that. And you know what? I know you do too. You do too. Samson was empowered to do great things for God. But he lost it. Can I tell you tonight it's possible to miss God's plan? God has a plan for you, but it's possible. First of all, what happens is we get distracted. You see, God's not going to force you to do his plan. Samson was called, he was anointed, he was empowered to do a great thing for God, but he got distracted. You know, there's a lot of pretty things in this world that will distract you. Right, boys? Guys, come on now. I know you want to say amen. There's a lot of pretty things in this world that this will distract you. Can I try and illustrate this? Andrew, would you come up here? Lucas and Caleb, would you guys come and help me? Uh, stand right here, I guess. And uh Lucas and Caleb, I want you to dig some ropes out of there. And you're gonna begin. Andrew right now is a young man. And he is basically free. He has no woman tying him down. Not yet. He has uh you know no great career tying him down, but you know what he did do? He just recently bought a truck. This is gonna be his truck. Now the nice thing is that he paid cash for it, so it's not near as much of a mess. as if he was paying for sixty months or seventy-two months, you know, four or five hundred dollars. So so he paid for it. So he got bound up a little bit, but not not too much. Now Caleb and Lucas, I want you guys to continue adding some bounds because the normal young man what he'll do is he'll go buy a truck and put it on he'll finance it. And then he starts uh dating a young lady. So go ahead and tie it tie that up there. He starts dating a young lady and You know, right now he's free if God called him to go to the mission field. He could go, he could go do whatever God wanted him to do, but he's young and after all, he's going to go serve God sometime down the road, but Right now he's just kind of enjoying life and and so he uh starts dating a young lady. Now here's the thing, if you get the right lady, she can help remove some of these She can be a support. She can be a true help meet and help him get to the mission field. But the bad thing is, is some ladies are like this. And you want to go serve God, but the whole time they're just hanging on you, right And and you want to do something for Jesus, but this this this woman is hanging there. And it can be the other way around as well. I'm just using Andrew because I'm not going to climb on a girl, okay? But But the fact of the matter is it can be both ways. The husband and wife can be a great help to one another, or they can be a great burden and restricting one another. But they get married and then and then what happens is uh they he gets a truck and and then uh he says well I I've you know kids are probably on the way so you know what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna go, I'm gonna buy a house. Throw another rope on there. You don't have to get it all out. Just start wrapping that around. He's like, I'm gonna buy a house. And and you know, I mean hey, we need we need the space and so instead of renting where he'd be free to just leave and go do whatever God wanted to do, now he owns a house And that's a whole lot harder to get a r get out of. He's got a house and that burden, you know. And uh then of course nature takes its course and and kids come along and and we add a couple of kids to the mix and where he was free and ready Just walk around them, walk around them, you stay right there, you you walk around him, keep tying them up. Where he was Freddie re Freddie, Freddie ready. Where he was ready to go to the mission field and do what God wanted to do, he's getting distracted By all the things in this world and he goes out and buys a four wheeler. Well right now they've been talking about motorcycles. They want a motorcycle. Yeah, so they're gonna buy a motorcycle, put that on payments And then he's got to work overtime in order to be able to pay for that motorcycle. And you know, then he has uh all these other commitments in life. Now here's the problem Then missions conference comes and God touches his heart and he hears a cry from the mission field. Brother Armando, can you stand up there and cry from the mission field? Call for somebody to come and give you the gospel. Now I want you to just I want you to just surrender and go. Just surrender and go. Yeah. You see the problem is he's tied up. He's gotten all distracted by all the things of this world, this world has to offer. And these things in and of themselves they are not sin. But when they become what we're living for, we limit what God can do with us. We become like any other man. If you can, you can get out of that and you guys can have have a seat. You can find your way there. They become like any other man. Beloved, I've heard many times people say, boy, when I was young, just like ordinary's father who had a dream once. They said, when I was young, God spoke to me about doing this. God stirred my heart, and I thought maybe I would go do that. But I waited and I didn't do it, and now it's too late. You'll find people in churches all over the country, Bible college graduates, people that had a plan and a vision to go do something for God with their lives, and yet they've got distracted. By the world. It wasn't their plan, it wasn't their intention. They just started living life and pursuing those things instead of pursuing what God wanted them to do. That's pretty minor compared to the next one because I want you to know not only are some people distracted, but some people like Samson are destroyed. Samson has to be one of the dumbest people in all of the Bible I mean, you read that story, and in your heart and mind you're thinking, what an idiot. How could he? She obviously, not once, not twice, but three times. Said, tell me what will take your strength away. And she did it to him. And three times he continued to tell her. He had to know what was going to happen. Sin will make you stupid. Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. You see, he was destroyed And when we allow sin into our life, it destroys us. Samson lets sin come in. Samson allowed that sin to destroy us In Judges 16, verse number 21, the Bible says, But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. Sin destroyed him It destroyed his power, but it also destroyed his testimony. Look down in verse number 24. Judges 16, verse number 24. It says, And when the people saw him, They praised their God, for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us. His testimony was destroyed because he allowed sin into his life. Distraction is bad enough. We've got to be careful and guard against that. But beloved, Satan would love to use sin to destroy you. And you and I need to take the way of escape because God has not tempted you above that which you are able, and has with that temptation provided a way of escape. We can't let Satan take us down that road and be so stupid. Be so stupid to let him destroy your life and all that God wants to do with you. The miraculous and amazing things that you could do for God. Instead, your life is destroyed because you allowed sin to take that away. Isn't it amazing? One small little thing. One little sin that happens to be your pet sin. The Bible calls it a besetting sin, something that for you continues to draw you. How it is that we will give up God's blessing, God's power, God's direction. God's magnificent work in our life for this dumb little thing that we know does not fulfill or satisfy. We know it is not going to provide anything. It's empty and it's meaningless. And yet we'll sacrifice all that God would do with us. For that sin. I can see the Philistines mocking him, making fun of him for all that he was, and now He's just as any other man. They praise their own God for the victory that they had over Jehovah, the God of heaven and the universe. Beloved, the world laughs and takes credit when the Christian falls in sin. I want you to know that the road back is very expensive. We can come back and God can use the Christian who has sinned. And I praise the Lord for that. But we need to remember before we go down that road that the path back is very expensive. It's costly. Would you look at verse number 28? We know the story. Don't have to read all the intermediate verses, but Samson reaches the end of his life here and God gives him one more opportunity. Gives him one victory right at the end. We see in verse number 28. And Samson called unto the Lord and said, Oh Lord God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee. Only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of my Philistines for my two eyes. He says, God, would you give me one more victory? Allow me to do one more great thing for you. And take my life if need be. And we know that Samson died, and he took more Philistines in his death than he did in his life. So God gave him one more victory, but it cost him dearly. Can I tell you the road back is expensive? It'd be a lot better just not to go down that road. But wherever you're at, However old you are. You know, we look back over here to the Mills kids and They're young and energetic and they have their whole life ahead of them. We say, man, what miraculous things God might do with them. But you know, can I tell you it's not too late for any of us? I'm sure Don will tell you guys about it, or maybe we'll hear testimony in recent days, but Don had a privilege of leading somebody to Lord just recently. It's not too late for anybody. And if we would get serious about pursuing God and we would say, God, would you allow me to do something for you? Regardless of how old we are, regardless of where we are, God just might give you one more victory. And if He gives you one, maybe He'll give you two. And if you just keep pushing that way, maybe you'd have three. And I think any of us would be shocked at what God could do if we weren't content to be like any other man. It said, man, I want more. God, would you use me? Would you show me? Would you empower me? Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.