Chapter forty two. As a pastor, uh I am always looking for a message Uh when you preach four times a week, it is always on your mind. Always. Middle of the night, during the day, everywhere you're at. Anything in life will sometimes be with the kids or Mary or something will happen and I'll say there's a message in that right there. There's a message right there. There's there's a message and I'll say, oh uh Sometimes something will happen in my mind. I'm like, there's gotta be a message in there. I I don't know, I don't see it yet, but there's gotta be one there. I need to contemplate it some more. But always looking for messages everywhere. You know, Jesus Christ was the same when he was here on earth. If you read the New Testament, you'll notice that a lot of times what he shares with the disciples by way of instruction was just uh preceded by maybe they come and they ask him a question or something transpired in their life and and Jesus says, hey, in like manner so also you know, you're gonna do this or do that. And and so it circumstances in life, situations that arose, Jesus saw and seized upon them and gave the illustration or the example. that they everybody was looking at and say, looking at this field or this vineyard and let's learn from that. So all through the pages of scripture uh we are taught and we learn lessons From nature. And I began to ponder and think about this and figured that I would start a series of messages. I'm not going to preach them every Sunday morning in consecutive order, uh, but just Over time, I'm going to develop some of the lessons that God gives us from nature. There are things that are in nature that God uses as an example or an illustration. He he uses it to teach the disciples and in the Old Testament he uses it to teach us. And there are many things in nature that he uses as an example. For instance, often you will see him talking about or illustrating uh things through th the uh animal kingdom. And illustrating that is he says, Consider the ant, thou sluggard. You know he says, Hey, look at the ant, look at its diligence, look at its work ethic and and consider him. And so often times Jesus uses uh the L or the Lord uses nature and the animal kingdom to teach us lessons. In Psalms chapter fifty, don't you stay in forty-two, we're gonna be right there, that's where our text is. But in fifty Verse ten and twelve, he says, For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills, I know all the fowls of the mountains and the wild beasts of the field are mine God takes this kingdom which he created by his spoken word, and a lot of times he draws our attention to particular animal or to pick particular thing in nature, and he teaches us a lesson. So this morning I would like us to learn from the deer. We see here in Psalms chapter 42, verses 1 and 2, he says, as the Heart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God, when shall I come and appear? before God. Now the deer here is referred to or called a heart. A heart in the Bible in that reference to deer is a female deer. And uh a uh or a male deer, sorry, but a uh hind, oftentimes you'll see like this psalmist says, uh, God maketh my feet to be like hind's feet. Uh David said that in several places in reference to that, and that is uh a female deer. And so you have the heart and the hind. Sometimes you'll see in the Bible the deer referred to as a foul deer. That is just a particular type or kind of deer, a foul deer, that he would reference. And so God oftentimes in the scriptures refers to the deer and is teaching us lessons. There are over fifty uh references to different animals I don't know that they are all uh teaching lessons, but certainly many of them are things that we can learn or glean from, and over time we will learn the lessons that we can. But this morning we want to focus in on this, the deer The deer whose heart panteth after the water brooks. As I bring to a message this morning, as the deer So my soul. As the deer, so my soul. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts this morning? Lord, we come to you right now and I humbly yield myself to you, an unworthy vessel, to preach your worthy book. Lord, the messages that are contained inside its pages, Lord, are the unsearchable riches. And it's a living book. It's a powerful, Lord, a word that's sharper than a two-edged sword. And I pray, God, that your word would be made alive in the hearts of your people today, that what you would like to communicate to them and cultivate in their heart in their life right now would be the work that you accomplish as we Just turn our hearts heavenward for a few minutes and listen to you as you speak to us through your word. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. We see here these characteristics a little bit about the deer, just by way of things that you observe. Deer are harmless in nature. They're very gentle creatures. Uh they tend to be a little bit skittish. Uh you know, they kinda you can see the smallest little thing can can spook a deer and he'll he'll just run and take off Um, you know, they'll sit out in the field. It's not uncommon to have six to fifteen deer sitting in our front yard over on the property there. Uh, you know, they they tend to be very graceful in motion. Not when they're running into your car, uh, but uh you know they are graceful if you see them jumping across the field or or they're they're hopping over fences like they're not even there. I'm sure you guys have seen either seated in person or seen the video clips of of deer that that jump over an entire car. Like they come to the road and they just hop over this whole car and land on the other side. I wish the one that hit my suburban would have done that. Uh but he ran right into the side of it. But uh, you know, they they they're they're very graceful in motion, they're very swift. They can move and run very quickly. They're very sure-footed up and going and jumping and hopping and what they can accomplish. David asked for some of that as he asked over and over again, Lord, would you make my feet like Heinzfeet? That sure-footedness, that stableness, that solidness that's that's present in there. And uh so in our text here, David draws our attention to the deer, and he says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks. So panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirst for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before the Lord? Beloved, the picture that David draws for us here is this deer after running, after exerting himself, after maybe fleeing. some pr somebody that uh a a lion or something that would make him pray. Uh that idea he's panting, he's he's been exerting himself, he's been exerting energy and he's been running for a while and is His heart is panting and his nose gets a it's a whiff of that stream and that flowing water and he thinks, oh I I want that water and he longs for it and he he's willing to go and work and and continue to run even though he's weary to Finally get to that brook and to drink and to lap up that refreshing water. That's the picture David draws for us here, and he says, what about your heart? What about your soul? Is it longing to get to God? Is your soul longing to be in His presence? We see, first of all, this morning that the thirst is definable This thirst and desire. It's a desire for something specific. You know, beloved, we all have thirst. We all have things that we desire. We have things that we thirst for. Or the alcoholic thirsts for one more drink. The thrill junkie may thirst for one more extreme experience the romantic thirst for true love, the ambition person for thirst for success in this life. Oh, the lazy man, he thirsts for some hours of rest or ease. Beloved, the soul of the Christian is supposed to be thirsting for the living God. Thirsting after and looking for and longing for the living God, beloved, the average man today, he wants a good life. He wants a wife that loves him. He wants health and happiness. He wants well-adjusted kids with good attitudes and good spirits. Oh, and beloved, we work hard to accomplish the things that we want. We extend a great amount of effort. To go after that dream, that thirst. Whatever it is, maybe you thirst for success in this world and you want to be successful in the workplace and You give you get your yourself out of bed at five o'clock in the morning and you get dressed and go out when it's freezing cold and you drive to work and you spend all day and you work late nights and you Invest all that energy. Why? Because you want to be successful. There's something in you that's driving you to do so. But I'm asking you this morning, what's in you that's driving you to Jesus? What's in you that causes you to be hungry, to thirst for, to long to be in the presence of God? We have a dream, but is your dream just to be successful in this world or to know the Savior? Why is it, beloved, that if there's anything in our life that has to suffer, it's our relationship with God so many times If there's anything we don't have time for in a day, it's our Bible reading. Oh, today is so busy, it's so full, I got so much to accomplish. Why is it the most important part of our life is a thing that we are willing to let go? We thirst for so many things, but there should be this thirsting, this longing to be in the presence of God. It's a definable first. It's a thirst is not just for the average. It's a thirst that's not just for the things of this world. There's a thirst in the heart, the soul of a Christian that longs to know God. Sir Isaac Newton said that he could take his telescope and he could look into the heavens Millions of miles into space and observe the stars. He said, but when I lay it aside and go into my room, When I shut the door and get on my knees and in earnest prayer, I see more of heaven and feel closer to the Lord than if I were assisted by all the telescopes on earth. Do we want to be with Jesus like that? Oh, he said, I can observe, I can look up and I can observe the stars, but When I go into my quiet place and I get on my knees, I observe heaven. I see more of the glories and the majesty of the universe and the majesty of heaven when I'm on my knees in the presence of the Creator. That's who he longed to be with. Do you see him that way? Do you thirst for him that way? David said, I thirst, I thirst. Not for something mediocre or casual, not with a take it or leave it, I could drink it or not drink it, I could have it or not have it, but a thirst that he longed for as that deer that panteth. After the water brook, wanted to be with God. Let me ask you, when you come to the Lord's house, who is it that you want to see most? When you come to God's house, do you come into the the the the sanctuary here And I know we've got friends in the Lord's house, and I praise God for our our church family, and blessed be the tie that binds, and we love and appreciate one another. But is it are you looking for that friend? Is the person you came to see the pastor? Is the person you came to see somebody else down the pew or a brother and sister in Christ? Or are you really, I mean, in your heart of hearts, in your soul, when you come into the house of God, are you longing to see Jesus? Is your soul thirsty to see him and to hear from him? One Christmas Eve, the telephone rang in the office of a pastor on Capitol Hill in Washington, D. C. He was sitting there in his office and the caller said, Pastor, could you tell me, are you all having a Christmas Eve service this evening? And he said, Yes, we're having a Christmas Eve service. And the caller further inquired and said, could you tell me, Pastor, if President Roosevelt is going to be there this evening? And he said, Well, sir, I could tell you, I'm not positive what the president's schedule is, so I can't say whether he'll be here or not, but I can tell you confidently that God will be there. And that because of his presence, I'm pretty sure there'll be a lot of other people there too. You see what he was saying, he says, Who are you coming to church to see? You want to come and hobnob with the big wigs, or you want to come and spend a little time in the presence of God as your soul longing and thirsting after an Almighty God, the creator of the universe, the Savior of your soul, who wants to minister to your very need. Many times we're distracted with the cares of the world, we're distracted with the burdens we're carrying, we're distracted with the fun we're having, or our plans following church. When God says, Oh, I want to meet with you, I want to speak to you, if you would just pause and look heavenward for a couple of minutes. It's a thirst that's definable, it's also a thirst that is powerful. It's a powerful thirst, a thirst that he says, with my Isaiah describes this thirst in Isaiah 26, verse number 9. He said, With my soul have I desired thee in night. Yea, with my spirit all my spirit within me will I seek thee early Seeking God. It's a powerful desire in your heart, one that is upon your mind at night when you lay down. You know, preparation for a good walk with God in the morning begins in the evening. Preparation to get the most out of a Sunday morning service begins on Saturday night. When you say, I'm going to begin to prepare my heart and mind. As we're going to the house of the Lord tomorrow, we engage in the consumption of so much of today's uh distractions. That we're a long ways from ready to hear from heaven when we come to God's house. We should begin preparing our heart and mind. Come in thirsty and ready, a powerful thirst that is contemplating and thinking about it. I don't know of a better illustration or example of that powerful thirst or that hunger than than young love. Then that desire for somebody who is trying to win the heart of a young lady, and and she's always on his mind, always there. Never leaves his mind. He's at work and he's thinking about her and he's getting off work and he's thinking about her. And he goes home and he's thinking about her. And he goes to bed and he' Thinking about her When's the last time you had a thirst for God like that? It's a powerful thirst. It should be your thirst. And you say, well, I haven't been that hungry. Then you need to ask God to give you a thirst to know him. Like Paul, who said that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Boy, don't you want to see God do miraculous things in your life? They don't just happen just because It's because there's a people that are thirsty and longing to be with him and longing to see him do great things. When you get to the bottom of the barrel, do you look around for a way out or do you look up? Sometimes God takes us through hardship because he needs us to get us to look up. We forget about him, we forget about all that he's done. We're so consumed with today that we forget to look up. In our context here, David is forced to look up We're not going to take time to turn over to the passages in 1 and 2 Samuel to look at what was taking place in David's life when he wrote this. But can I tell you when it was when David was on the run? When David had to flee from Jerusalem because his own son Absalom rose up against him. His own son mounted a coup to take over the kingdom. And David had to flee from his own palace. And on the way out of town, you remember Shimei was standing there and mocking and making fun of him. And one of David's mighty men says, Let me kill him. And David said, No. It might be that God's using him to tell me something I need to hear. Maybe something he's saying is something I need to hear. No, we're not going to kill him. He he's on the run. He he's out away from his palace. He this is uh uh As low as it had been in a very long time for David. But when he got low, he looked up. Maybe God has brought you low in recent days. Could I implore you to look up? It is in those hours of greatest despair that our thirst is the strongest. That our thirst to know him is the most powerful when we reach that place where we have to have God on the scene There is nothing else that will suffice. There is no platitudes or anything else that will make a difference in our situation, but we have come to the place where we need God. Boy, list of David's problems as long as his arm. But what he wanted was to see Jesus What in your life will disrupt your walk with him? What is it that will distract you from pursuing him? Boy, when the deer has that sniff of that water brook, he's running for it. He's on his way. He's willing to climb a hill and run through the valley in modern days run through roads and everything everything else. This week I almost hit a deer in my driveway. Yeah, I told you they're on the property all the time. Mary and I were coming home after dark this week and a deer just jetted right across the driveway, right in front of us. I mean I I hit the brakes, but it would have been too late. If he would have been this way six feet, he would have ran right into the car. I mean he was on his way somewhere. He was headed with a mission. Are we on our way to see Jesus? Are we hungry? Thirsting? As that deer, does our heart pant after the water brook? Can I tell you this morning that God desires God's desire for you is very powerful. God desires to be with you. God, the creator of the universe, desires to know you, desires to spend time with you. You pick whoever you might idolize in this world. The individual is irrelevant to the illustration. You pick who it is that doesn't even know your name, but if you I mean if you could, you would like to meet them. What if you found out that they not only Wanted to meet you, but wanted to be your friend, wanted to get to know you, wanted to spend time with you. You would say, man That's awesome. Well uh wow, I feel like the luckiest guy in the world. I mean I I thought about this so much, that would be great Well, God wants to spend time with you. God wants to know you. God wants to be that friend that's taking closer than a brother. Not just one that you call on when in your hour of need and you need something and praise God that He is there and He will hear your cry. But he longs and wants to be your friend every day as you walk through life. To hear about your joys and and the the the ways in which he's blessed you as you praise him and then to hear about your needs and your burdens as you carry them and to walk with you through the good times and the bad. He wants to be that friend that's always there But do you have that powerful thirst? Lastly, this morning we see that is a thirst that can be satisfied. I'm glad that God does not put in the heart of an individual a thirst or a desire that can't be met. You know what? This world puts over and over again thirst and desires in the hearts of people, and it is a thirst that cannot be satisfied. The eyes of man are never satisfied. The heart of man in and of itself is never content That idea trying to find satisfaction in this world is going to leave you empty. But I'm glad this morning that Jesus can satisfy. Boy Jeremiah talking in Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse number 13, he describes Jesus God as being the fountain of living waters. That fountain of living waters, he says, boy, my people, talking about Israel, he says, My people have committed two sins. First of all, they've neglected, they've left the fountains of living water And what they have done is they've opened up themselves cisterns. Cisterns that are broken down, cisterns that can hold no water. He's saying what they've done is they've left the fountain of living water that can satisfy, and they've gone and they've pursued after things that will never satisfy. Cisterns that are broken. Cisterns that'll never be full. I wonder if that's not a picture of us today. God can satisfy that thirst that should be in the heart of every believer, but far too many people are trying to fill the God-sized hole with other things. And it doesn't matter how much you put in, it is not gonna fill it. You need Jesus. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and know the forgiveness that can come through putting your faith and trust in Him, I implore you today to trust Him. Have your sins forgiven before it's eternally too late. That's where your relationship begins with God. A relationship with God doesn't begin just because you're coming to church. Doesn't begin just because you carry a Bible. Your relationship begins when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, his shed blood on the old rugged cross for you. And when that relationship begins, you begin to be, the Bible says you become part of the family of God. You're adopted into God's family. And the possibility of satisfaction is present. In John chapter 7, verse number 37, he says, if any man thirst, let him come unto me. And drink. If any man thirst, are you thirsty today? Are you thirsty to know him? Are you thirsty to know him better? Are you here today and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior? You can today because it is a thirst that can be satisfied. God has the answer. Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 6 says, Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness. For they shall be filled. Amen. They shall be filled. You can know it. You can be filled. I would have you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed this morning.