Turn your Bibles this morning to Luke chapter number eleven. Wonder As you are starting out this year, do any of you have any particular goals. Is there anything that you want to accomplish over the next twelve months? I don't know what that That might be I don't know what God might put upon your heart or what you might set as a goal or ambition for you. Anybody willing to share a goal that you have or something that you would like to do, um, Ms. Laurie? She wants to get a used oboe and play with the orchestra. So she's looking to try and uh develop and and learn that. So she wants to see Start that process. Uh Stephanie, who wants to read one book a month? Praise the Lord, Brother Greg. Give me the boy. Amen. She said she's been blessed uh tremendously through the ministry of the church. church here and the church family and uh she wants to step forward and and do as much as she can to give back to serve the Lord through the church. Galina She wants to she did her first one already. Uh have a have a group of fellowship uh time at her house with uh friends and family and so so she wants to do that once a month that's it's a lot of work. I know that. Brother Johnson. Amen. Amen. He wants to uh Amen. So he wants to lose a little bit of weight to help help himself physically, and then uh spiritually he wants to read the Bible, be more consistent in Bible reading. Well, would you look in your Bibles this morning at our text, Luke chapter 11, beginning in verse number nine, we're going to read Down through verse number thirteen. The Bible says, I say unto you, Ask and it shall be given unto you, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. If a man shall ask bread of any of you that is a father Will he give him a stone? Or if he shall ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will ye offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children How much more shall your Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning and we ask you, God, that you'd give me liberty to pray. preach and clarity of thought as I share and share the truths that you've laid on my heart this morning. And I pray God that it would draw us into your presence and that you would speak to our hearts in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I'm gonna preach to you this morning for a few minutes on the uh topic uh titled Ask, Seek and I read this week about a man named David. David dreamed of becoming a successful writer. As a child and a youth, he spent hours and hours reading books and was carried away into fantastic worlds created by the pin of somebody else And he still wanted to be able to do that, to inspire and entertain, to have a lasting impact on people who would read the words that he put down on the page and He knew it wasn't going to be easy, but he committed his life to try and do that and went to college for it. And after his graduation, David put his heart and soul into writing his first novel He spent years perfecting the story, rewriting, and making it exactly what he thought would be an instant hit. His with excitement and great hope he sent his manuscript to be reviewed by some publishers. That was when reality hit them. It was harsh. It was hard. Some publishers didn't even respond. Some publishers responded and said that his book lacked any market appeal after his fifteenth rejection. He began to doubt himself. After all he had longed to do and looked for, trying to accomplish, he thought, maybe writing is not for me. It was then when he came across the path of a successful writer and had opportunity to chat with him for a few minutes and Off-handedly, this successful writer made a comment that stuck in his mind and stirred him to continue to pursue. The writer said, rejection is not failure, it is proof that you're trying. The only real failure is quitting. Inspired by this, David decided to keep on going instead of seeing the rejection as an opportunity or a sign that he should quit. He saw it as a learning process and further began to revamp and rewrite his manuscripts. On his set when his second novel was also rejected, David didn't let that put him off. Instead he self published some small stories just trying to get him out there and to earn a little bit of money by this pursuit of his and His persistence paid off when a literary agent found his work and thought there was some potential there. His literary agent asked him to write a book, a novel, and he would review it. Finally, after 47 rejections, this publisher, who saw the potential, agreed to and published his first book It was a long road, but eventually David's book became a bestseller. He kept at it. His persistence paid off Can I tell you, beloved, that nowhere in our life is persistence more important than our spiritual life? We have in our text here the Asking, seeking, and knocking. I would have you see first of all the practice of persistence as being taught by Jesus Christ And I say unto you, ask, and it shall be given unto you, seek and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Now I'm not a Greek scholar and don't claim to be, but there are those who are substantially smarter than me and have studied the original languages in in great uh s significance and they have come to the conclusion and they've stated that these Uh words here are a present active tense that means that there is really the idea of continued asking Continued seeking, continued knocking. The idea of persistence. It is not presented with the aspect of just ask And it's going to be given. It is presented with the idea of if you will continue to ask, if you will continue to seek, you will find. If you will continue to knock, it will be opened unto you. I would ask you this morning, are you persisting in prayer, or are you just generally or occasionally asking? We need to be persistent in our prayer. If you would like to see great things this year, if you would like to accomplish some great things this year, it's going to take persistence. I read this week that 1% of people will have a new year. 99% will just have another year. I wonder, beloved, will this year be a new year for you? Or will it just be another year? If it's going to be a new year, then what you have to do is purpose in your heart at the beginning to be persistent and to stay at it. Would you look back at verse number one, Luke chapter 11 and verse number one? And it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. The disciples came to Jesus and they asked him, Teach us to pray. Lord, show us how to do this Were the endeavor, this important part of our faith, Lord, teach us to pray. And can I show you what he told them in response? Look at verse number five. He gives to us the parable of the friend at midnight. In Luke chapter 11 and verse number 5 through 13, he says, And he said unto him, Which of you shall have a friend? And shall go unto him at midnight and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine in his journey has come unto me, and I have nothing to set before him. And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not, the door is now shut, my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity. He will rise and give him as many as he needeth. Beloved, in response to the disciples asking Jesus, teach us to pray. Jesus looked at his disciples and gives them this parable of the friend at midnight and he said that one friend came to another friend and he said, I got a friend that just showed up. He came to town and we need some bread. The shops are all closed and as you're my friend I I I I need you to give me some bread. And he says, but That friendship was not as strong as he thought it was because the guy said, Hey, I'm in bed. Kids are in bed. We're w don't bother us. We're not going to give you. I I d d I would if I was awake and it was easy, but listen, just go away. What he's saying, he says if you knock again, if you seek again, if you call again The time is going to come when the neighbor's going to come out with all the bread he has in the house and he's going to listen here, have it. Just take the bread. Let me get some sleep And that's what he's telling us to do with God. He's saying just keep on asking, keep on knocking, keep on coming to him with your request. We need to have some persistence. That word importunity, according to Webster Dictionary, literally means persistence to the point of irritation. That fits right in with the parable that Jesus just said. That listen, the time's gonna come when the friend says, okay, fine, I'll give you some bread, not because we're such good friends. Not because I really want to help you, but listen, I want you to stop knocking on my door. And God wants us to come to him. And in some respects we look at that and we say, well Why would God want us to be so I mean I we know that He loves us. Why would He want us to come so persistently? Why would He demand that we continue to ask over a period of time or continue to seek and continue to knock? Why wouldn't he just give it to us? I can't say that I know all the reasons why, but I certainly can give you some thoughts. First of all, persistence declares our position. When we begin to pray, I want you to understand, beloved, that prayer is not about getting our will done in heaven. It's about God getting His will done in our hearts. And when we come persistently, when we come to the place where we really want something, when we persistently seek God, and we're at a place where Everything else is let go, and what's most important is that we get this and we're pursuing God. What it does, beloved, is it changes us. We come to the place where we say, Okay, God, whatever you want Whatever I need to change, whatever I need to give up, I'm yielded to you. Lord, I need you to answer this prayer. Would you do it for me? I think about Jonah. He he was in the the whale and he says, God If you'll deliver me from the belly of this whale, I'll do it. I'll go preach. I'll do whatever you want me to do. Lord, would you please just deliver me? I think about Hannah, who wanted a child And she said, God, if you would just give me a child, I'll give them back to you. And sometimes, beloved, it's not until we've been persistent in prayer that God begins to shape our hearts. and begins to mold us to the point where we're coming to him and willingly saying, Okay, God, I'll give it up. Okay, God, I'll stop it. Okay, God, I'm willing to do this. Would you please answer this prayer? Persistence in prayer brings us to the place where God wants us. Persistence in prayer establishes our priorities. It allows us to let other things go and be focused on that which was most important. Beloved persistence. Continue asking, continue seeking, continue knocking. It builds your faith. It builds your spiritual strengths. Just like any other muscle. The activity and action of it makes you stronger and more apt and more able to do so. That is what God desires from us. And ultimately God makes it very clear that persistence in prayer results in the provision of the request. Ask, seek, knock. We see a progression of the relationships described here. We have a friend who had a friend that Went and asked his other friend for some bread. But then we see begins to talk about, well, which of you having a son? If a son asks of a father, we see the relationship moves to the son and father relationship, and we see that picture of a parent given to us That example. He says, or what man is there of you whom, if his son asks bread, will give him a stone? Or if we ask a fish, we'll give him a serpent. He makes it very clear. Let me save you. Beloved, that God wants to answer your prayers. God, as your heavenly Father, wants To provide and do good for you. He wants to give that which is good. We see that he gives them the good things. Not necessarily all things. How many of you know that sometimes kids ask for things that aren't necessarily good for them? They aren't the best for them. The parent does not deny his child ice cream before supper because he's mad at him or because he doesn't want him to have ice cream. He knows it's not what he needs. He needs some real food. Ice cream is just dessert. A child who has been loved and has enjoyed the assurance of the concern of his own father does not hesitate to come to his father and ask. Even today, it 51 years old. I would not hesitate to call my dad at any moment and say, hey, I have I have a need. I have a need. Because I know that he would do any and all that he could. Let me ask you, what would cause a child not to want to call on his father? Why wouldn't we go to our Heavenly Father? There's a couple of things. First of all, sometimes we feel, we may feel, incorrectly, but we may feel that our father's concern is insincere. We know that that's false, but Satan would like to put it into your heart and mind and say that in some way God's love is not as Dedicated to you or as full or as complete as maybe for others or beloved, we know that God's love is sincere, that it's real. Romans 5. 8, but God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We know that God's love is real. His actions have proved it over and over again. Well, his attention to us proves it. The Bible says that your Heavenly Father knows what you have need of even before you ask. He knows what you're going through. He knows what your needs are. He knows what burdens you're carrying. His love is sincere. His concern is true. Don't let Satan put that in your mind that your heavenly father does not want to hear your request. Sometimes we think that maybe we're falsely, but we feel that our father's concern is insecur. Another reason would be that we feel that our request is inferior. Sometimes we think, man, what we're asking for is not that important. God's not that concerned about this or that. God says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. All your care. Whatever burden you are carrying, whatever is of enough importance in your heart and mind that you think or contemplate taking it to a matter of prayer, beloved, you should. Because God wants to hear it. Don't let Satan tell you that, oh, this is inferior, this is meaningless. Why would God bother with that little old thing? Listen, if it's important to you, it's important to your father. God wants to hear it. Another reason, and I think probably a lot of times the most likely reason is that our relationship is inferior. A child does not want to go to his father and ask when the relationship is suffering. We certainly don't feel like we have access. Or power with God when we haven't been loving Him, when we haven't been following Him, obeying Him. That's only natural. And we know, beloved, that the Bible says your iniquities have separated you between you and your God. The fact of the matter is, is God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He has not changed. He is in the same place. And if we find ourselves At odds with God or separated or distance from Him, our Heavenly Father, where we're not in a place where we can come to Him and request, can I tell you that that's our fault? And the blessing is that we can turn and be back to him at a moment's notice. Because he is still there. And all we need to do is to repair that relationship, to bring us back to a place where we can request of him is just turn at his reproof. Just confess our sin. And he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If there's something in your relationship today with the Father that's suffering, would you come to Him today? We see lastly this morning the promise of provision in verse number eleven. He says, if ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? So we see that final step in the progression of the relationship from friend to father to now our Heavenly Father. Now he says, listen, if if a man who's wicked, if a man who has an impure heart and oftentimes questionable motives and who is battling with his own selfishness and desiring his own things. If a man like that knows how to give good gifts unto his son How much more a heavenly father who is pure and right and just in all of his actions Beloved, God wants us to come to Him and to come continually. God loves and longs to give those things which are good to His children. Sometimes his answer is no, because those things aren't what we need We might not understand until we get to heaven why the answer was no. Sometimes that's a hard thing to deal with. That's a hard thing to bear when the answer is no. In the pages of scripture, you see that take place, like David with his baby praying and asking God to spare this life of this innocent child, but God says no. And the child is taken home. That's when your faith steps in and you say, Okay, Lord, I don't understand. I don't know why, but I trust you. I trust you. That's the only time you start to get to use faith We need to learn to trust God's character when we don't understand his answer. God's character is a we know God is love. God is love. And he loves you. And we know that that love is why God is good all the time. What he does for us, he does for our good, whether we understand it or not. Paul asked to be healed of his thorn in the flesh. God said no, but my grace is sufficient. In Paul's mind, and His endeavor to minister to the Lord in such a magnificent way here on earth, he thought, if I could get this gone, boy, I would be far more effective. He said, Lord, would you remove this? Thrice he prayed and asked God, and God said no Beloved, the principle of perseverance, of persistence, is necessary In all places, but especially in spiritual things, we are called to continue asking, continue seeking, continue knocking. If you could apply this to every area of your life. In your pursuit of Bible study, as some of you mentioned today, you want to read the Bible, want to study or know God more. It's going to take some persistence to continue. To continue. I know it gets hard. I know sometimes it's long, and I know sometimes you read pages and you're like, I have no idea what that meant. I don't I don't even know who's talking. Like what or who they're talking to. Or what they're saying. But you just stay at it. You'll start to learn and you'll begin to start to put pieces together. And the Word of God, which was all a mystery to you starts to take shape and you begin to understand the truths and who's talking to who and what God is trying to say and the lessons that He's teaching you. But it won't happen without persistence What about in your evangelism? How many of you don't raise your hands, but how many of you got saved the very first time somebody ever talked to you about the Lord? The very first time you heard the message? Are you thankful that somebody was persistent? That somebody was persistent, that somebody continued to be a light, that somebody continued to be a witness, and somebody continued to give give you gospel tracts or invite you to church and continue to minister to you. Well we need to be persistent. He that goes forth weeping bearing precious sheed shall doubtless come again Rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. But you reap what you sow. If we're not doing any sowing, we won't see any reaping, that's for sure. You could apply this really to any worthwhile endeavor in your life this year that you would like to see success or victory in. You gotta keep going. If at first you don't succeed, try try again. Persistence. Keep on asking. Keep on seeking. Keep on knocking. And we need to ask God for victory in these areas. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?