In Haggai chapter one and verse number five, the Bible says, Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts. Consider your ways. Consider your ways. Have you ever said to somebody, or maybe you had it said to you? You need an attitude checkup. You need an attitude adjustment. Well, I've been pondering that this last week, and I'm going to take the month of November and And deal with some of the attitudes that we have as believers. This morning I want to just kind of start it off by talking about giving yourself an attitude checkup. Consider your ways. Think about yourself. Corinthians tells us we're to examine ourselves. We heard in the missionary update that as Christians, we are to, Philippians 2, I think it's verse number 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. That we're to have the mind of Christ. The attitude of Christ, the Spirit of Christ. And I wonder, beloved, do we have that attitude Is that the attitude that you're carrying today or that you tend to carry in your life? Is that the attitude that people would attribute to you? We of course, as we get later in the month, we will get to the attitude of gratitude. Amen. We're going to get there, but between now and then, we'll take a few weeks and look at some things And next Sunday is the Sunday before Veterans Day. And next Sunday we're going to be talking about the attitude of commitment. I praise God for the men that have men and women who have committed to protect our country. And it takes that kind of an attitude of commitment to follow through for God. So we're going to look at that next week. There's some other attitudes I think we ought to have, like an attitude of commitment, an attitude of contentment. I'm not going to preach all those other messages this morning. This morning we just want to do a checkup. Just consider yourself. Think about the attitude that you have. An attitude is a feeling or emotion regarding a fact or state. So it begins with a feeling. It begins with an emotion, but beloved, I think that it's more than that. I think it an attitude kind of goes beyond just the feeling, just the emotion that takes place That feeling or emotion establishes a mental position that correlates in a response of a that ends in a correlating action. So attitude goes beyond just a feeling. Attitude goes beyond just maybe what I feel a little bit, but it Comes out usually in actions. When we were kids, we used to find it humorous to expound on our large vocabulary And many of you have probably did the same thing where you went up to one of your friends and said, your epidermis is showing. And uh of course it wasn't near as fun if they already knew what their epidermis was. You know, it was more fun for them to try and figure out what the rapidermis was and and that it was showing that was a problem, right? I learned a little statement when I was a kid, uh, that has stuck with me since I was an early teen, but it was the same thing just kind of expounding the vocabulary. It's a little uh a little thing. If you in any way insinuate that I prebaricate, I'll have the painful necessity to horizontalate your perpendicularity. So uh you can think about that and realize what it's saying if you ponder those words, but uh That was another little fun saying that I had as a kid. But you know, something that shows not just your epidermis, I think maybe sometimes we ought to let people know their attitude is showing. For most of us, I think the idea of a poker face is non-existent. I mean, kind of basically our attitude shows. What we feel or how we think or what's going on in our heart and mind regarding the day or regarding a situation or whatever, that tends to come out all around us. No, to make matters infinitely worse, we're living in a time in society when men tend to, uh men as in mankind tend to wear their feelings on their sleeves Aren't we so easily swayed in how we feel? I mean, it can be the smallest thing. You may have got up this morning and everything was fine, and then for whatever reason or no reason at all, your mate was cross with you. Now all of a sudden you have a bad attitude, right? I mean for whatever reason, I mean you know the old saying you got up on the wrong side of the bed and dad and mom used to say you need to go back to bed and get up on the other side because you need to adjust your attitude. There's something wrong there. I mean we can everything going fine, but all of a sudden it gets cloudy and our whole attitude changes. I mean, how quickly and how easily is your attitude changed today? You know, beloved, most of the time our attitudes are not a result. of careful thought and deliberate intention, our attitudes really are just a result of what kind of day we're having. Do you know it shouldn't be that way? I know that's what it is, but it shouldn't be that way. We ought to have a right attitude regardless of what kind of day we're having. You know, beloved, I've stopped telling people to have a good day. I've started telling people to make it a good day. Make a good day today. Make a good day. Too many of us are letting life happen to us instead of living life on purpose. We are having whatever kind of day happens to be rolling down the pike We're having whatever kind of day happens to be unfolding for us. But, beloved, we have within our power to make the day a better day. to make the day more enjoyable, to have the right kind of attitude. And my prayer for us as a church here this month would be that we would ponder and consciously think about our attitude and be more deliberate in the attitudes that we take. And have a right attitude on purpose, not an attitude that's just a reflection of the traffic I just went through. Of the fact that it's raining or that it's cold. Or that I got up this morning and I poured my corn flakes and took one bite and found out that the milk was spoiled. I'm really picky about milk. Almost if I don't open the jug, I won't drink it. Like that's how fresh the milk has to be for me to drink milk. And there's reasons I don't need to tell you my history, but for some reason I'm just really I don't now if it's an ice cream form, I'll eat it all night. But Milk. Milk itself, especially till a mook, eh man. But milk, I I just for some reason I'm really picky, so it's like I'm like Picking the jug up, I'll ask Mary how old is this? She's like, Well it still says it's good on the bottle. I'm like, that's not what I asked. You know I don't trust them, you know. But I mean really, come on. How in the grand scheme of things, how bad is it that you didn't get to have your cornflakes this morning? I mean, but why is it some things like that small can destroy our day, can ruin our attitude, can make us be discouraged or depressed? I pray that, beloved, we would stop being victims of our circumstances and start dictating the kind of attitude that we're going to have. That we would purpose in our heart and minds to have a Christ-like attitude regardless of the situations that are facing us. So I just want to give you a couple of thoughts here regarding our attitude and ask you to do an attitude checkup for yourself. And so begin to ponder this as we look at this throughout the month of November here. First of all, I want you to know that attitudes are habit forming. We might not think about this fact, but the f it is a matter of fact that attitudes are habit forming you will begin to have the kind of attitude that you were given to having. The more often you have a bad attitude, the more often you're going to have a bad attitude The more often you're critical, the more often you're going to be critical. The more often you're depressed, the more often you're going to be depressed. What I'm saying is attitudes become habit-for-forming. They begin to shape your life. If you're given to anger, you're going to be more given to anger. If you're given to depression, you're going to find that it's very easy for you to fall back into that depression. Why? Because that is a a a go-to attitude for you. That is a habit of your life. And what we need to do is I'm asking you to do an attitude checkup is for you to think about your life and say, okay What attitudes am I given to? Is that a Christ-like attitude? And if it's not, beloved, we need to work to change it If there is something in your life that you're given to and you say, oh, this is something we need to stop letting our life be a matter of what happened today. and decide I'm going to have a Christ-like attitude, this attitude of discouragement, this attitude of anger, this attitude of of of jealousy Is not Christ-like. And I need to let that go. I need to stop pondering these things. I need to stop building this habit of having this bad attitude. Beloved, there's no question as we ponder the life of David, there's times in his life that we see David discouraged. We see David down in the dumps. I mean there's times when he was at the end of his rope. But if you follow the life of David, I think that any one of us would have to say that his habit in life was to praise God. All through the Psalms, over and over and over again, you'll see David says in Psalms 34, 1, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. And we could for the next twenty minutes read Psalms that all they do is praise God, praise God, praise God, praise God. What I'm saying is the habit that you build in your life with whatever attitude you have is going to be uh continuing to propagate itself. The problem is when we allow our attitudes to be dictated by our circumstances, that means we're probably not having the right attitudes And that is going to make it worse and worse and worse. They're going to keep coming up. And why do I always feel this way? Because you're letting yourself feel that way. Because you're building a habit of having that type of an attitude. We look at the children of Israel. Let me just ask you. The children of Israel had a habit. Seemed pretty regular that it would come up. Because circumstances weren't what they wanted. What was Israel's habit? Complaining. God was not happy with it. God says this is this is a bad attitude. Israel, you need an attitude adjustment. You need to realize that I've been giving you manna from heaven. I've been feeding you, I've been guiding you, I've been protecting you, I've freed you from bondage. And all you can do is complain because you don't have this or that. You see, that that spirit, that attitude of complaining began to be a habit in their life. I'm trying to just give you some biblical examples of what I was saying, that it it it it becomes a habit, and if we aren't careful, it will continue to exasperate and become worse and worse in our life. Beloved, are you yourself constantly Find yourself with an attitude of complaining or anger, depression, pride Romans tells us that we ought not think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. You have an uh a a conceited attitude, trying to you're feel like you're better than most other people around you. Do you have an attitude of self-pity? This is very popular today. I'm the victim. Woe is me. My life is so hard. Nobody loves me. It's such a problem. Listen, if you have that kind of a spirit, I'm not making fun of you today. I want you to recognize that that is not a Christ Like attitude. And Satan is using that in your life to destroy your joy. Woe is me. My life is so hard. Nobody has it as bad as me That's not the kind of attitude we should have. And when we allow that attitude to persist, it's going to continue to persist. We have to somewhere, we have to draw a line in the sand and say, okay, we're going to stop this. By God's grace and with his help, I'm not going to allow this attitude to exist in my life. Do you have a Christ-like attitude of love, joy, peace? Longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Do you have an attitude of kindness, of joy? Of temperance. There's many spirits and attitudes that we could follow and be like Christ, and we need to purpose in our hearts to do so. Why? Because secondly, attitudes are contagious. Do you understand a bad attitude is more contagious than COVID? I mean it it will spread like wildfire. I mean it it it's gonna happen And and you'll see that over and over again, a bad attitude. I don't know why it is, but you know, even good people are quick to jump on the bandwagon of a bad attitude. Yeah. First Corinthians 15, 33 says, Be not deceived, evil communication corrupts good manners. Even if you had good manners, you get around people that don't, you're gonna lose yours You know, you remember the children of Israel, when they were supposed to go into the Promised Land, they were supposed to conquer the Promised Land? You remember how God had told them that the land was theirs, all they had to do was go in and possess it. Then they had the idea, let's send some guys in, just check it out. They sent some guys in to check it out. Remember, 12 men went to spy and cane and ten were bad and two were good. Those twelve men that went in They checked it out. Caleb and Joshua came back with a good report, man. They're like, Oh man, you should see it. The grapes were massive. Uh so were the people, but don't worry about that. We've we've got the cities, I mean you wouldn't believe it. Let's go get it. But there were 10 guys that were like, oh, we can't do it. There's so many giants in the land, and there's walled cities, and oh, there's no way we can do this. And what happened? You can look at it if you want, but look at Numbers chapter 14, verses 1 through 4. Actually, yeah, turn there if you can. Numbers 14, verses 1 through 4. So you got ten guys that stand up and say, ah, just not sure. These guys, it's big, there's some big dudes over there. This is going to be hard. Walled cities. Look at Numbers chapter 14, verses 1 through 4. The first thing. And all the congregation Lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night. And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. And the whole congregation said unto them Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt? Oh, would God that we had died in this wilderness? And wherefore hath the Lord brought us to this land to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey. Were it not better for us to return unto Egypt? And they said one to another, let us make a captain and let us return to Egypt. That quick, what am I saying? I'm saying a bad attitude is contagious. Ten guys came back and said, boy, look at this. I don't know if we can do it. And uh listen, so you've got to be careful about what attitude that you have. Just like these that discourage the heart of God's people, they were going to answer to the Lord for their bad attitude, beloved. You'll answer to God for the hindrance that you are to the work of God. When you have a bad attitude, it's contagious. But do you know at the same time a good attitude is contagious? A good attitude is contagious. Look at 2 Samuel chapter 21. I'm going to have Brother Aaron Fuchs read this passage of scripture. I'm just You'll see why in just a second. There's some names in here that are humdingers. 2 Samuel 21. Look down at verse number 18. Just want to show you this. And it came to pass after this that there was again a battle with the Philistines in Gob. There. Shanapgai the Hishthite slew Saph, which was one of the sons of the giant. So here one of the giant's sons got killed, right? Oh, and there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines. were Elon, the son of Jerejoagim, I'm not positive how to say that, but uh the Bethlemite, and he slew the brother of Goliath And there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great stature that had every hand six fingers, and on his foot six Toes, four and twenty in number, and he also was born to the giants. And when he defied Israel, Jonathan, the son of Shemai, the brother of David, slew him Here's what I'm saying. Where did these old boys get the idea that they could kill these giants? There was a young boy named David back in chapter number 17. That stood up when all of Israel was standing there saying, Oh, what are we going to do? Look at this giant. David said, Is there not a cause? And he says, uh I uh uh you come to me with a sword, but I come to you in the power of the Lord. And he destroyed uh the giant that day. And that's why the song singers of Israel used to sing, oh, Saul hath killed his thousands, but David is ten. tens of thousands, not that he himself destroyed ten thousand people, but the result of his actions won the battle for all of Israel. And now men won battle after battle after battle after battle. Why? Because they had that strength of David. What I'm saying is your attitude is contagious. Whether that be a good attitude or a bad attitude, it's contagious. It's inevitable. That you are going to begin to take on the attitude of who you hang around. So some of you might do well to think about who it is you're spending time with. I know we think about kids and we say, oh boy, you gotta watch that peer pressure, you've got to be careful, and you know, you've got to be around the right people. But you know, as much as we think as adults that we can stand and that we're not influenced by it, beloved, just like a river that slowly cuts away and shapes the path that it's going to flow, I want you to know that the people you hang around are slowly shaping your life. You must determine that I'm gonna there's some people maybe they just get around you and when you're around them you're discouraged. When you're around them, you're downhearted. When you're around them, you're complaining. When you're around them, life is hard. Why? Because that person's attitude is not helping you You need to think about who it is you're spending time with and get around people that are going to encourage you, people that have a right attitude so that that can rub off on you, so that you can be better at having the right attitude yourself. Lastly, I want you to just remind you of the fact that your attitude is your choice. Beloved, do you believe that God would command you to do something you were unable to do? That requires a response. No, there's two of you that don't believe that. I hope that you all believe that God would not ask of you to do something that you are unable to do. Well Philippians chapter four verse number four. Many of you know it, but what what does it say? Read No, wrong one. Philippians 4. Not 13, 4-4. Rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, and again I say rejoice Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. What I'm saying is God looks at you and says, you need to rejoice. Do you know Paul wrote that from prison? Paul was saying, even though I'm in prison, I have a choice, and I can rejoice. What I'm saying, beloved, is your attitude is your choice. And I know sometimes if you're like me Sometimes I have a bad attitude, and then I'm mad at myself because I have a bad attitude. 'Cause like why do I have a bad attitude? This is so stupid. Uh you know, I wanna I wanna you know shoot myself because I'm like why this is so dumb. Now not literally, please. Uh I gotta be so careful what I say from the pulpit. People are like, Pastor, I heard you were oh no. That's not the case. Listen, I'm just saying I get mad at myself because I was so foolish to allow something to ruin my day like that And and and listen, it's our choice. You decide. God commands you to rejoice in the Lord always, and it doesn't matter what the circumstances are around you, it doesn't matter that you didn't get to have your cornflakes, it doesn't matter that somebody was cross with you. Or somebody was, you know, traffic was bad, or the car didn't start this morning. In the grand scheme of things, the small things that we allow to destroy our day really are just declaring to us the weakness of our faith We should be able to have a Christ-like mind even in the face of great hardship. It is your choice, beloved. In the change chapter in Ephesians, chapter number four, there's a whole list of things there that as believers we are to put off. And then there's some things that we are to put on. Let me just read a couple of verses for you, Ephesians 4, 22 to 24, that ye put off. Concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to the seitfulness and lust. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that ye put on The new man, which is after God, is created in righteousness and true holiness. Those are action words. Put off And put on. Just like you chose this morning to put on Black. I'm part of the crew today. I got black in my suit here. The cranes chose to wear black today. I get to be part of the family. Just like you chose black for today or you chose a yellow tie, just like you chose to put on Cordovan shoes, because they're the best. J just like you chose to put on, whatever you chose to put on today, beloved, you choose to put on your attitude. Now I know that's contrary to a lot of our thinking. We're like, no, my attitude is a result of what happened. That's because you're allowing that. What I'm saying is, we need to do an attitude checkup. We need to think about what attitude are we putting on. Can I tell you, beloved, that Job chose to worship over wine? He says in Job 31, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. What I'm saying is Job, in the face of all of that, he chose what attitude he was going to have. Are we as God's people doing the same? There's a story, an old story I heard many, many years ago about a little boy who loved baseball. And he had his favorite jersey, and he had a glove and several baseballs and a bat that was his favorite bat. And he one morning got up and he put his jersey on. He put his hat on, he grabbed his glove and ball and bat, and he went out into the backfield, back backyard. He got ready And he said, I'm the greatest hitter in the world. And he threw the ball up. Whew! Swing in the mist! Strike! He grabs the ball again and he throws it up in the air. Um the greatest hitter in the world! Strike two He reaches down and he grabs the ball the ball off the ground and he takes it, gets ready to throw it up again. Hum, the greatest hitter in the world! He throws it up in the air and he gets it, he's waiting, he's waiting and whoosh His swing and abyss! Strike three. He reaches down, he grabs the ball, and he says, I'm the greatest pitcher in the world What I'm saying, beloved, is he wasn't gonna let it ruin his day. He just decided to change positions. And sometimes, that's our problem, we need to change our position. Let's do an attitude checkup. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed in your eyes closed?