We want to uh turn our Bibles to 2 Chronicles chapter number 20. 2 Chronicles chapter number 20. This is the Sunday before our national holiday, Thanksgiving. We've been dealing this month with our attitudes, talking about how what kind of an attitude do you have? Are you in control of your attitude or is circumstances in control of your attitude We looked at challenge you just to give yourself an attitude checkup here the first of the month and then we looked at the idea of the attitude of commitment. How committed are we? Are we as committed as Christ was when he went to the cross? Are we as committed as our soldiers were when they went to the battlefield for us there the Sunday before Veterans Day, just talking about commitment and And last Sunday we dealt with the idea of compassion. Do we have this Christ-like attitude? That's what we want. Christ-like attitude is the idea of compassion. And certainly Christ was often moved with compassion for us, and are we moved with compassion for others? This time of year, I suppose, more than any other time of year, our hearts tend to be a little bit more open, maybe a little more compassionate. And I pray that we are in control of our attitudes. However, there's another attitude that sometimes grabs a hold of us this time of year between now and Christmas, and that is the attitude of discontentment. And so this morning we want to talk to you about the attitude of contentment. And uh I have here an unlikely text. If you're in 2 Corinthians chapter 20, let's Follow along. We're going to walk through this chapter, but beginning in verses one through four. And it came to pass after this also that the children of Moab and the children of Ammon and with them others besides the Ammonites and came against Jehoshaphat to battle. And there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria. And behold, they be in Hazan Mantarmah, which is in Gedi. And Jehoshaphat feared And set himself to seek the Lord and proclaimed a pa a fast through all Judah. And Judah gathered themselves together to ask help of the Lord, even out of all the cities of Judah. I have an unusual text here to look at and deal with the aspect or idea of contentment. But we find Jehoshaphat here in a tough spot. Facing a great multitude. This great multitude is moving against him so much so that he is moved to action. I would have you know the action that he's moved to. He immediately goes to prayer. He immediately turns to the Lord. This is important. And this morning I want to try and inspire us to an attitude of commitment that we might see the power that's available to us through that attitude of commitment. Because we see that it really does change things. First of all, I would have you see via our text this morning, the attitude of commitment recognizes God's provision. Contentment recognizes God's provision. Look back with me at the text here. Reading now down through verses 5 through 7, we see what happens. Obviously, this great multitude has come against them. There's a problem that he's facing. And we see that, and Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem and the house of the Lord before the new court and said, O Lord God of our fathers, Are not thou God in heaven? And rulest not thou over all of the kingdoms of the heathen? And in thy hand is there not power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee? Are not thou our God? Note this here, what he says in verse number seven, are not thou our God who dost drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel? And gave us it to the seed of Abraham, thy friend, forever. You see, beloved, he recognized God's past provision. He said, God, you're the one that gave us this land. God, you're the one that provided this for us. God, you're the one that that put this here in our lap. You gave it to your friend Abraham forever, and this is supposed to be an inherent inheritance that you've blessed us with. Can I tell you, beloved, we need to recognize God's provision. A lot of times we allow God's provision to go unnoticed It is sad, beloved, that we have actually reached the place many times where God's bountiful blessing, God's provision on our lives, has become given. That is, we take it as something given, as a given, as it's always going to be here, instead of what it is, a gift. We begin to take it for granted, we take it as a given instead of as it is a gift from God. Beloved, if you were able to stand up and walk into the church house this morning, you've been blessed of God. You see, beloved, we we take these things that we are blessed with the bountiful blessings of God in abundant ways, in ten thousand ways, God has blessed us But if I asked you to name 25 ways which God blessed you today, I imagine that most of us here would be hard-pressed to name 25 ways. off the top of our head. Why? Because most of the blessings that we receive from God each and every day we take as given. We take it just as part of life. We just take it, well that's what I deserve That's the way things are. It's not necessarily, hey, listen, you don't realize how valuable your health is until your health's gone. Amen? That's a fact, beloved. But when it's gone, then you realize, oh man, for years I enjoyed such a great blessing. For years I enjoyed such bountiful benefit from God, but if we are not careful, we'll take it as a given instead of remembering it's a gift. When our heart recognizes that God has provided all things, contentment should be our attitude. We should be moved to contentment realizing all that God has done for us. Can I tell you, beloved, that contentment cultivates gratitude? Contentment cultivates gratitude in our heart. Paul talking to Timothy says, but godliness with contentment is what? Great gain. For we brought nothing into this world and is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. He's saying, listen, God has blessed us in 10,000 ways. We came into this world with nothing. At the end, we're going to go out with nothing. If we could just acknowledge or realize God's bountiful blessing, it would cultivate a heart of gratitude because of the contentment that's present there. Beloved, there's power in contentment. Gratitude naturally is found in the contented heart, and thankfulness and praise flow. From it. Like David, who said, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth You see, contentment cultivates gratitude. Gratitude cultivates praise. Have you been praising? Amen. Maybe there's not enough gratitude. And that's because there's not enough contentment. Because we desire or long for or look to have, you understand, the entirety of our culture is geared around building discontentment in your hearts. All of the shorts, all of the TikTok videos, all of the reels that are out there for you to watch is all showing you the finest and the neatest part of everybody's life so that you can look and say, Boy, I wish I had that. Do you know in 1970 the average grocery store had, I believe it was around uh My mind just went. I think it was around sixty five hundred items. The average grocery store in America had around sixty five hundred items. Do you know how many are in the stores today? Thirty-five thousand. The average grocery store today has thirty-five thousand when the average shopper Never uses more than about 200 items. They'll shop and they'll go each week and pick up their few items. Maybe occasionally they'll branch off and pick up this or pick up that or try a new brand. I mean you you know you guys know I like doing barbecue. It's mind-boggling to me how many barbecue sauces there are in the barbecue aisle. I mean there are like sixty or seventy choices. I'm like, come on, really? I mean let's read the ingredients. There can't be that much difference. Every one of them have paprika and onion and uh You know, they have uh chili powder and I mean they they have molasses and uh it's not that much different, but there's so many choices today. Why? Because it's to generate a heart of discontentment Can I tell you, beloved, that contentment sets the stage and gratitude is the song. Contentment sets the stage and gratitude is the song. You are going to praise God for his blessings when you recognize them. Recognize God's blessings in your life. Contentment allows us to refocus our perspective. Contentment allows you to refocus your perspective. Look in 2 Chronicles chapter 20, beginning in verse number 11. Well, let's start in verse number 12. He said, Behold, I say how they reward us to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit Okay, he's saying, These enemy have come to cast us out. It's like they came to throw us out of our house. They're going to toss us, they're going to chase us out of town. This is what they're going to do for us. Verse number 12, O God, wilt thou not judge them For we have no might against this great company. You see, beloved Jehoshaphat here, the king, can I tell you that he was focused on his lack? Instead of focusing on his Lord. That's the difference. He looked at the great multitude, he looked at this and he says, Man We have no means to deal with this. We need an army. We need uh some military men. We need some some some uh weapons. We've got nothing we can do. And he's looking at God and he's saying, boy, there's nothing we can do here. What are we gonna do? Oh, we're gonna face this problem and beloved When you are focused on your lack instead of your Lord, you're going to be discontent. But notice what it is that the prophet says unto him, look down in verse number 15. And he said, this is the prophet, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou king Jehoshaphat. Thus saith the Lord unto you, be not afraid nor dismayed, by reason of this great multitude, for the battle is not yours. You got your Bibles open, what does it say? But gods. Tomorrow go ye down against them, behold, they come up by the cliff of Ziz, and ye shall find them at the end of the brook before the wilderness of Jerul. Look at verse number 17. Ye shall not need to fight in this battle. Set yourselves. Stand ye still, and see the salvation of the Lord And Judah and Jerusalem, fear not, nor be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord will be with you. And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the Lord, worshiping the Lord. You see, beloved, you cannot always control your problem. But you can control your perspective. You can control what it is you're looking at. We're dealing with the idea of the heart of contentment and seeing God as enough. Most people are focused upon their lack. Can I tell you that is the design of Satan? To get you to focus upon your lack. Do you remember all the way back in the Garden of Eden when this earth was a perfect place? Adam and Eve were living there in the garden, and God said to them, Listen, of the whole of the garden you may freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat thereof. They had free reign and could eat of anything that they wanted But God was protecting them from what would happen if they took of this tree. But do you remember when Satan came to them? Satan tried to convince Eve, God is withholding from you. He was building discontentment in her heart. God is knows that if you take that, you're gonna have knowledge like him. You're gonna know what he knows, and he doesn't want you to have that. He was building discontentment in her heart and plunged the entirety of the human race into sin. Why? Because of discontentment. She wasn't happy with all that she had. On Friday night we're reading in our devotions in our family, and we're reading a devotional by uh Dave Smith. And Dave Smith said that he grew up raising animals. Those of you that raise animals will understand this and appreciate it. He said, you know that we have these huge acres of land and we have a fence set up And these animals have free reign. Acres and acres they could run on, they could play in, they could do whatever they want. In there they have feed, all the feed that they could want. They have uh water, all the water that they could want. Everything that they would like to have is there in that field. But do you know what? Boy, they work awful hard to find the one hole in that dumb fence, and they will get out over and over and over again. Isn't that just like us? God has given us the whole of these things, and we uh will find the one spot, the one thing that we're not supposed to have, and say, Boy, that's what I want, instead of being content with all that God has given us. We like to think about what we don't have instead of remembering all that we do have. We are blessed in ten thousand ways. And we sing the song, counts your blessings now name them one by one, but I think most of us are far better at counting our burdens. We can name those, can't we? We we we've got the list of burdens down. Can I tell you about a young boy named David who I read about this week? He was born without an immune system. For twelve years. He was kept in an isolation chamber. With the advancement of science and the medical field, they had found a way to jumpstart his immune system. through a bone marrow transplant. For 12 years he had been held in oscillation. For 12 years he was unable To have any human contact because the smallest of bacteria, the smallest infection, would be a death sentence for him. He had no immune system When they finally introduced this idea and said we could do this bone marrow transplant, and you know what? You you're going to be able to go out and experience The world, you're going to be able to be around people. Oh man, David, what what is it that you want to do when you finally get to get out and do whatever you want to do in this world? And he says, I want to walk in the grass. with my bare feet and I want to hold my mama's hand Listen, if you are a parent here today and you're able to hold your child in your arms, you've been blessed by God. You see, we take God's blessings that are bountiful and without measure every single week with for granted. We take them for granted. We don't even think about it. It's just a given instead of a gift. Can you imagine the heart of that mother and how full of gratitude she would have been when she for the first time was able to embrace and hold her son? Oh, but we don't think anything of that. We need to change our perspective. Contentment allows us to adjust because beloved, we are blessed beyond measure. Philippians 4, 11 and 12 says not that I respect and speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content, beloved. The idea is whatever state ever you're at, you learn how to adjust your perspective. So you can be content. Content where you're at with what God has given you and how God has met your needs Contentment, beloved, turns our lack, our our eyes from our lack to our Lord. Can I read you A short prom. Today upon a bus I saw a lovely maid with golden hair. I envied her. She seemed so gay. Oh, how I wished I was so fair. When suddenly she arose to leave, and I saw her hobble down the aisle. She only had one foot, and wore a crutch, but as she passed, she gave me the Biggest smile. Oh God, forgive me when I whine, for I have two feet, and the whole world is mine. I stopped by to get some sweets. The lad who served me had such charm. He seemed to radiate good cheer, and his manner was so kind and warm. I said, It's nice to deal with you Such courtesy I seldom find. He turned and said, Oh, thank you, sir. And it was then that I saw he was was blind. O God, forgive me when I whine, for I have two eyes and see the whole world with mine. Then, walking down the street, I saw a child with eyes blue. He stood and he watched the other kids play. It seemed he knew not what to do. I stopped a moment and then I said, Why don't you join the others, dear? He looked ahead without a word, and then I realized he couldn't hear. Oh God, forgive me when I whine. I have two ears to hear this World of mine. With two feet to take me where I go, with eyes to see the sunset glow, and ears to hear what I would not know, I am blessed indeed. The world is mine, O God, forgive me when I whine. You see, beloved, there are so many blessings that we experience every day, but we have the wrong perspective. A right perspective cultivates generosity in your heart because your heart is content. When you refocus your perspective, your mind changes. Listen to me. changes from I deserve to I have more than I deserve We are in a mindset by and large in our society today where people live on I Deserve Street. This is my right. I deserve this. You hear it all the time. It is everybody's right to, and you can fill in the blank. I mean that they want to say it's everybody's right to have a cell phone today. Can I tell you that that's a privilege? It's not something that everybody should just have or just get just because. It's a privilege. We're blessed beyond measure in this society in the world in which we live, where people have come to the place where they, I deserve, I deserve, I deserve. And beloved, that's the problem when we're parked on I deserve street you fail to, you actually cannot be grateful for something that you feel you deserve. That's true, right? I I don't have time to chase this rabbit. But listen, this is this is part of the problem in a lot of marriages. Because you feel she is married to you, you deserve. Whatever you want to plug in the blank there. I deserve. She should do this. She's my mate He's my husband. I deserve she should do that. And so there is no gratitude in our heart for who they are and what they do. Because we've come to the place where we just expect it. Let me uh read for you a text. On Friday. We were I think we had just finished signing the documents. Don't get me started on the documents. Oh my soul, the documents. Feel like I signed my life away. We bought this car. I We drove separate, so I drove off, you know. Mary texts me. She says, Thank you so much. I don't know what I would do without you A heart of gratitude. Because it's not something you expect. Some people will say, well she'd been waiting two years for a car. Bless God, it's about time. But that's not a contented heart. Can I tell you over the last two years she hadn't bothered me at all? She was confront tent there was no problem. She was riding around with the kids. You know, all the kids have cars. They're all driving everywhere, no issue. Uh just riding with them, taking Stephen Alicia's car all the time. That's okay. What I'm saying, beloved, is we've got to get past this I deserve and realize we have far more than we deserve. That's where contentment comes in I'm not gonna run down this here, but sometimes that's a problem in the church too. You know, beloved, we at our church we have so many magnificent and just phenomenal activities. Our vacation Bible school for the kids is is out of this world. It is uh on par with churches that are five, six times our size. And yet some of you have been here so long you're like, oh, that's just what the church does. No big deal. I could take it or leave it. Because we've come to expect it here. We've come to expect it instead of realize how blessed we are for it. Now I'm done meddling. Let me tell you a story about a young lady that I heard this week. This might help you put things in perspective. At 18, she had to have her first complicated brain surgery. She talked about how hard it was to recover. It was in her second year of college when she had to go for her second brain surgery. She was scared and recovery was much more difficult this time. Then at 23, she had a grandma seizure and was diagnosed with eptilepsy At twenty-five, her father, so burdened with the medical bills and caring for her Her father committed suicide. She said this shattered my world, but still I strove to pick up the pieces. At 29, she underwent not one but two more brain surgeries. Her eyes rolled back into her head and she had a stroke. She sustained complete paralysis on her left side of her body and lost all of her hearing. She went deaf. This left her unable to hear, unable to walk, and unable to speak. It is only after this that she thought, how much does a person have to go through? She succumbed to depression. And thought she didn't know if she could go on. She remained in this state for some time, and she said, by her own testimony, until one day when I looked in the mirror and I didn't even recognize myself. She knew that this was bad and it was not helping, so she said, I had to change my focus. You see, she decided to change her perspective. In the midst of all that she went through, she said, when you learn to do this, it is unbelievably powerful. You will stop staring at the doors that do not open and start finding windows that do. She said, I moved myself from the place that I cannot do this to the place where I said, I will figure this out. She changed her perspective, and today her testimony is that she has gotten back the life that she thought she lost. You see, beloved, we're blessed. We need to adjust our perspective. Lastly, this morning I want you to see that a contented heart allows us to rest in God's presence. Rest in God's presence. Look at 2 Chronicles chapter 20, verses 20 and 21. And they rose early in the morning and went forth into the wilderness of Tycho. And as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem. Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be established. Believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper. And when he had consulted with the people, He appointed singers unto the Lord, and that should praise the beauty of holiness. Look, as they went out before the army. He was going into battle and he didn't look through all the all the men that he had and say, okay, you guys got your conceal carry? Okay, you guys are going up front. He didn't look for the strongest guys. He didn't look for the most capable guys. He looked through for the people that could sing and praise God. Yeah. And he said, You guys are going up front. Maybe that's because instrumentalists are sacrificial, I don't know. No. He trusted God. He rested in the presence, in the power of God. He didn't he knew that when he went into battle, he was not going to have to fight that battle because the battle was the Lord's. And he said, we're going into this. We've got peace. We've got contentment. We're doing fine because we know that we're on the winning side. Because we know that God is in control So let's just get the seniors out front. Let's just lift our voices and praise God because we're going to get to see a great victory today. And you can read the text. and see that God gives them a victory they didn't even have to fight for. One battle for one army fought against another and they ended up killing each other and chasing each other off. And these people stood there. It took them three days to gather all the spoils that the armies left behind. Because of God's provision, they learn to rest in the presence, in the promise of God. Instead of looking at the problem. Jehoshaphat hadn't won the battle yet. They were just going in to watch it. And he says, Let's praise God as we go in. You know, beloved, we've got to get to the place spiritually that we realize that God is enough. Hebrews 13, 5 says, Let your conversation be without covetousness. And be content with such things as ye have. Now in that verse, let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such with such things as ye have. Does anybody know what the balance of the verse is? For he has said, I will never leave thee. Nor forsake thee. God is saying, regardless of what you're going through, be content. Why? Because I'm with you. Because I'm here. It's gonna be all right. I'm gonna get you through. I'm gonna win the battle. I'm gonna meet the need. I'm going to help you find the way. Why? Because I'm here. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Beloved, we have got to get to the place where we rest in God's presence, where he truly is enough. The songwriter said, When all my labors and trials are o'er, and I am safe on that beautiful shore, just to be near the dear Lord I adore. Well, through the ages. Be glory for me. Have we come to the place where God is enough? Do you find contentment In his promise, do you rejoice in his promise? Paul said in Second Corinthians Corinthians, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding eternal weight of glory. We look not at the things which are seen, but the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. Paul, who had learned in whatsoever state he was to be content. He said part of that, what I've learned is that we've got to stop looking at what's seen and look at what's not seen. Because we have God and He's with us all the time. He'll never leave you and never forsake you. He's present. And although Paul was in prison, he had determined not to look at the prison But to look at the promise. And no matter where I am, God's with me. And He's going to get me through. And Paul said, hey, this light affliction that I have, this little problem I have of being in jail, being thrown in prison for preaching? This is going to pass. Why? Because I know that I have a promise of a home in heaven. Whatever happens here on earth is just going to be for a short time. And then Now be in the presence of my King. Beloved the attitude of contentment. My how important it is We're going to bring the service to conclusion today