There's a little gas station. The gas station sat just past the one stoplight that they had in their town. At that gas station, if you drove through or in town pretty much any day, you would find sitting out front an old man in a rocking chair there. He would sit there and watch the passing by of what he called his little slice of heaven. Often to his delight, his granddaughter would sit there with him, and they together would serve the community and those tourists that may have been passing through town They enjoyed their days for sure. One day a man seemed to be looking for a new place to live, kind of inquired of this young girl's grandfather So what kind of town is this? Grandpa said, Well, sir, what sort of town do you come from? The tourist answered, boy, it's bad. I mean, the it's typical small town drama. I mean Everybody's up in everybody else's business, and everybody's critical of everybody else, and it's a miserable place to live. The old man replied and said, Well, sir, uh it's very likely that uh you this here too is a very similar town. The man got in his car and drove away. It wasn't but a few days later when sitting there with Grandpa again uh passed her through, stopped, and was actually pumping his gas, and as he was pumping gas, just making conversation, he said, Sir, what kind of a town do you get to live in? And the old man looked at him and said, Well, sir, what what type of town do you come from? And he says, Oh, I love it. We've got such an amazing community Well our town is everybody. It's just like that true neighborhood feeling. You know, everybody loves everybody and we all get along and support each other. We kind of care for each other It's amazing. Is that town like this? And he said, Sir, you know what? This here town is just like that. And the man got in his car and drove away. A daughter or granddaughter a little perplexed, she said, Grandpa? How come Just a few days ago that guy driving through town, you told him this was a miserable place to live and full of angry people and everybody and everybody's business, and now you just told this guy That this is an amazing town where everybody loves everybody. He looked down at his little granddaughter and looked into her eyes and he said, darling That's because what you need to understand is these people are going to bring their attitude with them. And often, most of the time, what you're looking for is what you're going to get. You see, honey, it's not as much about where you're at as it is what's in you. We've been discussing, talking about our attitudes. Began the month of November looking at the aspect of the idea of just doing an attitude checkup. Just a self-evaluation, how is your personal attitude uh in your day-to-day life? Are you Swayed so quickly with the change of the weather or uh with uh flat tire or the uh circumstances of a day, or are you determined to have a right attitude? Last week we looked at the attitude of commitment, partially thanking those soldiers who committed their time and energy and support in serving our country and just Applying that to us as we want to have an attitude of commitment as soldiers of Jesus Christ. And hopefully we live committed. Today we want to look at the attitude of compassion. We have with us the Smith family, missionaries on their way to or have been serving in Columbia there. He has on his prayer card here on the bottom. Matthew 9. 36. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. He was moved with compassion. What would make somebody you know the Smiths really they they're here today, but they are representative of the 34 missionaries we have on our wall back there that we support to go all over the world. And can I ask you, what would make somebody give up uh their home and leave family and friends here in the States and move to another country and learn a new language and adapt and adjust to a new culture and to work hard to try and learn the laws of the land to be able to try and fit in all so that they can share the gospel of Jesus Christ to them Beloved, it's compassion. They saw the multitudes and they were moved with compassion. You can turn in your Bibles to our main text today, which is going to be Psalms 41. I will be there in just a little bit. That's where we're going to draw our main thought from today. But I want to just remind you here about Jude 122. You guys know the verse. And some having. Compassion. What is the last three words of that verse? Making a difference Some having compassion, making a difference. Beloved has been said that sympathy is feeling sorry for someone who's hurting. And there are those who seek out sympathy. There are people who just really enjoy when people know about their hardship. When people know the trouble they're enduring and they they enjoy that sympathy being shown unto them. But I think generally a lot of people don't really want people fearing sorry for them Generally, that's not what people are after. That's not what most people are looking for. But then you move into empathy. And empathy is a step beyond that. Empathy is where we literally not just feel sorry for somebody, but we can feel the pain that they're going through. Empathy really becomes possible when we personally have endured the hardship or been through the trial that that individual is going through. Because you then can truly understand. Beloved, we can hurt for somebody and we can feel bad for somebody who is battling cancer, but beloved, somebody who has sat in the chair and been through chemotherapy and won that battle or been through that loss, they can have empathy They can they understand the all the questions that come into their mind and the the the the the roller coaster of events that the doctors it's good news today and bad news tomorrow and good news today and bad news tomorrow and and that that whole Life, I mean somebody that hasn't really lived it has a real hard time really having empathy. But empathy allows us to do that. But beloved, compassion goes one step further. Some having compassion what's the last three words? You see, beloved, compassion is the catalyst which moves us to action. It moves us to action. It moves us to actually do something about the pain. To be willing to surrender, to go to the foreign field To be willing to uh pick up the burden, to help carry the load, to try and meet the need. Beloved, this is a compassion We're talking about this is lived out in a very real and vivid way in the story of the man on the road to Jericho who was beaten and you know fell among thieves and then you have three people that passed them by. The first two people might have had religion. They might have felt some sympathy. They might have looked over and saw the man who fell among the thieves, beaten and laying there in the dirt, and they thought, man, that poor guy, he's had a bad day. But what did they do? They kept on going. But it was only the Good Samaritan who stopped, went over and put the man on his on his mule. And help, you see, that's the difference between just sympathy and compassion. Compassion makes a difference and My desire this morning is to implore us as God's children, as part of the family of God, to live with a heart of compassion for this world around us. King David experienced God's compassionate protection over and over again as he went through his life, just even from the beginning time of being protected from Saul's murderous intent. David experienced God's compassion and pardon when he sinned with Bathsheba. And God pardoned and forgave him. Oh, in Psalms 86. 15, he said, But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy God full of compassion. David experienced God's compassion and provision over and over through his life as God cared and protected and provided for him. But beloved, I want you to know not only did David experience this compassion, he expressed compassion to others And beloved, that's what I desire for us as God's people to, as one who hopefully today you've experienced the compassion of a loving Father. You've known God, our Lord and Savior who gave Himself for us, and you, having experienced the compassion of God, would then show compassion to others We see in Psalms 41 three points, and we won't be long, where we see the compassion of the saint, the commitment of the Savior, and the confession of a sinner In Psalm 41, beginning in verse number one, we see first of all the Psalm of David, Blessed is he that considereth the poor. This idea of having compassion and considering the poor, David didn't just experience it, he expressed it. He he understood that joy that came from having a heart of compassion for others. when David provided for Mephiboshev, Jonathan's lame son. He didn't have to do that, but he showed compassion on Mephiboshev. Can I tell you that a heart of compassion is a scriptural attitude? 1 Peter 3 verse number 8 says, Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another. That, beloved, is really a emphatic statement. It is a declaration, almost could be taken as a command. It's not really uh uh a question of do you have he says here he says finally be all of one mind having compassion One of another. There's certainly an expectation there that as God's people we would live and have a heart, an attitude of compassion for other people. Man, it is an attitude of the world that must be overcome that we live for ourselves. It is the attitude of the flesh that wants to look out for numero uno. There's an expectation in society today that it's all about me and and and my concerns, and really uh to show any compassion for somebody else really is a sign of weakness. We've got to get away from that. There is and always has been the idea or implication kind of that uh to be moved with compassion to the place of tears is a sign of weakness. To cry for another. Especially for men who want to say, well I'm I'm a man, bless God, and listen, uh Jesus was a man. And the Bible says over and over again he was moved with compassion. And we know Jesus wept. Jesus cried for the heartbreak that those whom he loved were going through. It is a scriptural attitude. We need to get past this worldly mindset. And be people of compassion and consider somebody beyond ourselves This heart of compassion is also, I would say, not just a scriptural attitude, but it's a strengthening attitude It's a strengthening attitude. What I want you to know, beloved, is that long after the contest is over, compassion will carry you through What I'm saying is, beloved, uh a contest might motivate you to uh be involved in passing out some John and Romans and say, oh, we're gonna We're gonna go give out uh five thousand John and Romans and we need everybody to get involved and we're gonna get this done and everybody's excited about it and they come out and they participate But do you know what? When the contest is over, the only thing that's gonna keep you doing that is compassion for the lost. We may have a uh uh a track uh uh ministry for a year where we kind of check in with you and motivate you and say listen we all want to be fast enough tracks and we have stories and testimonies every week of people that gave out a track and what happened and Oh, that may have generated some excitement and you were for a period of time involved in giving out tracts and ministering to people around you and telling people, inviting them to church. And you were doing that for a while, but beloved, when the contest is over, the only thing that keeps you passing out of track is compassion. Amen It is a strengthening attitude. It's a spirit that will carry you through, beloved, when the excitement is gone, compassion remains. When energy fades Compassion continues. When enthusiasm falters, compassion presses on. It is the heart of compassion that will give you the strength to keep doing what you know you're supposed to do. What is it that would keep a missionary on the field, laboring, torn between two cultures torn between wanting to be with his family and his friends and all the things that he enjoyed here in the States, but wanting to serve those people on the foreign field, I'll tell you it's compassion. What is it that keeps a bus worker week after week after week going out and knocking on the doors of those little bus kids and saying good morning? Hey, just want to make sure you're coming to church tomorrow How are your mom and dad doing? Boy, uh how are things going this week at school and checking in with them and getting up early on a Sunday morning when it's freezing cold outside and most of the church is still in bed and They're out here warming the bus out and driving down these roads to go pick up these kids. What does that compassion does it? Can I tell you, beloved, if you do it because of duty, ten times out of ten you're gonna quit. Yeah. You're gonna quit. There are some times duty will carry you through and praise God for the discipline and sometimes I can if I'm just honest with you, there's some times that duty is what got me to church. Just cause I gotta be just cause I know I'm supposed to be there, I'm gonna be there. It's pretty bad when the pastor don't show up. Sometimes duty gets you there, right? But beloved, what's going to keep you there, what's going to carry you through the long days and the hard times and the storms It is a heart of compassion, a burden for this world and for the lost around you, and for your fellow believers, your brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ. Why would somebody give up their Friday nights and go down to the prison when everybody else is enjoying their Friday evening? This last Friday night. I was filling in for Brother Joe. Him and Nelma are both sick. You can pray for them Uh but I was filling in for him and uh if you've been to the prison you know that you go through the security checkpoint. Come down little little bitty kind of double doors and you go through these double locking doors. Once you get through that you got a long hallway. It's probably at least as long as from here to the back of the fellowship hall, maybe a little longer. Uh it's a skinny long hallway. You're walking down that hallway to the room where we meet. John and I were walking down the hallway with the security guard and we're making small talk with him and In my heart, we're walking down this hallway. The hallway's empty. Just the three of us walking down this long hallway, and I'm praying, God, give me compassion for these men. Listen, if I'm telling you in my flesh, I'm a very, you know, I'm not a very compassionate guy. Just in my flesh, in who I am. I'm just being honest with you. I just I'm just kinda like, well, uh they probably deserved it. They're here for a reason. They got what they got what's coming to 'em. But I had to ask God, help me to love them like you love them. Help me to see their soul. Help me to have compassion and care about these men that I get to minister to for just a few minutes tonight. And beloved, we have to be moved with compassion. Otherwise, we will not keep on keeping on. We see in this verse here that compassion brings happiness. He says, blessed is he that considers the You know that word means happy. Bless it. Happy is he. You know, it's a promise from God. I don't understand exactly how it works, but it's a promise from God that when you live for others, you'll be happy. You know the most miserable man on earth is a selfish man. And it is a continually progressive problem because he's so selfish, he's miserable, and he thinks it's because he doesn't have everything that he wants or that he needs or that he likes Or that life has been unfair to him, and so he works to try and get more or to have more or to meet more of his needs, and it's a self-propagating problem because he's living for self and he's miserable. You live for somebody else and you'll know joy. You'll know happiness. Blessed is he that considereth the poor, that has a heart of compassion for others. The compassion of Tyler Just a seven-year-old boy changed his life forever. Boy, he took his own hard-earned money and purchased a gift box. He sent a Christmas gift to the Philippines. At seven years old he took his money, he bought a gift, and he put it in a shoebox and he packaged it up and sent it through Good Samaritan to the Philippines. He had no idea who was going to get it, but in that box he included a picture of himself in a cowboy outfit. And he said, Merry Christmas, partner No idea who was going to get that little package. But in the Philippines, a young girl received the package. Years passed and that young girl grew up into a young lady. That young lady got on Facebook. And she remembered a little package she received from the stage from a boy named Tyler Wolf. She said, I'm going to look him up. So she looked him up, contacted him, and he thought it was a scam. Somebody from the Philippines talking about until mom reminded him, no, when you were seven years old, he long forgot about that act of compassion. Well, they found they really enjoyed talking. It led to meeting in person and then meeting one another's families. In 2013, they got married. You never know how far one act of compassion will go. You looking for a mate? Amen. Not only is it a strengthening attitude, a spiritual attitude, but it is the attitude that our Savior had. It is the attitude of our Savior. And if we as Christians are to be Christ-like, if we're talking about having Christ-like attitudes, boy, I don't know of an attitude that typifies the heart of our Lord and Savior more than compassion. We mentioned a verse on the prayer card already, Matthew 9. 36. He saw the multitude and moved with him. Over and over again, Jesus saw the multitude. He saw the people and they they were hungry. They were a sheep without a shepherd. They needed a savior, and he was moved with compassion on them. Beloved, can I tell you, I'm glad this morning that I serve a compassionate Savior. I'm glad that He's a God that is touched with the feeling of our own infirmities, that He knows the burdens that we carry and the temptations that we face and the hardship that we endure. He is not, as the Greek philosophers would say, that he just this force out there playing with the emotions of mankind and Having their fun with men. No, that's not the kind of God we serve. We serve a God who loves and is compassionate towards you and I. That's the kind of God we serve. Man, if we remove the compassion of God, we have got to remove the whole of Scripture. The Bible says God so loved the world. That he gave. Again, he was moved. He was moved to action. He so loved that he gave his only begotten Son. He did something to meet the need, to solve the problem. Oh, in Mark chapter one, when the leper came to him. God showed his compassion. He was again moved with compassion on the on the leopard there. But the Bible says that he was moved with compassion so that he reached out his hand and he touched him Of course, if you know Jewish law, you know he he Jews were not supposed to touch them. They were unclean. And of course you shouldn't touch a leper anyway because you might get leprosy, but Jesus, understanding the need of this man Reached out and touched him and healed him of his leprosy, but beyond that he gave him a savior. He was moved with compassion. Not only do we see here, beloved, the compassion of the saint that we should have, but we see the commitment of the Savior. The balance of verse number one and verses two and three, we see what he says he's going to do for us. For the one that has compassion, that is considerate of the poor. What does he say here? Beginning in the middle of verse number one, he says, the Lord will deliver him in time of trouble. The Lord will preserve him and keep him alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth, and thou wilt not deliver him into the will of his enemies. The Lord will strengthen him upon his bed of languish that will make his bed in his sickness. The description there, working our way backwards here, make his bed in sickness is that God is going to tend to you, care for you, literally nurse you during your time of Boy, those of you that have been in the hospital for any length of time, you're so grateful for the nurses. For what they do for you, for how they care for you. He said that he would strengthen you in your bed of languish when you're too weak to care for yourself. He will care for you He's going to protect you from your enemies. He's going to preserve you through your life. He'll deliver you in a time of trouble, O beloved. What an amazing thing to consider what God says he'll do for the man and the woman who has a heart of compassion. Who truly is thinking about others? How can I live my life without compassion when so much compassion has been showed to me? You know, every one of us are here today because of the compassion of someone else. Somebody cared enough to tell you about Jesus. Somebody cared enough to preach the truth, the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ to Share with you the death, burial, and resurrection that the only way for us to know that our sins are forgiven and to go to heaven when we die is to trust in Jesus Christ. Some friend, some family member brought you to church, some pastor preached the message. What I'm saying is if we look back hard enough, if we look at it correctly, we understand that we are here today because of the compassion of somebody else. We're here today because of the compassion of a Savior, Jesus Christ. And beloved, Paul tells us, for the love of Christ constraineth us. It is knowing and understanding that great compassion that God had for me that should constrain me, that is to motivate, to pull, to drive me to have a heart of compassion for others. It is only that hard of compati duty is not going to carry you through. It is only that heart of compassion, that heartfelt, where we literally not just empathize with them, but we're moved to do something about it. You know, we gather in church here. We've got a good crowd this morning. But you know, beloved Church should not always be about what you get. Oh, I know there are times where we come in and we're weak. We come in and boy, we're sick. You know, we're coming into the hospital and we're in need of something and God, we need God to meet our need. But you know, when God meets our need, then it should start to come to the place where we say, okay, now how can I help meet somebody else's need? How can I show that same love and concern? How can I have that compassion? And I praise God for the family of God that we have here and the concern that this church family has for one another and how they hold each other up in prayer and how they strive to meet one another's needs. And there's no way in A congregation of this size that every need could be met by the whole, but the heart of compassion that is there is present, and I implore us as God's people to continue to have a heart of compassion for each other. To have a heart of compassion for the lost and dying world around us. Do you see them? Do you see their need? Do you see their condition? Oh, I know the world's a mess. And we're real quick to be able to talk about the mess the world's in today. But are we moved enough to do something about it? You know, it's only Jesus Christ that's going to make the difference. Are we moved with compassion? Could I remind you that when the rich man died, the Bible says he lifted up his eyes in hell, being in torment? The world that does not know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, the Bible says that when they die, they're going to spend an eternity in a place called hell. That should move us to compassion. To do something about it. To try and in our maybe you feel ill-equipped, maybe you feel ill-prepared, maybe you feel inadequate to try and give them the gospel, but beloved, you can tell them what Jesus did for you. At the very least, you can plant a little seed or you can do a little bit of watering, you can do something to point them to Jesus, the Savior, and who knows what fruit may come of that. We see here the confession of the sinner in verse number four. He says, I said, Lord Be merciful unto me. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. Beloved, this is the cry of any man who is willing to get honest before God. He cries out for mercy. He cries out to be healed because he acknowledges the fact that he's a sinner. Listen We're all just sinners. If you're here today and you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, you've never come to him in acknowledgement of your sin and ask him to forgive you. You can do so today. And the Bible says that He is faithful and just to forgive you of your sin, to cleanse you from all unrighteousness, and He will save your soul today. And you can know for sure your sins are forgiven. But beloved, I think the majority of the people I'm speaking to would say that's me. I've put my faith and trust in Christ. I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that my sins are forgiven, that I'm on my way to heaven. It's Jesus Christ and Him alone. And there's no question there, but if we're honest, we all still realize we're not all we should be. And I think if we talk about the attitude of compassion, we could look at that and say, you know what? I'm right there with Pastor. I tend to kind of be a little bit hard-hearted. My tendency is to not really have concern, to not really show compassion. I know some people are naturally compassionate. They've got their heart bleeds for everybody. That's not me. The Holy Spirit saying, yeah, you're you're a pastor. You're leading people in You don't have a broken heart for their condition. You don't have a broken heart, a compassionate attitude day in and day out for the people that you're ministering to. Beloved, we need a heart of compassion And we see here the confession of the sinner. I think if we were honest before God today, we would we would say, Oh Lord, I d I I haven't had the compassion I should have. I felt like quitting and I understand because it's I've been doing my ministry as duty. Anytime ministry becomes a duty, you will end up quitting. Because that's not what keeps you going. It's the compassionate heart that keeps you going. Like Christ, who had compassion and was moved on the multitudes, moved with compassion because of the multitudes. All too often we find ourselves like that wicked servant in Matthew 18. Who had been forgiven of a great death. You remember the story? Because he asked. The master said, okay, I'll forgive you of this debt. And then he had this guy over here that owed him a little debt. And he went over there and grabbed him by the collar and said, Listen, buddy, you're going to pay me all that thou owest. I'm going to throw you in jail. You're going to spend the rest of your life paying this off. And and The master comes back and says, Man, you're a wicked servant. After all that's been done for you, after all that has been forgiven, you would try and hold that against that person? Often we are like that. Our Heavenly Father has forgiven us and forgiven us and forgiven us and forgiven us and forgiven us. He forgave us today. And yet we don't have enough compassion to forgive somebody else. Enough compassion to show concern for the lost around us, enough compassion to be like the Savior. Are you concerned about the spiritual condition of your family and friends? Are you concerned about the loss that you come into contact with? Remember, beloved, compassion is more than just an emotion. Compassion goes one step As God's people, I believe that we're called to have an attitude of compassion like Christ. I pray that we would consciously purpose to do so. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?