Mark chapter number eleven Uh we're going to be looking at a lot of scripture this evening. Uh I don't know that we'll have time to turn to it all. You're gonna write it down. I do have a lot to try and cover. Uh and of course with this kind of a study I believe wholeheartedly that Uh you will be c thoroughly convinced in your heart and mind with the Scripture and agreement with that as to what the Bible teaches with regards to this character trait of availability. As we tackle this first of the character traits that we're going to look at, the traits that I believe count for Christians, understand that the the ones we get to cover uh Uh of course all character counts. I'm not uh gonna be able to cover all of the character traits that we're we see in the life of Christ. Uh certain Certainly not this summer. So these are just I'm just kind of prayerfully considering and and determining which ones the Lord would want me to deal with, and then we are tackling them systematically. systematically as the Lord directs throughout the summer. And um as I've been studying for this uh I I want you to know that I believe that this quite possibly is one of if not the most important study that I've done in the last five years. This idea of character in our lives. This has the potential to transform our church. As I laid out last week as we began to really ask of you, would you prayerfully consider each of these character traits and look at your own life and understanding we all have strengths and we all have weaknesses and there's some areas that we need We can't just be satisfied. We can't just say, oh, well, I'm okay. Things are all right. I'm happy where I'm at. No, we ought to desire to be more for Christ. And to accomplish more and in our lives, that means taking a serious, real look at where we're at and asking God to show us and develop in us the right kind of character. Each of these character traits that we look at, I want to contrast them against that which is the opposite. of them. Understanding what the opposite is, it will give you clarity. It'll give you clarity as to what the trait is. When you just think of the opposite. Tonight, as we look at this trait of availability, the opposite of availability is self-centeredness. It is self-centeredness. It is looking at and being so busy with your own life that you have no time. for anyone else. Our world today is consumed with the idea of serving self. Everything in life is about numero uno. Everything we do. I mean it this life is pushed and promoted that way so much that, you know, everything we do, whether it's at work or for a friend or for a family member, it's all kind of based and couched in the idea of how is this going to help me? How is this going to serve me? Is this going to help me up the ladder? Is this going to help meet one of my needs? Is this somehow going to benefit me? If it's not, well then I don't have time for it. You understand self-centeredness. Is the opposite of this character trait of being available. What is If self-centeredness is the opposite, what is availability? Availability is the simplifying of our life. The sacrificing of our desires that we might have the joy of helping others seek The simplifying of our life and the sacrificing of our desires that we might have the joy of helping others succeed. That is the idea of availability. The opposite of self-centeredness. We take our desires and our wants and what we would like to do, and we put them on the back burner. That we might be able to help somebody else succeed, and we don't do that so we can look good or so that we can be puffed up or so that we can get recognized. We do that because it is a joy of the Christian To see others succeed. We need to understand that God's blessings, God's provision, God's allowing us to accumulate possessions here on earth is never meant to control our lives and our time so much that we are unavailable to serve God and others. You see, God blesses us and I have seen it. I have seen it before where where uh somebody who who was pretty active and participating and serving and and around And God bless them with some land and they get a house and they've got some land they've got to take care of and all of a sudden, oh, I I I've got to mow the fields and oh I've got to fix the fences and oh I've got to repair the gutters and oh I've got to do this. Hey listen the possessions that we get in this life they all take our time Right. They all do. My boy, uh, Timothy, he he just bought a motorcycle yesterday. And he's excited about it. You know where he was this morning? He was out there tinkering with the motorcycle. Because that is something that now that he has it, that is something that's going to take some of his time. And there's nothing wrong. God blesses us with things, and there's nothing wrong with having something or God blessing us. You get a car? Hey, amen. But a car's gotta have maintenance done on it. A car's gotta be washed. A car's gotta have the oil changed. A car's gotta be filled up with gas and the battery goes dead and the tires gotta be changed and all of those things happen to vehicles. What I'm saying is the possessions that we get in this life should not control and dictate our life to the point we're unavailable to be there for God or others. Let me give you the reason, first of all, the reason that we want to have this character trait of availability in our life. First of all, I believe that it is the heartbeat of Christianity. If you would have asked me this Two weeks ago, if you would have talked to me about this idea, I would never have attributed this character trait to the heartbeat of Christianity. It was only through study of the Word of God, and I think by the end of tonight you will kind of see that that really is true. This is a foundational truth. In your text that we've looked at, Mark chapter number 11, we want to read verses 1 through down the first part of verse number 4. And when they came nigh to Jerusalem unto Beth Page and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you. And as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon never a man sat, loose him and bring him. And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? Say ye, the Lord hath need of him, and straightway he will send him hither. And they went And they went. You see, he sent forth these disciples to go get this colt. He said, hey, there's a colt there you're going to go get. Now the colt was available. All of God's creation is available to God at His beck and call, by His design and in His plan. We are the only part of God's creation that He gave a free will to that we get to choose not to respond. Every place that we look in the Word of God, if you turn back to Mark chapter number one, turn to Mark chapter, just a couple chapters back. We're going to be back in 11 in a second, but turn to Mark chapter 1. Look at verse numbers 17 and 18. In verse number 17, he says, And Jesus saith unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. And straightway they forsook their nets and followed him. You understand? Each time Christ called the disciples, he came to them and he says, Hey. Come on. And they were available. Each time Jesus Christ was looking for somebody to fulfill a need or to to stand in the gap, to make up the hedge, to fulfill the responsibility. Jesus went and he found a man and he called them And as a Christian is supposed to be available. Jesus says, take up your cross and follow me. And immediately the disciples were available. Service starts with availability. If we're going to serve God and do what God wants us to do, it starts with availability. You see Our problem today is we're looking too much at ability. I told Miss Amy before well about six o'clock, I said, uh noah she hasn't left yet to go pick up the kids, so it must have been around five something. I said, I can't believe out of my twelve pages of notes and all of my study, nowhere in my notes do I have the do I did I put down the greatest ability is Availability. That's not in my notes anywhere. I said how did I miss that? All in my study. I didn't put that in my notes anywhere. That ought to be like the first question on your quiz there. Availability. But listen, what I want to say is we're looking too much at ability. We're saying, man, Pastor, I could never sing in acquire or I could never lead somebody to Christ or I could never do this or I could never do that. We're looking too much at our ability instead of just getting the heart and the mindset of a Christian and being available. And letting God give us the ability. You see, service for God starts with availability We say, God, I'm available. Here am I. What do you want me to do? Okay? Yes, Lord. And where God sends, he enables. But see we we we aren't starting with availability, we're starting with ability. Oh I can't do that, I can't do that, nope, can't do that. Instead of just being available. Service for God starts with availability. This really is part of the Christian life. We need to get to the place that our life can be interrupted. By the opportunity to serve others. Service starts with availability, and availability starts with putting others before ourselves, with putting others before ourselves. What is the definition? The simplifying of our life, the sacrificing of our desires that we may have the joy of helping others succeed. Putting others before us. Availability starts with putting others before our own needs. In Philippians chapter 2, verse 20 and 21. You don't have to turn there, we're going to be moving quick. He says, For I have no man like-minded Who will naturally care for your state? Verse 21 says, For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ. Now the Apostle Paul here was praising Timothy, saying, Timothy was somebody that would come and he would care for you. Somebody that would come and put your needs first. He was like-minded. He was like-minded as Paul, and his desire was to serve the church, not to serve himself But he said, most people, most Christians, are given to seeking and fulfilling their own will, not those things of Jesus Christ. Now that's in the Word of God. I didn't say it. Christ said it. Through the Apostle Paul. For all seek their own, and not the things which are Jesus Christ. Here is a problem with a lot of Christianity today, is we're a whole lot less worried about the things we ought to be, and a whole lot too worried about ourselves. And what we want and our desires and our ambitions and our goals, we've got to put others and Jesus Christ before our own desires. Let me just say that if this is a statement given to us in the Word of God, that there are the majority of people. That seek their own. They're really just looking after themselves. If you have the true heart of a Christian and you find that you are a giver, That you are somebody that finds yourself helping others. Let me just throw this out by way of encouragement. There is people, there are people, sorry, that are going to take advantage. That's gonna happen. Don't let it discourage you. Don't take the one person, whether it's whether it's a uh a weak Young or backslidden Christian, or maybe somebody that's not even saved. Don't let them discourage you from continuing to be available to serve God and others. Because th according to this, there's gonna be a lot of people like that. And we just got to continue to do what God wants. Amen. So I think the reason we want to develop this is because it really is foundational towards Part of the Christian life. What is the recipe for availability? What are the pieces that we put together that make us available? How do we know if we're available? First of all, you need to deliver yourself Deliver yourself to to the task, to the job, to the to the place, to the location. What I'm saying is choose. You have to choose. You have to make it a choice in your heart. You choose who you will serve. You have to decide. If we look at the definition of what availability is, then what is it that you're deciding? You're deciding whether you're going to serve yourself or whether you're going to serve God and others. I think ultimately serving God is going to include serving others. Amen. But God said, Choose you this day whom you will serve. He said, You can't serve God and mammon. You can't serve yourself and God and others. It starts by making the choice Saying, I want to be the kind of person that is available. That means I'm going to choose. I'm going to choose to. Hey. You you can decide whether you're going to serve the gods in the land in which ye dwell? What are the gods in the land which ye dwell? Entertainment. Popularity, prosperity, leisure time. These are the gods that are served around us today. It's all about entertaining myself. You can choose whether you're going to serve the gods in the land you dwell Or if you're going to serve God. But it's a choice. Because no man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You understand it is an attitude that precedes the action. It is an attitude of heart that you choose and say, I desire, I want to. Put myself down. I want to put my desires aside. I want to sacrifice these things so that I might be available to serve others. So you deliver yourself And if you make that choice, then you deny yourself. This is what availability is. It is denying what you want for the sake of somebody else's success. Matthew 16, 24 says, Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, what's the next four words? Let him deny himself. Let him deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. Thayer's Bible definitions of the word deny. Says this, to forget oneself, to lose sight of oneself, and one owns interest To deny yourself is to forget. To forget about yourself. This goes contrary to the way we think, to the way society wants us to think. To the way everything is put into us, but do not forget about yourself. Lose sight. Don't even see yourself in the picture. Of your own desires and your own interest. If you're going to deny yourself, then you're going to deny the right to choose what you are available for. Okay, let me say that again. If you're denying yourself, you're going to deny yourself the right to choose what you're available for. You see? Oh no, we're not gonna do that. I am not gonna write you a blank check, Pastor. No, no, no. You've got to tell me what you want. You have got to tell me how long it's going to take, exactly when we're going to be done. And what's going to be required, and then I'll consider if I'm available. Now I hope you're laughing, but that's not much, that's not far from the truth. Right. We want to say, okay, what exactly is going on? Look back at our text in in Mark chapter number eleven. We read these verses already, Mark chapter number 11 and verse number 1 through 3. He says, And when they came nigh to Jerusalem unto Bethage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, look here and see the order of events. The order of events, he says here, he sendeth forth two of his disciples. He sent them forth. Right? In the next verse. And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against. He said, You and you I have a job for you. You guys are gonna go. They got up and said, Where are we going? And then he said, I want you guys to go over here in the next city, there's gonna be a cold. He sent them forth. You see, they didn't get to decide ahead of time. Well well Lord, wait, wait. W what did you need first? You see he sent them forth and then he told them what they were going to be doing. And if you follow in your mind, if you've got some Bible knowledge, you can be thinking of other people throughout the scriptures that did that for God. God sent them first and then told them what they were going to be doing. We deny ourselves what we're doing is we're denying our right to decide what we're available for or not. He sent them and then told them exactly what was needed. True availability is only limited by what we are already doing. For someone else. Okay, if I'm taking the definition of availability and applying it to myself Then if Bob comes to me and says, Pastor, can you help me in my house tomorrow night? Unless I am already committed, To help somebody else. The only thing that makes me unavailable at that time is not what I want to do. Oh man, I was planning to ride the four-wheelers. No, it's not what I wanted. The only thing that would make me unavailable is if I'm already committed to help somebody else. Because I w could not change that. If we set our prior priorities aside, then the only thing that can Get in the way of us helping someone is if we're already helping someone. Does that make sense? Yeah, you see So you deliver yourself, you deny yourself, and then you demand of yourself obedience. You demand of yourself obedience. Look back at Mark chapter number 11, starting at verse number 4. And they went their way and found the colt tied by the door, without in a place where two ways meet, and they loosed him. And a certain of them that stood there said unto him, What do ye, Lucene the Colt? And they said unto him, unto them, even as Jesus had commanded. They delivered the message just as God had commanded. Now you understand that love is obedience. Right. Love is following the commands. He said, Herein I know that you love me. If you love me, keep my commandment. We know that love, an expression of love for Jesus Christ and the Lord, is to be obedient. So we demand of ourselves obedience Out of love for him, we put others first instead of ourselves. Now I want to say that availability does not mean that you're not busy. Availability doesn't mean that you don't have anything to do. It doesn't mean that you're just sitting there twiddling your thumbs, waiting for something to do. That's not what it means. Sometimes when I'm working on a project, excuse me, I'll I'll ask one of my kids to come down and help me. And then I'm let's say I'm under the car working on something and I need a wrench and I look out and and they're not there. And I find that they went up to the house. And when I get there, of course they had a good reason, you know, like well I had to use the bathroom or or something else, whatever. And they're like, well I wasn't really doing anything anyway. Yeah, but you see what I needed you there for I is I need you to be at hand. I need you so that when I need a wrench or so that when I need a light or when I need to be pushed, I just need you to hand it to me so I don't have to climb out of the car. If you had to go, you've got to talk to me. You've got to say I gotta run to the house. I'll be right back. Uh you gotta let me know because what hey you you don't have to not do anything. You can bring your school down. You can work on your school while you're waiting You can throw the football around while you're waiting, but you just need to be at hand so that I I when I need something, you're there. And this is what it's like for the Christian. God is not demanding that we just sit and wait, okay, what next, God? I'm not going to do anything until you're ready to, you know. No, we can be busy. Our lives certainly get filled up in Matthew chapter 9, verse number 9. And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man named Matthew. Sitting at the receipt of customs. And he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. You see, Matthew is very busy. He was sitting at the seat of customs. He had a job to do, but that did not change his availability. Amen. You see the one who is usually the most available is the one who is usually the most busy. I know it doesn't make sense, but that's the way it is. That's usually the way it is. The one who has the most to do is usually the one that could find the time to help you. Do you know how hard it is to turn a car that's parked? Have you ever tried have you ever been in a vehicle that lost power and you needed to move it and it's not moving anywhere and you you're trying to turn that wheel Man, that's hard. But if you can get it rolling a little bit, get it moving, then you can turn the wheel a little easier, right? This is how we need to be as Christians. We are going and doing our lives inside of the will of God, but we're moving, active. But available to let God turn the wheel if He needs to. Amen. That's right. That's what availability is Oh yes, I am busy. Yes, I have things that I have to get done, and my life is full. But God, if you need me, just turn the wheel. Just show me where to go. Just be sensitive and let God turn you where He needs you. The availability is when a busy busy man responds to the needs of others with a willing heart. To serve them and not himself. Someone with a true heart availability is looking for a place to serve. They have a desire to serve, to be available You know, sometimes when I have work that needs done, some of the kids might get word that dad wants to chop wood today. It might kinda it goes through the house. And it's kinda funny. I can't find any of the children. Where where are the kids? Uh yeah, there's not that much room, but you know, somehow they all know that dad wants to slit some wood, you know, dad wants to get this cleaned up and uh we've got this job to do. Now ultimately they're available because I'm dead, I'm going to come and say, okay, let's go. Ultimately, God's in control and his will is going to be done. But you see, it's a different Different kind of spirit when they come and say, Hey Dad, you need anything? That's what availability is. You see, availability is not Pastor, I'm available if you can find me. All you gotta do is find me. Now listen, I've talked to the deacons about this and they'll tell you, that's just not my personality. I've told him several times, I said, men, I know I could look at you, and I know you're deacons, and I know I could say, listen, I need you to get this done. But that's not my personality. What I want to do is I want to say, hey, here's something that needs to be done, and I want you to desire it and say, I'll get that done. Pastor. I've asked them to have that kind of a heart. I want them to say, I'll do it. I'll accomplish that. I don't want to have to look at them and say, Okay. Technically, you're a deacon. Technically, I'm the pastor. Technically, that means I could just tell you you need to get this done if you want to keep your deaconship. I w I don't want to work in that kind of an atmosphere. And I don't think anybody else would. I would rather people with a heart of availability that just say, I want to do that. And that means when Pastor gets up and he says, Hey, this week we need to get this and this done. I know there's people all over this room that I could go to and I could ask you, and you would do it. I know you would do that. But can I just share my heart with you for a minute? That's really not my personality. I want to know I want to know that you want to do it. I know that my kids will split wood. Hey, on Monday we split wood for almost five hours. They worked hard. But not many of them really wanted to be there. Do you understand the difference? I just want people in the church, all of us together, leadership included, that have a heart to say, God I want to serve you. I want to be available. If there's an opportunity, show it to me, and I'm going to present myself. It is a posture of volunteering. And saying, hey, I could do that. Pastor, let me help you with that. Pastor, could I do that? So I'll get up and I'll say something like, hey, we're gonna We're gonna get the pawn fixed this week. The pond's already fixed. Sure would be great if somebody said, Man, I'll bet you Pastor Pastor Derrick could use a little help with that. Wonder when they're doing it. I mean maybe I'm already committed, but maybe I'm available. Maybe I could help them if they're doing it so at this time or this time or you know what? I I just want to see. Maybe I could help them. Hey, can I help you guys? When when are you guys gonna do that That would be nice. Oh, we've got this to do and that to do. How available are you How available are you? So the reinforcement of availability. How do we develop this in our life? How do we reinforce You say, well, I want to have the spirit of availability. I want to, Pastor, and I know the spirit's willing, the flesh is weak. And we we get sidetracked sometimes and those things happen. So what do we do, Pastor, if we want to develop availability in our life? How do we reinforce that? How we build availability in our lives is through discipline. Is through discipline. This world and all that it has to offer will literally steal all of our time and resources. It is through a lack of discipline that we lose all of our time and resources. We cannot allow our life to be driven by the pleasures of this world. Or we will find we have no time available to help someone else Moses said that he would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of God than enjoy the pleasures of sin. Just a doorkeeper. Just something that I can do. I just want to be available. And I would rather do that than fulfill my own desire. Enjoy my you know sometimes we have an activity and I I I don't know, I mean maybe you were sick in the hospital. Maybe you went to go help somebody. I don't know. But if we're if we're having an activity I would think you would want to be there. You would want to, you would desire. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of God than to enjoy the pleasure to sin for a season. And I wonder. What you could be doing that is so important That you couldn't give up two hours to come and be a part of a service. Like let's say the Fourth of July service. Well, that's not an official church service, so I don't actually have to go. Is that how we look at our service for God? This is what I have to do and this is what I can do and not feel guilty about it? I mean, it's just a spirit, it's a heart. And would we be at home mowing our grass? What do we want to do that's more valuable to us than that? I've heard Greg invite many people to the Sunday night service. And he says, man, you ought to come out to Sunday night church. I mean, what do you what else are you gonna do Sunday night? You're gonna watch something on TV? Is that is that worth more than church? I'm glad he's encouraging people to come to church. This is what it is. What do we want that's more valuable? Than what God wants. The spirit of availability says I sacrifice what I want. I Let go of my own desires that I might see other people succeed. This means if we're going to live disciplined lives, it means that we organize our life. We organize our life so that we can be more efficient. You see, if I can be more efficient accomplishing what I need to do, Then I will have more time to be helped. I mean there's things that we have to do. There's stuff that has to be done. I mean you have to Put gas in the car. You have to change the oil. At some point you have to mow the grass. You can't just let it grow forever. I mean there's things that you know the gutter's gonna fall off the house. You've got to clean them out. There's things that have to be done But if we can organize our lives in such a way that we can attack those things that are absolutely necessary in our lives, then it would free up time for us to be more available for others. The more messy my life is, the more time it's going to take for me to do what has to be done. To be efficient is to accomplish what has to be done, and that frees up time for others. When I was in college, we would have pastors come and it seemed to be kind of a uh they hit it, they hit it occasionally. Not all the time, but occasionally one of the pastors would say, you know what, young men, you're gonna be a preacher someday. Let's go out to the parking lot right now and let's look in your car. And then they would say, if your car is a mess, that is a picture of what your life is. And in a year or two or whenever you're done with this, you're supposed to go out and leave people? And that's how your life is? That's how you're going to lead people? You better get organized. You better straighten it up. You can't be very efficient that way. I don't have the kind of memory that Pastor Derrick has. Pastor Derrick sometimes will type up a document. He'll tell me, hey, I did a study on the 295 times that this Greek word appears in the New Testament. And I correlated it and contrasted it against modern vernacular. And uh I'll be like, amen, brother. And he'll say, Do you want a copy? And I'm like, Yeah, I would like a copy. And he brings a book and sets it on my desk. You know, he brings documents and he sets it and and I'll ask him more more than once I've asked him, Can I have that digitally Can I have that digitally? Why? Because uh I'm not gonna be able to remember where I put that paper. I mean you give me these papers, that's great, but I'm gonna stick them in some file and I'm not gonna look at them again forever and I won't know where they're at So I need it digitally so that I can put it in a folder that I have organized on my computer, how I study, so that I can find it when I need it A couple of years ago I had one of the female interns that we had here go through my library. At that time I had about 400 books. And I had her go through my library and put them all into my phone so that I would know exactly what books that I have. But I've found over the last couple years, for one, I've added about two hundred books to my library. And then also, even though I know I have that book, Says right here in my library, I have that book. I can't find it. So that's so frustrating to me, and I'm looking all over. So I had Kelly. I said, Kelly, I want you to go through my library. I've got 200 books here that are not in my library. You need to add all those. And then I want you to put here on the notes Left bookshelf, third shelf. Right bookshelf, second shelf. So she win all 613 books I have in my office in my library right now. She went through all of them and put down exactly where they are. Why? So I could be more efficient. So that I could say, I know I have this book on this topic. Oh, it's right here, it's on this shelf. I can grab it, pull it out, and get what I need. and put it back and not waste a bunch of time looking for it. If we organize our lives, we'll have more time for others This also applies to us in our financial realm. You see, when we're wasteful and unwise with our time, we have no time to give to others. And when we're wasteful and we're unwise with our finances, We have no finances to give to others. You can't give to every need that might be at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. This need arises, that need arises, this family has a need, that family has a need. This bill comes up, that comes up. Maybe you can't give to everything, but everybody ought to be able to pray and say, God, what do you want me to do? And just do what God wants you to do, and God will take care of the need. I have no doubt that God will take care of the need. And sometimes God may not direct you to give to this need or to that need. But the honest fact of the matter is there's some in here that couldn't give to any need. And it's not because God hasn't blessed us. It's because we've been unwise and wasteful with that which God gave us. That's right. You see, when we take our funds and we spend them on things that we want. Go back to our definition, the stuff we want. Boy, I sure do enjoy a steak dinner. By the way, that's my favorite meal, just so you guys know. A steak dinner, I sure enjoy a steak dinner, and I want to take my family out to go eat this steak dinner. That's fine if you have the finances, but you know what? You might have to discipline your life a little bit. Say no to some of your desires so that when the time comes And Miranda needs help. You can say, oh man, I heard Miranda could use a little bit. She's got this need And you know what? I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna hey Pastor don't tell m don't tell Miranda where this came from, but I'm gonna I'm gonna take care of that need. Isn't that awesome? Because we've been careful, because we've been disciplined, because we have controlled our own desires. So that when the time came that a need arose, we could say, Boy, hey, I could meet that need. You know, I uh I just looked it up right before church here because I've never been to one, but I think it'd be fun to do. You know these uh what do they call sky zone? Where you bounce? That would be fun. And I thought, hey, I wonder how much it costs to go to Sky Zone. So I looked it up. Hey, it's only twenty bucks. Plus stocks, three bucks for that. But let's call it twenty bucks. So for my family, that'd be 140 bucks For one hour. If we wanted to go two, I mean that would be fun, but maybe maybe not the wisest use to my money. Do you see how this applies? Living a disciplined life, both in our time and our finances, gives us the liberty and the freedom when the time arises that a need is there, it makes us available to be able to meet that need. We deny ourselves for the success of others. We build availability through denying ourselves Denying ourselves, to deny what we want, whether that's purchasing something, whether that's taking time to do this or to do that, living a disciplined life, denying ourselves, understanding the biblical principle that when we give, we receive. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. And for whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall fight That's what Christianity is. It's not the world's philosophy of just get all I can and can't all I get and and enjoy life to the fullest and eat and drink and be merry and get have most Listen, it's not about who can have the most fun. It's not about the guy that has the most toys wins. That kind of guy who is consumed with meeting his own life and his own desires, he's going to lose it. But the one that'll be spent for God, he's going to find it. We shouldn't seek after greatness. Let me just read this verse to you, Jeremiah 45:5. This world pushes you to seek after personal greatness. I gotta move on. Jeremiah forty-five, five. You need to write it down. And seekest thou great things for thyself. Seek them not. Behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, saith the Lord, but thy life will I give unto thee for a free in all places whither thou goest. Hey, again, it's not about seeking stuff for ourselves. It's about being available. For God and for others. Lastly, let me give you the results of availability and I'm gonna fly through this. We've got to go quick. You said man we got a lot of names down here. I'm just going to give these to you quick and apply them real real fast. We're going to go through the end of this. The results of availability. Abraham was available to sacrifice. He took his son and willingly sacrificed him. Now God saved him. But because he was willing to do that, because he was willing to sacrifice even his own son at the call of God. The result was God said, of thee all the nations of the world are going to be blessed. Noah was available to serve God. He served God when people mocked and laughed. He served God when people didn't understand. He served God when even he didn't understand. He had never seen rain fall from the sky, he had never seen water rise from the deep. He was building this thing out in the middle of a desert, and it didn't make any sense to him, but it's what God said, and he was willing to do it And what was the result? He saved his family. He saved his family. Listen, this world can laugh and mock all they want. They can make fun about going to church and they can joke about it and they can say you look funny and you act funny and you talk funny. It doesn't matter to me because one day when I'm old and gray by the grace of God I'll have kids wrapped around me that love me, that have risen up and call me blessed, and if nothing else ever happens in life, that was worth it That was worth it. If I didn't get anything else out of being a Christian, if all I got out of this Christian life was kids who love me and respect me and want to please me. If that's all that I got was a wife who cared for me and wanted to stay with me and and had compassion for me and desired to please me when I don't deserve it. If that's all I got, that's worth it. Amen. Noah saved his family because he was willing to serve. There was a lad willing to surrender what he had. He surrendered his five loaves and two fish. He just gave it to God and hey, if he would have kept it, if he would have said, that's for me, those are mine, mom made those for me. Oh, he would have had one meal and he would have been hungry by supper time. But he gave what little he had to God and God took it, multiplied it, fed five thousand people with it, and he went home with food for the next three weeks. Because of God. Because He was willing to surrender what He had. The disciples, they were available to submit to God and follow Him. And they turned the world upside down. Moses was available to struggle for God, doing one of the hardest tasks that's ever been done, leading three thousand and plus grumbling, complaining, angry, angry, bitter people across the wilderness But he did it for God. And God blessed him. He struggled for God, the three Hebrew children. And Daniel were willing to stand for God. In a wicked day, in a wicked world, they stood for God, and God met with them in ways that nobody else has ever experienced. They were in the fiery furnace, but God was there with them, walking around. I know the people outside the furnace could see there's like a fourth man there, and he's like unto the Son of God. But I wonder what the perspective was for them inside the fire. Walking with God. Daniel laying down with the lions Because they were willing to stand for God. Paul was available to be spent for God. He says, and I will very gladly spend and be spent for you He's willing to take all that he had and give it to others. He said, even though the more I love, the less I'm loved, he says, I'm willing to do that. And he's the greatest missionary we've ever known. Job was available to suffer for God. God might call on you to do some suffering. Job said, though he slay me, yet was Well I trust him. He was available to go through that. And God rewarded him with ten times what he told him. Took from him. Isaiah was available to be sent by God. He said, Here am I, send me. The question tonight is, are you available? This character trait of availability And we got real practical this evening. We got right down where the rubber meets the road, and I think if we were honest with ourselves before God, there's some areas that we might need to work on. I'm going to ask the pianists to come. I want to have a moment of invitation before we do our prayer time. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Dear God, I pray that you'd be with this moment of invitation. I pray, Lord, we would you would help us to be honest with you. About this matter of availability. How available are we to serve you, to serve others Do we have our guard up and we're protecting our time? We're protecting our our resources, we're protecting what after all I can't do it all. But is our heart in a place of God? I just want to be available. Lord would you use this in Jesus' name, Amen