All right, turn to your Bibles, if you would, with me to First Corinthians chapter number fourteen. First Corinthians chapter number fourteen. We're going to look at a lot of scripture tonight. I don't know if you have time to turn to it all. We're going to cover a lot of ground. Uh hopefully And hopefully I don't wear you out. We are looking at at Baptist history, but kind of uh threefold dimension as we're talking about this uh Baptist history. We're looking at it from the standpoint of the Baptist distinctives the characteristics that define Baptists as a group. So that doctrine is very, very important. Then we're looking at it from the standpoint of historically what has happened that has developed in the church. not necessarily just our church, but in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ and in what people would call Christendom and then Taking that one step further, we want to see how the differences are between where the Baptists stand and where other what would be mainline denominations stand. So there's a lot to cover as we attack each one of these distinctives, and we're going to try and do it in that order. But tonight we're talking about Baptist history. We're looking at the principle or the doctrine of biblical authority. Biblical authority. In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse number 37 Verse number 37 he says, if any man think himself to be a prophet or spiritual, so anybody that thinks he's a prophet or thinks he's spiritual, let him acknowledge That the things that I have written unto you are what? Commandments of the Lord. Commandments of the Lord. This is in fact the word of God which we hold in front of us. Amen? You know, a somebody that happens to be a uh uh an authority on a subject, a lot of times they'll write a book. Right? Now in today's uh day of self-publishers, there's every kind of loony person publishing books, so that uh illustration might not hold up so well But the fact of the matter is, is I think that you would be in agreement with me that God is authority on every subject. And he has written a book that is here for us. Now there is no question in Christendom from any denomination that Jesus Christ started the church. Some people would believe that church started at Pentecost. Uh you know, a couple of thoughts with regards to that. Now maybe when we get to heaven we'll find out that they're right and I'm wrong. But uh It's really not going to make much difference, but a couple things with regards to the church starting at Pentecost. First of all, people were saved and baptized and added to the church. How do you add to something that uh is not already in existence? Secondly, Jesus Christ said, I will build my church. I believe the church started with Jesus, and uh if it started at Pentecost, Jesus wasn't there. Jesus is already in heaven. Uh so I believe that the church started with uh the disciples, with Jesus and the disciples, and he started the church and formed it, but everybody would agree that the church started with Jesus Christ. That he started it. Now the church came on the world scene in the midst of the Roman Empire at a time when it was on the rise. Its power eventually enveloped the entirety of the known world at that time, the Roman Empire. They were a religious group of people, although they were polytheist. They believed in a lot of gods, many, many gods, worshipped many things So they could believe in God because they believed in many gods. And as we consider this time period and the fact that the church was being developed and grown in this time period and God started the church, It's kind of interesting to me this idea or thought came to me as we just finished up Old Testament survey. And we looked through that through the summer, uh, well, through the end of last school year, and You know God was working with his people, continually talking to his people, and the relationship that he wanted to have with them, and we see how He developed a relationship with them and he wanted to be for them to exist in a theocracy where he was ruling over them. But they didn't want that. They wanted a king, right? And so they had a monarchy, and the monarchy was supposed to follow God, and then they were supposed to follow the monarchy. And of course there was problems with that. and continually through the judges and so on. We see this where God was looking to have a direct relationship with his people, right? Well he gets into the New Testament and he starts a church. And he gets a place where he calls all who are whosoever will can be a part of the church and have a direct relationship with God. They can follow him as he directs and leads them. Now you've got to be careful with this thought because there's a group of people that teach what's called replacement theology, where they take uh they say the church has replaced Israel. As God's chosen people. That's not true. I disagree with that. God's chosen people is the people of Israel and the promises he gave them are still true to them. But if you hear somebody leaning towards what I just said, they're probably going to be Encroaching upon replacement theology, which I disagree with, but I believe that God started the church and he calls for whosoever will, and if we do, we can have come into a direct relationship with God. We believed in the priesthood of the believer and all these other things that we're going to talk about as we get through the summer, but that's what God wanted as he started this church. There are literally hundreds of differences of organizations that call themselves churches. Each of them claiming to be the one true church. Right? They all claim that. Doesn't matter where they're from or what their background or how long they've been in existence. Some of them have been in existence just a few years. Some of them have been in existence for centuries. So is that the qualification? Is that the standard? Is that what makes the one true church? How long it's been? I put for you tonight that what we're dealing with in our topic is the deciding factor. How closely they stick to this book. The Biblical Authority of the Word of God. And as a church, regardless of the name that's on the front, we've had the discussion about Baptist, and I'm Baptist by conviction, and Lord willing, I'll be able to continue to be Baptist. But you know what? There's some countries, uh like Brother Hoffmeister, who is just here, that if he put Baptist on the front of his church, they would associate him with the Satanist, with Satan worshiper Because that's what the culture is known as. So the name on the front is not as important as what you do with this book. Now I believe the name on the front is important, and we're going to keep the name. But we need to be following the book, the biblical authority of the Word of God. So first of all, we want to look at the doctrine. Obviously, I gave you our text verse kind of that what we have, what was written unto us, is the commandments of the Word of God, the creator of the universe, the author of life, the ultimate authority on every subject. has given us a book that addresses and deals with every subject. Biblical authority is supported by the author himself. Biblical authority is declared to us throughout the scriptures. In 1 Thessalonians 2, verse number 13, he says, For this cause also thank we God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God. He said, We praise God that when we came to you and we presented to you the truth of the Word of God, you didn't receive it as the Word of men But you received it as the Word of God. And one of the problems in churches today and in the few today is Christians sit and they listen to somebody preach the Word of God And if they're preaching the truth of the Word of God, it's not for the person in the view to determine whether that's that man's opinion or not. If it's in the book, we're supposed to do it. We're supposed to receive it as it is, in truth, the Word of God. Right? That's how we're supposed to receive it. That's how we're supposed to take it. But That's why we praise God for the privilege that you as believers here in America have to have a copy of this in your lap. Because you ought to be checking what the man of God says with the Word of God. That he's not just getting up here and spouting off and creating his own doctrine and teaching his own philosophies, but in fact he is indeed teaching the Word of God. Because that's what we're supposed to be teaching. It is uh the authority of the Word of God is declared by itself as the Word of God. It was revealed by God in Galatians 1, verses 11 and 12 He says, but I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man, for I neither received it of man. Neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Himself. The word of God was given to us, revealed by God Himself, and we know that it was inspired by God for all Scripture Is given by inspiration, is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness. All scripture is given. So we know that biblical authority is declared by itself. Biblical authority was declared by Christ. In Matthew 5. 18, he says, For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle shall nowise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. And in Luke 24, 44. And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, which I said while I was yet with you. That all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. Jesus Himself declared the book to be the Word of God. So we have before us the Word of God, and this is, for the Baptist, the sole authority. And our guide for faith and practice is the Word of God. And that is vitally important because there are many groups out there that that is not the case. And they are very close in what they say. And a lot of times their comments are close But when you dig a little bit deeper, as you'll find through this study, that we are talking about these different denominations, mostly what would be considered Protestant churches today. You'll see that they have another authority beyond the Word of God. Now I want to just say as we start as we start out here that none of this is meant as an attack. Against another group. None of it is meant to say that there are not saved people in any of these churches. Or that there's not good people that love God and want to follow God in any of these churches. Per our understanding, I say R because I've asked both of the staff to take a couple of these topics through the summer and they're going to be teaching those because the football game is on and I got to stay home and watch that. But we're what I'm saying is that as we do study, we're not we are not infallible. Only God is infallible. So something that we present, from your standpoint or your point of view, you may say, well, I knew a Lutheran, and he said Well, that may be that that Lutheran believes that way, and that's correct, but what we're studying is, you know, overriding truth that is very clearly stated in their doctrinal books. And that's what we're going to be presenting as clear and as best as we can. Now understand if I misquote somebody or say something wrong or you know something different, please let me know and I'll be more than happy to stand up and say, hey folks, I messed this up. It doesn't bother me a bit to get up here and say that. I'm more than happy to say it. I just want to try my best to present the truth. And that's what we're doing, but please don't get offended with it. Now let me give you the development. The development. Now I think we're moving okay. We're moving all right? Alright, we're on the second point. So we're on the development. Okay? When any people discard the New Testament, they set it aside as the necessary law for Christian life. Whether it be for individual life or the life of the church, this people have launched themselves upon a limitless ocean. And I am quoting from J. M. Carroll, the author of The Trail of Blood. He says they launched themselves upon a limitless ocean of erroneous laws Which will inevitably and soon demand another, and then another, and those will yet demand others. Without ever an end in sight. That is why Christ gave his church and to his preachers no legislative power. We don't have the power to rewrite this. God gave it to us complete. And it's just our job to preach it. We don't have the church doesn't have legislative power and the pastor doesn't have legislative power. That was done by God. He wrote the law. And we just obey it. Now, as we talked about the fact that we are not Protestants as a church, we are not Protestants. That's going to continue to come up because that's where there's a lot of conflict in the belief with regards to some of these things. But uh J. M. Carroll said this. It is well to note, however, that for many centuries, prior to this great Reformation period There were a number of noted characters who rebelled against the awful extremes of the Catholic Church and earnestly sought to remain loyal to the Bible But their bloody trail is about all that is left of them. Because they try to stand with the book. instead of follow the church. Now I've got to give you some, we're talking about the development here. We're talking about the historical look at people straying from the truth of the Word of God as the sole authority. And so I've got to read some things to you. But a council of churches that met in 451 A. D. was called by Emperor Marion, 500 to 600 bishops, which were metropolitans, those were the city pastors. 500 to 600 of them were present during this council, and the council was gathered to discuss merilatorism, which is the worship of Mary, the mother of Christ. This new doctrine created an uproar in the church. However, by the end of the council that in 451, the church had adopted the worship of Mary. The church had decided that it was okay to worship Mary. This was one of the first major moves away from the Word of God as the sole authority. Where a group of men got together and said, hey, we are authorities in the church. We can decide what is what God wants. And they decided that. Not long after that, they also added in another council praying to Mary. Because they said that the distance between God and man was too great. It was too far away, Becca. Too hard. Jesus Christ, although he was the one mediator between God and man, Jesus couldn't do it himself. He needed help. And so they said Mary was going to serve as man's mediator. So they said, you pray to Mary, and Mary will take your prayers to Jesus, and Jesus will take them to God. That's not in here. That is going away from the sole authority of the Word of God. And these types of things continued to happen. J. M. Carroll says, let it be remembered that the Catholics do not regard the Bible as the sole authority or guide for faith and practice. They claim that indeed the Bible is unerring. But there are other things that are just as much so, and that is the writings of the Fathers, the decrees of the Church, and the declarations of the infallible Pope. In addition to this growing list of practices outside of the authority of the Word of God, they added the worship of saints. To worship saints. You could achieve sainthood. I did when I got saved, amen. I am a saint, even though I don't act like it. But hey uh they added this. I think God's word says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me, that uh thou shalt not set up to thee any graven images. Um I think the word of God is very clear about who we're supposed to be worshiping. But they added that. Now, John Huss was converted to the Anabaptist movement through his personal study of the New Testament. He was able to preach for many years until ultimately he was excommunicated and burned at the stake for his beliefs. Why was John Husband at the stake? What was he preaching that was so controversial? What was he preaching that was such a threat to the church? The sole authority of the Word of God. And he grew he converted to the Anabaptist, which was at that time a group of Tabarites. The Taborites, which had Baptist beliefs, and the Euquaritist, which did not, were two groups that separated from the Catholic Church at the same time. But listen to the difference in these two groups. The first one, the Taborites, they believed in the sole authority of the Bible, Baptist beliefs. Even though they weren't called Baptists, that's what we stand on, that's what we believe. The other group believed in the final authority of the Bible. That's pretty close. But they're not saying that the Bible is the only authority. It's the final authority. But we are going to really give a lot of credence and weight to what our forefathers said or whatever. somebody else said. And do you know what happened? Inside of a hundred years, persecution killed all the Taborites. And the small group that was left went into the Waldensians, and the other group joined back with the Catholic Church. That's what happened because of where they stood on this issue of the sole authority of the word of God. Well most claim uh Daniel Chamberlain A pastor in recent years studied and uh presented this. He said this while most claim to believe that the Bible is the only rule of faith in practice, the Protestant movement as a whole emphasis on creeds. Tends to subtly undermine that position. So most Protestant churches, because they have an emphasis on creeds That undermines the sole authority of the Word of God because they give so much weight to their creed. B. B. Wayfield, called the Westminster Confession of Faith. Which many hold to, he called this, their confession of faith, the final crystallization of the elements of the evangelical religion. So, this gathering, this Westminster's confession of faith, what they came and said that they believed, that was the final authority on what they believed. What's supposed to be the final authority? The Word of God. And that's where this idea leads to When they lean towards other things besides the Word of God. Alright, now what's the difference? What's the difference between Baptist and maybe some of these others? Now, what we're dealing with tonight is the Word of God. This is the starting point for everything, right? This this this I mean we could talk about all the rest of the distinctives tonight because it fits underneath this. What I tried to do is do research specifically on where they stand on the Word of God. And do you know That if you read their statement of faith, the majority of them read very close to ours and would say that they believe in the complete authority of the Word of God for the most part? But as you'll see in the weeks ahead, listen, we're not to add to or take anything from the Word of God, right? That means if I'm teaching or preaching that you as a Christian ought to be doing something that's not in this book, I'm adding to, correct? And if I'm not preaching something that this book says, then I'm taking away. Well, you're going to see in the weeks ahead many places where these groups of people add to and take away from the Word of God. In Matthew 24, verses 3 through 6, he says, And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the signs of thy coming and the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many. A sign of the time is the fact that there are many false prophets. And they come saying, I'm Christ. They come saying, I believe the Bible, just like we talked about last week when we're talking about counterfeit money. Counterfeit. Okay, nobody takes monopoly money and goes to try and buy a car with it. That's obviously fake. Counterfeit money is really close. But it's not. And that's the problem with a lot of these things. Now, I don't have anything against them, but the fact that they're not teaching the truth. They need to get back to the Bible. Now, there's a couple of groups. We've got a few more minutes. There's a couple of groups that would be called cults. They would be called cults. Now am I doing all right on time? How much time have I got left? Uh all right. Greg, what's her name? I forgot her name right. I know it's Becca. And Teresa. Michaela. Who's Teresa? Tessa. No Teresa. Should have brought a Teresa, that'd have been easier. All right, we got ten minutes. You doing okay? I know it's been a it's been a long day. And uh we're we're we we'll be done in ten minutes, but I want to give you this last. What's the difference? There's some groups that are called cults. The world was hit with the term of cult in a new and staggering way on November 1978 when Jim Jones convinced 119 people. To drink the Kool-Aid. Now all these many years later there is a common saying, don't drink the Kool-Aid. Because people believed what he said. Now he started a church in San Francisco. That was the first problem. Pastor Augustus from San Francisco, so we like to give him a hard time. He started a church called the People's Temple in San Francisco where he declared himself to be the voice of God on earth. He convinced his followers to follow him all the way to Guyana, where he claimed to be Jesus Christ himself. But listen to this. After he convinced that multitude of people, 913 people To kill themselves. The U. S. commander of the U. S. forces that went in to clean up the mess and claim the bodies and bring them home to bury them for the families was a Christian. And he said this. The thing, in quotes, the thing that is most interesting to me about Jonestown. Is that when we cleaned the camp out, we did not find one single Bible in the entirety of Jonestown Because they got away from this authority. That's why it's important. That we have the Bible as the sole authority. Anytime if you go anywhere to another church, if you get anybody that ever stands up and begins to talk about new revelation, Run for the hills. Because God has given us the completed book. There's several cults. The definition of a cult is quite literally hard to nail down. The simplistic definition that you find in a common dictionary is not sufficient because there's so many variances and different levels and so on of cults. There are four different types of cults that we could look at. There's pseudo-Christian cults. These are cults that claim to be Christians. They claim to follow the book. They claim to love the Lord Jesus Christ and follow the Bible. However, they claim New Revelation. There's a whole group of cults out there that claim new revelation. They love the Bible, but they claim new revelation. That's a counterfeit Christianity. They've taken the heart. of what God taught in His Word, they ripped it out and replaced it with what they want. That concludes groups like JW's The Jehovah's Witnesses. Mormons. You ask a Mormon if they believe in Jesus and they'll say, Yeah, look at my look at my name tag. It says, you know, what is it? G their church is Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Of Latter Saints, yeah. They're like, see yeah we have Jesus on our name tag. But when you dig a little bit deeper you'll find out that they believe Jesus was the brother of Lucifer. And they'll they'll they'll say that he was not virgin born, but that he was born by God coming down in the form of a man. And having sexual relations with Mary, and that's how Jesus was conceived. New revelation. It's not in the book. It's not in a book. It includes groups like Christian Science. You ask them, do they believe in the Trinity? And they'll say, yeah, we believe in the Trinity. But when you dig a little bit deeper, you'll find that what they believe the Trinity is, is three ethical principles of life. They are life, truth, and love. That is the Trinity. When you ask them, do you believe in the Trinity? They say yes. But their definition is completely different than ours And they've used terminology that would fit into Christianity, a lot of these cults, and when you ask them, do you believe in Jesus? Do you believe in God? Do you believe in the book? They'll say yes. But what they're saying is not what you're saying because the definition is completely different, like the Seventh-day Adventist Whose foundation for the majority of their truth comes from over 2,000 dreams that are put in print that L and G. White had. The foundation of their truth is from that. Then you have Oriental cults. So you have pseudo-Christian cults that we've mentioned there. Then you have Oriental cults. They're based in Oriental philosophy. That includes groups like Hinduism, Buddhism, Harry Krishner, Transcendental Meditation, Yoga, Zen, etc. You have New Age cults. It's basically the human potential movement. They believe that in evolution, and they believe that we're on the verge of a new evolution, that we have potential within ourselves. And we can accomplish, because we are and the New Age movement, any type of secular humanism, Hindu mysticism, and the occult. There's an entire movement of those that embrace evil and dark things such as astrology and tarot cards, witchcraft, Satanism, clairvoyance, and channeling, etc. That's groups that would be cults, but that's not what I think that any of us might ever get sucked into. I hope nobody from this church would ever get sucked into one of these. I hope you would have enough Bible knowledge for that not to happen. But there are also groups that call themselves Christians. And this would for the mo for the most part would be what are Protestant churches today. Now, these Protestant churches, there's there's several of them, like the Lutherans. What we're dealing here with is specifically with regards to uh biblical authority. That's what we're talking about. So let me give you a couple of things, the Lutherans. Okay, on a study done by a few research in 2008 of over 2,000 self-professed Lutherans. They said 30% of them believed that the Bible was the Word of God. 40% held that the Bible was the Word of God, but was not literally true. I'm not sure how you could have the word of God that not be true. Either God's true and every man's a liar or the other way around. It's what it says. Um Twenty-three percent said that the Bible was written by man, it was not the Word of God at all. As a whole, the group, the Lutheran Church, we know Martin Luther did a lot of great things. He came out of the Catholic Church. But like we said the other night, he came to the B he he came towards the Bible, but he didn't get to the Bible. He didn't get all the way there. He kind of took a step that direction, and that's one of the problems with a lot of the Protestant churches, is they they saw a problem and they stepped away, but as they stepped away You know what? Here's a great illustration. Uh where's Lawrence? Today Lawrence got in my car and he got in. I said, man, you stink. He looked he looked over at me and he had been using the backpack blower that uses two-stroke motor oil. And he just stunk like that two-stroke motor oil. Now it was blowing the other way the whole time, but when he put the motor the the thing down and he walked away, he still smelled like that That's what happened with a lot of Protestant churches. When they walked away from the Catholic Church, they still had a lot of Catholic in them. And they carried a lot of that with them, which we're going to see over the weeks to come. They they would have many liturgical books that they follow, such as The Small Catechism, the Book of Concord, and the Osberg Confessions. They also practice the third sacrament, which is not in the Bible, which is that of confession, where you confess yourself, confess uh your sins to a priest. And they believe conversions through salvation and baptismal regeneration. And we're going to get into a lot of other things as we as we come in the weeks ahead. But the Presbyterians became the Church of Scotland, Lutherans became the Church of Germany. Presbyterians became the Church of Scotland. If you understand church history, it'll give you a whole new understanding of why our forefathers wanted a separation of church and state. And it's not what modern interpretation is. It's because they had lived under oppressive regimes that was run by the the Religion was run by the state, and that's what it's not supposed to be. So the Presbyterians, they believe I'm gonna I could read you this the right off of their website, but I I don't have time. Uh they have a real good description of the Bible. But it does not say anything about soul authority, does not say anything about an inspiration. It's very eloquently written. But it a whole lot of stuff it doesn't say. Then you have the Church of England, that became the Anglican Church. Um they are the closest to the Catholic Church of all of them, and if you know church history, you came King Henry the Eighth wanted to get married to his wife, and the Pope wouldn't let him get married because he wouldn't give him a divorce because of political reasons, and so King Henry VIII said, Oh well, I'll just make myself the head of the church. He didn't actually change anything in the Catholic Church. He just became the head, and it became So now you have the they are self the Church of England is self proclaimed Reformed Catholics. That is what they say they are, Reformed Catholics. So it is basically a Catholic church, the Church of England, the Anglican Church. Church is Reformed Catholic Church. And there's many other things I could give you about that. The Methodist is a break off of the Anglican Church. They came off the Anglican Church and Um from John Wesley, a lot of notes here on that. Um John Wesley, the founder of that, he said this. I will live and die a member of the Church of England He had no intention of breaking from the Church of England. This was not his plan. However, in 1784, he set up a small structure, the Yearly Conference of the People called Methodists, to ensure the continuation of the Methodist movement. After his death, in the end, uh this the strength and the impact of his movement uh ultimately guaranteed a separate church altogether. And the Methodist church became born. Now it's interesting that in 1795, a year after Wesley's death, the Methodists in Britain became it became legal for them to conduct marriages and perform sacraments. Before that, it was illegal for them to do that. Do you know why? Because the Church of England, who was also the government, hadn't given them the authority to do so yet. Because the Church of England, who was also the church, who was also the government, was in control, and they didn't have authority to marry or perform sacraments. So this is what they were coming out of. Now, these these areas are very important. And as we get into the weeks and months ahead, I just want you to have an understanding that we want to go back to the book with everything. And although some of these groups may have started out very strong that we might mention, they have strayed. They've stepped away. They've gone away from what? Even their founders. I think some of their founders would roll over in their graves if they saw what was taking place today. But I gotta quit. All right. Why don't you stand with me with your heads bowed and eyes closed? We're not going to have an invitation, uh, but I just want to close in prayer. Thank you for your attentiveness. If you have any questions, I I did have a bunch of notes I wasn't able to give you, but Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to gather in church. We thank you for the ministry of music that we got to listen to and for the ensemble coming and being with us tonight. Lord, I pray that as people we would look to the Word of God, that we would uh believe and practice the word of God and follow that as our sole authority. That we wouldn't look to men, we wouldn't lift men up, we wouldn't follow men, but follow you. And Lord, I pray you would help us as a church to adhere close to the book and to not stray from it. And we'll thank you for it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.