In Genesis 28, we want to learn from the Scriptures. We want the Holy Spirit to speak to our hearts and do a work that only He can do, understanding that it's not me, it's not my words. It is the Word of God, and we want God to do a work in our hearts. We're going to look at this Genesis chapter 28, and then we're going to move to Genesis 35 as we see some experiences that took place in the life of Jacob. We discussed and taught about him this morning in Sunday school, learned about uh what was going on in his life and how God was using him to establish the nation of Israel, God's chosen people. They're still God's chosen people, by the way. There's so many things in the life of Jacob that you and I could learn from, so many lessons that we could draw. meaning and application to us, things worth considering. Because we see ourselves in this complicated figure. We see this man with his checkered past and his questionable actions. sometimes carnal and sometimes spiritual. We can kind of behold our own life in those pages, and so we draw many lessons that are applicable to us today. Our desire this morning is that uh God would teach us that our failure does not have to be final, that you can uh pick up again, and God maybe this morning would call you back to him, to the place where he wants you to be. I would ask you to uh allow me to open this uh message here with a word of prayer Then we'll read our text for today. We'll be in Genesis chapter 8, beginning in verse number 11. Let me ask God to bless as we read His Word and as we uh ask Him to teach us from this this morning. Lord, we come to you right now. We're thankful, Lord, for how you can take your word written so many thousands of years ago and yet teach us from it. We've read these stories and we've heard these lessons and we've seen these thoughts many times, but God, I pray that afresh and anew this morning. You would take your word and you would apply it to the hearts of your people. Lord, we need to hear from heaven today. I pray you would allow me, an unworthy vessel, to step aside and that you would use Your word in the hearts of these people, we ask in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I would have you look at Genesis chapter 28, beginning in verse number eleven. I'm going to read down to verse number twenty-two where our story takes place today. The title of the message is Back to Bethel. Back to Bethel. He says, and he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. And he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillow, and lay down in that place to sleep. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven And behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, God of Abraham thy father, the God of Isaac, the land that thou liest, to thee will I give it and to thy seed, and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt Spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south, and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I am with thee. I will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land, for I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken of to thee of And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I knew it not. And he was afraid. And he said, how dreadful is this place? This is none other but the house of God. And this is the gate of heaven. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and he took the stone that he had put for his pillow, and he set it up for a pillar, and he poured oil upon the top of it. And he called the name of that place Bethel. But the name of the city was called Luz at first. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me And I will and will keep me in this way that I go, I will give uh and give me bread to eat and remnant to put on, so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God And this stone which I have set for a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give of me, I will surely give the tenth unto thee. We see here the lessons drawn from this passage of scripture this morning. First of all, I want you to know there in verse number 11 note that he says he lighted upon a certain place. He came to this certain place. I believe that could be applied to the fact that more than just geographically he had come to a place uh physically, but I believe it it me it could mean he can't come to a place in his life. A certain day, a certain time in his life. We talked about this and for those of you who weren't in Sunday school You need to understand that Jacob right now is on the on the run from his brother. He and his brother have had a conflict and his brother has uh basically said as soon as I'm free, I'm gonna kill that rascal I'm gonna kill my brother. As soon as I have a chance, he's a dead man. So Jacob is on the run from his brother. He's leaving everything he's ever known. He's going to a foreign country. Now as he's going to this country, he's also on his way looking for a bride. He thinks, well, I'm out here, I might as well find me a mate. And so he's going there and At the direction of his father's mother, he's going to try and find a bride. So there's so many unknowns in his future. There's pain in his past, and he's sitting on the brink between the two. You know, many times if God's going to do something Are we awake today? Many times if God's going to do something in our heart and life, He's got to get us to a certain place. He's got to get us to a place in our life where we're ready to look up, where we're ready to say, okay, God I surrender. Okay, God, I understand that it's not all about me, that there's something more happening here, and you have something that you want to do in my life. You see, Jacob had reached that place And so he bowed, or he laid his head down on a rock, and God came and met him in a dream. God spoke to him in this place that he calls Bethel. I want you to know that Bethel means the house of God, and he referred to that in this. He said, surely this is the house of God. the gate of heaven. And I just have to say, I I hope that this this house of God is a gate of heaven. I hope it's a place where people can come and meet the Lord Jesus Christ and know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. Amen That's what the house of God should be, but he calls it Bethel, which means the house of God. So I want you to see, first of all, that Bethel is a place of change. Bethel is a place of change. He says in verse number 12, There and he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And behold, the Lord stood above it, and he said, I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and of God the God of Isaac. You see, it's a place of change because it's a place where we meet God. Where we meet God. The house of God, Bethel, ought to be a place where you meet God. Everybody has got to come to a place where they meet God. Where they meet God on God's terms, not on our terms. I'm thankful today that regardless of the reason if you're here, that God is ready to meet you. Whatever uh motivation you had for coming into the house of God this morning. I pray that God would come and meet you where you're at. You see, Jacob was running from his brother who wanted to kill Jacob had been deceitful, he had been dishonest, he had tricked his brother several times, and his brother had had enough. That was the reason he was in that place. But even at the hour of his greatest distress, God was there God wanted to meet him. God came to him in his hour of need. Oh, how I long to have a church, a place where God shows up. A place where the Spirit of the Lord is felt and present, where people meet with God, where the reason that you have come doesn't matter. But the result of you coming is that you've met with God. Whatever brought you to the house of God this morning is irrelevant. This morning, I know that there's a God in heaven who wants to reach down from the portals of heaven. And touch your soul today. He wants to speak to you. The songwriter said, Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. I can feel his mighty power and his grace. I can hear the brush of angels' wings. I see glory on each face. Surely the presence. Of the Lord is in this place. That song was drawn from Jacob's statement in verse number 16. He said, and Jacob awakened out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place. I pray that you would say, Surely the Lord is in this place. But let me caution you. Let me caution you. You can miss it. Jacob said, Surely the Lord is in this place. But what is the five words there? And I knew it not. Can I tell you, sometimes when God is there and God is looking down from heaven and he's calling your name. He's reaching down from glory and he's doing all that he can to get your attention. The presence of God is there and the power of God is there, and yet we know it not. Because the cares of this world, the distractions of the day, our plans for lunch or whatever m whatever else might be occupied. I mean we've got to be careful. If we want the house of God or that place of Bethel to be a place of change, we've got to meet God. We've got to be careful not to let the burdens of this world distract us. Because, beloved, when we meet God, some changes take place. First first of all, I want you to know that your destination changes. Your destination changes. You see Beloved here, this in this story, and I took time in Sunday school to teach on it. I don't have time to repeat it all, but the latter that is described here that he sees in this vision The latter is quite literally a type of Jesus Christ. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father. but by me. That ladder is a picture of how God in his perfection and in his glory is up in heaven, and we are down here on earth, and there's no way in which we could ascend up into heaven except by Jesus Christ and what He did on the cross for us. The Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. God's glory is perfection. God's glory is is without error, without sin. And you and I, no matter how good we are, And you might be the best one among us today. Yet no matter how good I am, I still am not perfect. I've come short of God's glory, and so I need something that can bridge that gap, that great gulf that has been fixed between me and heaven. There's no way for me to pay for my sin myself. I've got to have Jesus Christ to do that and that ladder is a picture of Jesus Christ who who bridged that gap for Jesus that day and Jesus wants to bridge that gap for you today. You've been struggling along in life for so long, and you've been carrying the weight and the burdens of this world and the sin that's on your shoulders, and I would have you know today that Jesus can take that away You can know the forgiveness of God and be taken and your destination be changed today if you meet Jesus today He was on his way to a place called hell which was prepared for the devil and his angels, but now he's on his way to heaven. Because he met Jesus. Not only was his destination changed, but I want you to know his disposition changed. Boy, when you meet Jesus, it changes you as a person. People will start to ask, why are you different? What's changed in your life? Well, you used to uh Curse the blue streak, every every fifth word. I mean, and now you you're a little more in control. You used to be a uh an individual that was angry and mad all the time, and now You seem to be a little happier. What changed in your life? Well, my disposition has changed. Why? Because I met Jesus. There's been a great change since I've been born again. His disposition changed. Jacob who was a trickster. Jacob whose life was composed of one deceit after another even to the point where his own brother was ready to kill him. I mean he deceived his own brother and he tricked his own father and and the turmoil in their home and and and uh now he was a changed man Because he met God. You've been trying to change on your own for a long time. Could I encourage you today to come to Jesus? It's a Bethel is a place of great change. Not only is Bethel a place of change, but Bethel's a place of comfort. It's a place of comfort. We see in verse number 11 that he lighted upon that certain place and he tarried there all night because the sun was set, and he took the stone of that place and he put them for pillows and he laid down in that place to sleep. You see, he had reached the point where he couldn't run anymore. He had been running and running and running. And he just couldn't run anymore. He just had to stop. He just had to give up. He said, okay. And he he grabbed a rock. And laid down for some rest. Bethel is a place of comfort. It is a place of rest. Some of you have been running for a long time. You've been running for a long time, for far too long. Are you ready to give up? Jesus said, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you Rest. I will give you rest. Come to Jesus. God is asking of you like he did Saul who became Paul. He asked Saul, he said, he said, how long are you going to kick against the pricks? He what he was saying is, how long are you going to fight against this? God has been drawing you. God has been speaking to your heart. God has been using people in your life to try and direct you and to give you an answer. God has been using his word And and and and it's been speaking to your heart and yet you still are resisting, you still are fighting. He's saying, How long are you gonna try and run from what God wants to do in your life? He says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Bethel is a place of rest There is no sweeter rest than that. He's calling you back. Softly and tenderly, Jesus is calling Calling for you and for me. See on the portals, he's waiting and watching Watching for you and for me. Come home Come home, ye who are weary, come ho Ernestly, tenderly, Jesus is calling, calling old sinners Come. Jesus is calling you to come. Will you respond to him today? Not only, beloved, is Bethel a place of change and a place of comfort, but I want you to know that Bethel becomes a place of commitment. It becomes a place of commitment. We see here in Genesis 28 and verse number 13. He says, and behold, the Lord stood above it. And he said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac, the land wherein thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth And he goes on and he promises him some things. You see, God made some promises to Jacob. God made some commitments to him. He promised him some land and a lineage and he promised him some loyalty as he said, I will be with thee. Chapter 35, some twenty years later, and these same promises are repeated. Can I tell you he's the same yesterday, today, and forever? That God's promises are true and they're there for you in every situation. He's promised you and I so many things. Not only has he given us his name, Christian But he said he would never leave you nor forsake you. He has promised us a home in heaven He's promised us a comforter. He's promised us peace that passeth all understanding. Can I tell you that his promises are true? Every promise in the book is mine, every chapter, every verse, every line All his blessing, all his love is divine. Every promise in the book is mine. Not only did God make some promises to Jacob, but Jacob made some promises to God. He made some commitments to him. Jacob said in verse number 20, and Jacob vowed a vow. saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way, that I go and will give me bread to eat and remnant to put on, so that I come again to my father's house, then shall the Lord be my God. Now that word if there is not a challenge to God. He didn't say, if God will do this, then I will. What he was saying, it was a rhetorical question to himself. What he was saying is man If God this for me, if God is going to just take care of me and provide for me and love me and lead me and and I I see all that God has done and if if God is going to do all that, yes, God will be my God. Yes, I I cannot help but serve him with my life. And he made some promises to God. And he called the name of that place, Bethel. It was special to him. He knew that he needed to be with God. He knew that he should remember these things. He set up a memorial there and he Appointed some stones with oil, the picture of this memorial that he had set up. His intention and his heart was to stay close to God and to he committed some things to God But you know what? Something happened. I think we call it life. Life happened. You see, he he he walked away from that place. He went down the road a little ways and he he met Lavan. Who was his uncle? It was family. Laban had a daughter who was very beautiful and he wanted to marry her. And he asked for her hand in marriage. And he worked seven years to get her hand in marriage. And at the end of seven years Avan and Leah conspired together and tricked him. He woke up the morning after his wedding and found out he was married to the wrong woman. They tricked him, gave him the wrong wife. You say, man, that's not fair. That's not right. No, it's not. He still loved Rachel and wanted to marry her. So he worked another seven years for her. Then he and Laban began to work together and God was blessing Jacob And Laban didn't like that. So Laban kept changing the agreements. Like I'll tell you what, you can have all of the spotted c cattle and I'll keep all the cattle that are clean and good and and fine and look normal. You can have the ones that don't look so normal. And Jacob said, Okay. Well then all the new cattle that were coming were all spotted. And so Jacob said, wait, wait, wait. I mean Laban said, Nope, nope, I'm sorry. We're going to change that. We're not you no, I'll take the spotted cattle, you have the other cattle. What I'm saying is life wasn't fair. How many of you found out life's not fair? How many of you found out that sometimes people treat you unjustly? Sometimes people do things to you that are downright hurtful? Sometimes situations come and we call it life and it's unfair and it's unjust. And it's unkind and it leaves you away, walking away in pain, and you're hurting and you're not sure what to do. Well, Jacob was in that place And he was getting a little bit hard. He was getting a long way from God. And God called unto him and says, Hey, Jacob, I know life has been hard. I know your intent was to stay close to me. Your intent was to fellowship with me. But you've wandered away. Because life, because of situation, and God calls Jacob back to Bethel. Would you turn to chapter 35 in the book of Genesis? Chapter thirty-five in verse number one. God said unto Jacob, Arise Go up to Bethel and dwell there. Make an altar unto God that appeared unto thee when thou fledest from the face of thy brother Esau. Hey, Jacob had abandoned God, but God had not abandoned him. I'm glad that when sin abounds, grace much more abounds. God said, Jacob, you're getting a long ways from where you really need to be. Would you come back to Bethel Would you come back to that place of change? Would you come back to that place where you met me? Would you come back to that place where your heart was in tune with me and we were going the same direction? In verse number 7 and chapter 35, there we see that Jacob did it, but he went there and he built an altar, and he called the name of that place El Bethel. If you see that say amen. He said, El Bethel, because their God, their God appeared unto him. when he fled from the face of his brother. You see, the first time he called it Bethel, which means House of God. The second time he called it El Bethel, which means God of the House of God. The first time he was concerned with the location. The second time he was concerned with the Lord. That is the difference. He came back to that place and renewed his relationship with the Lord. God's house should be precious to all of us. But the Lord should be more precious. Did Jacob mess up? Yes. We don't have time this morning to talk about all the ways that he messed up. And you know what? We don't really need Jacob's examples to know that people mess up because we can look at our own lives. We can see the the scars that we carry and the messes that we have and the situations that we're dealing with. We know that that that's an ailment that afflicts us all. But God still loved him. God came to him and met him, changed his destiny. From an eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven. Changed his disposition from a sour, deceitful man To a delightful man, who was going to honor and please God. But Jacob drifted some, got away from God, and God calls him back to Bethel. Is God calling you back today? The lesson for us today is that your failure doesn't have to be final. God wants to use you. God wants to do something with you.