In Acts chapter number eleven, look down in verse number nineteen. Now we are dealing here with uh uh Baptist history. We're gonna kind of through this next eleven weeks that we have to teach here uh that includes a couple of weeks so there'd be twelve or or thirteen weeks that are gonna be taken up with vacation bible school and a week taken But we have eleven weeks to tease through uh this that idea of Baptist history. And we're gonna look at uh the distinctives. uh what what makes us Baptist, but we want to also give some underlying ideas behind this, and that is some denominational differences. As we talk about the Baptists and what we are, we at the same time want to kind of give you a little bit of information. about some of the other well-known denominations that we might come across and how they differ from us. What is it that makes them different in these particular distinctives that make us Baptists, what do other denominations think about that? And then we also want to talk about the development of the Baptist and we as we look at the overall history and uh the timeline and and what has happened. Now we're gonna start tonight here in the book of Acts and I don't expect to have an altar call at the end of tonight. lesson. This is going to be a lot of teaching and you may want to take some notes but you know it's going to be just some some doctrine and some things, some foundational truths as we lay out kind of where we're headed as a church for the next eleven weeks. And so don't expect there to I mean at this point, unless God does something uh as we get going here, I don't imagine we'll have an altar call at the close of tonight. but it will be valuable biblical truths that you're gaining. Now if you're in Acts chapter number 11, why don't you stand with me to give you an opportunity to stretch your legs? And uh you can, if you if you're able, you don't have to stand, but if you're able, and uh give you an opportunity to stretch your legs as we get started. Help you to wake up and uh read with me, you can follow along as we read Acts chapter 11, verse number 19. through verse number 26. Now when they, which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Sedan, Spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed And turned unto the Lord. That's what preaching is supposed to do. Speak to hearts and turn the hearts of people unto God, not unto man, not unto an individual, not unto a denomination. But turn their hearts to God. Verse number 22, he says, Then tiding of these things came into the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem, and they sent forth Barnabas, and he should go as far as Antioch. Who, when he came and had seen the grace of God, was glad and exhorted them all that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord. Much people was added unto the Lord. Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus for to seek Saul, and when he found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church. Now these men were missionaries They are out doing the work of God, but note that they assembled themselves with the church. We believe in the church. God ordained the church, the family, and government. So, parachurch organizations we don't find, and we'll deal more with that later, but they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first. In Antioch. You can be seated. And the disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. This group of people, which occasionally in the scriptures up to this time, were called as the people of the way. Or the people in that way. They acted a particular way. And I actually have on my desk a little note to myself that I want to do a study. on the way. Because I believe God has a way he wants us to live. And very at the very beginning, people were recognized as people of the way. God's way, they started following Christ. And after a while they became known as, according to this text, they were called Christians. First at Antioch. That whether that was a title that was endearing unto them, or whether that was a title that in many cases, titles that have been given to churches that believe like we believe, was not a title of endearment. It was a mockery. It was making fun of them. It was to put them down. They were called Christians, which we know means to be Christ-like. We know it means to be little Christ. To be like Christ. And they may have been mocking them and saying, oh, look at you. You're you're like You're like Christ, ha ha laughing like I had a c a guy in my uh in al in El Paso, sorry, Sheboygan, Wisconsin. We used to ride our bikes up and down the street, you know, and we'd go riding And there was this this gang member in El Pasto that many years ago, not much of a gang probably, but he was scary for me who was five years old. And uh I would run any time I saw him. One time he chased me on a bike and just rammed me with his bike and made me fall down and I was really hurt and I you know, you feel sorry for me? Say, oh So I anyways, he used to come by our house and he would yell, Jesus freaks. And it made him feel good, I don't know, but uh we used to yell back, thank you. But you know, they call them Christians first at Antioch. It was a name that was given, and what's so important about this is it defined them as a different group of people than everybody else. Everybody else may have had some measure of belief. They may have some practices. There was the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and there was other groups around, there were some pagan groups, and People that believed in other things, but this group was called Christians. It set them apart from everybody else. A name is very important. Everyone today wants to lose the name All these groups and churches they want to let the name go. You know, it's like they want to trick everybody into coming to the church Don't let them know what we are. We're a this or that. They want to take the name Baptist off because for some reason that's less appealing. Well, there is a stigma with the name Baptist. But do you know what? Let me just remind you that they took Jesus Christ and crucified him. There always has been a measure of mark against those who are doing what God wants. And we should not want to remove the name. I never want to trick someone to come through the doors of the church. I want to be up front with them, who we are, what we believe, where we stand. People come in and they're here they're here for the first service and they're all excited and I've had them tell me, man, what do you got to do to join this church? And I'm nervous. As they've only been here one service, I always try and tell them, listen, you need to come for a little while. Come and be in our church, see what we are, and uh, you know, just experience. I mean, there's no rush. We do want you to join us, that's what God wants you to do But we believe the church is fitly joined together, and we want God to lead you to do that. And I try and caution them to wait a little while, to don't just do it because uh I want them to know what they're joining I want them to know up front. I don't want to sneak it in the back door and then all of a sudden spring truth on them. I want them to know that's where we stand. And that's that's what we are. Today there's the name. IFB. We are an IFB Independent Fundamental Baptist Church. And if you've watched any news in recent days that has to do with the church, you know that they throw this under the bus, especially CNN and networks like that. The IFBs, these independent fundamental Baptist churches. Well, we choose to call ourselves Baptist. Not just Baptist, but we are an independent fundamental Baptist church. When we bought this property, I remember Pastor Carr. who was the pastor of the non-denominational church that was housed in this facility called Pleasant Hill Chapel before we bought it. And I remember standing just inside the back of the auditorium there, and he said to the few men that were there, he said, Well, you guys will probably do really good here. And of course we asked, why is that? And he says, well, because you're you you're Baptist and people know what you believe He literally said, people don't know where we stand. People don't know where what we think about music. People don't know what we think about the Lord Jesus Christ. People don't know how we feel about I mean There is nothing that lets people know before they come indoors who we are. And that's the truth. There is a lot in a name and what the name stands for. When you go by a place and you see a name, it immediately puts an image in your mind of what that place is and what it might be like. I remember some weeks well it's weeks been two years ago that uh the kids were on their way to camp. And on their way to camp I said, of course they stopped at the uh uh you know, First Community Church or something church to go to church tonight, uh, 'cause we didn't want to miss church. and I was joking about where the they obviously didn't go to a first community church, but I was joking about it and a lot of the congregation laughed. And they knew why I was joking about it. But somebody came up to me afterwards and says Why was that funny? That doesn't I mean I don't understand why that would be a joke. I say, well, because we as a church don't necessarily agree with a lot of what would happen at a first community church. And so it's would not be we would not go to a first community church. We would find a Baptist church because we want to go to a church that agrees with what we we s where we stand. And so there's a lot in the name. And when we bought this property, that he even knew that not having a name Just being Pleasant Hill Chapel hurt them as a group as far as just for growth. The name is very important. Now, it's sad that in this day of complete and utter compromise, the name Baptist means less and less. I wish churches that are not going to stand by this old fashioned book, that aren't going to preach and teach the principles of the book, would take the name Baptist off. If you're not going to practice Baptist distinctives and preach and teach Baptist philosophy and Baptist beliefs out of the book. Then go ahead and take Baptists off your name and be whatever you want to be. Don't leave Baptists on there and do those kind of things. Groups that are going beyond the book, like Fred Phelps. Are hurting Baptist churches. God is not in that kind of foolishness. God is not in somebody going and uh that that type of hatred that they spew. Now God despises sin and God's not gonna accept any sin, but he still loves the sinner. And he still wants to see the sinner saved. And nobody is beyond the cross. Jesus can reach to the lowest center and accept by the grace of God every single one of them would be the person they're preaching against. God's not in going out and bombing a uh abortion clinic. People like that hurt the cause of Christ, don't c don't help it. Well let me just say that there are many churches today around the country that hold to the biblical principles. And are preaching the truth. Yea, even thousands of churches that are doing their best to stand on the book. And preach the book and the truth of it. And uh they're all over the country. Although things are bad and things are bleak, and sometimes we look and And we might get the the woe is me, we're the only ones left mentality. Let me just let you know that there are many, many churches and Christians all over the country that still believe and want to hear the truth. And we praise God for that. Let me also say that it's possible to be a Christian and not be a Baptist. It is possible to be saved and on your way to heaven and to be a Christian and not be a Baptist. Now I'm a Baptist and I'm a Baptist by conviction. I'm a Baptist because I believe that's what God would want me to be, not because that's the church's closest church to my home. I'm a Baptist by conviction But it is possible to be saved on your way to heaven and to be a Christian and not be Baptist. It is also possible to be a Baptist. And not be a Christian. I heard one man say this. Your Baptist name is going to fall off in heaven or burn off in hell. It's just the name. Now I believe it's important and we're going to keep the name Baptist on our church as long as Baptists continue to do what's right. And there's a remnant that stands. We're going to stand with them. But that is not the most important thing. This is just a name. And uh it it can come and go. But we until otherwise see that the Baptist of the movement is going in another direction, we'll be Baptist. And we pray God will keep us as a as a group on the straight and narrow. So let me give you several thoughts. We are independent fundamental Baptists. I want to give you just a couple of thoughts tonight about this. First of all, we have no hierarchy. We're independent. What's in a name? They were fall they were called Christians first at Antioch. God uh they people that looked at them and said this is a descriptive name of them. This defines what they are. They are Christ-like. Well, our name defines what we are. We are independent. We do not have a hierarchy. We believe this is important because it clearly establishes our ecclesiastical position. As a church. We're independent. We stand alone. We stand as a as a complete body of Christ as a church without the need of a higher organization. without the need of an oversight uh group, uh an established board that runs the church or a headquarters somewhere I was just recently uh driving around traveling somewhere. I can't remember who was with me, but we saw the headquarters to some national church. D do you was it you that was with me? I don't I don't remember who is with me. Some we we drove by the the uh international headquarters to a particular church. And uh, you know Uh most denominations you can find their national headquarters or their international headquarters or their world headquarters in different parts of the states or the world. Uh independent Baptists don't have a national headquarters or world headquarters. This is hard for some people to understand who haven't been exposed to this. Uh sometimes the those in the community that we've discussed with, uh that we've talked to in recent years, say what well who's your governing body? The church is the governing body. Well who's your your your overall organization? I mean who's funding the church? Well the church funds the church. Well who decides what the church does? The church decides what the church does, guided by the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. Because we are independent. This allows us to be rewarded and judged by God on our own merit, not on the organization. We as a group, God will bless you as an individual for doing right. And He will judge you as an individual for doing wrong. And as a church, we stand before an Almighty God and we are responsible to Him and Him alone. And He will bless and reward this church according to our works If we were doing what makes what pleases him and brings honor and glory to him, then he can bless us. And if not, he will judge us We've got to be sure that we are right with him. This allows us as a group to rise to the measure of our God-given ability. As a group, we can arrive to whatever measure God gives us the ability to do so. That's the way God designed it. Not to be uh uh governed by an overriding organization that controls what happens here. We as a church can start And stop and implement any ministry or program that we feel God would have us to do. We can send out missionaries as we see fit. We can ordain men into the ministry, into areas of service. We spend the money that comes in through this church as the Holy Spirit directs and the church leads. We are allowed to do that because we are an independent church. Praise God, we're independent. We also, contrary to popular belief, you're gonna like this one, we have heart Contrary to popular belief, we have heart. Now I'm applying this a little bit different than most might think. Uh I'm going to talk about the heart of our doctrine. the heart of what we believe. We have heart. There is a governing uh fundamental belief that we have. We're independent We're fundamental. We have we have a heart of beliefs. We believe this is important because it establishes our theological position There, uh, for many years there has been an acrostic that was used to define Baptist. And we gave this out tonight to you. So you have that. Now, those of you that were in my membership matters class, if you compare your notes from the membership matters class to this class, you're going to notice one thing is different. And we're going to get into that. We'll see how many of you might pick it up or or notice it, but this acrostic has been used for years and years to to kind of define the distinctives, the fundamental beliefs that Baptists have held. What is a distinctive in The 1828 dictionary defines it as a mark of distinction or difference as a distinctive name or title. There's distinctive differences. Between Joe Roberts and John Smith. You can tell them apart. There's distinctive differences. Well, there are some distinctives that define Baptist over the years. There are some groups who hold to one or more of these beliefs, but for centuries there have been a group of people that stood on these biblical principles even fighting for them, even giving their lives for them, even dying for them, just to hold fast to these biblical principles It had become so much so that these became known as the Baptist distinctives, the beliefs that Baptists were willing to die for. Now I'm just going to run through these because these are going to kind of be our defining characteristics, the the guide us through the coming weeks as we talk about these individually and look at the differences between the between us. and some other common denominations and uh then the history behind some of these things, but biblical authority. What do we do? We do all that we do because we have the Word of God, and it is our guiding and governing document the Word of God. We believe that it has soul authority and that is what leads the church. The autonomy of the local church. We're local. We're independent Baptists. We're self-governing. We are the autonomy of the local church. That is very important. And it differs greatly in other denominations. The perpetuity of the church. The fact of the matter is that there has always been a church since the time of Christ until now. Jesus said that I will build my church, and he said that the gates of hell will not prevail against it, that there was going to be a church There is a belief that the church disappeared for the dark ages and then reappeared as we came out of that and we have what is known as the Protestant Reformation. Well, that's not the case. Otherwise, Jesus lied. And we know that he didn't lie, right? There has always been a church, not necessarily always called Baptist. We know that and we're going to see that as we talk about history, but there's always been a group of people that believed and practiced these biblical principles and fought and died for them. The two ordinances, baptism and the Lord's Supper. Footwashing is not an ordinance. Aren't you glad? Hallelujah. The Lord was good to us, man. We don't have to do that. Oh boy. Yeah, we just baptism and the Lord's Supper. These are very important. We're going to look at those. We're going to talk about individual responsibility. Every believer is going to stand before God individually. We have individual soul liberty. Every man must be fully persuaded in his own mind, and everyone's going to stand before God Himself So we have individual responsibility and we have individual priesthood of the believer. Every man can come before God and pray and talk to God himself. You don't need a mediator. Only Jesus Christ, the one mediator between God and man. That's it. We talk about a saved church membership. This is important. We don't just say, hey, come and join, and maybe in a few years you'll get it. No, you gotta be saved, baptized, and then added to the church. This keeps the church pure. The two offices. We know the pastor and the deacon, two offices given to us, and we're going to teach on these, the separation of church and state. This is the heart of what we believe. And the foundation of what we talk about is we say we're a fundamental Baptist church. And then we have a heritage. We have a heritage. And we've only got a few more minutes. I know it's been a long day You guys I just don't want you to go to sleep. We're almost done. If I if I let ya let you know then maybe you'll stay awake here. It's our last point. So we have a heritage. We're Baptist. We have a Baptist heritage. Do you understand that there's people that gave their lives? Died to hold to that name Baptist. And we would be doing them an injustice to just take it off of our sign because it's not convenient. Because there might be a stigma that comes with it. People died because of that name. It's our desire as we teach over the next 11 weeks to talk about the history of the Baptist. We're going to conclude the summer with a tour of the Baptist history in our area of the country. We're gonna uh have a man here, Ted Alexander. He's gonna come. He's gonna teach here on a Wednesday. Then we're gonna leave. Oh, sorry, Sunday, he's coming Sunday. The other way around. So he's coming Sunday. We're going to leave Monday morning. If you're available and you want to go, we're going to travel to some some sites in around this area of the country. Spend the night somewhere Monday night. Then we're going to travel to some other sites and spend the night somewhere Tuesday night. Then we're going to travel and see some other sites and he's going to be teaching on Baptist history during that time, hopefully ending up in Virginia, close to Stephen Boots. On Wednesday, we would like to go to church Wednesday evening with Stephen Boots in the church plant there in Virginia and then drive home. That's a tentative schedule, obviously subject to change. But that's kind of the plan. As we talk about Baptist history throughout the summer, then we're going to conclude by taking that trip and getting to see some of those sites. This Baptist history, the story of the church is an amazing struggle of triumph and victory. It's a struggle, it's a story of defeat, of sorrow. It's a story of joy. It's rich with the past and its glorious future that's given to us by Christ. As we consider the church. I want us to understand that in our history, that everyone here knows, at least by the end of the summer, you know that we, as Baptists, are not Protestants. Just so you know. Now some people may wonder what what? Protestants, the fact that uh is going to be given to us over and over throughout the summer. And if you wondered about that or whatever, don't worry about it. We're going to teach on it. We're going to talk about it. You're going to understand why we're not Protestants as the class progresses. as we take the time. Um don't feel bad for thinking that, that we're Protestants, because the fact of the matter is if you went out on the street today and talked to just about anybody on the street, they're going to give you one or two responses. They're gonna either say first of all, what's that? What do you mean? Like the guy our family was listening to last night. Uh, I'll give you a joke to help you wake up. This guy we were listening to last night and he said uh that when he went to school He didn't care for school much and he was sitting in class and they they announced over the loudspeaker that all the pedestrians could go home early. And so the teacher came up to him and said, Hey, aren't you a pedestrian? And he says, No, I'm Catholic. And but he said, But if that means I get to go home early, I'll convert right now. I'll convert to pedestrianism right now. He didn't know nothing about it. They're gonna say, what's that? What is Protestant? What are you talking about? Or they're gonna say, yes, definitely Baptist or Protestant. They're going to say that. Even in many Baptist churches, you ask people, are you Protestant? They're going to say yes. Why? Because when you hear things so much, you start to believe them. And when you don't understand the history and the facts behind it, that's what you adopt. That's what you take on. We are not Protestants. You see Religious groups, religious people, even Baptists, even the Baptists sometimes began to adopt this or think that we're Protestants because of how it's taught and mentioned so many times. Protestants come from a group of people that left the Catholic Church. There was a group of people that didn't like what the Baptist Church was teaching. And so we have, I'm sorry, Catholic Church, thank you. We You guys are listening. Amen. That's good. Just checking. We we have uh there's uh there's two words here, protest. And reform. Protestant comes from the word protest. There was a group of people that didn't like what the Catholic Church was doing, and they began to protest. What was going on? And their goal was to reform the Catholic Church was not to leave the Catholic Church. That's not what they wanted initially, was to reform the Catholic Church. And that's where you get the Protestant Reformation That was their goal. That's what they desired. Now, as these people stood against the Catholic Church and protested the Catholic Church, first of all, they said some of them were excommunicated. They were kicked out of the church. Some of them realized the futility of trying to change the Catholic Church to line up with the Bible. They realized that the Catholic Church held uh the church authority and tradition higher than the scriptures. And so they stepped away from the Catholic Church and started a new group. That's where the the Protestants come from. The groups called or known as Protestants. Many different denominations can trace their history back to a time when they came out of the Catholic Church. They protested that the Lutherans, the Presbyterians, the Anglican Church, the Reformed Church The many different Episcopal churches, the Methodist Church, the Congregational Church, the Church of England are Protestant churches, churches that, if you trace back their history, go back to a time when they were in the Catholic Church and they stepped away from that. Because their foundation was part of the Catholic Church. Many of them still hold to and keep the things that they liked that the Catholic Church had. They held on to things. One one Bible scholar said it like this. They went toward the Bible, but didn't come all the way to the Bible. And that is the problem. They held on to a lot of the things. That's why in a lot of these churches you'll see the the carryovers from the Catholic Church, like infant baptism. Or like the high church uh characteristics. Brother Bob? Yeah, was that when uh Mark Luther did his ninety Yes, sir. Yes, we're talking that is uh at the end of the dark ages. Just coming out of the Dark Ages is when the Protestant Reformation took place and Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses. Martin Luther did not want to leave the Catholic Church. I tasked Amy today with finding Martin Luther's quote for me because I have read it where he said, It has never been my intention to leave the church. I simply cannot abide the problems that must be addressed. He didn't want to leave the Catholic Church. He wanted to reform it. He wanted to change. He wanted them to put the Word of God higher than the other things, but they wouldn't. So he started the Lutheran church at that time. So many things carried over uh uh in from the time that they were Catholics. And you can see that in the different churches that you might visit that are out of those type of situations. Someone said this: if you remove all Baptist doctrine From Protestant churches, you will be left with a Catholic Church. If you remove all Catholic doctrine from a Protestant church You'll be left with a baptist scripture. I didn't say it, I'm just telling you what was said. And if you understand history, that makes sense. Some believe that the name Baptist was given to us by God. Independent fundamental Baptist, that God called us Baptist when he named John the Baptist. If that's the case Then where were the Baptists for a very long time? It was many, many, many years later before they were called Anabaptists. which was a derogatory name because they were called re-baptizers, and it was a negative name that was given to them And then we became known as Baptists, shortened, because we told people, hey, we're not going to accept your infant baptism because that didn't count. That wasn't baptism. It comes after salvation. And because the church required that, Baptist churches required that became known as Anabaptists, many, many years later. What I'm saying is it's convenient that John the Baptist was named John the Baptist, but it was not a name given to us as an organization by God all the way in the New Testament. And we can't trace the Baptist name back then, back to that far. They were called what? First of Antioch? Christians, not Baptist. They were called Christians first at Antioch, and the Baptist name came many, many years later, but I believe as a group they hold closest to what the Bible teaches And that's what we want to strive to. There's always been through the ages a group, maybe not called Baptist. We're going to see the other names as we talk about Baptist history. They may have been small, they may have been secret. They may have been in seclusion and working and hiding at some point because of fear for their lives, but there's always been a church that practiced and believed these biblical principles. And so we want to teach on this over the next few months, next 11 weeks, our summer months here, and uh look at the Baptist history behind these principles and hopefully give you a strong foundation with regards to that Let me close this in prayer on what we just missed tonight. Lord, we thank you for your love for us and the time to gather in your house. I pray, God, that you would help us to understand uh the importance of the name that we have and that we would be baptized by conviction. not just by preference or convenience. Lord, I pray that no individual from Hunt Valley Baptist Church would ever leave this place And change their beliefs. That they would believe what they believe because they're founded on the Word of God. And whether they're at this church or another church, their foundation is the Word of God. And they Would stand on that and not just change with where they move to and where they go and what group they happen to be with. I don't understand how somebody could leave A church like this and end up a Jehovah's Witness or a Mormon. Lord, we pray that people would get biblical principles and would be would stand strong on the Word of God. Ask this in Jesus' name, Amen.