Turn your Bibles this morning in the Word of God to Ephesians chapter number five. We're going to read together. A rather lengthy uh passage of scripture. It's unusual for me to have such a long text. Um But uh it's pertinent and applicable to what we're going to be looking at today. I'm going to speak this morning on the title, Be Careful This Christmas. Be careful this Christmas. In Ephesians chapter 5, beginning in verse number 1, or follow along with me. We're going to read the Word of God down to verse number 21. He says, Be therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savor. But fornication and uncleanliness and covetousness, let it not be once named among you as become a saints Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord, and having no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reproving them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things that are reproved and made manifest by the light. For whatsoever doth make manifest is light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil. Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is, and be not drunk with wine where it is in excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Just as we read this text. Uh if you have any spiritual discernment at all, your mind has to be in some way applying those truths to the season. To where we're at, in light of the title in which I've given you today, this is the season to be jolly. Right? It is Christmas, after all, the time for fun and entertainment. It's the time for Christmas parties and happiness and joy and food and fellowship all around. Even many of the Christmas jingles that are played in every grocery store and department store and hardware store. Everywhere you go the Christmas jingles are playing and Even many of them remind us of the joy of the season and the carefree spirit that permeates society as a whole. You know, even I think of the song Let It Snow, Let It Snow, Let It Snow The weather outside is frightful. Yeah, the idea behind that song, although there are some aspects of the song that are kind of romantic, you think about the being inside by the warm fireplace and sitting down and enjoying the candlelight But the aspect of the song really is listen, it doesn't matter what happens, let it snow. It really doesn't make a difference because I'm in here and it's nice and warm and I'm just enjoying the day and that's all fine. So pretty much it really doesn't matter what happens out there. It really doesn't make any difference. That's kind of the spirit, spirit that can permeate society and our minds as a whole. Listen. You can enjoy the day, enjoy the time, but we need to be careful we do not adopt the I don't care attitude concerning the reality of life You understand, beloved, that just because you happen to be sitting by the fire that the snow sometimes has some adverse effects. Yeah. My wife and I moved into uh our first home. I paid seven thousand dollars for it. So you can guess what kind of a home it was. It's one you can hook onto and pull down the road, right? We moved into that. And believe me, at twenty-two years old, freshly married, seven thousand dollars was a lot of money. Was a lot of money for me. But we bought this home and it needed fixed up. But we found in the first winter, even though the fireplace was running inside, The pipes froze and broke. And I was under the trailer in December in Indiana in the snow fixing broken pipes What I'm saying is, life is still there. You can put your head in the sand and pretend it doesn't exist, but there is still a reality that has to be faced. And beloved, I'm not trying to be a stick in the mud. I'm not trying to rob you of the joy of Christmas. Lord knows. I I would have you enjoy it and and and and glean from it as much as you can Boy, it is a blessed time. You see the decorations around the church. We've had people get mad at us over the years because we put up Christmas decorations. Listen, you're pointing people to Jesus. He is the reason for the season. But beloved, what I'm trying to do this morning is to get you to think To act strategically instead of carefree, so that regret in January Does not rob you of the joy that should have been yours in December. Does that make sense? You understand if we don't think about what we're doing, if we just throw up the carefree and really doesn't matter, boy, bless God, I'm just gonna have a good time, throw caution to the wind. The fact of the matter is is we're going to get to January and we're going to be living with a magnitude of grret weighing down upon our heart for the foolish things that we did or partook of, and it will rob you of the joy that should have been yours during this great and marvelous season. So I would encourage you this morning to be careful this Christmas. Be careful this Christmas. I'm going to be kind of practical today. We're gonna we're gonna meddle a little bit. Uh so just get comfortable and have fun, amen? All right. I I appreciate the laughs because you might not be laughing in a few minutes. Yeah. Well, first of all, I want to tell you to be careful what you seek this Christmas. Be careful what you seek. He says, be ye therefore followers of God, there in verse number one, followers of God as dear children. And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us and has given himself for us an offering, a sacrifice unto God for sweet smelling savor. But fornication and uncleanliness and covetousness, let it not be once named among you as become as saints. We need to be a follower of God. We know, beloved, that by and large the world is seeking fun at all costs. Anything that they can do to escape from reality for a few minutes. Whether that be drugs or alcohol or Christmas parties or or anything that they can do to just try and escape from reality for a few minutes, to just stick their head in the sand and pretend that the problems are not really there. And if they can just go and have fun for one night and just enjoy life, then they can just escape from it all for a few minutes. That's what they're seeking Oh, the song, have yourself a merry little Christmas. Let your heart be light For all along our troubles will be out of sight Have yourself a merry little Christmas. All our troubles are out of sight. Next year our troubles are all gone. You're not going to see them, right? Next year our tr our our troubles are miles away. Verse number two. That's the aspect, that's the idea that is tried to be portrayed by this world. But beloved, just because you hang some tinsel and Enjoy the Christmas lights. It does not fix the problem. There's certainly nothing wrong with enjoying the beauty and the joy of Christmas. And I encourage you to do so. But I ask of you this morning, what are you seeking after? Are you seeking experience, entertainment, or just an escape? Is that what you're seeking? Many today are escaping, according to one article I read. Many are seeking an escape from the stress and obligation of a traditional Christmas. Instead, opting for self-care. The article went on and said, giving is great, but don't forget to give to yourself. Free yourself from traditional expectations. Instead, focus on personal happiness That's mind-boggling to me. That is quite literally the exact opposite of what the season is all about. I mean, as a general rule, we pretty much are okay at taking care of ourselves. As a general rule, we pretty much do uh for ourselves uh no man yet hath hated his own body. Okay, we we take care of numero uno. That's a pattern, that's our selfish nature. We need to fight against that. And this one season out of the year where it seems like men are given to generosity, where we our hearts are opened up in compassion and we see the needs of others and and it just kind of spreads through and we see that kindness and and we have a tendency to maybe give a little bit more. Somebody had the audacity to write an article and say, forget all that traditional expectations and just take care of numero uno. That is foolishness. That is crazy. Their expectation was self-gratification, and can I tell you that at the end of the Christmas they're not going to have anything? Beloved, the Bible still says it's more blessed to give than to receive. It's a truth that we need to understand and learn. If you haven't learned, it's because you're selfish. You need to learn to give and Experience the joy of being a blessing to others and see that joy on their face. There's truly a blessing to be able to give to others Beloved, the Christmas story is literally a story of those that were seeking Jesus. The wise men came seeking Jesus. The shepherds came seeking Jesus. Those that came over and over, just the story of those wanting to find Jesus. I'm asking you this season, what is it that you're seeking Are you seeking after just a bunch of fun? Are you just seeking after some days off? Are you just seeking after an escape? Or are you seeking the Savior? Could I encourage you to seek the Savior? Beloved, not just the babe in a manger, but the Savior You see, the babe and a manger came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to provide salvation to those who did not know that they needed a Savior to forgive them of their sins. If you're here this morning and Christmas to you is just about fun and entertainment, can I tell you that that's not what it's about? It's about Jesus. We celebrate the birth of Jesus. He came to be a savior, to provide salvation for all mankind. And if you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, you can note him today. He would love to forgive you of all your sin, to reward you with the promise and the surety of a home in heaven one day. Have you sought the Savior? Have you been looking for Him? The one that went to the cross for you? Christian, if you know him, let me ask you, are you seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness? What are you seeking this season? Is it the latest game Kids, what are you seeking? You got your want list? You got your your stuff you've been kind of planting in front of mom and dad or grandma and grandpa, kind of plugging your your ideas, hoping that they would come to reality. This is what I'm seeking this season. God said seek first the kingdom of God Seek the Savior first. Are you seeking him? Beloved Jesus is still the reason for the season. I would encourage you, don't let the season eclipse the Savior. Let's keep him as the focus of why and what we're doing. Seek spiritual things. You've got some extra time off? Awesome. What are you going to do with that time? What are you gonna do? You gonna just use it to enjoy all the entertainment you can get? Or maybe you're gonna spend a little bit of extra time in the Word? You're going to study out a passage that you've been wondering about. You're going to seek the Savior. You say, how do you seek the Savior? Well, I'll tell you one way you could do it is come here for the Christmas Eve candlelight service. I'm saying keep the Savior as the center of the season. Let people know that He is the priority for you. Take an hour on Christmas Eve and come be part of the cranolite service here. Put the Savior first. Seek the Savior. Be here on the Sunday before Christmas. So well I've got family in town that day. Amen. Bring them along. They can come. And if they got kids If they got a bunch of them, let us know ahead of time so we can have some more. We might need some more stockings, but we'll have a stocking for them. Listen, we we just keep the Savior as a center. Seeking spiritual things. Could I encourage you today also seek the souls of men? Christmas is such a powerful time to be a witness for Christ. Use the opportunity. I don't care if they don't like it. Say Merry Christmas. Don't say happy holidays. Don't don't say uh Merry Xmas. Say Merry Christmas. Let them know that you believe in Christ and He's the reason for the season. And they say, well we don't say that, and you say, but I do. It's Christmas. We celebrate the Christ's birth. Seek the souls of men, be a witness. The shepherds, Luke 2. 17, tells us they noised abroad, they took the message of the birth of the Savior and they carried it out to the world. They let everybody know about it. Hey, there's some gospel tracks out there, some Christmas tracks, there's some things that you can make available. Put it into gifts that you're giving to co-workers. Put a gospel track in there. Tell them about Jesus. Seek the souls of men. Let God use you to point other people to the Savior. It truly is our duty. Jesus said, as my Father has sent me, even so, send I you. So I would encourage you to be careful what you're seeking after the season. Let me also say be careful what you spend. Be careful what you spend. He says in verse number three, but fornication and uncleanliness or covetousness Let it not once be named among you as becometh saints. Verse number five, for this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man Who is an idolater hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. You see, in verses three and five he tells us there, warns us concerning covetousness. It's amazing, beloved, that in our economy that is so bad, and everybody here would say the economy is terrible, everybody here would say the prices of things are just ridiculous. Everybody here, including everywhere you go and on all the news channels, boy, everybody's broke. Nobody has any money But it's amazing in this economy Christmas spending is expected to be up over seven percent above last year. On average, the average home is going to spend sixteen hundred dollars on gifts this year, with twenty-six percent of consumers planning to spend over three thousand dollars. On gifts. Spending this season is expected to crest one trillion dollars. One trillion dollars. Do you know that a million seconds is eleven days. In eleven days there's a million seconds. A billion seconds is thirty-two years A trillion is thirty two thousand years. That would put into perspective what people are planning to spend this season. I'm trying to encourage you to just be careful. What you spend. That is in light of the fact, beloved, that according to online research, thirty-seven percent of consumers in America today still have some of last year's gifts on their credit cards. 37% of consumers. Now I know nobody in here is in that 37%. You didn't even put any of your gifts on credit credit credit cards last year because you're a smart shopper. You didn't use those. You only spent the money you have. Verse number fifteen in our text here, he says, See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but wise. That word, circumspectly, literally means careful. Be careful. Be wise. Use some wisdom in the purchases that you make this season Beloved, don't spend money that you don't have. If you don't have, you know what? Don't spend money that you have that is supposed to be for something else. You know you're going to need tires on the car next year. You know that there's this need coming down the road. Don't spend money that you have that you need for something else. You know, sometimes we look at something and say, well, I can't afford to pay for that. Like let's say the kid needs to go to the dentist. They're like, well, I can't afford to pay for the dentist, so we're just gonna waste this money and buy a bunch of presents. No, don't spend money on gifts When you need that somewhere else, be wise. According to NerdWallet Fifteen percent of consumers say they admit that they are planning to spend more money than they have. Their plan up front is I'm planning to spend more money on gifts than I have. I hope that's not you. You see, beloved, what happens is you're gonna get into January and you're gonna be burdened with that debt, that credit card statement gonna come due and the interest is gonna start building. And you're gonna be like, man, I shouldn't have done that. You need to be careful. Proverbs 21, 20 says, there is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise. There's treasure, there's oil, that's the picture of substance. Of wealth in the household of the wise, but a foolish man spendeth it all up. In our text, he says, hey. Don't be a fool. Be wise. Be wise. Many will unwisely spend on their wants and neglect their family's needs Don't get into the comparison game. You are not a bad parent if you don't have 25 presents under the tree. Okay. You're not a bad parent. I told you already, growing up, we got fruit every year. Fruit. You know what else we got? We got things we needed. We got socks. Every year. We got pants. We got school supplies. Those are things that we needed that mom and dad had to get for us or wanted to get for us anyway. And that's what they purchased and gave us for Christmas. You're not a bad parent if that's what you need to do. Don't get into the comparison and think, boy, I gotta provide this for my kid, I gotta give him that, and you know, your kids watching these commercials and seeing all these presents that other kids are getting. Uh listen, you're not a bad parent if you can't do that. I'm gonna let the cat out of the bag here. Caleb is the only one of my kids that haven't received this yet. He's the only one that is not supposed to know anything about it. Although he had four siblings that received it, so wouldn't surprise me if one of them left the cat out of the bag some time ago. When my kids were born, Mary and I started taking ten dollars a month and putting it into an investment for them. We did it every month until they're 18 years old. My beloved, we did that back when Mary and I were both working full-time and making $12,000 a year. It wasn't always easy. That means we didn't have money to maybe buy these really amazing Christmas gifts. Maybe Christmas was more practical. But you know what? We were taking that money that we could have used for meaningless gifts, gifts that they're going to forget about in just a couple of months, and we were planning for their future. So each of my kids when they turned 18, Kate's got one more year, they were given that investment. And at ten dollars a month For 18 years, $10 is not that much, but do you know it averaged between about $28 and $3,500 depending upon where the investments were? And we could have never at this time taken $3,500 and gave it to them, but by taking $10 a month and using some discipline Over all their years, when when each of my kids turned eighteen, they got that from us. What I'm saying is, you know, let me let me ask you Uh Steven, do you remember three things that you got for Christmas last year? Huh? Probably could. You probably could. Well think about it. Let's see. Any of you boys right here, can you give me three things that you got for Christmas last year? I got a drawing too. I got a notebook. Okay, that's pretty good. You know, by and large Most kids, given a year, won't even remember what they got last year. At this age, I can only remember one or two things that I ever received for Christmas in my life. I know I got fruit every year, I remember that I'm not I'm not bitter about it at all. I'm not upset. I need to confess, amen Yeah, that's right. Mom and Dad were teaching us to be to be practical. What I'm saying is maybe uh think about the future instead of just today. Be wise. Have a plan and stick to it. Not only should you have circumspectly uh spending, but you ought to have controlled spending. Look at verse number 18. Verse number 18 says, and be not drunk with wine where it's in excess, but be filled with the Spirit. You see, a drunk man is a man that's not in control of himself. I had friends growing up whose parents were drunk, but I told you before my best friend, his name was Jaime, and his dad was a drunk. And uh Jaime could get all kinds of money off of his dad when his dad was drunk. He would go in and talk to his dad, Dad, I need some money, on purpose. He would say, we gotta stop by the house, my dad's drinking, I need some money. And he would ask his dad and his dad would be like, oh what do you need? What do you need, son? Yeah, you here here you go, here you go. He didn't forget. He'd go back in about 30 minutes and ask him again. Because a man that's drunk is not in control. You see, being filled with the Spirit is the exact opposite of that. Being filled with the Spirit is a man that's in control. Controlled by the Spirit. The spending that you do this season, let it be controlled spending. Let it be spending that is guided and led by the Spirit of God. Lastly, this morning, I would encourage you to be careful where you step. He says in verse number 7, be ye not therefore partakers with them. You see, there's a lot going to be happening this season that Christians shouldn't be involved in. Be ye not partakers with them, for ye were sometimes darkness, but now ye are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, in righteousness, and truth, proving that which is acceptable unto the Lord, and have no fellowship. With the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reproved them. The verse that we already read in verses 15 and 16: See then that you walk circumspectly. Not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Beloved, we need to think about where we step, what we get into this season. We need to guard our testimony. In the season where the average idea is to be carefree and just let your hair down and have some fun, could I encourage you to guard your testimony? Remember that you're a Christian and you should live and act like it, that we should not be partakers of that those things that the world offers. Can I just throw this out here that by and large I don't know about every organization so I can't say emphatically, but by and large, can I tell you Christians really for the most part have no business being at a business Christmas party. What takes place at the Christmas party is not things that a Christian should be involved in. The music isn't right. The atmosphere isn't right. The drinking isn't right. The conversation isn't right. The focus isn't right. And he says, don't be partakers of that. Don't go and join that. When I was a teen, I worked for Walmart for several years before I uh went to college. My freshman year of college, I worked for Walmart still. And then I became a drywall contractor, but um my first year working at Walmart, they had a Christmas party and I thought, well, this is Walmart. I mean it's a big organization. I asked mom and dad, can I go to the Christmas party? And they said, sure. I imagine. I mean it's this Walmart should be fine, right? I went to the Christmas party. Can I tell you I had to leave? And I was a kid. And to be honest with you, I really wasn't very spiritual. But here's the problem. Everybody on the job knew that I was a Christian. And I knew that if I stayed at that party, I was going to undermine everything that I told them I was. Everything that I said I believed in, they're gonna look at me and say, You must not. And I left. And I didn't go to another one the rest of the time I was working there. I'm just saying, listen, consider where you go. Consider your conversation through this Christmas season. Don't be short-tempered and irritable. Control your tongue. Have conduct that is becoming of a Christian, of a saint, of a child of God I know the stress of the season can get bad. Gets a little bit hectic. You got a pie to bake and you got Ten presents you still gotta buy and the in-laws are on their way to the house and the house isn't clean yet and the clerk is going really, really slow. Don't lose your patience with the clerk Let's uh do a little less complaining and let's compliment. Have speech that's becoming of a Christian Be careful about your driving when other people are being carefree. Be careful how much you eat over Christmas. I know. I told you I was gonna meddle a little bit. Say, oh it's Christmas, I'm just gonna not worry about it, we're gonna deal with it in January, amen Yeah. Maybe it'd be better to you won't have to regret it in January if you're just a little more careful through the season. I'm not saying don't have a piece of pie. Just don't eat the whole pie. Just just d you know, don't don't just be careful. Think about it. Mm don't lose patience with family and friends. Don't fail to be kind or generous or have that spirit of the believer. Here's what I'm saying. I want you to enjoy Christmas. I want you to have the joy that Christmas brings. Experience all the happiness that the Lord would have you to enjoy. But if we're going to do it, I don't want the regret of January to steal the joy of December. So I'm just encouraging you to be careful as we enter this Christmas season. Be careful about what we do with our testimony. With our spending, with our stewardship of what God's given us, with the steps we take, the spirit that we have around others Let's bring honor and glory to God through this Christmas season. Amen? Let's stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed