Amen. Good evening, everyone. Take your Bible if you would. Go to 2 Timothy chapter 1 with me. And uh I must jump in tonight, amen. And I'm convinced it's not the length of my messages, it's the time frame that people give me, amen. And so it's everybody else's fault. But um I do want to try to uh bring you something I hope will be a help and encouragement to you tonight. Uh Pastor gave me some liberty in reference to, you know, I asked him about do you want And so I want to preach tonight on uh the subject of becoming an encourager And I want to deal with a look at Onesaphoris and the life of Onesaphoris, a man who's often overlooked in the Bible to a large degree. And uh Onessa Forrest was a helper and an encourager of missions and missionaries and just God's people in general. And uh I had a friend, he was uh a missionary helper He never had a field that God had settled him upon in in reference to being somewhere permanently, whether here or overseas, uh, but he took trips constantly. And by the way, that's what a minister Missionary helper is, a church planner helper is. You don't kick the door open and say, Here I am to bless you with all my great talents. Here's what I'm going to do for you. You you come and you say, How can you use it How can I get under the load? And where do you need some help? And then you be willing to do whatever. based on that principle of just being a helper and an encouragement to missionaries. And so I want to preach tonight on the subject of encouragement in general. And before we look at our text tonight, let me just say, you know, it's interesting because the Lord always has a reason for everything. And in my mind, I'm thinking about the whole COVID situation. And I'm thinking about the fact that when people are not in church, according to Hebrews chapter number 10 and verse 24 and verse 25, not just verse number 25, but the Bible says that it tells us, let us consider one another. To provoke unto love and to good works. And so that assembly is there personal, in person, together, to provoke people to love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together in the manner of some is, but exhorting one another So provocation and exhortation happens in the assembly, and because so many people have been missing the assembly in person, and I'm not here to indict anyone, but the fact is that there's just a lack of encouragement and exhortation It's one of the great things God does through the assemblies. And so as we see the day approaching, as we know that we're coming down to the end, we need more exhortation and more encouragement than we've ever had before. And then I thought about uh this church going through the particular uh legal uh battle that you folks have been in for quite some time. And I thought, man, that must get weary. I mean, and I'm not here to discourage you, I'm just just a fact is, uh, you know, there's there's this This is you know, whenever you wake up, I mean there's that problem still. Amen. Waiting on uh an answer from God. And I'm sure that can be uh frustrating at times. I'm sure your face not always a hundred percent on the mountaintop and trusting God with everything. But I thought about that and many other things. And by the way, just as a general discouragement I've literally had people text me, email me, have one guy come up to me in church and said, Uh, do you think we're in the tribulation? Yeah, another guy, uh, you know, one one guy said, uh I think uh do you think this was the end of days? I mean how do I even answer that? Amen. I teach and preach a lot on prophecy. I've got numerous videos out on those subjects And uh it just it's just baffling. Uh and uh and I had one fella, he actually emailed me and he sent me this wonderful dissertation on the last day, supposedly And I never would have expected this from him. And as I began to go down through it, I thought, well that sounds like it might be. And it was a lot of theory and just uh conjecture and such. But it got to the point where and so therefore I think that Jesus will come back on this day. And uh so what'd you do with that one? I filed it in the round file. Amen. Uh that's the trash can. But anyway, uh so uh the the point is there's just uh an overwhelming uh there's there's a lot of discouragement today And I want to try to, and please don't take this, you know, pardon the pun. I want to encourage you to become an encourager. And I want to take this right from the Bible. We'll look at the life of Vanessa Forest. Look in your Bible to 2 Timothy And chapter number one, yes I'm going to speak fast. Amen. Preacher told me what time he'd normally get out. I'm going to try to honor that tonight. 2 Timothy chapter 1. And uh notice, if you would, verse number 15 with me. The Apostle Paul said, This thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, all they, of whom are Figellus and Hermogenes. The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesaphorus, for he oft refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day. And in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well. Let's pray together. Our Father, thank you for this scripture. Help us, Lord, to glean from it tonight. And Lord, help me not to belabor the point, but help me to just preach the truth tonight. I pray the message is I pray it'd be biblical. I pray it'd be helpful. I pray the saints of God would be encouraged and helped tonight, challenged tonight. And I pray that you'd get into yourself glory from this service and from this message tonight, from this figure. And God, I pray you bind all devils and distractions away from this place and give us liberty to preach now. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. When God called me out on the road, I was in the state of Wisconsin, and uh I was a youth pastor, and uh I was an assistant to my pastor, and I was launching into the field of evangelism back in 1995 I was excited beyond description. I can't explain just how settled I was when God showed me what He wanted me to do to step out into itinerant evangelism. And uh it was time for me to transition into finishing a degree on the road by correspondence and ultimately God allowed me to do that and to study in many other areas and obtain some other degrees and such, but I'll never forget when I had left that school I had just finished my associate's degree and and the Lord had me to launch out. I was an older student in Bible college and I planned on spending the rest of my life as a a student of the Word of God. But I remember going to my registrar and I was going to transfer my credits down to Landmark Baptist College in Haynes City, Florida, and finish my bachelor's degree by correspondence as I stepped out in the field of evangelism full time. And I remember going to the registrar and I mentioned to him what my plan was and what God was showing me. Well this is a guy that in the classroom I'd had many battles with And I say this very respectfully. The man tried to jam hyper-Calvinism down my throat in Doctrine One, one of the first classes I had in that Bible college. We debated over the King James, the subject of its perfect preservation, and a lot of other issues. And so he and I were not on great terms to begin with. When he heard about what God was leading me to do, he proclaimed this to me and was straight faced. Here I was the young green preacher. He was an older man, and he said this to me. He said, if you leave this school and if you step out into evangelism He said, you're never going to make it. You say, how did you feel about that? Well, I'll just be honest with you. I was in a stupor for about four days And you say, Well, man, you seem like a strong man, a man that knows what you believe. Man, just say those words as a young preacher cut me like a knife There were several days when I found myself in prayer. There were times when I was just weeping before the Lord, and you say, why? Because I made the mistake. Listen to me very carefully. I made the mistake of believing what a man said Instead of what God was showing me in his word and through the power of the Holy Spirit of God, I knew what God was calling me to do. My pastor agreed with what God was And here I was listening to what somebody's opinion was, rather than the Spirit of God and the Word of God. discouraged before in my Christian life until that time. Now God broke through I began to try to schedule meetings and all twenty of the first pastors that I ever contacted, every last one of them scheduled me for a meeting. So God got the glory through that. But I want to say the disc Discouragement was very real. I said all that to say this. The words of those around you are very powerful. And I would encourage you, make sure that you weigh all the words that you hear always against the Holy Bible. Listen to what people say, but then weigh everything against the Word of God itself. Now also say that the words, therefore, that you and I speak to others are also very powerful. So on the flip side of that, we need to be careful as to the words and the advice that we give to everybody else. I'll be honest with you, I've had admitted a long time ago. I may not have the answer to your problem. And sometimes that may confuse you And so we need to be very careful that we certainly don't discourage people. There's already more than enough discouragement in this world. We are living in dark and perilous and faithless days and many are simply quitting their marriages, quitting church, and quitting on God. And some will say, well I'm fine preacher tonight. I get where you're going with this all, but I don't really get down. Really? I hate to say this and please again pardon the pun, but let's take the masks off tonight. I mean let's get real and realize that every single one of us gets to discourage. Every one of us goes to through times where our faith is challenged and we do not react the way that we're supposed to. Every one of us gets down. I have my pastor to preach. I I conducted a uh a New England Baptist history couples tour about three years ago, and I had Pastor Burke to come and be my main speaker on that tour. And I love his preaching, but I told him what you told me. Just preach whatever God puts on your heart. I had no idea what direction he was going to go in. But uh he got up in that meeting and and most of those services are outdoors. Well We'll sit on a on a big rock or we'll you know we'll be somewhere outside. Many times or in churches where we're just kind of visiting in the auditorium. But Pastor Burke got out, and I'll never forget the first message he preached. It was on the subject of depression. And God was about to teach. He preached that message on depression, and somewhere in the midst of that message God and the Holy Ghost just really began to come down and work in people's hearts. It was about a twenty-five-minute message, nothing profound, but God had anointed it and touched that message in the truth was so powerful and so needed at that time. I literally watched couples, my wife and I, 50 years in ministry, who had served God all of their lives since the time they were children sobbing and coming forward and bowing down on their knees in the grass, weeping before the Lord because of how m how badly They were discouraged at that particular time in their life. I'd like to say one of those invitations was almost like somebody grabbed the back of the building and jerked it and everybody was on the altar. I'm talking about 50-year-olds, 60-year-old 70, 80-year-old people that were on their knees just sobbing before God. And I stood back with tears in my face and thinking, man I had no idea that discouragement was such a problem amongst our good brethren that believe like we believe. The second message that he preached, he preached the message on depression and discouragement, but he also preached one on the subject of insecurity. And the same exact response happened when he spoke on the subject of insecurity. So I want to just be let's be honest today. All of us deal with these things and they are much more widespread than what we would like to admit. So I want to encourage you again to become an encourager. Now let's think about that. I'm encouraging you to become an encourager. Now you would think if you just stand outside and take a look at what we're talking about tonight That something like being an encourager, something that everybody could be, if they simply chose to be, you would think that everybody would just go ahead and be an encourager. But you know what I have to testify tonight in all my travels I must profess to you that very few people that I meet on the roads today are truly encouraging to myself. to our ministry, to our family. I don't know if they necessarily mean evil, but we have to be taught and reminded that folks, God wants to use us in each other's lives to lift each other up. And to build each other's faith and to encourage each other to continue to love God and serve God and live for God with all of our hearts Now I have to say this, I do meet many complainers. Well, there's a lot of complainers out there. Everybody's got a problem. In fact, I had a preacher years ago And he said, You know, I don't ask people anymore on my way to the pulpit on a Sunday morning, hey brother, how you doing? Hey sister, how you doing? And I said, Why was that preacher? He said, because they actually tell me, amen. And they said, You know, to get to the pulpit, I want to blow my brains out instead of preach, amen. And so I frame it differently instead of asking them how they're doing. But oh yes, I see a lot of moaners and gripers. I see the perpetually offended. Those are very common in churches. I find the hyper pessimists and even the wild eye negative, you know, conspiracy theorists. I find lots of them. But those people who are true encouragers, I find that there are very And there needs to be a whole lot more encouragement going on in our churches. But let me also say this: the people that are encouraging, you know, they make a much bigger impact than they realize Now, if you happen to be one of those people that are that is an encourager, I mean if everybody around you knows that you're an encourager and God is impressed upon your heart and you're trying your best to submit to Him and be an encourager Can I just encourage you tonight? Keep on doing what you're doing. We need many more positive, faith-driven, encouraging people around us in our churches today. Over the years at different times when I was depressed or in dark valleys, God saw fit to send me encouragers into my life that helped me Through some very tough times. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? You ever been in a real dark valley? And I mean you just knew that the person God put in your life at that particular time was indeed from God and you had to thank God for them even sending that person at that particular time. Maybe it was a phone call, maybe it was a visit Maybe they came and wrapped their arm around you or whatever the case may have been, but God has done that many times in our lives, no doubt. May I say that I've met tens of thousands of people over the years in churches all over this country and in other countries. I'm like you, Pastor. Unfortunately, I've forgotten a lot of their names. But you know what? The people that have truly encouraged me, I'll never forget those people In fact, I can go back to the place where I was despondent and discouraged and faithless, and I can remember what the room looked like I remember the situation that I was in. I remember the very words that they told to me. I'm saying, look, when somebody's there to lift you up and encourage you, it makes a huge impact upon your life. Amen And can I just say this, you'll never be more like Jesus than when you let the Holy Ghost make you a spiritual blessing to help somebody else all for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ You know, living as an encourager, and I'll get to the text I promise you. I want to get our minds think in the right direction before we look at the life of Vanessa Forest. The contentment that floods the soul, when God shows you that He has used you to lift someone up for His sake is just a wonderful thing And you ever have one of those moments that's like, wow, I witnessed this person got saved by the grace of God. Now they got baptized. Now they're coming to church And and you have this overwhelming feeling, this is why God put me on this earth. And there's a feeling of fulfillment that you're doing the whole reason For why God designed you and created you to begin with, and it is an awesome feeling. It's like that when God uses you to encourage somebody who is greatly discouraged. Think about that I can't count or even remember all the texts or emails or letters as an evangelist I've received over the years from people that God was able to live through me and I give God every bit of glory for that. I'm nothing, but I want to say the feeling of purpose and meaning that gives to my life is immeasurable because there's been many times I've left a meeting and wondered Did it do any good at all? There are times I've left discouraged on a Friday night because lost people were there almost every night and nobody walked the aisle And then there are times when God is able to use you in someone's life and you leave, say, ma'am, that's why it's worth every mile, that's why it's worth every trial, that's why it's worth every Investment that we make in every sacrifice that we make because we've been able to make a difference in somebody else's life. Amen? Second Timothy two twenty one said, If a man therefore purge himself from these He shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Listen All we are are simply vessels that God can work through to be a help and a blessing to other people. And I want to tell you, when God shows you that you You've helped somebody, it really makes life worth living. I remember a young man just not long ago. I got a text on my phone, and And uh there for some reason there was an open date on my calendar. And uh the pastor I was gonna be with right around there, he said, Well, why don't you call this guy? He'll certainly use you when you're in the area, maybe you can present there And I didn't feel impressed to do that. Well lo and behold, it wasn't even the end of that very evening when I got a text out of the blue from a young man I hadn't seen in many years. He was a pastor's son. I want to say it was over a dozen years, and the last time I saw him, I mean he was a teenager. And I didn't know which way he was actually going to go or what would ever come of him But he said, Brother Alexander, he said, I noticed on your calendar you're going to be in the state of Indiana. He said, Would you come preach at our church? And I think my response was something like, Well have the pastor contact me. And he said, Well, I am the pastor And I thought, oh, okay. I said, you know, last when you see somebody and they're just big and then all of a sudden they're a pastor. But I went that night and I had no clue. I remembered that I'd preached in his church and all of that. But he got in the pulpit before he introduced me that night. I'm gonna tell you he brought a tear to my eye because he said, I want to all know how much this man means to me, and he began to speak about how I was able to preach one night. By the way, it's the word of God, it's the Spirit of God. It's not the vessel. Amen. The vessel gets no glory. But it was just wonderful because he said, and I, Brother Alexander, preached one night and I got saved. What was awesome about it was I had forgotten about that. And I've forgotten so many people that God was able to use me in their lives. I remember one time I was in Fargo, North Dakota We had several people saved in a meeting, probably about thirty-some people. My daughter was dealing with a few, and I was dealing with several. I was up till late in the night And I remember the next year I came back, there was a dignified little about eight year old girl came to me and she had a pretty little dress on and stuff and and she said, Brother Alexander, I'd like to give you this, and she gave me a little card. Her dad was with her They walked away and I began to read that card. It said something to this effect. Said, Brother Alexander, you didn't know it, but when you preached I got saved. It was kind of a primitive child's uh type of language. But the last statement, I'll never forget, she said, and I will never forget you. I will tell you what folks, there's a lot of things You may accomplish financially. There's a lot of things you and A may accomplish as far as building a nice home or going places or seeing foreign lands and all of that Uh my friend, may have its place, but I want to say there is nothing greater in our life than to know that we are smacked down in the center of God's will and He's able to use us as a tool to lift somebody up, to lift somebody up to a place of salvation, to lift them up out of the despondency or the discouragement that they're in. Let me ask you a simple question tonight. Will there be a list in heaven? Of those that you have helped? Will there be a list in heaven of those that I have helped for the glory of Jesus Christ? Whose life have we really made a difference in? Let me ask you this question. If we were really getting serious tonight about wanting to become an encourager and impact people's lives, what would those around you say as to whether you are an encourager right now? I mean, like, for example, if I was asking if you're an encourage, most people say, well, yeah, I think I'm pretty encouraging. But what if we'd ask your spouse? What if we'd ask your children? What if we'd ask the pastor? Of course, he has to be nice. I mean, he's the pastor, but in all seriousness, think about it Those around us that know us the best, what would they say as to whether we are an encourager? Say, okay, preacher, I'm going to determine to be an encouragement and a blessing. I get the message. I understand where you're going with this. Let me give you a little warning. Before we even get to the text tonight, let me just say this. As you seek to become an encourager, mark it down. The devil's going to try everything he can to stop you. There is such a great need for positive people that love God, walk with God, and just spend their life helping people and lifting other people up Uh don't don't be surprised if you try to become an encourager and it backfires and blows up in your face. The devil's gonna try to hinder that. The devil will oppose any positive change in your life and in my life. There's an old story told about a preacher. He was retiring from his church. And at his farewell dinner, he tried to encourage one of the founding members, a lady who had been there forever, and he was elderly, and now he was retiring And he said this, she was there even much longer than him. And he said, Look, sister, don't be so sad. He said the next preacher might even be better than me, to which she replied That's what they said before you came, but it just keeps getting worse. Now here's the guy that wasn't very encouraging, was it? Amen. Here he is trying to lift somebody up and gets a good smack in the snoot, amen, as we say But you know that's the truth, and that's oftentimes what happens. But look, don't you give up. You may try, and it may be rejected. You may try and you may think you're going nowhere And you may speak and try to help people and lift people and the devil may oppose it, but every once in a while God is going to say, Hey, look what you've done. Look how I've used you. Keep on going. Don't quit. You're making a difference in people's lives. Look at your text, if you would. 2 Timothy chapter 1. And I want us to begin tonight really quickly. Notice, if you would, verses 15 and verse 16. The Bible said this, this thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom are Figellus and Hermogenes. The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesaphoris, for he oft refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chain. Let me state first of all that Onesaphorus stood with Paul and encouraged the great apostle when many rose up against him. In fact, it seemed like everybody was against him, but there was one that was willing to stand with him Therefore, based on this text of Scripture, we conclude that an encourager has to first of all be sensitive to those around them. Now I would not encourage you tonight to become a gossip. I would encourage you to become a busybody. I'm not asking you to go around and spy on other people's lives, but let me just say this If you don't know what's going on and how to pray better for your brothers and sisters in the Lord, you're never going to be able to help them in their times of trouble and in their times of discouragement An encourager knows when someone is going through a rough time and they become proactive. Now the text does not reveal to us how Onessa Forest found this out. But mark it down. As soon as he found out about it, he became proactive and he was sensitive to the needs of the Apostle Paul and he began to do something about it. Amen. Look, folks, oftentimes we think maybe I should send a card Send that card every time. Amen. Maybe I should make a phone call. That's the Holy Spirit, no doubt. I guarantee you, the devil's not encouraging you to lift somebody up and to put a smile on somebody's face or to tell somebody to keep Keep going for Jesus. Maybe I ought to stop by and just check on them. Do that. Amen. I'm not talking about being a nuisance, but most times we err We just don't want to get involved and we don't want to, you know, intermeddle in their lives. But look, this is exactly what Onesaphorus did. He showed up to lift up Paul when many rose up against him. And you will notice that Paul did not forget what Oneshaphorus had done for him. Then you may be sitting here tonight saying, man, that's kind of rather a small text for you to be inflating and making such a big deal Let me tell you that it was really important to God, insomuch that he recorded it in the eternal scriptures for everyone to study and to read and to learn from. And it impacted the great apostle Paul's life. So greatly notice that Paul did not forget what Onestophoros had done for him. Notice if you would verse fifteen He said, This thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom are Figellus and Hermogenes. Then note the next statement The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesophoros, for he oft-refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain. Look, it impacted Paul so much that he said this, he said, I pray, oh God, would you please bring mercy down Not just upon Onessa forest. Would you bless his wife? Would you bless his children? Oh God, would you bring down blessings upon this man Soul for the sole purpose that when Paul was lower than an ant's belly, this man came to where he was and sacrificed his own time and effort. for the sole purpose of encouraging and lifting up the apostle. And if you don't think that's enough evidence as so this was important to Paul and to the Lord Notice verse number 18. He further said, The Lord grant unto him. That's onesaphoros that he may find mercy Of the Lord in that day, and in how many things he ministered unto me in Ephesus, thou knowest well. Here's what he said This guy ministered unto me in many different areas. He lifted me up. He helped me encouraged me. So basically the whole text says this Hey Lord, would you please bring down blessings upon Onessaphorus, his children, his family, bless his lands, bless his finances, bring down blessings upon the whole house of Onessa Forest And Lord I'm also he encouraged me so much and ministered in so many things that in that day when Onessa Forest gets to heaven and he Stands before you. God, I'm asking verse 18 that you'd grant unto him that he'd find mercy of the Lord in that day. Here's what Paul was saying. Lord, I pray it blessed him now all the way to glory. And I pray it blessed it when it gets to glory. I'd say this was a pretty big deal in the life of the great apostle Paul. And yes, Paul was flesh just like you and us. He got down, but here was the one man the Bible teaches that lifted him up possibly more than anyone else in all of the scripture. Listen, it may have helped Paul in many areas. Think about it emotionally Can you imagine being in a Mammertime prison cell? I don't have time to develop this. They were disgusting pits, many times with feces waist-high People felt like they were forgotten about it. They were fed through a hole in the ground in some cases. And I'm gonna tell you what, just being there and thinking, man, I'm abandoned, what's gonna happen? Will I die here? I've got news, even John, there was not even a greater among women, Jesus said. His faith vacillated when he was in jail. Amen? And I want to tell you, I believe Paul probably was an emotional wreck. And all of a sudden, he hears this voice Hey Paul! Hey Brother Paul! Hey Brother Paul! And all of a sudden Paul looks up and there's the shining, beaming He blessed him no doubt emotionally. No doubt there was a spiritual uplifting. Think about it. Hey Paul, Jesus is still worth living for. The gospel's still going forward. You know those places Hey, there's still souls being saved. I'm sure Onessa Forest was lifting him up in many ways. But then I also thought, even physically You know, when you get encouraged spiritually and emotionally, it actually does your health a whole lot of good. Amen? In fact, depression Uh worry, despondency. Uh you know, the the when people lose hope, uh that's when they end up with with clinical depression, they end up in funny forms, so they'll even uh you know go to the grave, you know, with bad nerves and things of that nature. There's actually a study done. using children and the effects of encouragement and what encouragement the effects that that has on them. So these psychologists to make it put in a nutshell, they hooked up all these wires and sensors of these children And then they would either use encouraging words and gestures or discouraging words and gestures. What the study showed was that when the children were encouraged, their physical energy would actually increase And when they use discouraging words and gestures, the energy level of the children will drop immediately and dramatically. I understand this is a secular study and And this was done on children, but I'm pretty sure we'd get about the same result if we were to do it with adults, you see. We've probably all experienced the flip side of that. You ever been, you know, really, really sick? And somebody comes in and they say one discouraging thing. Let's put you moms in this position. Amen. You moms, you know, you've got the flu or you're real sick. And your children, you know, are always so loving and kind and remember always how sick my mom is. You know, it's amazing. A man get you know stubs his toe and he's ready to die. All right. The wife is really half dead and you know nobody takes note of it But you ever been like that, ladies who and a child walks in and says, Mom, watch for shepherds screams, Amen. I mean when even the slightest noise goes through through you. And don't you even feel physically worse when the children start fighting and you're not feeling well already? What I am saying, my friend, is discouragement can actually affect you Physically, encouragement can affect you physically as well. These are very, very powerful things. Notice 2 Timothy chapter 1 and verse number 17 as we continue through the text Note this, the Bible said, but when he was in Rome, I don't want you to miss this, he sought me out very diligently and found me. Notice how Onesophorus was intentional in his encouraging ministry. He put effort into it, and you and I will never become encouragers on accident. Think of this The text doesn't tell us how far Onesaphor has to travel, but I believe it's probably a sizable distance. Wouldn't you agree with me? The Bible doesn't tell us maybe how much work he had to take off to go to where he was going to minister. The Bible doesn't tell us what arrangements he had to make so that he could travel there. But think of this. He finally gets to Rome We don't know all that he sacrificed and every expense that he had, but he finally gets there. And it wasn't like he got to Rome and said, Hey, where's that guy Paul? Oh, he's right over there. Oh, okay, I'll I'll just go right over there No, the Bible said that he sought him out very diligently. You know what that means? That he couldn't find him for a while. But Onesaphorus didn't quit, maybe after day one or day two. The way Paul makes it sound is he He sought me out very diligently and he found me. It's almost like it was surprising to Paul. I want to say there was a boatload of effort that went into this Onesta Forest could have turned around halfway. He could have got to Rome, couldn't find him the first day, and turned around, but he put all of his effort into this because he just wanted to be an encouragement and lift up a dear brother in Christ. You and I will never become encouragers on accident. It's going to take some effort. Now I've finally got to the message. Amen? Let's address a few areas we need to change if we're going to be encouragers. Let's start with number one, our countenance. May I say that your face is the first thing that people see. Amen? In Proverbs 15 and verse number 13, the Bible said, A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance, but by sorrow of the heart The spirit is broken. I would never encourage anyone or try to teach anyone to put on a fake smile, but I would encourage you to let that joy of the Lord that is real, if it is real in your life, let it come out. Amen. Don't be afraid to smile for the Lord, to weep for the Lord. I'm not talking about being an emotional wreck, but don't be afraid to let people know that you have the joy of the Lord in your life Many people have no idea how a simple smile can make a difference in the direction of a whole day. Okay, let me let me bring you married couples into this. Amen? You already know this I mean you wake up and there's a cross word, it's going to be a bad day for a little while. You wake up and there's an encouraging word, and that can steer the whole entire day. in the correct uh direction. A frown, my friend, will do one thing, and then a smile will do the exact opposite. So the countenance is truly the revealer of the condition of the heart. Encouragers, listen, they display an inviting. often joyful countenance, discourages, display a sour look on their face. I remember one time I was in this conference and there was a particular missionary there And uh when I always looked at this guy, he was like the darling child, and everybody was taking him on in this meeting. It was kind of a big deal. Going back about 20 years ago. And whenever I saw this guy, he looked like this Dead serious. And so I I literally I heard so much about it. I was at lunch one day and we were having fellowship. We had many services throughout that conference. And a preacher friend of mine said, Hey, did you get to meet so and so? I said, well yeah, just briefly, I said, let me ask you, I said, what's wrong with him? I mean, he looks like he's upset. Here's what he said to me. He just loves God so much he never smiles I'm still looking for that. Second hesitations. Amen? I just said my soul, something's wrong with that dude. Because I'm going to tell you what, you're a biblical Christian. When you've got joy you've got up to here, you know what rejoicing is? That's when it bubbles over. Amen. And I'm not saying we're always on the mountaintop, but buddy, if all you if you if you look like you've been sucking on a lemon for the past twenty years, you've got a problem. You're not full of Jesus and you're not full of the Holy Ghost. And I remember hearing the story. He went to the mission field. They supported him heavily. And within about a year and a half, a young man went to help him, and the young man found him burning gospel tracts. Long story short, the descending pastor brought him off the field and was holding this big conference. Said, hey brother, let's start from the beginning. Tell me again your testimony. When did you get saved? And the man said, Well, I didn't get saved. I just realized that I was elect. He was a staunch hyper-Calvinist. Amen? I want to say, my friend, if you think that you're going to heaven because of some election or the fact that you're a Presbyterian Or mom and daddy was elected, or you're in a Calvinist church, you've got another thing coming, my friend. If you don't get born again of the Spirit of God, you are never going to make it to heaven. My point is, my friend Those that are saved by the grace of God and filled with the Spirit, they will have a joyful countenance. And this is what our churches need today. So the first test of whether or not you're an encourager is simply this: Does your countenance Have an inviting, uplifting effect, or do you look unapproachable and displeased all the time? I remember one time there was a man in our church in St. Louis when I was with Brother Beller And he said to me, Hey Brother Alexander, I got a friend coming to visit the church. And he kind of, you know, he blew things out of proportion. He was kind of a drama king. And he gave me and said that and I said, Oh, great, great. You got a friend to come? He said, because I was in town holding revival in my home church at the time. And he said, yeah. He said all excited to meet you. I said, really? He said, yeah. I told him our evangelist is in town, and when he mounts the pulpit, he looks like Godzilla I don't know if he thought I was going to be impressed. I mean I've no doubt he was over-exaggerating, but I cried out, dear God, what do I have to do to change? I certainly don't want to look like Godzilla. My wife knows I don't want my breath to smell like Godzilla's breath. Amen. I'm saying, look That's not what we're trying to project. And I understand there's a sobriety, there's a seriousness about Christianity. But my friend, for the Be an encouragement. We have to first of all project that and who we are. And I'm saying the countenance is very important. It reveals that we do have a biblically merry heart. May I say secondly, we're going to have to not only change our countenance in many cases, but we're going to have to change our words. Turn to James chapter 3 with me quickly. James chapter number 3 James chapter number three. I just have to confess to you that many times it's better for me just not say anything And many times I found that what I'm thinking and what I'm saying has far too much in common. And I have to be very careful. Not to use wrong words, because I can be a discouragement if I'm not careful. James chapter 3 and verse 1. My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation, for in many things we offend all. If may any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man enable also to bridle the whole body. Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths that they may obey us, and we turn about their whole body. Now the analogies here are simple You take something very small and it can direct something very large, very massive. In fact, the next illustration gets even more heightened. He says, behold also the ships Which though they be so great and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listens. Just talk to a man Spent his life on Lake Michigan hauling stuff back and forth from Michigan to Wisconsin. He was on boats a thousand, two thousand feet long and stuff like that. And so these massive, massive ships can be steered by something so very small. And the analogy is this. Your tongue may be steer small in reference to the grand scheme of things, but one little tongue can cause a massive amount of trouble. And can cause a massive Massive amount of discouragement. And that tongue is going to be used for one of two reasons. Either it will glorify the Savior and bring people to Christ and lift people love or it will not glorify God and beat people down and keep people from wanting to be saved by the grace of God. So we have a decision to make about our tongue He said, Even so the tongue's a little membrane boasteth great things, behold how great a matter a little fire kindleth, and the tongue is a fire A world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members, and it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell. For every kind of beast and of birds and of serpents and of things in the sea is tamed and hath been tamed of mankind. But the tongue can no man tame. It is an unruly evil full of deadly poison. I'll stop in this text for sake of time, but may I just say this? We cannot tame our tongue. The Bible is very clear about that. But Thank God, the Holy Spirit can tame my tongue. The Holy Spirit can control if I will yield to him. In fact, that is the only hope that I've got whatsoever of changing my language so that my words are those that cause other people to want to stay in the battle, love God, and do the right thing is if I allow the Holy Spirit. So I need the Holy Spirit to literally put a trapdoor in my mouth And not to let anything come out that the Holy Spirit of God does not approve of. And so listen, if we don't submit our tongues to God every day, we will discourage a lot of people There's an old folk song in Home on the Range, I'm sure you've heard it, but there's a line in it that says this, where seldom is heard a discouraging word. Very, very rare for there to be a discouraging word. Would to God that would be a motto of our churches. Where seldom is heard a discouraging Discouraging. We don't need to hear God can't. Amen. There's enough wet blankets around trying to put fires out in our churches all the time. I don't like it when a young man says I'm called to preach and some old biddy says, well, we'll see how long that lasts. Why not encourage, man? Why not? Stoke the flames. Why not lift people up instead of saying God can? Let's start saying that God can. May it be able to be said of us. that very rarely do we say anything that is discouraging. So let's determine that we're going to say kind, uplifting things to those around us and use our words properly. And then let me go take you, have you take your Bible. Go to Daniel chapter 6 with I want to say not only do we need to be careful about our countenance and our words, go to the book of Daniel with me We need to be careful also about our spirit. If we're going to become encouragers, work on your countenance Work on your words, and then also work on your spirit. In Daniel chapter 6 and verse 3, and we'll just look at one scripture for sake of time. The Bible said, then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes because an excellent spirit was in him. And the king fought to set him over the whole realm. Now let me just say, you and I can fake a smile. Amen. I won't name any names, but there was a parachurch ministry, man that never was married and taught people how to raise a family, amen. But uh there's even some sessions on on presenting yourself and it was almost like teaching people how to fake smile. You can fake a smile Do you know that you can even try to put on a fake countenance? We can oftentimes even say words that we don't necessarily mean. They're not coming from a heart But listen to me, when a believer has and possesses an excellent spirit, that is something that cannot be faked. It is open and real for everyone to see. I want to say that Spirit, my friend, that was seen in Daniel was none other than the results of the working of the power of God in his life. His love for God, his submission to God, that Holy Ghost glow that was about him was his spirit Spirit. The pathway to an excellent spirit only comes when we are filled with the Holy Spirit. Romans 14, 17 says, For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. In Psalm 16, 11, the Bible said, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is Fullness of joy. So to desire to be an encourager is to strive to maintain an excellent spirit. Do people feel closer to God when they're around us or farther from God? Do they sense that we've been with Jesus, or does it just feel like we're with somebody who's out in the world? What does our spirit say about a relationship with God and how does it affect people around us? I'll close with this. On June 18th, 1956, there was a freak accident on a lake in the state of New York. On that particular day there are many boats out on the water, but one particular speeding boat went across the water very fast And it hit a wave just the wrong way and threw a couple of the passengers out of that boat and into the water. There happened to be a 50-year-old man that was on that boat And there was also a little girl, and both of them were thrown into the water. By the time the operator of the boat noticed that they were out of the boat, he f tried very quickly to circle around and to make his way back. And as this was going on, To keep the little girl from drowning, the man put his hand underneath the head of that little girl and held her face up above the water as the boat finally circled back They were just about to grab both of them when the man could no longer hold on. He had given everything he could to hold up the little girl And he sank in death as they were able to rescue that little girl and pull her onto the boat as she watched that man sink and drown that day. That's how Dawson Trottman died, the founder of the Navigators, an internationally known discipleship ministry for many, many years. He was so famous and so well known by so many and so loved that he made it in Time magazine. And according to a quote in Time magazine, they said this, and I quote He lived to save others. His death was just the way that he would have planned it. He died. Saving someone. In his obituary, someone wrote this. Listen carefully. He died just the way that he lived, always lifting someone up. What a legacy if you think about that, to be known as someone who always lifted others up and then in his death, the him dying lifting somebody up just was symbolic of the fact that that's how he lived his entire life. Someone who was always encouraging others. What to God we would desire, not for our glory, because we don't deserve one ounce of the glory of God, but for the glory of Jesus Jesus Christ, may we live lives, that when we get to the end of the road we will be able to look back and say, Man, God was able to use This life to lift up so many and to touch and to encourage so many. I have to echo what the pastor said, reaching people and how many people were affecting, even mentioned that before I get up to the pulpit here tonight. How will you be remembered? Are you truly an encourager? I want to say tonight there may be a marriage in trouble because it's all fighting And there's never a kind or encouraging word. You may have a child, and although you can't see the rebellion, it's deepened their heart because instead of encouraging that child, all you've done is found everything wrong they've ever done and can't Capitalized on that. It is about time we let God use us to find ways to be a blessing and lift other people up. See, it's not that big a deal. It was a huge deal to the Apostle Paul. Insomuch he said, God, would you please bless this man's home? And when he gets to heaven, God, you just give him a big old blessing. Because in how many things he ministered unto me. May we just all strive to live that life like Onesaphoris. Father, I thank you tonight, Lord, for allowing us just to get into the Word a little bit and to see There's really not a lot in the Bible about him. But Father, what we see is so convicting that he sought Paul diligently and found him. And Lord, help us tonight to realize we're going to have to put some effort into being a blessing to other people. It's going to cost us. It's going to cost us our time. It's going to cost us to be on our knees praying for others. It's going to cost us financially. There's a lot of sacrifices that need to be made. Lord, help us to be willing to do whatever it takes just to be a tool that you may lift others up through our lives. And may it be able to be said when our lives are done that we've lived our whole lives just trying to lift others up. And may you get the glory from it all. May Jesus be magnified and seen through it. We pray in your precious holy name tonight. Amen