Tonight you're gonna get Brother Pratstow gonna preach. He's gonna come and I don't expect to be too awful long, but I wanted to just share a quick thought with you. Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter number twenty-four. Luke chapter number twenty-four. In Luke chapter number twenty-four, the beginning of this chapter, you have that famous story of the two men on the road to Emmaus where they said, Did not our heart burn within us? Well he walked with us, while he talked with us and and It continues on and and Jesus is there in the midst of them and they of course were afraid and he says, No, don't don't be afraid, be at peace. And he says, I'm not a spirit. I mean, does a spirit have uh body and and bones and flesh like you see Uh and he says, Hey, if you have meat, give me to eat. And he tells him to to be at peace and to realize that he has a plan and that he's uh risen from the dead for a purpose. And what I would like you to do is look down in verse number 46. He says unto them, and he said unto them, thus it is written, and thus it behooved Christ to suffer And to raise from the dead the third day, and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witness of these things, and behold, I send the promise of my father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem. Until you be endowed with the power from on high. He says there in verse number 47, he says, You get Back to Jerusalem. I have a plan for the gospel of Jesus Christ, for the message of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus to be spread throughout all the world, beginning at Jerusalem. And he said, I want you to go back to Jerusalem, and I want you to tarry there until the power from on high comes to you. And you know, of course, in Acts 1. 8, they received power, and the church was endued with the power of God and began to go forward. Well for just a couple minutes tonight I want to talk to you about this idea of beginning at Jerusalem. There's a lot of thoughts in my head wrapped wrapped around this idea, but Oswald J. Smith uh said That the light that shines the farthest shines the brightest at home. The light that shines the farthest shines the brightest at home. And what I want you to understand is if we as a church and This month is missions month and we point our eyes under the harvest and we look out to the field and we look to to to India and to all of these other countries that that are represented here and to some that aren't even represented yet. We look at these fields and we see the need. And we get a burden for the loss that around the world, and that's what it's for. But I want to I want you to realize that If we are going to have an effective and powerful ministry that reaches out around the world, we have got to have a strong, effective, powerful ministry at home. It has to start here. You have to have that foundation, you have to have that fervency, you have to have that passion for what's going on at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Not just what's going on over in India, although we love to hear what's going on over in India and how God is working and what He's doing there or over in Uganda or in the Philippines or what God's doing on these different missions. fields and we have updates from our missionaries that let us know what's going on. And we praise God about that. But I want you to understand we need to be excited about what's happening right here. We need to be thrilled about what God's doing in our midst, and we need to f be fervently praying and seeking the Lord to have him do great things here at home in Jerusalem. Our missions program at Hunt Valley Baptist Church starts right here in our Jerusalem. We, of course, towards the the in the summertime here, we're going to be starting the Spanish ministry and bringing in Spanish-speaking folks and and And exactly how that's going to look and how it's going to function with the church, I'm not sure, but we're doing some things to broaden and strengthen our ministry and our mission right here at home. I have in my office for the first time, Carol, I have about six braille tracks. I have some braille tracks. I I I the Lord just struck me and says, you know what, Bob and Carol have been coming here for a long time and they've got people that they come in contact with that our tracks are not doing them any good. We need to have some tracks that Bob and Carol could use to reach the people that they come in contact with that that they could reach that none of us possibly could. And we're going to be doing some other things about this. God has given us a very multicultural church. We've got people from different nationalities and I've got some ideas and been talking to Pastor Gus about some plans and and sometimes my ideas get ahead of us, but we're going to be Doing some things as a church that I'm excited about, that I want to see God do great things with us and through us here in what He's given us at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We've got to be excited about it. It begins at Jerusalem. He says, Tarry there. You're going to be there. It's got to start there in Jerusalem. It starts with the church that's full of saved people. We gotta have saved, baptized believers as part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Do you understand, beloved, that if we for numbers' sake If we allow anybody to come in, do you understand that we haven't conquered the world? We've joined it. And that's not what Hunt Valley Baptist Church should be. Do you understand if we just allow anybody from any denomination or from any group and and And whether they know Christ or not, we just say, Hey, everybody, come on in. We're all going to gather around the fire and sing kumbaya because we all, after all, we've got religion. And we're going to do that. Do you understand? We may be greater in number, but we'll be weaker in strength. It starts with He added unto the church such as should be saved. Those that were saved, we of course know that that's the foundation. We need saved believers, and everybody says amen. We need people that are saved, and that certainly is important, but you understand we need soul-winning believers as well. Amen. We need a church. People have a heart of compassion. Jude 22 says some having compassion, making a difference. And beloved, I hope that God touches your heart and you're willing to give towards missions. And we have a very missions-minded church. For our size church, the amount that our church is able to do for worldwide missions is quite phenomenal. But I want you to understand just because I put money in the plate that does not negate my responsibility to go. I am still to be a soul winner. I am still to be carrying the gospel to my neighbors and to those nearest. Sharing the truth to those that are around me because we've got to have a heart of compassion. Listen, beloved, we've got to be seeing people saved here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We've got to see lives changed and people growing and and things happening here in our midst. The Great Commission wasn't just given to the pastor, or to the staff, or to who might be considered a leader in the church. It's all of us. Everyone here that would be a member or would be, they call Hunt Valley Baptist Church their home, I want you to understand that God has given you a command to be going. We have means and methods by which you can go to be a part of the program of the church. But I want you to understand the most effective method that you have is those that are nearest to you. Your area of influence Hey, we're not going to stop reaching out into the community in in whatever way we can. We're going to reach out different methods. But you understand some of those methods are just a matter of of of getting first contact. And we're working so hard just to maybe Break the ice for just a minute so that we could have a first contact so that maybe we could extend an invitation and then later we might see them and say, Hey, have you read that tract I gave you? And over time we're building a relationship. But do you understand you all have a relationship with a lot of people already? You have your area of influence People that would listen to you. We go to a door and we knock on it from somebody we've never ever seen in the world, they don't know us from Adam, and we try and share the gospel with them. And they wonder, why are you here at my door? But we all have people that Are our friends, that are our contacts, that are our co-workers, that are people that we've come across in the past that maybe they don't know Christ or you're not sure if they know Christ. You need to be sharing that with them. You need to be telling them about Jesus Christ. This mission starts right here at home. And we're going to have the greatest, most powerful missions, uh, ministry around the world when we are effective at reaching the lost here at home. We've got to have soul winning believers as well. Not only that, we need stable believers. Stable believers. People that are in the church that are stable. Our verse from uh Some months ago, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine. Somebody help me, my By the split of many cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things. given the head, which is Christ. That one. We're not to be carried about by every wind of doctrine. We need people that are that are studied in the Word of God, that are that are foundational, that have these things settled. They have the truths of the Word of God. They're hearing things preached. They're applying them to their life. They're growing in their faith with Christ and in their in the strength of their own foundation. so that they can help others and bring other people along and begin to bring them up and and help them to get a foundation. We need stable believers Not just stable as in the foundational truths of the Word of God, but I want you to understand that a church cannot grow with inconsistent believers. A church isn't going to grow, it cannot be stable, it cannot have any type of foundation, we can't have any ministries, we can't start a prison ministry, we can't go into the nursing home ministry, we can't have Sunday school classes unless we have people that are stable that are gonna be there every single time to fulfill and do that job or that responsibility You need people that are committed to Christ and to his church enough that they can be counted upon. You understand the church is not going to grow or go forward with somebody that comes to church twice a month. It's only gonna you don't you don't measure the strength of a church by your Sunday morning crowd. You measure the strength of a church by Sunday night or maybe even Thursday night crowd. Those are the people that are committed, those are the people that have decided this is what God wants me to do, and whatever it takes I'm going to be here. I'm going to be a part. I'm going to do what's necessary because I believe that it's important. And I want to see God do something here. And it's all of God's people working together to achieve something for God where we see great and mighty things. It's not just one person or that person over there doing his thing or this person over here doing their thing. It's all of us doing what God has given us an ability to do Each of us fulfilling different roles, many different ministries, every different aspect. But when it all comes together, we're one body in Christ. We need stable believers that are serving faithfully to see the the church at Jerusalem, to see our home gr strong and able to impact the world. It starts here at home. It starts in Jerusalem. He said, serving the Lord with gladness, come before his praise. Presence was singing. Serving the Lord with gladness. I know we at times are a busy church. A lot of things happening, especially something like Missions Conference. A lot to do. Take somebody out to dinner and prepare meals for this and bring food every night. And we've got all these things that we've got to be a part of and extra extra stuff and our already busy lives. What happened to being excited about the opportunity to serve? Just an opportunity to serve. Oh, yeah, I'd be glad to do that. I want to serve my Savior. A church is healthy when a church is at work. Don't don't don't be duped into thinking that it's healthy when we're comfortable. You understand still waters means stagnant There's a whole lot of stagnant ponds where the people are sitting comfortably, but not much is happening. As a pastor, I don't want Hunt Valley Baptist Church to be that way. I want us to have a fervency and a direction and to be moving to see God do great things. There's a lot to be done. And if it's going to be done effectively, we've got to have a group of people that are seeking believers. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. We need to be praying We need God's power to do the work. We can be running around in our flesh and attempting to accomplish so many things, and without God's power, it's not going to happen. But beloved, I want you to understand we could spend all our time on our knees praying, and we've got God's power, and He's saying, get up and do something too. It takes both. It takes both. But we need to be a praying. people seeking God. Seeking God, praying that God would do a great thing. Begins at Jerusalem. Can I ask you, where's your passion for your ministry? Where's your vision? We have as a theme this year pressure. Pressing on. The guys hung the flags in front of our banner. Pressing on. You know me, you've been you we've been doing this long enough, you know that I I'm always thinking about what's next How I have plans for next year already. I mean I I've I've already written them down. I talked to Gus about them the other day. I I've got things in my head, what can we do different? How can we How can we improve this? And sometimes I get excited about them and we start them before even next year or whatever. But what I'm saying is the ministry you're in, the area where you're serving. Do you just come and fulfill your responsibility, or do you think about it and say, man, how could we improve this? I'm a greeter on Sunday morning. What could we do to make this better? How could we greet people? How could we make this sharper? How could we make this neater? What would bring a greater impact? What are other people doing that's effective, that that churches are doing, that's that works for them? Have we spent any time looking into other possibilities? What are other young Sunday school classes doing? What kind of activities are they having? What events are they holding? What things can we do in whatever area of ministry that you serve? Are you dreaming about it? Are you thinking about it? Do you have a passion for it? Do you look at it and say, man, I want to see God do something in this ministry? In the sound ministry. Do you just go up there and move the levers? And what I'm saying is it we want to get excited about the world, and I hope we do, and I don't want to detract from missions conference, but I'm asking you as a church family, will you first get a vision and a burden and an excitement to see something happen here at Jerusalem. That's what I want to see happen. If we are strong and powerful and our light is shining bright here in Jerusalem, I guarantee you it will be shining around the world. But if our light here at Punt Valley Baptist Church dies, we're going to have to start dropping these flags. Another six, seven, eight years, we'll have to half of these flags will be gone because we can't support them anymore. If we don't keep the light strong here at home. Yes, we want to have a world vision. Yes, we have a mandate to be involved in missions, as I preached this morning. But it starts by being effective and powerful. With our ministry at home and whatever that ministry is, do you have a vision for it? You work in the nursery, do you just come in and watch the kids and complain about the screaming babies? Or do you look and say, How could we How could we improve this? How could we more effectively communicate with the parents? How could we make this a more enjoyable transaction? How could we minister better in this couple of minutes I've got where they're handing off their baby and I'm talking to them? Every area of ministry. How could we improve this? What could we do to make this better? Um I I believe God would do some great things if we had some people with vision And wanted to press on in their area of ministry. As a pastor, I want to enable you and help you to do it. But the vision's got to come from you. If it just comes from me, It's got to come from your heart and God's speaking to you and you say, Man, I want to get this done. And that's where something great will happen. Lord, we thank you for this thought. I pray God you use it. Thank you for the privilege to have Brother Pratt. Would you be with us as we continue with the service? I ask you, Lord, to use his message in a few minutes in Jesus' name. Amen.