Pray for me, I I'm gonna have to have knee surgery. My left knee is is gone, so uh So that's all I can say. So sometimes like I might like disappear behind the pulpit because my knee will give out, okay? I will get up back up though. I'll be back up in a little bit, alright? So uh I have some things here. Uh number one I have airheads up there in the front and I have these cars. They're really cool. Watch. Runs by itself. Oh yeah. I showed that to James in the back. And he got scared half to death. But then I gave him a car and he did it by himself. He was okay. Hello? Thank you very much. And tonight I will bring Big Kids Camp. Like chocolate, okay? Reese's and Hershey's. Anyone have a favorite? If you don't speak up, you don't get anything. Snickers? Why are you a little quiet? Reese's Twix, I'm a Twix, what are you? Jolly Ranchers. Jolly Ranchers, okay. Alright, alright, okay. Also, anybody here who has served in the military, I want to give you a special coin. If you could please stand, I would really appreciate it. All right, I need ushers. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Here, here, you can take care of this for me, sir? Here. Oh yeah. We may have enough here. I think we do. Here you go, sir. I have more right here. Here. And then give that one to Mrs. Rodriguez, the bigger one there, please. I did take care of Billy Gus earlier. They if we don't have enough, I have more right here in my hand. Here. Take these with you too, Hotshot, please. What is your name again? Jacob. Jacob. Sally, roll, sorry Everybody get one? Did he get one in the back? Don't leave him by himself back there. What's the matter with you, Brandon? What's going on with you? Anybody else? We're good? In the hood? Thank you. I appreciate it. We steal my coins, Brandon. Thank you very much. Gotta keep an eye on that guy. You know what his last name is, don't you? Amen? So Hunt Valley Baptist Church has been supporting me and uh I wanted to give you a little update. Uh so so I traveled around uh For nine weeks doing vacation Bible schools, two camps and one building project. That was the whole summer. So here, and I'm not, listen, this is not me bragging on me, because God knows my heart. So I traveled some 4,000 miles, 104 saved. Three adults, 55 surrenders, and 18 assurances. Now I'm I'm just going to say something to you. Can I say this to you? You know, God wants to do something. And listen to me. The hope is not in the White House. It's in the church house. Hello? So stop getting all hung up on what's going to happen with the election. Now I already voted, I send my mail-in ballot, okay? Okay, I am not a liberal. Sorry, I'm not going to go down that road. Amen. Or we'll have a whole message on that. All right? Philippians chapter 4. Amen. Philippians chapter 4 is where we're going to be this morning. I'm pulling up tonight's message. That's not the one I want, you lunatic. Okay, we're gonna pray Oh look, there is a big clock back there. Okay. Let's pray. There's no countdown though, so that's pretty good. Amen. So if you want to get out early or not, because I got the guards in the back, they'll take you out, amen. And so will the twin towers back there, amen. They'll help me out. All right? Alright, let's pray. Lord, we love you today. And uh I I I I'll be honest and you know my heart. I'm not I don't take it lightly that I'm here today. And uh I pray you'd be with the preacher and all the people out there on a mission trip. I pray you'd use them in a tremendous way. Give them rest. Give them strength. And uh I pray this morning as we look into your word, help me to be open to whatever you'd want me to change in my life. Helping never be a place in my life that uh I'm settled and uh Lord I don't want to change. I pray for anybody who's listening, and anybody here in this room that's not 100% sure that heaven is their home, I pray today would be their day. In Jesus' name. Amen. Philippians chapter 4 The title of the message this morning is Being Positive in a Negative World. Now I don't know about you. I I can't really I can't really look at the news because I'll get depressed. You know what I'm talking about? Don't get yourself all inundated with what is promoted. Hello? Just focus on God. Alright? Hello? Social media will get you all messed up. Hello. Alright, Philippians chapter 4. Now, I'm not going to deal with the first three verses. But Paul is talking about Judas and Synchrí, and they got a problem. They can't get along. Okay, can I help you today? Do you know how much we could get done for God if we as a church were united? Hello? Would be unbelievable. Would just be unbelievable. I still can't believe that you have a young child. Gosh, brother Gush, you're messing me up. Your daughter's like twenty-nine What in the world? What in the world? I I think he needs his head examined, amen? Why would you go through diapers again? Are you crazy? Hello. Now by the way, when I had children in my house, okay, I never changed, I changed one type of diaper, the wet one. The other one I didn't change. Because that was too loosey-goosey, amen. Come on now. I would wait till mama got home and I sprayed the house With Lysol or whatever, so you couldn't s so that's just me. I'm sorry, okay? All right. Verse number four. Hurry up, you're holding me up. What is your problem? Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. Now now I think it's wild, isn't it? Why does Paul have to say that twice? Now I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm I'm gonna talk about me this morning. You ready? It's because I forget about the blessing as soon as the trial comes. But God wants me to rejoice on what he already did. Hello. So no matter what you're going through in your life today, and no matter how bad things are today, let me help you today and remind you, you live in America. Hello And no matter how bad it gets, it doesn't look like any of us have missed any meals We got it pretty good. I just have to learn to rejoice. Now my problem is this. I have a hard time rejoicing when I drive. Because people can't drive. Lord have mercy. I was going to a s listen, in all different states they drive different. Maryland people drive in the passing lane but don't pass anybody. New Jersey people will run you over. And Pennsylvania doesn't have a clue. I mean I lived in that state. I know what I'm talking about. Amen. Hello? Lo la la la la. It's like you got nowhere to go. Like I got somewhere to be. I was going to the Quad State yesterday, which is a Sunday school training session, and I'm going to a place and I'm meeting up with another preacher, and we're going to eat at a diner. Now you know number one thing is eating. Amen. Come on now. Now, and the school bus decides He's got no kids in the bus. He's driving the bus. It's forty-five miles an hour. He's going 10 Now I wasn't close enough to him or I would have helped him out in Jesus' name, amen. And it was a double yellow line, so you couldn't pass And then he decided to go to the stop lights and stop, but allowed the light to run through without going through. So I helped him out. I went on one of these lanes over here. He had a little room and I went choop choop boom boom chomp out like a scalp. Amen. Here we go. You're holding me up again. There you go. Verse 5. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing. Now that doesn't mean eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. It's supposed to be on guard. You're supposed to be alerted. Now listen very carefully today. We live in a world that's very dangerous. You have to be very conscious of your surroundings. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. Can I ask you a question? When you start your prayer in the morning, do you start it with thankfulness or wantfulness? Sometimes it depends on what I need. How quick it's to my forefront. Hello? I'm talking to me this morning, okay? And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are wrong, whatsoever things are lying, whatsoever Is that what that says? Oh, that's Kaiser version. Because that's where we live. But it says, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely. Whatsoever things are of a good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. So listen, when you're ready, come on now, to think wrong about somebody, think about this. Now I I'm still I don't know. I I've not arrived. But I got a problem. My problem is the Bible says love your enemies. Do you not have a hard time with that? And the ones who despitefully use you. Woo! I don't know, that's a different type of Christianity if you ask me. Why you gotta put that in the Bible? Hello? Then the Lord says, love your enemies. How many of you have ever had a bad neighbor? I mean, I'm sorry, love your neighbors. Okay, watch. So the house I lived in, it had trees. But my trees didn't bear leaves, which I thought was awesome. That's why part of the reason why I bought the house Had a holly bush out there, brother Gus, you know what I mean, arborvitis things. Nothing that bare leaves. But my neighbor had trees. That all of his limbs are my property. When fall comes up, I don't like Breaking leaves. I blow leaves to everybody else's property. Hello? Or out in the gutter so they can pick it all up? My wife loved to rake leaves. Now, just to give you a little indication, fifty commercial bags of leaves. The big black trash bags. Fifty bags of leaves. Do you know what I wanted to do with those leaves I wanted to dump them over the fence in Jesus' name and say, they belong to you. So after my wife passed away, hello, I went over next door. And I said, I'm cutting all your limbs off that are in my property. Okay? And they said, okay. I did w witness to him before that, okay? I'm just trying to say. Here we go. Come on, you're holding me up again. Verse number nine, those things which you both learned and received and heard and seen in me do. Can I can I answer a question? If there were people following you around in your life, could could they follow what you do? Could they learn the right way from you? Or would there be a problem? And the God of peace shall be with you all. I have a couple things written down here. This one is by Pastor Jack Scalin. It says this, find a place where needy people are. and you'll find all you need. Watch this one. This is really good. My wife gave this to me. Ignore me and I may not remember you Correct me, I may resent you. Insult me, I may not like you. Encourage me, and I'll never forget you. Yeah. That's a fact. Do you know why God has called me to work with kids? Seriously, because kids appreciate things. Now there are some kids who are spoiled brats. But most kids seriously appreciate stuff. Do you do do you know? Can I can I help you here today? Sometimes when I go to churches, I would rather be in the junior church than up preaching in the main building. You know why? Because most people don't want to hear what what God has given me to say Because they don't want to change. They want to sit, soak, and sour and do nothing for Jesus. Hello? At least the kids in the junior church will listen to me. Hello? And I will give them candy. Oh yeah, come on. Oh yeah. Alright, first number one. The first point is gone. We must respond to God's love. Verses six and seven talks about it. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God, and the peace of God which passeth passeth All understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. John 3. 16 says, God loves us in spite of us, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Verse 17 says, But God sent not a son into the world to condemn the world, but the world through him might be saved. God's love is revealed in the Bible. God's love is also revealed with answered prayer. And God's love was demonstrated when he hung on a cross for your sin and mine. I don't know if it grips you or not, but I travel a lot. I have a lot of time to think. And I have a lot of time to spend with the Lord. And I think sometimes in my life I forget what Jesus did for me. I mean, I I I'm thinking about here I am, a person born and raised in a Roman Catholic home. Went to twelve years of Catholic school. And literally, literally For the first time in my life, I heard at 25 years old, it was Jesus plus nothing else to get to heaven. I never heard that before. I heard it in the Baptist church. It wasn't me working to heaven It was me putting, you ready, my faith in the finished work that was already done for me. And if you could get to heaven by yourself, then Jesus died for nothing. Hello? And so at age 25, sitting on the second pew, I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ to be my Savior. And he took away all my sin. Hello. And changed my life forever. Hello, I'm not the same person I used to be. Thank God for that. But I'm not all I should be. God's still working on me. This first point about we must respond to God's love. I want to tell a story, and some people may have heard this story before. That little boy who rode my Sunday school bus, his name was Ray Ray. Ray Ray was nine years old, and Ray Ray was a demon. Anybody know any demons? Like out of control. So Rayway would get on the bus, he would go all the way to the back of the bus, and he would climb underneath all the bus seats to get to the front of the bus. Do you know what the floors of our buses are like? And he would always wear a white shirt. Now I don't know what his mother thought when he came home and his shirt was full dirty. But when I brought him, him and his sister, I knocked on the door one time. And I picked him up on the bus, him and his sister. His sister was twelve and she was really a sweetheart. But sometimes you gotta take the good with the bad. You know that you raise kids the same way and some of your kids are different? You think like w where they come from? So here we go. So Ray Ray, blonde-haired, blue-eyed kid. Now Pastor would say to me, You know Ray-Ray stays with you everywhere you go. So he was like He was like glued to me. When I was down in junior church, I sat him up on the pulpit. Because if you let him go, he'd get in trouble. Hello. And I didn't want to hear about it. Amen? So Ray Ray rode my boss, him and his sister, for about six months. And uh one uh Saturday I went there to get Ray Ray, and uh Allergies. Never 69 before either, so hello. Wake up. Anyway, so watch. So I knock on the door and house is empty. Bus families, you know. So I uh excuse me one minute. So I figure we're gonna have to pray. Maybe to get Kathy, but not Ray Ray, amen. No, you can't do that. I mean came from a house. Mother was a drug addict, and the father was an alcoholic. Ain't got a prayer in the world. About a month later, I'm driving a VBS for VBS, Vacation Bible School. You might call it VBT here. And I'm driving the bus and I'm dropping off kids we did mourning. And all of a sudden they hear this. Pastor Kazoo! Just like that. That was the girl, his sister. From Philly. Got some lungs, man. I stopped the bus. She she said, Pastor Razor, what are you doing? I said, I'm dropping off kids for VBS. She said, we moved right here. Can we go tomorrow? Hello, just by accident we were down that street. I said, sure, we'll pick you up tomorrow. Be ready about 8. 30. Started at 10 o'clock. So I drive the bus, I pick everybody up, and I get to the church, and I forgot to write it down D does anybody in here forget things like I forget things? Do you know that I have to put everything in my phone? Hello. And then I have to remember the note I put it to. Can I get a witness right there? Come on now. Amen. Alright, I'm just making sure I'm in the same family here. So So I get to go opening exercises. I'm going to go sing and do whatever. And the phone rings. So I pick up the phone and it's Kathy, a sister on Line. She said, Kaiser. I cannot stand it when women and girls cry. I think they know what that does. You know what I'm talking about? Hello. So I said, look, I'll send a van right out there for you. Just wait. So they get a van. Everybody knows where's Ray Ray going with me. Okay, so I'm doing up the opening exercise. I come back. They put Ray Ray in the room. Now, I I worked in inner city churches. One of the inner city churches had no windows. So we had cut holes in the wall and put fans in there. So they could get some air and you could also look in there. So they put Ray Ray in the classroom. And when they put Ray Ray in the classroom, he goes in the classroom and uh he's like sitting there being good. Can that little guy come up here and help me for one minute? Yeah, my man. Come here, buddy. Okay, so Ray Ray, he's doing the class. Okay, come here, bud. You can have whatever you want. I think I even had money. You like money? Okay, that's for you for coming up. And then you put this in the offering. Because you always have to tithe your income. And if you don't give that to God, God will strike you. Okay, I'm just saying. Okay Here. There you go. Okay. Now, so stay right. What's your name? Nehemiah. Nehemiah. Come on, or the walls come tumbling down. I cannot get a witness. Alright, now what? So stay right there, Nehemiah. So, so Ray Ray's in the class, and he listens. He's doing the snack. He's doing the games, and he's really good. Now. Ray Ray's the first one out of the classroom. And when he comes out of the classroom, I went, this is the only time you can run in church. I want you to run up and yell out, I got saved, and I'm going to kill I promise I won't let you fall. Okay? You ready? Ready? Ready? Come on. Run run and say, I got saved. I got saved. You gotta jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. Jump. I'm gonna catch you. Ah Alright, give me a nice round of applause, will you please? Thanks, Nehemiah. Nehemiah, you want another airhead? You want another airhead over there? Right there, I got a ring pop. You want a ring pop too? Just an airhead? Okay, you got it. Watch, I said demons can get saved. Now you listen what I did after this. I thought, we'll see. Now I know you never done that. Like I'm basing his salvation on his works. Where do we get that from? How much grace has God had on your life and my life? How much mercy has God given me and allowed me to grow? Are you kidding me? He gets on my bus, and guess what? He's good. Ray Re doesn't run to the back. Ray Ray sits in the front. I'm thinking, wow. And I'm thinking, like, like, how did God transform your life? Alcoholic. Come on now. Never home. And God transforms my life. Never touched another drop of alcohol in my life. I didn't go to AA. I didn't go to R U. I didn't go to anything. I went to God. God took care of all that Now you listen to me. So it's Wednesday. I drop them off and I go back and get ready for church. And when I when I get ready for church, so we we go to church and I come home from church, it's about eight forty-five. And then I get a phone call. And when I get a phone call, it's Ray Ray's mother. Her name is Kathy also, like her daughters. And she said uh she said pesticides there have been an accident with Ray Ray. I said, what happened? She said, I can't tell you. Just come. So I drove to children's hospital and all the way there, I'm thinking, what in the world happened And when I come through the door, she's waiting for me in the lobby and she said, um, Professor Kaiser, uh Ray Ray, and a couple of his buddies went down to where the abandoned warehouse was. And the kids would cut a hole in the fence before we even got there. And they would go and run on top of the boxcars that were abandoned. Now, when I was a kid in Philly, we tried to hop trains. We could have got killed. Now they were going pretty slow. But sometimes when you're a kid, you don't think about stuff. So, so the three boys go down there. And there's a ladder to go up the boxcar. And Ray-Ray decides he's going to be first. What Ray-Ray doesn't know is when he climbs up the ladder above his head is a high tension wire from Amtrak with 30,000 volts. And when he climbs up, when he gets to the top, his head touches the wire. And he now does the most unthinkable thing. He takes his hand to get the wire off his head and now creates a ground through his body. and shoots the electricity out his leg, burns his clothes completely off his body. He's on fire And he's charcoal black 95% of his body, and it's thrown to the ground. His two buddies were so afraid That they never told anybody, and mom found out two hours later what happened to Ray Ray. And she said to me, she said, Pastor Kaiser, you're going to have to really, you're going to have to prepare yourself when you go in to look at Ray-Ray. And I looked in through the window, those little windows where the door is, and here's this little boy, nine years old. charcoal black blonde haired, blue-eyed kids, sort of like James is. They have him packed in ice, and they have a morphine drip going into his body to stop him from the pain. And I'm thinking, I'm gonna go in there and try to be strong for this kid. Like I gotta suck it up here. Because I'm about ready to ball. And when I came to his bedside, he said something I'll never forget, as long as I live, and I hope you never do, Ether He said, Pastor Kaiser, he said, I know I'm going to die. He said, could you make sure that my mom and dad get saved? I guess he got saved, huh? Come on now. And I'm gonna tell you what happened to me, and I can't do it because of my knee. I fell to my knees. Because I felt like here's a little nine-year-old kid who's got more burden for souls than I do. Ten days later, Ray Ray dies. I do his funeral. I thought for sure mom and dad would get saved, but they were so strung out. They couldn't even really hear the gospel. And two ants got saved, and we rejoiced about that, but we just prayed. And about month later after that, mom and Kathy moved down to Wildwood, New Jersey to get away from Philly where that happened. And she called me up and she said, Pastor Kaiser, could you come down and talk to me for a little bit? And I took my wife. And my wife spoke to her. And gave her a plan of salvation. And she got saved. Woo! Come on now. I'm thinking like glory, nine-year-old kid. Now, I don't want to get ahead of myself, but tonight I'm going to preach a little bit about that. But number one, we must respond to God's love. Number two, we must reprogram our thinking. Reprogram our thinking. Number eight, finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just Whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of a good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Now let me just help you here We come across people, seriously, when we look at them, we don't think right. I don't care if it's a street person, I don't care if it's somebody bumming for money, I don't care what it is. If they don't look like you, all of a sudden now, you ready? They're not as good as we are Help us. God help us. I'm talking to me this morning. Do you hear me? When I see a person up with a sign that wants money, do you know I just pray about if I say give them money? If I give them money, I give them a gospel tract. Hello. But we're just bombarded, we're bombarded about the world's problems Physical dangers, constant negative input. You think about all these people who've gone through this flood and everything's destroyed. The Bible says in Hebrews 11 6, but without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Can I ask you a question? What kind of devotional life do you have with God? Do you have daily Bible reading and prayer? Do you deem every day to be thankful? Do you depend on God to come through? William Carey said this: expect great things from God, attempt great things for God. I had a young lady who was fourteen years old. I worked on two inner city ministries. The first one I worked in four years was Bethel Baptist Church. I was in I was in Kensington in the hood. I'm born and raised in Philly. It doesn't scare me. I had Bible studies Monday, Tuesday, Thursday. I had youth activity every Friday night. And I went on bus ministry with them every Saturday. And I joined a church on Wednesday, but I was trying to make a difference in their life. And I had this one girl. Did you ever make a girl who's a brat? A spoiled little brat. Did you ever meet anybody like that? It's like her? She liked that? You're holding his hand down. No, she's not? No, okay, thank you. But watch, I've met people like that. Like they won everything You ready? Ready? Okay. Do you know why when you go to the store, they have all the candy when you check out? Do you know why it's there? So the kid screams and mama or daddy buys what they want. My wife would have my son and he would be in there and if he screamed, she would pinch him right around his groin area. And she smiled and said, wait until you get outside. Hello? To give him a little encouragement. Amen? So I had this girl. She'd come to the youth group. Nothing ever was good enough. Why are we gonna do that? Why? Now I really wanted to choke the girl's neck. Seriously, I want to but her dad was in jail and mom was a drug addict. My wife stepped in between. So the girl didn't come to our academy and we all got money together and we Had her come to Academy, but before that she got saved in junior church. She was a helper and she got saved. Come on now. And she gets saved and she begins to change, but she puts her eyes on liken the preacher's son. I like him. I said, you don't have a prayer. You don't have a prayer unless you're serious about God. Because he is not going to let somebody marry somebody who's not following God. Can I just help you for one minute? Don't sacrifice on the altar of immediate, which can cost you your future. And don't get to a point where you're like desperate to get married. Are you crazy? You better marry come on now who God wants you to marry Now I met my wife at a Catholic dance. I wasn't even saved. I I shouldn't have even been there. I was already eighteen, almost n I was eighteen years old. I went to a Catholic dance. And I danced with her. My brother danced before with her. He she didn't like him. She liked me. Hello? And back then, watch it, Lost Guy knew I was going to marry her. And we were married for 45 years. I had ten years in between my kids, not twenty-nine, but anyway, won't go there. But I said all that to say this. She got saved, and we got her in the academy, and her life began to change. And today she's married to that guy. And they now took over the church from his father, and she's, come on, a pastor's wife. And they've adopted a couple kids You know what? Let me let me just help you here. Can I help you here? I I just want God to do something. You know what I mean? I I don't want it to depend on me. I want God to do something. I want some young people to surrender their lives to God. I'm tired of filling up all the other nonsense. I'm not nonsense. You've got to pay the bills. I just want you to surrender your life to God. Yeah. Hey, I'm not going to be d able to do what I'm doing forever. Somebody's got to say, hey, I want to do that. Last point, and I'm done. We must reach out to lost and hurting people Lost in hurting people. Verse number nine says this those things which you both learned and received and heard and seen in me do, and the God of peace shall be with you. Now, I listen to me. I could stand up here all day and talk about the miraculous things that God has done in my life. I could also stand up there and tell you all the trials that come along with that. But I far rather Come on now. Because I'm a positive kind of guy. I don't hang around negative people. I don't like negative people. I used to love it when I worked on a building project and somebody would come in and say, oh, we got so much to do. I said, you just need to stay outside. That's not how I motivate people. Hello? By the way, if you work for me, I feed you Right, Brother Gus? Oh yeah. Chick-fil-A breakfast in the morning. Are you got a serious? Come on now. Oh yeah. Some of those kids were with me, worked with me. We had a blast. We must reach out. The Bible talks about the fields are white under harvest. All right, let's let's turn to a couple verses because you're looking at me. Okay, Psalms 126-6. Jacob, that's you. You're gonna read that one. And then Psalms 1130, that's you. Please, sir. And you've got to stand up when you read it. Please. He that goeth forth and weepeth, so precious teeth shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing Can I can I ask you a question? And I'm going to talk a lot about it tonight. When's the last time you weeped for somebody to get saved? Does it really discern us? All right, your name again, sir? John. John. The beloved one. Okay, John. Proverbs eleven thirty. Please, sir. Brother Gus will help you find that if you want. A spoiled girl down there will help you. What hold on one second. What is your name? Your name and her name. Yes? Johan? What is it? Johan. Johan. Sebastian. Okay, go ahead. Next one. Gabrielle? Danielle. Demi. Demi. Wow. I I I don't have bad hearing. I just can't hear. Go ahead. All right. Go ahead, John. Thank you. Alright, I'm going to close with this illustration. So I'm I'm in the ministry. And I just feel like uh I'm getting a little cold. And so I said, Lord, um, could you make a way? Could you make a way for me to work with a family? It couldn't have been two weeks later. We had a nurse That worked in our church. And uh she called me on the phone and she said, uh, could you come to the hospital and visit a family? Their son uh was was playing on a portable basketball net, and when he went to dunt the ball The whole rim collapsed and his left leg sort of like compressed a little bit and all of his inside stuff inside there like got all messed up. And she said, you think you can come visit? And the Lord reminded me, can I ask a question? Did you ever pray for God? to answer a prayer and then when you say like uh I don't know I know you never done that amen so just adjust your hell a little bit would you please okay So the Lord reminded me, so I went to the hospital. So I go to visit this kid, his name is Jason Park. So when I go there, they're Italian. Okay. Okay. The kids all messed up in the leg, right? Okay? They got him out of a bed into a chair. And they got food on the bed. They're having like a smorgasbord on the bed. They got Alfredo, meatballs, pasta, bread. I'm thinking like this is party land. Amen. So I go to his mother, I said, ma'am, Ann, I I I I have to come to your house. I mean, you're having a party here. So I say, look, this was Friday. He's supposed to be getting out by Sunday. I said, Tuesday I'll come to your house and visit with you. She said, okay, that'll be fine. So I come. They live in a by-level. I get done visitation Tuesday night. And I come. And so when I come up, they got a bile-level, so downstairs is like a basement. So I look in the window and there's people everywhere I'm thinking, what in the world? I know she's got a couple kids, but she decides to invite her mother out back. She invites her daughter from out back, and she invites her sister to bring her niece, and there's like there's like ten people downstairs. I'm thinking, are we eating again or what? Hello? Watch now. So I go in, I knock on the door, they let me in, da-da-da-da-da. And Jason's like in a wheelchair. So I go down. So so I'm thinking to myself, Did you ever get in a place like you're thinking like what am I going to do? Ever been there? I I live there. Like I usually tell the GPS what to do. Like it got me lost the other day. I wanted to slap the thing. Amen? And and you know, I like to slap AI. I'm just saying, I'm just just I drove right past the place. Don't you love that stuff? Ow, ow, I love this, the old one. You ready? Recalculating. Re- I'm ready to recalculate your little head. Anyway, so sorry Anyway, I'll get right during the invitation. So anyway, here we go. So I figured, what am I gonna do? I said, okay, I'll just preach Jesus. That'd be a good idea, wouldn't it? So I get down there. I come to find out. The mother got saved. She got saved at camp when she was about twelve. And they were going to a Methodist church down the street who didn't preach salvation, but they paid all the bills down there for the thing to stay open. The mother owned an autobody place. Oh yeah, it's your birthday. So So I preach, I give the gospel, and the other nine all get saved that night. Now you listen to me. When I got out of that place and left Now, white man can't jump, but I was jumping about this high off the ground, amen? In my mind. Woo! Hello? So, you ready? Watch. This is it, it gets better. So they come to church on Sunday. That's a pretty good thing, isn't it? Hello, that's very unusual, right? Then they say, you think you could come to our house and have Bible study with us? Oh, you know, I'm a little busy, you know. What are you stupid? So I teach in the Bible. And I go there for about six months till eight thirty eight eight thirty at night, till twelve thirty, one o'clock in the morning. And they are just sucking up the Word of God. They all got saved, they all got baptized. Mom never got baptized, so the whole family got baptized. Kids then get enrolled in Christian school. And then that girl who was the niece, her name was Janine. Janine Davis was her name. She was getting ready to graduate and go to be a public school teacher. And she thought that she God was changing her heart and maybe she would go to a Christian college But she said, I'm dating somebody at my school. And my question to you is this, she said, should I be dating somebody who's not saved? That's pretty deep, isn't it? I said, well, Janine, let's invite him. I think his name is James. Invite him to the Bible study and we'll get him saved, and you'll all be on the same page So she goes back and asks him, and he says, I want nothing to do with that stuff. And she dropped him like a hot potato. And I said, two can't walk together unless they be agreed. Very rarely when you when somebody asks you counsel, do they really listen, they're just looking for you to agree with them what they're getting ready to do. Can I get a witness right there? So watch. So we go on a mission trip to go to the Dominican Republic, and she goes. And she we go to the Ron Autry, that family, the Autries. So we go, a moment go, she looks at the pastors Ron Altree's the missionary's son, she said, I like him. I said, Denise, he's engaged. His name was Jonathan. She said, well you told me if it's God's will and I'm supposed to marry him, God will break up the engagement. I guess she was listening, huh? Hello? So I pull his dad off to the side and said, do you would you want your son to marry that girl. She was a missionary girl too. He said she's a good girl, but he's not she's not for him. You ready? Watch now. Two weeks later, the engagement gets broken up. And they start a long-distance relationship without electronics. Letter writing. Hello. How foreign is that today? Oh, I'll text you. Hello? Watch it now. The next year we come back, and Jonathan proposes to her on the beaches in the Dominican Republic for them to get married. You ready? And they get married, and then they go around raising support. To go back to the Dominican Republic and now they have three or four kids serving Jesus. I said all that to say this. If we just change some things in our life, if we understood we need to respond to God's love and reach people, we need to reprogram our thinking. And then really, we need to really reach out, come on now, to lost or to hurting people. I close with this, and I always close with everything. If you're not saved here today, you can get saved today. Just like I got saved. It's easy as A, B, C. First, A, you have to admit you're a sinner. Romans three twenty-three for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Romans six twenty-three talks about a wage of that sin, for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. A is admit. B is believe. Acts 16, 31. And they said, they said to him, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. That's pretty amazing because Paul and Silas got beaten. And they weren't complaining. They were praising and singing. And the Philippian Joe got saved in his house. Hello? C. Call. Romans 9. 10. Thou wilt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in the heart that God raised him from the dead. Thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made known unto salvation. Heads bowed, eyes closed.