The passage of scripture you want to get to, 1 Corinthians chapter number 11 and verse number 23, I want to talk to you tonight about the benefits of the Lord's Supper. We do this, and of course it's very meaningful for us as believers, and uh there are some benefits. to observing and keeping the Lord's Supper. We want to talk about that. Let's read this passage of Scripture, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 23 through 31. Follow along with me in your Bibles as I read aloud He says, For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take ye, this is my body which is broken for you, this due in remembrance of me. After the same manner he also took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do as oft as you drink in remembrance of me For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. The challenge here in this passage of Scripture, obviously, is that we wouldn't take of the cup unworthily This is what this portion of the service is about as we contemplate and think about the benefits of the Lord's Supper. I hope you are beginning the process. He said, if you examine yourself, if you judge yourself, then God won't have to do it. Isn't it amazing that God Almighty gives us the opportunity to take care of it? I have on occasion when I knew my kids are so I mean wouldn't you hate to be one of my kids and just get to you be used as illustrations over and over. I have on occasion known that they did something. And I came in and gave them opportunity to fess up. to to list their crimes, right? And then they're trying to evaluate what they're supposed to what what do they want to confess to, because they don't want to confess to the wrong thing, you know? What does dad know? Is it this or this, you know? He probably knows both. You better just confess not to both of them, amen. Isn't it nice that God gives us that opportunity? At a time like this, he says, Hey This is that you might examine yourself, that you might judge yourself. A time of remembrance that's a benefit to the Christian in several ways This gathering together is of great importance. And it's commanded. He said, this do. You know when I was younger and I wasn't right with God, I just thought, oh well I'll just pass. I'll just I'm just not gonna take it because I don't want to speak unworthily. That's not really an option. As often as ye do, this do in remembrance of me. It's something that is commanded for us to do in remembrance of him, but not to do it unworthily. So he kind of draws a line in the sand for us and says, Here's what you need to do. Now is the time. You better not step across the line without it taken care of. And he gives us the opportunity to take care of it. And we can step across the line in confidence. Because if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. What is the benefit of the Lord's Supper? First of all, it's a probe of the possession of salvation. It probes down into our heart. To determine. There's several tests that are given to us right here where you are to examine yourself, and this probes into the heart of every single person who is sitting here tonight. First is the test of faith. Are you saved? Examine yourself whether you be in the faith. Are you in the faith? Because you're supposed to be saved, this is something that you do to remember what Christ has done for you You remember the sacrifice that He made and the blessing that it is to be saved and to be on your way to heaven. This is not just a a uh religious ceremony by some means we can absolve some sin or by some means take partake of this and and feel spiritual We ought to be more spiritual after observing the Lord's Supper because it's drawn us into the presence of God. But the spirituality does not come because we've taken of the bread or eaten or drinken of the cup. There's this probe into your heart. Do you possess salvation? Do you possess it? Examine yourself whether you be in the faith. Some of our children for years have been disappointed because they didn't get to partake of the Lord's Supper. They would see us do it at church and we would pass the bread and we'd pass the the cup and and it would go by them and we would say, No you can't can't do that and they're like why I want to be a part I want to do it because you need to be saved you need to be baptized part And they had to pass them up. But they desired it, but they weren't saved yet. It's for the saved. There's a test. It probes into your heart and says, Are you saved? Are you in the faith? There's also a test of fellowship. In verse number 29, he says, for he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself. Not deserning the Lord's body. Are you in fellowship with God? Do you have fellowship with God? Are you in fellowship with your fellow believers? Is there something there that needs to be taken care of? Do you have a conscience, as we talked about last Sunday morning, a conscience that's void of offense? Or as we talked about this morning, what an amazing thought to stand before God without rebuke. That God has nothing to rebuke you for. That's what we're doing. We examine ourselves and say, is there anything God That needs to be taken care of, that I I stand before you clean, forgiven by the blood of the Lamb. There's also the test of favor. Test of favor. In verse 30 and 31, he says, For this cause many are weak and sickly among Among you, and many sleep. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. Are you in favor? Experiencing God's favor, or are you experiencing God's judgment? on your life. If we partake unworthily, we'll be in danger of experiencing God's judgment But when we take worthily, we are observing in obedience what God wants us to do, and we are in favor. So this is a probe, first of all, into our heart and into our mind and our life where we have the opportunity To examine ourselves and find out, Lord, is there anything that needs to be done? This is the part that's up to us This is the part that we must do. We must take the time and get right with God. Not only is it a probe into the possession of salvation, but it's a picture. of the payment made for sin. A picture of the payment that was made for sin. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death. You do show the Lord's death. Jesus Christ, we know he came and he hung on the cross. He shed his blood. for you and I. The payment that was made. I know we're in church a lot and we hear it and it's preached and we talk about it, but it becomes old hat to us. It becomes uh old news. It becomes something that doesn't impact us anymore like it did once when you hear it for the first time that somebody died for you. Somebody shed their blood for you, gave their life for you So God wisely had this ordinance given to us that we might pause in the busyness of our life and remember and picture The broken body and the shed blood of Jesus Christ for you and I. We remember the Passover and what it means. In Matthew 26, 17, he says, Now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat? the Passover. Remembering what the picture that was there where the death angel would pass over because the blood was shed. The blood that was shed for you and I, and when we have been washed and made clean by the shed blood of the Lamb, we do not have to experience that second death. We get to, we don't have to be eternally separated from God forever and ever. Because of the shed blood of the Lamb, we get to go on to be for eternity in a place called heaven. Our sins forgiven. We remember the payment that was shed, the blood that was shed for us. Matthew 26, verse 26 through 28, he says, And as they were eating, Jesus took the bread and blessed it. And break it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take eat, this is my body. And he took the cup, and he gave thanks, and he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the New Testament, which was shed for many for the remission of sins. His blood was shed for the remission. Of sins, so that our sins could be forgiven. The one Lamb whose blood was shed for all the sins of the world. We remember the payment that was paid. what it cost. The heavenly God the Father and what it cost the Son who gave his life We remember it's because of that payment that our relationship is restored into fellowship with God. Not only is it a picture of the payment and a probe into the possession of salvation, but it also is a it points to the promise. of the second coming. It points to the promise. He says, there that you do this Until I come. For as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he Come. He's coming again for us. And this is what we do as a remembrance of what he's done for us. And as a reminder of the promise that He's coming again, He's going to take us out of this world and take us to be with Him in His presence. When the fullness of time was fulfilled, Jesus came and was born in a manger. And when the fullness of time is fulfilled, he will come. Come again and split the eastern sky and take us up. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. He's gone to prepare a place for you and I. He's getting ready. Are we getting ready to be with him? In Acts 1. 11, he says, Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. He's coming again. This is a picture. of the fact that he's coming again, a reminder of that fact for us. The line's been drawn in the sand. Jesus has given us the opportunity. Judge yourself. And he won't have to judge you. This due. We're going to absorb the Lord's Supper And I challenge you to don't do it unworthily. Because we don't have to. We can come to the the throne of grace and confess sin and forsake it, and he is faithful and just to forgive us every time. And we can come boldly into the throne of grace because of the Jesus blood that was shed for us.