Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter number seven. Matthew chapter number seven. As we go out and hang John and Romans on doors, there's a particular sign that comes up on occasion. that I pay close attention to. Now I know what you think it is, but I'm not talking about the no so listening time I'm talking about the beware of dog sign. That is the sign that I pay attention to. Uh you know, you see that beware of dog and then you start looking for the chain Where's the chain or the cable? Does it reach this far or is it empty? There's nothing on it. Uh if they have a gate or a fence, I'll usually rattle the gate, you know, to to see if the dog comes out, like see what's up Maybe he's sitting leisurely under the porch waiting for me to pass through the gate and come rushing at me, you know. Nothing like making you feel like an idiot when you're running from a little chihuahua or something. But you know, I mean who wants to get bit? Nobody, so you don't stick around if the dog comes out. There's many such signs in our society today. Warnings, you know, uh beware signs are are out there. Some of them are funny, like the one that says, forget about the dog, beware of the owner. Or beware of anyone found here at night. They will also be found here in the morning. Beware of the children is one I read. Some, they might say warning. One warning sign said warning. Uh I have a typo here. Baiting. It's supposed to say baiting. It doesn't say baiting. Warning, baiting deer is illegal. This pile of corn is for squirrels only. Any deer caught eating this corn will be promptly shot. So you know that's advantageous, you know, we might see uh some that say danger, danger, uh you know, keep out, that kind of stuff. One sign said danger. If that's not enough to keep you from touching this wire fence, then please, by all means, see what high voltage feels like So there's some warning signs. So beware. The idea of of you know caution of like listen, look up, be aware of what's happening. Be aware. Well, it's Many times, actually twenty-eight times in the Word of God we find this word, beware. It's a red flag. It's a warning sticker. It's uh an admonition to listen. Pay attention to this. Beware of what's going on. The Bible gives us a warning tonight in our text, not about a dog, but about a wolf. Tonight's message is entitled, Beware of the Wolf. Look in Matthew chapter 7, verse number 15. Follow along as I read these verses, they go together. But Matthew chapter 7, verses 15 through 20. He says, Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening woods, woves. Ye shall know them by their fruit. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Wherefore, by their fruits We see here in verse number 15 the admonition to beware of false prophets. These false prophets are described for us here as. Wolves. Wolves in sheep's clothing. These Wolves, can I remind you, uh Satan's goal and ambition has always been to provide a counterfeit. to provide a substitute, to provide something fake, something false, for the real thing. From The beginning of time until now. There's always something false for the real thing. Of course, one very prevalent illustration would be that of counterfeit money for true currency. We have fake flowers, which can be pretty, but they're not the real thing. There are knockoff tools for the real thing. I mean you just try and put a breaker bar on that Harbor Freight Ratchet and uh see what happens Okay, there's some knockoff tools. They're not quite they they look like the same thing. They may even feel like the same thing, but I'll tell you what, if you really have to use that tool, you'll find out why it was only $7 opposed to sixty dollars. You know, there's there's a difference. It's not the real thing. Well in Christendom there is some things that people look at And they look at and they think, well, that looks like the real thing. Christ says here you gotta beware, because there are wolves that are wrapped in sheep's clothing. You all know that this passage of scripture here, Matthew chapter seven, is the conclusion of that great Sermon on the Mount, which began back in chapter number five. This Sermon on the Mount picks up in chapter number five, and Christ is talking about describing the righteous life. He gives us those beatitudes. What a Christian is supposed to look like, how a Christian is supposed to talk, he describes the fact that we're to be salt and light in a dark world. He talks to us about responding to lust and anger correctly, about not retaliating He describes the reward for giving and the need to have a giving spirit in this selfish world He sets for us a pattern of prayer in the middle of this, in that Lord's Prayer, which many of you could quote tonight. What I'm saying is as he walks through this Sermon on the Mount, this really could be described as a thesis. On Christian living. He gets to the end of that description of Christian living, and he concludes, he's kind of wrapping up here in chapter number seven, and he says, listen I've given you all these things about Christian living, about how you're supposed to live and what you're supposed to do, but I want you to beware there are some False prophets. They look real, they look good, but they're not. They're actually woods. False prophets are not new in our day, nor are they going to go away anytime soon. From the garden until the time we get to glory. It has been and will continue to be Satan's plan to bring false prophets into the church I was motivated tonight to preach on this not because I believe there is a false prophet in our midst, unless it was Stephanie. No, pray for her. Um, there's no false prophet in our midst, but it's an administeral warning. Christ says, beware. This is something that the church needs to be aware of that it can creep in among you. That we've got to be observant and be aware of this thing. So I want to give you some thoughts tonight about this. Be aware, beware of the wolves, first of all, their deception. The wolf here has wrapped himself in sheep's clothing. He has on purpose disguised himself. He it is his plan. And you know that a wolf is a predator. Sheeps aren't predators But a wolf is a predator. A wolf on purpose is going after something, seeking to get and destroy sheep. Oh, he's going to dress like a sheep. He's going to change his appearance. He's going to modify his conversation so that he looks like a sheep. So that on the surface he talks like a sheep. Some months ago, maybe even last year, I can't remember exactly when, we had somebody coming to church and They were attending church here on a regular basis for several weeks. And through several conversations, they had some very different doctrinal ideas. And my antenna went up. I said, this is something I gotta watch. I gotta be careful who this person is spending time with I gotta be careful who they're influencing because they had some very specific unbiblical doctrines that they had picked up And I I just in conversation I caught that and I said, Oh, here's something I gotta be aware of. I gotta realize. Now I didn't say, oh, you know, get out. No, I I watched. Let's wait, let's see what happens. Let's find out. Let's see if he can learn the truth of the Word of God, because that's what they need. But we've got to watch for that. They'll look just like any other good old boy. Just like any other sheep. Much of what he'll say will sound just like any other sheep. They may even sound like your pastor But you gotta beware. You know most of the time what I'm saying is that most of the time false prospects, they're not gonna come in here with horns on their head. They're not going to come in here saying, listen, you need to begin to start to bow to Allah. You know, you need to start praying to Buddha. They're not going to say that. That's not how they're going to present themselves. Why? Because they're wolves in sheep's clothing. But what they do, their deception is, is that they pervert the message of the gospel of God. You see, a prophet by definition is a man that is carrying God's message. He's carrying a message that God gave him to give to the people You think about that, Prophet Nathan, given the responsibility to carry that message to David and say to him, Thou art the man. In the scriptures, we consistently see that the prophet of God was commissioned by God to carry a message to his people. And by application, that is what a prophet is: somebody carrying God's message to the people. And what happens when a false prophet comes in, they pervert that message. They change the message of the book. They change the truth of what God is saying. He will speak and use the words of God, but he perverts them. A prophet claims to have a message from God, but it's not the truth. In Jeremiah 14, 14, the Bible says, Then the Lord said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name. I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake unto them. They prophesy unto you false visions and divinations. and a thing of not and the deceit of their heart. That's a false prophet. Bringing the message or declaring they have a message from God, they sound right, but they're not right. And we've got to beware of that. We've got to watch it. And Christian, this this is important. I am going to be doing some teaching here tonight, but I want you to understand that in the day and age in which we live today, there's far too many Christians There is no reason that somebody from a church like Hunt Valley Baptist Church should ever end up a member of a Mormon meeting place. Should ever end up following or going after the Jehovah's Witness. You ought to know enough Bible. You ought to know enough of what God says is truth That you couldn't get hoodwinked or swayed or pulled into one of these false doctrines. This is important in what I'm saying in today's world. Now maybe they're not going to come into the church house. Maybe they're not going to come down here and be sitting in the pew where I will be aware of the fact that, listen, this guy's got some goofy thoughts And, you know, I mean, if he's talking to somebody that's here and they're established and they're strong in their faith, then that person can encourage and help them. You know, Jacob's pretty articulate. Jacob knows what he believes. Jacob could talk to somebody and help guide them in the right way. But if he begins to talk to somebody that's just started coming to church, and I see them start spending a lot of time together, I might want to watch out for that and say, listen, I've got to be careful what he's saying, how he's influencing this new believer. Because he's going to influence them or teach them wrong doctrine But what I'm saying is that in today's world the world's so small and all of us have access to every kind of teacher and philosophizer and and you know podcast and blog out there. And I'm telling you, you need to beware what you're listening to. Beware who it is that you're letting influence your mind. Because they sound good, they sound right, but they're wolves in sheep's clothing. They take the message of God and they pervert it In 2 Peter 2, verses 1 and 2, he describes this message. He says, But they were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachings among you. So he's saying, listen, there was false prophets among the people there. There's going to be false prophets among you. And he goes on, he says, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies. Even denying the Lord that bought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction You see, they pervert the message of God and turn it into a damnedable heresy. Damnable heresy means a destructive teaching, something that destroys the foundations of what Christ has wanted you to learn They even deny the Lord. They deny certain truths about God, such as his virgin birth, his sinless life, his deity, his anointing, his death, his resurrection, or his second coming. You've got to be aware of this. Our church has been ridiculed and attacked for taking a stand on the King James Bible. But can I ask you how much perversion, we're talking about the perverted message of God, how much perversion is okay? You know, we we we believe that you ought to use the King James Bible and and I mean we don't preach on it every week and don't kick people out if they're carrying a different version and we don't address that or deal with it. But As a rule, we believe that this is the inspired word of God and we want to keep and hold and have the pure word of God But people just say, well, that's just narrow-minded, that's old-fashioned, or that's you're you're being bigoted or or whatever. But how much perversion of the Word of God is okay? Let me ask you. In one copy of the Word of God, instead of reading honor thy mother and thy father, the fifth commandment reads like this. Don't diss or cuss your mama. And if you know who your daddy be, don't diss him either. That is the word of God. That is a translation that you can buy off the shelf in Christian bookstores. Right. You say, well that's too far, Pastor. What about this? Number nine. Instead of thou shalt not bear false witness against thy brother He the this translation reads, don't be stitching on another man to save yourself That's not even teaching the right thing. It's i it's supposed to be don't bear false witness What they said is don't save yourself by telling on somebody else, don't be a tattletale. They don't even say the same thing So how much perver you say, well that's too far, obviously, Pastor, that's too far, but how much perversion is okay? And who gets to decide that? Oh well that's too far. And that's just one translation of the Word of God. What about a gender neutral Bible? Yeah. Well the Southern Baptist Convention According to Christianity Today, a writer there wrote this: the Southern Baptist Convention, America's largest Protestant denomination, and one of its most conservative. If its leaders and members are now tolerating a softer and more inclusive approach to gender, it might be the bellwether of things to come in this cultural war over gender. Here's what I'm saying. The Southern Baptist Church is not only selling, but they produced a general neutral Bible that they're selling in their uh I I guess I should say gender inclusive. They're re they're removing the word of God. That and it perverts the message And you say, well obviously that's too far, Pastor. That's we can't that that's just ridiculous. Why would you even give that example? Well, because I'm saying how far is too far. And do we just all get to arbitrarily make up our mind what's too far and what's not too far? Or how about we just stay with the tried and true old-fashioned book? That's why we do that. That way we don't have to wonder. That way we don't have to say, oh well, that's probably too far. This is not. Let's just stay with let's just stick with the old-fashioned book. With the King James Bible. That's why we could do it. We've got to beware, and this is important because there are false prophets looking to destroy Christians. Beloved, this is Jesus speaking at the close of the Sermon on the Mountain. He says this is something you've got to beware of. You've got to watch for. One way in which they pervert the message is by leaving truth out. Many times, beloved, it's not a matter of what they say, but what they don't say. You've got to listen and be careful and be discerning. When somebody opens the scriptures and they deal with something, Look at that passage of scripture and understand what they're saying might be true, but what did they leave out? You know when you're dealing with your kids, if they don't tell you the whole truth, you would say you lied Because you didn't tell me well, I didn't lie, I just didn't say. Right. That's what happens in today's. This is a major way in which many of your modern seeker-sensitive uh neo-evangelical churches are. A lot of what they say is true. A lot of what they say is right. The problem is, is they're not giving the whole counsel of God. They're not giving all of the truth. They're not giving that to him. The false prophet, beloved, will have a ministry of comfort when in the book the prophets had a ministry of confrontation. So think about that. A false prophet will have a ministry of comfort when in the book, the Bible Prophets had a ministry of confrontation. They spoke the truth. Yes, they speak the truth in love. But Nathan said, thou art the man. They confronted sin They didn't just smile and say, well, I I don't think it's my place to say what is right or wrong. or what people should do or shouldn't do. I just have a ministry of encouragement. Okay? They are on purpose perverting the truth of the gospel Because they won't share the whole truth. Now, a lot of things what they say is right, but they're only going to deal with the positive thing. Beloved, a few years ago, I myself was convicted in my method of presenting the gospel because it was very weak on hell, it was very light on sin. And very strong on heaven. Because who doesn't want to go to heaven? It's not hard necessarily to win somebody to heaven. Like, yeah, I want to go to heaven. But the truth of the matter is before they can ever go to heaven, they've got to know that they're a sinner and what they're being saved from is the penalty of sin which would condemn them to hell in order to be forgiven so that they can go to heaven. But that's the problem, is I was presenting, and I'm telling you this, I'm confessing to you tonight, I was presenting it, you know, wouldn't you like to go to heaven? God wants you to take to heaven, get you to heaven. But Jesus died for you so you could go to heaven But no, he didn't. He died to forgive you of your sin. The benefit is you get the blessing of heaven. But we've got to be careful in how we deal with these things because we need to understand the whole truth. Not just the positive part. Yeah. So false prophets, they want to talk about the love of God, but they don't deal with the judgment of God. They want to talk about heaven but not hell. They're glad to talk about hope but not holiness. They talk about compassion but not character. They spend time talking about salvation but never address sanctification. They're glad to talk about peace, but never purity. Their joy talking about grace, but not godliness. They'll touch on the topic of service, but not on separation. They love to deal with forgiveness, but not about faithfulness. They're willing to address righteousness, but not about repentance, which is how you achieve righteousness by repenting of the sin that separates you between you and your God. Glad to talk about inspiration, but not integrity Contentment, but never conviction. Abundance, but not accountability to God with that abundance. This is what you've got to listen for. Be cautious of. Beware. They're glad to talk about worshiping God, but never the wrath of God. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. That's the whole truth. Another characteristic is that they prosper even in a wicked society In 2 Peter chapter 2, which we were reading, verses 1 through 3, he says, But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. Who privately shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that brought them up, and bring upon themselves swift destruction, and many shall follow their pernicious ways By reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. Many shall follow their pernicious ways. It's clear, beloved, that they're going to have a good following. Many are going to follow them. They're skilled with their tongue. It's mind-boggling how fast some of these groups are growing today. They're busting at the seams. They've got secondary and and third and fourth campuses spread around and and they can't fit in all the campuses. They're growing like crazy Even though their ways are pernicious. Even though this this 2 Peter chapter 3, verse number 3 says, and through covetousness Shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you? Describing the true motivation behind what it is they're saying, what they're doing. Yeah. They're prospering at the cost of the souls of men. They're still growing. Beloved, you just need to read the gospels to know that Jesus never made it easy to follow him. Anybody that was going to be a follower of Christ, he says, take up your cross and follow me. Deny yourself and follow me. You're going to suffer persecution. Follow me. Every time, it was never never anything that he said was going to be easy for them to do. It was gonna be a struggle. You said it. There's a price that you've got to be willing to pay if you're gonna follow Christ. And the fact is it's never popular. Churches that have produced this kind of comfortable Christianity are not serving the God of the Bible. They have made the road broad. They have made the road broad, but that's not what the Bible says. Broad is the road that leadeth to destruction. And that's what they've done. They've opened it up with this easy believism. Come as you are, leave as you were. God doesn't expect anything of you. He just loves you. Hey, the love of God is true. God loves you right where you're at. There is no denying that. God loves you no matter how far you fall, and his love can reach down to you, but he loves you too much to leave you that way. And the problem with a lot of this false teaching is that they're saying you can stay that way and God will still love you. God will still love you, but He will judge you. He will judge you. We see their damnation in Second Peter chapter two verses one through three, verse number three says And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now is a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not God's going to deal with them. In his time, God will deal with them. In Matthew chapter 7, verses 21 to 23, just after the I finished reading in verse number twenty as we open, but in twenty one through twenty-three he describes and talks about what's going to happen to These that declared unto everybody, they said, Lord, Lord. He says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth the will of the Father which is in heaven. Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. You see, beloved, there are many false prophets, and God's going to deal with them one day. But what are we to do between now and then? With these false prophets. Well, let me tell you, you need to use discernment. You need to use discernment. He says there, you shall know them by their fruits. He's describing the fruits and and these fruit trees and and it's obvious that you don't get figs from thistles You see, Christ is clearly describing this, it gives us this illustration. You know, there's a couple of fruit trees on the property over there. And if I didn't know already what they were, let's say I would look at it, it's a tree. Right, looks like a tree. I mean, has leaves like a tree, has limbs like a tree, looks like a tree. I could even discern maybe that it's a fruit tree by the way branches grow everywhere, every direction. you know, comes out of the ground. Fruit trees grow like crazy. And I might know that, but I might not know what kind of tree it is. But here's the thing, all I have to do is wait until harvest time, and then you know what kind of tree it is. And what he's saying in these verses here Is that somebody might come in among you and you might not be sure? They might look like a sheep, they might act like a sheep, might talk like a sheep, then everything might look right, but all you gotta do is wait to see the fruit. There might be a season where you're not sure, but at some point, who they are and what they are producing, what their life is bringing, you're going to know by their character, you're going to know by their converts. Who they are, what they are. So you've got to use discernment. What kind of a Christian is produced by what they're giving? Then he gives us some guidance that I want to share with you tonight in Romans chapter 16, and we'll be wrapping it up. If you wouldn't mind turning there, Romans chapter 16, I want to show you a couple of verses. What do we do? How do we have discernment, exercise discernment about these that are false teachers? How do we handle them? Well, we've got to beware, or we could say be aware. Listen, no who they are. He says in Romans chapter 16, verses 17 and 18, he says, Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause defenses, division, and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned. And avoid them. For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speech deceive the hearts of the simple. Describing false teachers. It describes for us a lot of truths here in a way that we could maybe use this to discern Who they are. First, be aware of them. Be aware. Mark them. Mark them. Know who they are. Mark them. For they cause division Any spirit-led Christian is going to pursue peace. Any spirit-led Christian is going to pursue unity in the body That's without question. We've had many taught teachings on unity and know that this is a requirement of Christ for his church that we be unified. So somebody that's consistently causing division or or uh questioning the doctrine of the Word of God. Then they contra they contradict they cause division, they contradict doctrine. They believe that they have studied and are smarter than everyone else. They know the truth and they're going to share it with everybody. These kind of people, instead of letting the scripture dissect their life, they dissect the scripture We see also here the a that they are concerned about themselves. In verse number 18, that they're doing this for their own belly. They're concerned about them. They're not concerned about the church. They're not concerned about the flock of God. They're not concerned about the overall plan or ministry of God. But they're concerned about themselves. In 2 Peter 2 verse number 3 it says, And through covetousness shall with feigned words make merchandise of you. Again, it's personal gain that is a motivation. We see that by their clever words, by their skill with their tongue, verse number 18 there, that they have they have they're clever. They're skilled. Might be one way you know I'm not a false teacher because I'm not real skilled with my words. But uh Lord's helping me, amen And that's what we gotta do is let let him help us. But you know, uh some men are gifted. Brother Greg was telling me about uh one of his friends this week. He was just talking about this friend and how this friend is just he's always excited about God and thrilled about what God's doing and uh You know, his personality is just it comes across and you can't help but get excited when he's excited. Just that kind of personality, you know. And somebody could take that kind of personality and sway people. Because people are drawn to that. And I'm not saying they're implying that his friend is that way by any means. I'm just saying that sometimes that somebody was skilled with words, somebody with a dynamic personality, can draw people in. and sway them. They're skilled with their tongue. I know you all have heard about the tragic events which took place on November 18th, 1978. When Jim Jones coerced 918 of his followers, over 300 of them children. to drink cyanide-laced Kool-Aid, which to this day now is a euphemism for believing anything. Oh, you drank the Kool-Aid. Yep. Yep. But he was skilled with his words. Listen what one author said about him. Jones knew how to inspire hope He was committed to the people in need. He started counseling programs, juvenile delinquents, spent time with juvenile delinquents. He started a job placement center. He opened a rest home and a home for the mentally retarded. He had a clinic and a vocational training center. He provided free legal aid and a community center. all while preaching about God. He even claimed to cast out demons, perform miracles, and provide healing for the sick On the other hand, we see that all marks of a false prophet are prevalent in him. He consistently promoted himself through the use of celebrities Which is a common vehicle gained used to gain credibility. Do you see that happen today? This is an article written many years ago by a secular person, not even a Christian. This is just a secular. He promoted himself through the use of celebrities, a common vehicle used to gain credibility. He used the language and the form of faith to gain his power. Jones created a warm, outwardly Christian community and managed to deceive thousands. Amazing with his words. Skilled with his tongue. Understand, beloved, they have gifted words, and we've got to be careful. The Bible says, and by good words and fair speech they deceive the hearts of the simple. What do we do? Verse number 17 tells you, avoid them. Avoid them. Listen, we we today people are taking a soft approach. It's it's uh the mantra is everybody love everybody. After all, we all love God. We're all serving the same Lord. And let's just all hold hands and sing kumbaya. And if you want to draw any lines in the sand, then you're the one that doesn't love like Christ loved. Hmm? That's where we're at. But the Bible says here, avoid them Says mark them. Don't have association with them because they are false teachers. Even though there's a movement today to deal softly with these things, we need to be careful, beware of the false doctrine that's out there and avoid them. Don't listen to their foolishness on the internet. And also we see here he says, apply your heart to wisdom Apply your heart to wisdom. Verse number 19 in Romans, I don't know if you're still there, but he says, For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad, therefore, on your behalf, but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good and simple concerning evil. He says, you've got to be wise. I was talking to Pastor Derek today about my message and I told him, I said, you know, I'm a little weak on I I don't have in my notes enough directly pointing out this problem or that problem or or this group said that or that group said this and just to warn the people about these these false things and he said you know you you don't teach people what's false by giving them examples of false. Because you can never Give them all the examples. You could never give them all, and as soon as you gave them all that you could find right now, there would be a new one tomorrow, you know. So what you need to do is be wise concerning that which is good. And that's how you'll keep from falling into false doctrine. I didn't need to give you a bunch of examples of those things. You needed to know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.