Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter twelve, Luke chapter twelve this evening. We began a couple of weeks ago looking at the places in the Word of God. where the Lord felt it was important to add a extra level of caution. He extended the term in front of a thought or idea of beware. There are many topics in the Word of God. There's admonitions to us to be better or to do better things, and there's reproofs uh for those bad things that we are to avoid or stay away from. But there are times, there's a few topics that the Lord was addressing, and when he brought that up, he felt it necessary to encourage the saints to beware. He's saying there's some things that uh for some one reason or another saints seem to be caught off guard by. There's some things that when they approach that The saints, they fall in the pit easily when this comes up. And so uh the Lord, in the Word of God, put in there for us, hey, beware of this. Beware of this situation. Watch out for it. He put this warning sign up, this caution sign in the Word of God for us to acknowledge and realize how important it was because there is things that will destroy the life of a believer and God is concerned about it. We saw first of all a couple of weeks ago that warning concerning the wolf that apt description of the false prophet which would come in and uh destroy uh God's people. That wolf in sheep's clothing. On the outside he looks good, everything looks fine, but actually he's a ravening wolf He's he's there to destroy. And that caution, that beware of the wolf, and then we saw last week how we're to beware of the wisdom of men. Uh be cautious of that, be weary of that philosophy of man that permeates our society today. The humanistic idea, the endeavor to explain life outside of God. And we don't want to do that, but it's there and it permeates our society and we've got to be careful, we've got to beware that it's there, and we don't let it come into the church and influence our faith or our Christianity Beware of the philosophy of men, that wisdom of man. Tonight we turn here to our text in the book of Luke, and we see Jesus himself talking, and he tells us to beware of covetousness. If we wanted to keep it alliterated, we could say, beware of your wants. Beware of your wants, that covetousness. The desire of man to want, to seek after things which are not his. I'm afraid, beloved, that this has become an acceptable sin in Christendom. We joke about it. We make excuses about it. But I'm afraid we don't see it as the sin it is and confess it to be so. Look in Luke chapter 12, verse number 15 for our text. He says, and he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. Now I don't believe in the confessional that practice where you would come into a little booth and speak through some some great and and bear your soul or confess your sins to another man The very idea that a man, another man, could somehow impute grace or forgive sin and make it all okay to me is just ludicrous It's it's mind boggling. I I the just the idea is just beyond me how so many have bought into that. Yet, according to a Catholic priest in the New York Diocese, after thirty-eight years of sitting week after week in the confessional and hearing men and women of every walk of life describe unto him every imaginable sin. He says you can't even begin to think of all that he had sat and listened to People describing to him the sins that they had performed or participated in and wanted absolution for. He said in 38 years of sitting in the confessional, never one time did somebody confess the sin of covetousness. You see, beloved, it's because I don't think we see it. I don't believe in the confessional, but I believe that there's one mediator between God and man. That's the man Christ Jesus. He is the high priest, and we are to go to him and we are to confess our sins to him. So I wonder if that truth holds in this room tonight. I wonder how many of us in our life have ever come to Jesus Christ and confessed the sin of covetousness? Do we really see it as sin? Do we recognize it in our heart? Do we acknowledge it and confess it to the Lord and say, listen, I've been covetous? I've desired that which wasn't mine, and I've sought after that instead of seeking after you and God, I need you to forgive me for that. I know if you've never confessed it, that's because you've never been covetous. Right? Yeah, uh I know every one of us here, we we're like uh yeah. Mm-hmm. There's been that, but I mean as I pondered this or thought about it in my own life, I was challenged. Covetousness is something that we all deal with. I heard a story about a Quaker who one time posted a sign. He posted a sign on the edge of his property and said he had extra ten acres, and he would be glad to give it to any man that was truly content. That being a fundamental faith of Quakers, you know, to be content with what you have and sign wasn't up there a day and some man came by and knocked on his door and said, Well, I'm here to accept the ten acres you're given away. And he says, Well are you a truly content man? And he says, Oh, I I'm very, very content. I'm very satisfied. I'm very happy with everything that God has given me. I'm I'm probably as content as they come. The Gregor said, Well, if thou dost have all that thou wantest, then why dost thou want my ten acres? Yeah, that's the thing. Covetousness, it it kind of creeps in. It just kind of shows up, and we before we realize it, we're like, oh Yeah, that's me too. And we've got to be cautious about this idea of covetousness. He says, beware. Beware of covetousness I want you to see covetousness pictured for us in our text here. This story that he gives to us in this text where he says this, beware of covetousness, is in the middle. It is in the introduction of a parable. This the the the fact of the matter is is covetousness is a matter of the heart. Right In Mark chapter 7, we'll get back to our text here in just a second, but in Mark chapter 7, he says, thefts? Covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness, all these evil things come from within and defile the man. These are things that come from within the heart. It's a rooted sin that's from inside that springs up. And from that many other sins spring up. It is a selfish desire and a sinful lack of contentment rooted in the heart of man that produces covetousness in our life. This verse acts as an introductory verse to the parable of the fool in a fix. I taught on this parable back in, I don't know, 18 or 19. as I was teaching through the different parables, but the fool and a fix, this wealthy man who had abundance Well, as an introduction to that, Christ was engaged in a conversation with the Pharisees, which many times was the kind of prelude to the parables. Because he wanted to teach them a truth. And those that were present would learn. Christ engaging in this conversation with the Pharisees, he's conversing with them about the importance of eternal things. He tells them, don't worry about this life. Matter of fact, in verses 4 and 5, he says, And I say unto you, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. But I will forewarn you, whom ye shall fear, fear him, which after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I said unto you, fear him. He's discussing with them eternal things about life beyond today and saying, listen, this temporal life, these things here are going to pass. There's really nothing that we should ultimately fear because this life is but a vapor, appears for a little time, then vanisheth away. But what's going to happen after you're gone? Where are you going to be? And in the midst of all of this discussion about eternal things, someone brings up the question that has no eternal value at all, and he's concerned as to his portion of the inheritance. The temporal things. I mean, how many battles have been fought over the inheritance? From cr from the time of Christ till today, it's no different. It's no different. The battle over the inheritance, this portion of money that somebody might stand to gain and and boy, it brings out the worst of people, doesn't it? He says, Man, I want this. Verse number 13. And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. Christ goes on to show him what was in his heart. He goes on to show him the heart of the matter. The picture he lays for them, he says it's really not about the money. It's not about the inheritance of land or whatever it is. It's about what's in your heart. And he says, beware of covetousness. That covetousness that is rooted in your heart. The fact of the matter is, is when we are so consumed with the temporal, we miss the eternal. We miss the eternal things that God wants to teach us and give us and show us when the temporal, when this world consumes so much of our thoughts. It's a problem, beloved, that even many times when we're sitting in church and we're here on purpose with the goal of hearing from heaven. But even as we're sitting in church, many times the problems or the things of this life, the temporal things that are going to pass away and be done away with, are holding so much of our attention we're missing completely what God wants to give us. The temporal things. They're grabbing a hold of us. Most of our commandments, most of the ten commandments, deal with deeds. If you begin with the first and go all the way down through the tenth, it's dealing with a deed, with an action. This commandment deals with desire. This is one of the Ten Commandments, the tenth. Recall, thou shalt not covet. I was shocked as I began studying this how much the Bible says about covetousness. It is all through the Bible. If you look up the word covet, covetous, covetousness, and just read those passages, you'll you'll be shocked to see how prevalent And prominent this thought is with our Lord Jesus Christ. Covetousness, beloved, has destroyed as many lives as any sin. And it is prevalent as much in the pulpit as it is in the pew. We we see on television today and and Have these exposes that are done on the prosperity preachers and how they they bought their second dreamliner, their second jet, you know And how they can with a straight face say they need that for God is amazing And we can we can look at them, but what about the covetousness in our own heart? The real problem, beloved, is because it's a heart matter. You and I can be chalked full of covetousness. And we can come into church and have our Bible and sit down and sing the songs and look like everything's okay. Yet our heart is full of covetousness, desiring that which is not ours That's what covetousness is. To desire or wish for with eagerness, to desire earnestly. I wrote this. It's talking what we were discussing here is the desire for that which you have no natural right to To desire that which you have no natural right to. It's wrong to desire another man's wife. You have no natural right for that To desire that is wrong. To to even think about it, we know the Bible tells us is wrong. To desire another man's property Is wrong because you have no natural right to obtain that or to have that. To desire some things that you don't have a natural right to get Is covetousness. Covetousness turns a simple desire into an out-of-control lust. In Romans chapter 7, verse number 7, he says, What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid, nay I had not known sin, but for the law, for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. You see, covetousness takes a desire and turns it into a lust, which is an uncontrolled passion. Covetousness causes somebody to go beyond what they would normally do to attain that which they shouldn't have. You don't have the money for a car, but you begin to think about it. You begin to think, boy, I would really enjoy having that car, man, the the heated seats and and the the power windows and and oh it would be so nice and comfortable and that and then you started thinking, well you know what, after all, it's gonna get better gas mileage. I'm gonna be saving money by by getting better gas mileage. And so that's gonna be a good reason. You start thinking about it, and you know you don't you and your family don't have money for that car, but you begin to ponder and think about it and begin to dream about it, and that desire turns into covetousness to obtain and to have something that you shouldn't have. Because it's going to overextend your family and it's not wise and you shouldn't do that. But you think, well, I'll just go by the dealership and just test drive one. And you go to test drive one and you start sitting in there and you're like, oh man, I really like this. This is awesome. And then the dealer is like, hey, we can get you into this thing today We could put you in here, I mean, for a small payment and and and then you start figuring out how you could swing it. And then you get mad at your wife for trying to be a voice of reason. And discuss why this might not be the wisest thing that covetousness going after that which you shouldn't attain And you put your family in great hardship to get a hold of something A car is not bad. Nothing wrong with getting a car. Provided there's means and the ability is there. You're not overextending yourself. You don't have to rob God to do it. You don't have to stop giving to missions or make yourself so tight that Somebody else had a need, you'd think, well, I would like to be able to do that, but I can't do anything because every spare dollar is paying for this car. You know, the newness is going to wear off pretty quick and you're going to be saddled with that burden. God hates covetousness. According to Isaiah 57, verse number 17, it makes him angry. He says, for the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth. For the iniquity, you know what iniquity is? Sin. For the sin of his covetousness was I wroth. Mad, angry. Covetousness is bad thing. It's so As I read through these passages today, one after the next, one after the next, it's so important to our Lord, and yet I think, how little do our minds think about it? How much do we allow covetousness to r remain in our hearts? And it according to this, it makes God angry. And yet we give no thought to our covetous ways. God said it was a standard necessary for Moses' men. When they were choosing out some men in Exodus 1821, he says, Moreover, thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness. To place no- He says out of all the requirements that God could have set for these men to be leaders, I mean he could have said these men have to know the Pentateuch. These men have to be able to uh lead other men. These men have to be a certain age. These men have to be I mean he could have made any any requirement that he wanted to, but for him what he listed here of the couple of things that were important to God that these men be is they couldn't be covetous. Because this is a heart problem From this heart problem flows or springs many other things. It's also, of course, you know, a requirement for a pastor that he's not to be covetous. Because we know the problems that rise from somebody in leadership whose goal and ambition is to get gained. That's not what the ministry is for. Sometimes maybe it's easier to see from the pulpit or in the pulpit. than in our own hearts. The Bible tells us very clearly it's not to be part of any Christian's life. In Ephesians 5, verse number 3, he says, but fornication and uncleanliness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you. I mean you think about the list there, I mean this fornication, uncleanliness, filth filthy living. And covetousness. This is something very important to our Lord. It's not to be named one time among the saints. According to 1 Corinthians 5, verse number 11, we're to separate from somebody who's given to covetousness. We're not supposed to be, we're not supposed to sit down and eat dinner with them. He says, but now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother, be a fornicator, or covetous Or an idolater, which covetousness is idolatry, according to Colossians, or a railer or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such in one know not to eat. Again, I'm just trying to give you a picture, a little smattering of some of the pictures, some of the scriptures in the Bible that describe covetousness and how God views it. And yet we as Christians, and and I'm as guilty as anybody in here, we give it so little thought. We see covetousness practiced. everywhere. It's part of human nature. You can take the smallest baby and from I mean doesn't even have to be able to talk yet and the baby The only toy that they want is the toy that the other kid has. There could be ten toys the child has to crawl across to get to that toy, and the child will want the toy somebody else is holding. Covetousness. It's human nature. It's part of our life. And the Lord says, hey, beware. Beware of this. Now we get older and and that covetousness doesn't just go away. The toys just get bigger and more expensive. That's all. We we've got to beware of that and realize how uh important this is to our Lord and Savior. Men covet, not just Possessions, of course they covet after possessions, but they cover positions too. Sometimes men covet a position. They want to be recognized. This is Joseph's brothers. Remember the jealousy that they had, the anger that they had. To the point where they were ready to even kill their brother because of his dreams and the favor in which their father showed him. They were willing to cause so much hurt to their father just to get rid of him because of their covetousness desiring that praise, desiring that recognition from their dad. Do you rejoice for others that are promoted? Do you secretly desire for that promotion, that recognition? The Bible is very clear that men covet after people. In the Ten Commandments, you're not to covet your neighbor's wife. Uh I don't know if it's said in jest or I mean I think sometimes there's there there's real real heartfelt desire in there, but I've heard people talk about how they wish they desire that they were in somebody else's family. Like, oh I wish I was in that family. I wish I had that person for mom or dad, or I wish I had those for brothers or sisters, or I wish I was in that position and so many times uh you know dealing with men or or women. I I I wonder what li my life would have been like if I would have married her. Or if I would have married him Just thinking about that. You say, well, I'm not acting upon it. Covetousness. Desiring that you ha which you have no natural right to We think about David, the example of that. He already had some wives. He's up on the up on the roof and saw somebody else. And we know the the rest of the story. Not just the sin of covetousness that led him to take Bathsheba, but all of the sin that followed because of that Because of covetousness, which was the root of that that caused him to desire or want another man's wife. It was the problem in our text here that man was coveting after possessions. I want, I want, I want. Why we know that the love of money is the root of all evil. That verse goes on and says, which while some coveted after, they erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. That covetousness will cause you to err from the faith. And ultimately will bring you to many sorrows. We all know it on the surface and we would say amen about it and we we would be the first to quote it that money doesn't bring happiness. We know that. And it's not about how much money you got. You know, if somebody said, well You know, a a million dollars wouldn't make you happy. My friend said, well I would be willing to try and see. I'd be willing to try. I mean that's our mindset. Always, when dealing with this matter of covetousness, it's a root sin that leads to lying, cheating, stealing, abusing one another Even murder. King Ahab wanted Nabath's vineyard. I mean like a little child. He went home and was mopin because he couldn't have what he wanted. And Jezebel said, Hey, you don't worry about it. I'll get it for ya. She had him killed. Murder. And we say, oh well I would never do that. Well that's the the fruit of the sin. But every one of us here are guilty of covetousness. That's the root. And that's what we need to deal with tonight. Because God said, beware of covetousness. Success in our culture is gauged by quantity. The Christian has to fight this on every front because it is greed that fuels our society. And the fact is is maybe we want just a little more. But we don't Do you want more? Just a little more. Just a little more. Like Rockefeller who asked How much is enough? He said, just one more dollar. Just one more. Just one more. It's never enough because we know that silver doesn't satisfy. That's what the Bible says. You won't be satisfied. It doesn't matter how much you get. Achan wanted just a little bit from Jericho. And we think about what it cost him. We've been discussing spiritual gifts in Sunday school. It's a sad thing, but actually there is Christians who covet after somebody else's spiritual gift Instead of seeing and recognizing the gift that God gave them and being satisfied with that and saying, this is what God specially gave me, what God gave just for me to be able to use for his honor and glory. They would say, well, I don't really want this gift. I would rather have that gift. It's practiced. By all. But we need to we need to confess it. How can we protect ourselves from this? The Christians got to beware. This will creep into your heart unawares. This this covetousness. We've got to stop ignoring it or explaining it away. Stop justifying it. After all, it's it's not a bad thing for me to want something nice, is it? It's not a bad thing for me to have something nice. We find ways to explain it away. But we've got to stop and confess it as sin. It's a hidden sin that eventually will become public. I recall At Fairhaven, just shortly before I went to Bible college, they had fired their chief financial officer Because late one night in the middle of the night, I don't know, like two in the morning or something, Dr. Bogman, Roger Bogman at that time, he he couldn't sleep, and so he went down to the the office. They lived on the property, so he just walked down and c came in the building and he walked into the office and he heard something in the attic. Like in the in the ceiling, like this, like a drop ceiling. And he inspected and found the chief financial officer was caught climbing through the ceiling to get into the room with the safe and had been taking money from the church because of covetousness. That's the fruit. You see, I would never do that. Well, that's the fruit. That's down the road. The root is when we allow covetousness to remain in our heart, and we don't know how far down the road it's going to take us. So we have got to protect ourselves. Several things you can do to protect yourselves. One is don't compare yourself among yourselves. Covetousness starts when we begin to compare ourselves and we see, oh man, look at their car. Wow, it'd be nice to have that car. Oh, look at their house. We we look at what somebody else God has blessed them with and we think, oh I I I I should have that. 2 Corinthians 10 verse number 12 says, For we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. But they measure themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. Comparing yourselves, we've got to stop comparing ourselves among ourselves. We need to be satisfied with Christ. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh unto me shall never hunger, and he that believeth in me shall never thirst. Being satisfied with Christ and what Christ has given us. Being content with what God has given you and provided for you. Beloved, we need to stop looking at what we don't have and start looking at what we do. That's the difference. Being content with such things as you have. The fact of the matter is, is we have so much. Anybody here, anybody here is God's So much, if we just stopped and looked, we would be overwhelmed with how much God has blessed us. This rich man in this text was blessed beyond measure Our Dex and I he had so much wealth, so many things that God had given him already. But he wasn't looking at any of that We need to count our blessings, name them one by one. We've got to stop, beloved, coveting this world and start coveting after the things of God. You see, not all desire is wrong. 1 Corinthians 12, 31 says, but covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet show I unto you a more excellent way. Covet the best thing God has for you. Covet after and desire all that God would want you to have. All that God wants to bless you with. This we're talking about spiritual things Here's what I was struck with as I pondering this this afternoon, the idea that when we begin to covet, we allow a desire that we have to turn into an uncontrolled passion that becomes covetousness. We're dreaming about it. We're thinking about it. We're picturing ourselves in that car. We're finding a way to make it happen. Well, I wonder how many of us are coveting after the things of God like that Where we're picturing ourselves in the Word of God and we're seeing God do great things with us and we're dreaming about it and we're desiring it and we're praying for it and we're hungry and thirsting after it Where we want to see God do something real and powerful in our life. Oh, we give all kinds of time of our mind power to covet dream about getting a new grill or getting a new uh smoker, amen. Getting a new whatever it is that you're thinking about it. We give so much time to these temporal things That are going to burn up and be nothing. But how much time are we giving to coveting after that is having an inordinate desire, a desire beyond normal for the things of God? That's how we protect ourselves from covetousness. To go after the things of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. If you and I would start putting our desire for the things of God first, dream and think about. And want that. Listen, God will take care of the other things. I'm as guilty as anyone in here, but we spend a lot of time dreaming and thinking about the things that we want. for this earth. Instead of thinking about eternity. Beloved, let's confess the sin of covetous tonight. Let's covet more of the things of God instead of the things of this world. Let's ask for and want. More of what God has for us instead of asking God to give us more of what this world has.