But if you're in Second Peter, we read in Second Peter chapter number three. Uh it was our devotional reading yesterday, and uh I wrote a devotion from the chapter there and Just dealing with and talking about the patience of God and what an amazing thing that is, the patience that God has with us, His long-suffering. And uh, but that's not the direction we're going to go tonight because it's interesting that we find here in 2 Peter chapter number 3 another beware. Another beware for us to consider this evening, and that is in verse number 17. If you look down in 2 Peter chapter number 3, verse number 17, he says, Ye therefore, beloved Seeing you know these things before, beware lest ye also being led away with the error of the wicked Fall from your own steadfastness. You know, sometimes a warning A beware, a caution, might be something loud and glaring. I mean an alarm might be going off. Uh, you know, it's Uh just something that's right in your face, you know, sometimes like your seatbelt alarm going off uh nonstop, telling you buckle up, buckle up, right? If you don't it gets louder. You know, the newer cars they've made it much more obnoxious. The older cars they used to just go off after. If you ignored it a couple times, it would quit. Newer cars they make them where they get more and more annoying. And uh I've noticed that my suburban actually is louder if there's somebody in the passenger seat. It's even louder. It's like why is that so loud? And after a few months of driving it I realize it's really loud when somebody's sitting there. So from now on Nobody can sit in the passenger seat. No. Just kidding. You know this that's not the solution. The solution is to buckle up. But sometimes the the the alarm might be something loud, but other times it might be something very small A warning sign. It might be just like a little sign on the side of the road. A little caution. A little warning. And if you aren't being observant, you could miss it You might just not even realize and drive right past and not notice. I have worked with each of my kids as I've taught them how to drive, and of course You know, little lessons that you learned when you were driving, you kind of try and pass them on, and they're gonna of course learn their own lessons with the mistakes that they make, and uh they'll have some lessons that they'll have to learn the hard way, but you try and help them to avoid at least making the ones you've made. And I've dealt with each one of them and told them that when you are in an area that you've never driven in before, You're on a road that you're not familiar with. And you see that little yellow sign that says corner. Ahead, and it has a little sign there that says twenty-five miles an hour, or maybe it says fifteen miles an hour. I've told my kids if you will listen to that You'll never have a problem because that is posted there for you to go around that corner at a safe speed. Now, the problem is is when we're driving, maybe we've been going 50, and all of a sudden there's a sign like that says sharp corner, 20. And we think, well, I'm doing okay. I mean fifty, I'll slow down a little. And you think, well, I could take it at thirty-five. And you go around that corner, but you've never been around it before. You don't realize how tight it is, and then all of a sudden, whoa, whoa, that's a lot tighter than I thought, and you're slamming on the brakes and and trying to make sure you catch that corner. Now how many of you been there? You be honest, you've been there? Yeah. Uh-huh. Well, that happened to me once on my motorcycle. So I was driving my ST eleven hundred out in the hills of Pennsylvania and having a good time. I was riding through the you know these back roads and cruising along and enjoying it. It's a it's nice uh spring day, probably 70, 75 degrees and in the sun setting and I'm just having a good ride, you know, just kinda out enjoying myself and I see one of those signs. sharp corner ahead and I don't remember what the posted sign was, let's say 20 miles an hour. I don't know, but whatever it was, I thought, well, I'm on a motorcycle. I can go around that faster than that. And I started into that corner and found out there was no way I was laying that bike down that far. You know, I'm not getting around this corner. I I just I knew it. Lucky for me, there was nothing but field out in front of me. So here I went. With my ST1100 off the road, down into the ditch, out of the ditch, riding this ST-1100, which weighs over 700 pounds Like it was a CRF-250. But the ST1100 is not designed for that. So it doesn't have the suspension. It doesn't handle all them bumps and all that thing, and this bike was just, I mean, it was rocking and slamming me back and forth, and I'm flying through brush. I finally get the thing slowed down and stopped, but I mean it weighs 700 pounds and I'm no longer on pavement. It's a little bit mushy and I didn't have it leveled and the bike fell over on me. The only problem is is that Uh the only thing that happened to the bike was my left mirror where it fell down, you know, smashed into the dirt and busted the mirror. And then I stood up and looked, and there was some old guy sitting on his porch across the street. He's sitting there looking at me and he goes You alright? And I was like, well, my pride's hurt, but other than that I think I'm okay, you know. So I stand the bike up and kind of inch it along, get it back on the road. But had I just observed that caution, had I just observed that warning That twenty miles an hour and you feel like, well, I shouldn't be able to do it faster than that, but you don't know how fast or how sharp that corner is. There's a there's a corner right down here uh on uh Shawan Road when you keep on going past and and And there's that one sharp corner, it's got that little bridge rail there, and you're going around that, and just just before uh the the house there, cars are hitting that thing all the time because they don't observe the sign. They don't observe the warning. Well, here we have in our text Peter giving us a warning. First of all, I want you to see the expectation. He says, ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before You see, there's an expectation, beloved, that Christians should have some working knowledge. Christians should have some things that are foundational, some things that they know and that they understand. There's certainly many things that we could talk about and look at with regards to the scriptures, but uh I would like to look just in this text and see what he references here. But I believe that this is more than just a passing knowledge. It's more than just a uh well it's just unexpected error. It's more than just a passing knowledge. It is a working understanding It is a working understanding. So it's a knowledge, beloved, that is complete. It's a knowledge that is fixed in our hearts and minds. That is to say, you believe something, you believe the teaching of the Bible, and therefore stand firm on its truth No matter the cost. It's saying, this is what the Bible teaches. I know this to be true, therefore I'm going to stand on it. It's something what I'm saying is his what they knew, seeing he know these things, it's not just that they knew about it. but that they believed it, that it was part of their heart, that it's something that they understood. One man said of his mind that it was not meant to be a bed that was made afresh every day. But that it should be set there should be some things that are settled upon, a truth, being made up once, and then done. If that makes sense to you, he's got a uh his his mind is not to be, you know, that's an unstable man, a double-minded man. Somebody that can be turned one way today and a different way tomorrow, but we should have some truths that are established, that are settled, that our mind has been made up once, and it's settled with regards to these truths. Now, several of these truths are in this passage of Scripture. Back up with me if you would to verse number 10. First of all, I want you to see, he says, But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with a fervent heat, and the earth also And the works that are therein shall be burned up. So the day of the Lord is coming. We should have it settled in our heart and mind. We should know that the Lord is coming back. And that the things in this world are going to burn up. Now, they're all going to burn up, and it's not because of global warming that they're going to burn up. They're going to burn up because the Bible says that there's going to be a fervent heat God is going to burn and consume this earth and all the things that are therein. So that should affect how we live. Amen. That should affect what we do and where we invest our time and energy and our effort because we know that everything here is just going to burn up anyway. It's just going to be gone anyway. There's not anything from this old earth that's going to last or carry over. It's going to be consumed by fire. We know that there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. He says in verse number 13 and 14, he says, Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for the new heavens and a new earth. Wherein dwelleth righteousness? Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, seeing that ye look for a new heaven and ye look for a new earth. Be diligent that you may be found of him in peace without spot and blameless. We know there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. Everything here on this old earth is going to burn up. There's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. And by God's grace, because of His forgiveness of our sins, we're going to get to be a part of that. Amen. The reason that we have not entered into this new heaven and new earth yet is because of the long suffering of God. We certainly at times long to be in the new heaven. We get weary and wonder why God hasn't come yet. But we know this passage in verse number 15, he says, an account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. Even as our brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you. He says, You understand this truth, beloved, you understand the truth that God is long-suffering And his long-suffering is for the work of salvation, so that more souls should come to him, which we saw earlier. I think it's verse number five: that he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And God's hand of judgment is being withheld on this old earth because he wants to see everybody saved He wants everybody to have an opportunity to come to him. And we don't know how long God's long suffering is going to last or when the last time will come and the Lord will uh call us out of here and his judgment will come down on this earth But we are to have a knowledge of this. We're to know these things. See you know these things, he says. It's a truth that he said Paul also, with all the wisdom that Paul had, with the knowledge that God gave him, Paul taught you these things. And in Romans chapter 2, verse number 4, Paul tells us, or despisest thou the riches of his goodness? and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. He teaches you an understanding that God's forbearance and God's goodness, God's mercy on your life, God hasn't just knocked you over the head with a two by four yet because of his long suffering. And man that that should not give us the the idea that, hey, well God hasn't killed me yet, so I can go do what I want. No, what that is supposed to do is supposed to make us think, man, God hasn't killed me yet. I better repent. I better turn back to him. He's been so gracious and so good to me. Man, it's time I turn back to God before it's too late. Further, he tells them that they should know that there's always going to be those which would pervert the scriptures. In verse number 16 He says, as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things, in which are some things hard to understand. Now you know he's talking about Paul, the apostle, he says in his epistles. He said Paul's teaching. He says, you know, there's some things that Paul says that are hard to understand. Would you agree with that? You ever try to study the book of Romans? Romans, man, that's a hard book. The balance between law and grace. There's some things that are hard to understand. But then he goes on, he says, which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. It's W-R-E-S-T, not R-E-S-D. That is to torture. That word literally means to torture. or to wrestle as they do also the other scriptures unto their own destruction. He says they're taking the scriptures And because maybe they're not uh on the surface or they find something there that is hard to understand, and so they Torture it to death to where ultimately it reaches the place where it doesn't even resemble what it was in the beginning. That they do this and they do it to their own destruction. Spurgeon said something like this. This is not an exact quote because this is from memory, not from what I've read recently, but I do remember him talking about the perversion of the scriptures like this, and he said, There is no text on earth That man with a mind to could but twist into a completely different meaning from that which the author intended. He said it doesn't matter what it is, whether it's the Holy Scriptures or any other writing, there's no text on earth that anybody that had a mind to Could take it and twist it. They could turn it around and make it say something or mean something that was not meant to be. And that's the problem with many that take the word of God and try and twist it. And make it fit into their life instead of their life fit into the Word of God. And he's saying, there's some things that you should know. You should know these things to be true. You should know that this whole earth is going to burn up and that God's coming and He's setting up a new kingdom and a new earth and we get to be part of that. But between now and then You've got to understand there's going to be a bunch of people that are going to want to take the word of God and they're going to want to twist it. They're going to do it to their own destruction and to any that would follow them And so he says to them, Beware. Beware. He says, seeing ye know these things before. You already know these things If you already know this, then you should beware. So we see the exhortation here: to beware, to put up your guard, to have some caution, to understand some things. He's telling them right up front. There's a real possibility the scripture is going to be twisted. There's a real possibility that people will not do what the Lord would want them to do. You ever remember do you remember that old saying to be forewarned is to be forearmed? To be forewarned is to be forearmed. You've been told. That's what Peter's saying here. I've given you the truth. You know the truth. Now you should be forearmed. You should be ready for it. You should beware. On occasion, the church, even in the church here, we've been made aware of a scam that is Prevalent and spreading across the country, and many, many people are getting taken by it. I don't remember what the last one was, but on occasion uh we've had cause here at the church even to say, hey, listen, there's a new scam. That's coming through, and here's how they're doing this. Don't be taken by it. Don't respond to this text or don't answer that email or whatever. Just beware. You've been forewarned so you can be forearmed. When that email comes in, you know, delete it immediately. Don't click on anything in there, don't follow anything through that. You've been forewarned, you would be kept from making that mistake. And that's what Peter's telling him here. But with the idea of being forewarned, it also means that you can't plead ignorance You can't say, oh, I didn't know. Because you've been told. Not only does being forewarned remove the excuse, but it also adds a responsibility. Sometimes we have great patience with our children when they're young because they don't know. And you can have great patience with somebody that doesn't know. You know, Matt and Lauren, Kate, and Joe. They're exercising patience. Because they just don't know. But see, my youngest is thirteen. This is where I get to test my patience because they should know better, amen. I came into the house the other day, a few days ago, and I said, okay, who mishandled the fire? The entire house stunk like smoke. I mean it reeked. Little did I know that they had had all the windows open for the last several hours trying to get the smoke out of the house. And for me I mean, if Cater Joe did that, I would understand. I could be patient. They don't know. But my kids have been managing a fire since they were five and six years old. And so I'm like, I do not understand how this happened. Why did this take place? I mean it they they didn't light the fire, they didn't get it going, they threw some stuff in there. Closed it up, and it began to backdraft down the chimney. So it's pushing smoke into the house. Now nothing's in danger of catching on fire. It's just pushing smoke into the house and nobody's watching it. They should know that you've got to get it going. You've got to make sure it's drafting strong, that it's sucking in before you close it up. They should know that So we had a little conversation. And I tried to exercise patience. But here what Peter is saying, listen, there's some things as Christians that you should know. You've been forewarned. So you should be forearmed, amen. You should know these things. Beloved, we are fighting a spiritual battle For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness in this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore, take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins girt about with the truth. And having on the breastplate of righteousness and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And above all, taking the shield of faith. Wherewith he shall be able to quench the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance. And supplication for all saints. Beloved, we're in a battle. We're fighting a war. And we know this. So we ought to have some guard up. We ought to have this armor that has been given to the Christian as part of our life. We've got before us here a sword, an offensive weapon, beloved, the word of God that we're supposed to hide in our heart and have as part of our defensive warfare against this enemy Satan. Now how many of you understand that your enemy is not the one sitting in the pew next to you? Or across the people. Or the one standing in front of you. Amen. He's not your enemy. The enemy is Satan, and the enemy many times will come in and cause something to happen between somebody else that you maybe love or care for or maybe you don't even like, but Satan's using them to cause a problem in your life But the enemy is not them, the enemy is Satan. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities. Satan Who's ruling in this old world, this world that's going to burn up, that's not going to be here, that one day we're going to be in the new heaven and a new earth. But until then, we've got an enemy And we're to be prepared. We've been warned. Now I'm glad to be an American. I'm thankful. For this country. And I'm thankful for the men and women that go into fight for our country. And I'm glad that when they go into battle, They have the best weapons. I mean, I like reading about American military might. I just like reading about the weapons they have. I mean you know that uh they have uh missiles that can fly at four times the speed of sound That's thirty eight hundred miles an hour. They they can they can mark a building And launch a missile from a plane going 700 miles an hour in the sky and not just hit the building, they can put that missile through a window into the room they want it in. I mean our military has got some strong military hardware. And I'm glad when they go into battle they've got that. But you wouldn't send our soldiers into battle and say, good luck Here's your flip flops, your shorts and your and your uh flower shirt w what do they call them shirts? Hawaiian shirt Hawaiian shirt. Yeah, here you go your Hawaiian shirt. You don't sit in a battle with that. Say do your best. No, they they they get on the defensive, they they put on their flak jackets, they put on their Uh all of their armor and their weapons, everything they need. And God has given us armor and God has given us a sword, and beloved, this sword doesn't do you any good just because you have it under your arm It's not just because you have it in your hand. You've got to hide God's word in your heart. And then it becomes a weapon that can be used by the Spirit of God to give you victory when you're fighting This battle against these principalities and these powers of darkness. This word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing, even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. This is a powerful book. Are you hiding it in your heart? Then we see the error that we're to beware of. He says, beware. And he says, Lest ye also be led away with the error of the wicked The title of tonight's message is Beware of Wickedness. Beware of Wickedness. He says, Beware lest ye also be led away with the error of the wicked Do you understand tonight the wicked the wicked have an agenda? Whether they individually are aware of it or not, they are working from a script. A script laid out for them by the devil himself. They are pushing forward an agenda That lines up with what Satan would want. Now they might not in their minds say, oh, I'm pushing to try and accomplish the goals of Satan. They might not realize that, but they are doing that. Philippians chapter 3, verse number 2 says, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. You see, there are those that work evil. He's talking here Beloved, to those that were steadfast in the faith at one time. He says, Beware lest ye also being led away with the error of your wick of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. He's saying you could fall from your own steadfastness. And one of the mo most disheartening things is when you see somebody that used to be in God's house, somebody that used to stand as a beacon of light for the truth of the word of God. And they've gone away and now they stand against God. It's so sad when you see people that get out of church at the worst, I mean at the best case scenario, they got out of church and they're just living their life and they're doing their own thing. But more and more often what you see is people that were in church and they used to sing in the choir and they used to work in junior church and they used to help in the nursery and go out and pass out John and Romans and serve God Now they've taken to Facebook and they're fighting the cause of Christ. They're talking bad about the church. They're declaring the church to be an error It's mind-boggling how far they've fallen from their steadfastness. And beloved, they sat in this pew and they stood in churches all over this country. And each of them would have said of themselves, Oh, I'll never fall away. If you would have implied, or even in any way insinuated that they might be headed down the wrong path, they would have been offended. No, sir, I love God. And yet they're not here now. Peter's telling them, beware, lest ye also Ye also, every one of us here, me standing behind this pulpit tonight, it could be except for the grace of God, one year from now, I'm out of church, I've left my family, I've ruined my life. That's possible, unless I beware, unless I use some caution and exercise the wisdom that God has given and put on some armor and use the sword that He's given me. It could happen to anybody here. He says, beware of this wickedness Beloved, you and I could be led away if we aren't cautious about it, if we listen to the wicked. If we listen to the wicked. We dealt with it recently. I'm not going to spend any time there, but blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seed the scornful. We're not supposed to be listening to the wicked, to the wickedness of this world It's not very popular preaching today. It's not something that maybe we hear a lot about in our modern churches. But there's supposed to be something different between us and the world. That means we don't engage in and listen to everything the world listens to. You see, there's supposed to be something different. If you don't want to be led away, then let's stop listening to the world. Let's stop listening to the world's music. We say, oh what's what's wrong with it? It's I I I like it. I know. I like it too. It's entertained. It's energetic. It's enjoying some of it. Some of it's just flat out obnoxious. It's just what in the world. But this world's music, man. Christians aren't supposed to be listening to that stuff. Whether you want to, you know, rock, country, hip hop, rap, you know, whatever, there's so many different genres today, it's un it's unbelievable. You you pick any one of them, but it's all the world's music. It's being sung and presented with an agenda. Oldies aren't goodies, my friend. This movement inside churches to embrace Christian rock or what you would call contemporary Christian music. Beloved, it's the world's music. It's the world's music. It doesn't matter how many times you say Jesus in the song. It's i if it's still played by Van Halen. It doesn't make a Christian just because it says Jesus It's still the world's music that they put some Christian words in. I could take bleach and put it in a Fabriz bottle, but you're not going to take it around your house and spray it everywhere, are you? No, because it's still bleach. You don't spray bleach all over the house, bleach all your furniture and clothes and everything else. And anybody can listen to that and know the difference. You can hear When that song could be sung just like that down at the bar with different words for the dance night, for the karaoke scene. When it could be done just like that for that scene, and then we're singing it in church, there's a problem. We're supposed to be different. We're going to be led astray, friend, if we don't stop listening to this world's music. We ought to stop listening to the world's shows This I know we just call it entertainment. And we we like to look at it and say, well it's just entertainment You know, it's just inner it's okay. I mean I can just be entertained by it and I'm still a Christian. You're gonna be led away. Bader said, beware Beware the there these programs that are out today are are unbelievable. The the agenda, it seems like every season there is a goal to try and be more vulgar. More crask, more more lewd, more nude than they were last season They're embracing every ridiculous agenda out there, and every season gets worse than the last one. Oh, it's just entertainment. It's shaping your mind, friend. Garbage in, garbage out. If you don't want to be led away, then you've got to stop ingesting that. Listening to that. What are you letting through your ear gate? I don't know. But I want you to understand, beloved, it's not benign. It's cancerous And it's eating you up from the inside out, and you don't even know it. You will be led astray. You're going to be led away not only if you listen to the wicked, but you're going to be led away if you look. at the things that the wicked promote. You know, David, and it came to pass on the evening time that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof. of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman. He saw a woman. There is available to us today, beloved, a plethora of wickedness that attracts our eyes And this world takes it and glamorizes it. Every kind of imaginable wickedness is glamorized. Made popular. What do you think your kids are gonna take away when they're watching it? From that. Oh, drinking's cool. Yeah, smoking's neat. Doing doing drugs is is is in. I mean that's that's the thing. Oh, running around on your wife. You know, it's amazing how they can take a criminal that committed murder and they will make you be rooting for him. When what he did was wrong and he should be held to account for it. Yet they weave this story in such a way that in your heart and mind you're hoping he gets away. Maybe you've got it where the policeman is is uh a jerk and and you don't like him and and you know he doesn't deserve to get this collar or whatever. They weave these stories in such a way where you're you're rooting for the whoremonger And if you would stop and think and engage your brain to think about the truths that are being taught in some of this stuff we take in as entertainment. You know, beloved, you'd never be tempted to take the first drink if you, as it says in Proverbs 23:31, look not upon the wine. You see, our eyes, we're a visual people Our eye affects our heart, beloved. That's why Christ said, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they're white unto harvest. You see, too many Christians are looking at the filth of the world and letting it affect their hearts. Instead of looking at a lost and dying world and letting it affect us. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. Your eye affects your heart Your eye affects your life and what you allow to come in through this eye gate, it does affect you. So what is what are we allowing? He's saying beware, or you're going to be led astray Beloved, maybe we need to get a glimpse of God like Isaiah did. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne. High and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphim, and each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly And one cried unto the other and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. And the post of the doors moved, and the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Like my house, amen. That just came to me. I don't know where that ruined my scripture reading too. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. He got a glimpse of God. Christians, we wouldn't be the same if we would stop gazing upon the wickedness of this world and allowing that To come into our hearts and to impact us and to influence us. And we would turn our gaze heavenward and get a glimpse of God in His holiness, in all of His glory, and who He is and what He's done for us. Let that affect your life. You've got to be cautious or you're going to be led astray, Christian. It's our duty, it's our job to continue to grow in grace. See he says in verse number 18 there. To grow in grace. We can't take these truths that we've learned and we know and just say, oh, I know that, and let it set. We've got to continue to enjoy This grace that's been extended to us so we might know and live each day with a fresh vision of God and who He is. We enter each day more deeply into the wonder that is found in this Christian life. Loved, I don't know about you, but I don't want to be led astray. Peter says, beware, lest ye So he's given us, he's forewarned us. And by being forewarned, it means we're supposed to be forearmed. Now we have a responsibility. To guard against these things that were not led astray