Alright, grab your Bibles, turn to the book of Colossians this evening. Colossians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. We spent a lot of time in Philippi Philippians, so we should be that part of your Bible should be pretty familiar right now. So we're going to move down a little further than that to Colossians. And uh in Colossians chapter number two is where we're going to be. How many of you have seen the Proposition sixty five warning? If you haven't seen it yet, you will see it. It is a warning that was required to be put on products that had possible carcinogen Uh and it's really supposed to be limited to the state of California. It was a Proposition 65 that actually was established in the late 80s uh and since then from then till now it has been put on products. any product that has in it a chemical that could possibly cause cancer, they had to put a warning label on it. So pretty much uh well in the late 80s when it was started there was uh around 200 chemicals on the list. And now there's over 900 chemicals on the list that so if any product was made With one of these chemicals, no matter how great or small, any packaging, any label I mean sometimes it's just the label on the package was made, the glue of the label was made with one of these chemicals, and they have to put a sticker on there that says Proposition 65 warning this product could cause cancer Anyways, that's uh because it's limited to California, I'm not surprised that a lot of you haven't seen it. But with e-commerce Companies that are based other places which are shipping to California are now happening to put this on their products that are going to California and so I'm seeing it even products that are coming here because they're just sticking it on everything now even though it's going everywhere in the country. Now that's kind of a long way around to get to the point that it was a warning. That warning was put out. It is such a prevalent warning. It's uh on everything now uh that one young man said for me now the proposition sixty five warning is just another bogus, meaningless scare from the state's bureaucrats that has very little benefit. So now I laugh and ignore the warning when I see it. It is so prevalent and it's on everything that it has lost any meaning at all. People don't even pay attention to it. uh what I'm getting to is that we've got to be careful as God's people that we don't get to the place where we get so familiar With the things of God, they are around so much that they no longer mean anything to us. Oh, I've seen that before. Oh, I've heard that. We look at it and think nothing of it. It doesn't impact us at all. It doesn't It doesn't alarm us at all, it doesn't stir us at all, it doesn't challenge us at all because it's something oh I've seen that before. I've heard that before. I know what that is. I've read that passage Oh, I've read that passage many times in my own devotions. And we get to the point where it's almost we can put our mind in neutral and think, oh well it doesn't really apply to me or it doesn't matter, and we are in a bad way When we get that way with the things of God. We've got to be very careful. Last week I brought a message entitled, Beware of What? The wolf, yeah, I heard you. Very good. Beware of the wolf. Um that's God's Warning to us. And I mentioned to you there's several places in the Word of God where we see this term, beware, this caution. Tonight I want you to look in Colossians chapter 2 and verse number 8. Colossians 2 and verse number 8. He says, beware. Lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. He says, beware. Now, just to lay a little bit of groundwork or foundation here, Paul has never been to this church. He had never had the privilege to go to Colasse, to see the saints there, to communicate with them directly. And in fact, there were some people that uh were stating maybe Paul didn't care about them because he hadn't come to them. Maybe Paul didn't love them like he said he did and wasn't concerned about them like he said he was because he after all if he did he would be here. He would show his face. I want you to understand we've got to be careful about painting with such a broad brush sometimes when people don't do what we believe or expect that they should. We've got to be careful because your expectations might not be what God has planned. You know, of course, there's times where Paul had a plan to do something, but the Holy Spirit said no. You're not going to go do that. So there's times that God changed Paul's plans and he wasn't able to do that. Paul specifically in a desire to go and see the saints. talks about when he wanted to go but Satan hindered him from going. He talks about that over in uh um The Church of Thessalonica. And he deals with that, that he wanted to go see them, but he was hindered. He couldn't Satan hindered him. So there's times that maybe somebody wants to do something or desired or was planning to and it didn't work out. I recall uh actually it's been some years ago now, but there's a man and his wife that left Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Because in a prayer that I was praying for them, I called him by the wrong name. Now I took time. I was went to visit them. I was with them. I was standing with them. I was talking and communicating with them. They had a need. I said, let's pray about it. I bowed my head in prayer, and when I prayed for the individual, in my prayer I said the wrong name. Now you think I did that on purpose. No, I didn't do that on purpose. And I would give anything to change it. But Satan used that to put in their mind, he doesn't even care about you. He doesn't even know your name. He's praying for somebody else. Well I was there showing compassion and concern for them specifically, but because I said the wrong name, Satan grabbed a hold of that and stuck that in their mind and they couldn't let it go. It's about a month later they left the church and they say, Well we're not gonna we're not gonna come here anymore. We've got to be careful. How we read into things sometimes. Don't let Satan put that stuff in your mind. But Paul hadn't had the opportunity to go, but he was writing to them, motivated by love, motivated by concern for them. He wanted to help them. They he had heard about this w worldly wisdom that was coming into the church and he wrote to them and said, Beware of this. Beware of man's wisdom that comes into the church. He was concerned that they were teaching that there wasn't that Christ wasn't sufficient, that they needed something deeper, they needed something more, they needed more of an experience. There's a lot of that today in churches. Church is about an experience, about experiencing something that The sufficiency of Christ and what we get in service and following Christ is not enough, but somehow we've got to pump this up. Somehow we've got to bring this to a deeper realization than what is meant by Christ in his word. It's not that these teachers excluded Christ, they just wanted to add to Christ. They wanted to have a higher knowledge, a greater glory. So Paul warns them. He warns them. He says, beware, beware. Of the wisdom of men. So tonight we want to look at this caution, this warning. This beware of the wisdom of men. Last night or last week we saw how we're to beware of the wolf coming in, that wolf in sheep's clothing. That would bring in false doctrine and false teaching into the church. Tonight we want to beware of worldly wisdom that might creep in. He says, beware lest any man spoil you through the philosophy and vain deceit after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. Boy, this term spoil here. Um we don't want the work of God spoiled. Oh, we we would be happy to have God spoil Satan's work. That's what we want to see. He says that he would do that in uh verse number fifteen, and having spoiled the principalities and powers. He made show of them openly, triumphing over them. Praise God, Christ is the victor. Satan is the Savior can come on the scene and destroy Satan's plans at any time, but we understand that there's an enemy. And he would desire to spoil the work of God in our lives. This word spoil means to lead captive, to enslave. to bring somebody's mind into captivity or or take them away from what they know to be true. One Mother was walking with her child and somebody said, I think your son is spoiled. And she says, No, I I don't think so. He always smells that way It's not the spoil that it's talking about. It's talking about ruining, actually destroying, r ruining, rotting out. And Satan wants to destroy the work of God in our lives. And we've got to beware of that, lest any man spoil you through philosophy. So we see man's ambition here. If you read the devotionals that go out this last week, we rode through through these passages and I wrote a devotional on this particular verse, the idea of the love of philosophy. There are those who pursue knowledge, and knowledge itself is not bad But what is the end? What is the goal? I mean we're supposed to study to show ourselves approved unto God, a workman that needeth not not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Amen? We're supposed to do that. So knowledge itself is not bad, but what is the goal? What is the End goal. What's the reason that we're pursuing after this knowledge? Philosophy is a combination of two Greek words, phileho, which you know what that is. Phileo, what's that? Yeah. Phileo by itself, love. Phileo is love. And the second half of that, Sophie, is knowledge. Literally meaning the love of knowledge. So that idea of the love of knowledge, and we see that today. We see this addiction to education This desire to know and to understand more, to have a greater grasp of the world, and these things can be beneficial, but not to the exclusion of God. And what happens is too many times people, for the sake of knowledge, they become puffed up. And the more they know, they begin to think they don't need God. Or that they know more than God, or ultimately they would say that God doesn't exist. We gotta beware of that tonight. The pursuit of knowledge for knowledge's sake leads to self-sufficiency. It cultivates an elitist mindset. Do you see that today? That elitist mindset that people with higher education and they push God out This is what happens in almost all of our halls of education today. They've pushed God out. And let me tell you something, godless educators have done far more to hurt this country than godless athletes. Can I ask you who or what is shaping your thinking? You see, educators shape the thinking of the next generation. This is why it's so vitally important that we know who and what is teaching our kids. Who's teaching and what they're teaching them? Because they're shaping our children. But who or what is shaping you? We know the Bible says, For he uh that thinketh thinketh in his heart, so is he. You are what is inside. You are what your heart is, what you've allowed to be in your heart. So what's shaping you? What's influencing you in your life? Is there philosophies that you're grabbing a hold of that are rooted somewhere besides the Word of God? That would be contradictory. I mean there's random things. I mean you guys know that I like Elon Musk. You guys know that uh If I have the opportunity, I'm going to witness to him and get him saved so he can start tithing, amen. No, I mean so he can go to heaven. Um that's w so he can go to heaven, that's why. Um but Here's the thing, he drives me nuts. This whole thing about wanting to go to Mars and the way he talks, you know, the world is this many billions of years old and and life's not sustainable here and You know, it's a completely misguided concept for all the stuff that he knows. He doesn't know God. And he puts God out of it. And a lot of what he does is motivated by the fact that he doesn't know God For all of his knowledge. The faith of these Colossians believers was at best going to be deluded and at worst would be destroyed because of the philosophy of men. We've got to be careful the philosophy of men doesn't creep into the church. We've got to have discernment and be and watch for that. It comes you you don't even realize how influenced you are by today's world. You you have none of us understand how influenced we are Because of the media we consume and the uh I mean you take somebody that has not had access to and this would be like uh where in the world? Nowhere right now, right? But you find somebody in some you know, village out in uh let's say Papua New Guinea or something. May maybe they don't have internet. Uh most of them have internet. They have cell phones. It's crazy. They're living in a grass hut and they have an iPhone Um but you take somebody out there and they they don't know anything about COVID, they don't know anything about the news, they don't know anything about all of this and It doesn't bother them. But we are very influenced by what we hear. And we don't realize how much of it influences us You know, I I don't have time to spend time here, but let's just talk let's just throw it out. The idea of that young boys and girls don't have a choice, that they don't know what gender they are until they reach a certain age and then they can decide after that and after all they were made that way and they they didn't get to decide what they are. That's just what they are And we're not loving unless we let them determine that. And this mindset that permeates society and is pushed at us from every front you start to have some compassion for them in their situation. You start to think, oh, you know, maybe that's the case. Oh maybe they didn't. Uh maybe they were made that way. Maybe um But what does this book say? He made them male and female. There is no deciding later. They were formed in the womb by God. There there is no adjusting. And It's foolishness. But we hear it so much we start to think, you know, maybe it's maybe we ought to be a little more concerned. Maybe I'm not loving enough He still loved them, but realized what they're doing is wrong. It's sin. We've got to be careful, not everything that I can know, I should know. We have at our fingertips all kinds of things today. We could look into and dive into any things and I've got to get moving. But you know I learned many, many years ago, especially being in the ministry, we're we're approaching this Halloween time, this season. of fun and games and it's all just trick-or-treat and fun activities in the backyard. And actually people uh think that churches like ours are wacko for saying there if there's anything to be concerned about with with October thirty first. But it is the holiday of the year for the O cult. There is no question, people that come from societies where this is more prevalent, or I read this week a testimony of a witch that came out of the occult. That says, you cannot imagine, by her own words, she says, you cannot imagine what that day means to us. The power that's available to us on the on that day And the things that the people that are involved in the occult do on that day, there are principalities and powers of darkness. And here's where I'm getting is that as a pastor, it's partly my job to try and inform people about this and tell them how, you know, to caution them to beware of it. But I was cautioned as a young pastor, do not spend too much time studying that stuff. You can't spend too much time reading after that and learning about it and seeing what they do because it can grab a hold of you. I cannot be possessed because uh Light and darkness cannot exist in the same place. And I have the Holy Spirit in my heart, so I cannot be possessed, but I can be oppressed. And you spend time diving into that and there is some interest in it. There is some that you know that the power that's available to them and what they can can do and these types of things and and that interest draws people and they start reading about it and they start learning more and more about it and then pretty soon they're sucked in and they're participating in it. So not everything I can know I should know. So we've got to be careful about the philosophies of men. We're to be wise concerning that which is good and simple concerning evil, according to Romans 16, 19. Now I've got to move on. He says here also by vain deceit. Vain deceit is empty words. Empty words. This is a tactic that Satan uses in our lives. Empty promises. We have a lot of this around election time. Empty promises, right? Vain. That's really what this means. That vain deceit means Here I'll do this for you, I'm gonna lower taxes, I'm gonna change all this, we're gonna pay all your bills, we're gonna do you know, and then he gets in office and I don't understand why nobody ever holds these politicians to to what they say. How it is we all have such short memories and we're we forget that they promised they were going to do that. But we get a lot of that. Well it also happens in the church, especially in um false religions, in false doctrine. I was talking to somebody just recently and they had somebody that prayed over them and announced them as being healed of their cancer. They had cancer, this person prayed over them and said, You've been healed. Now, I believe in power prayer. And I believe that God could heal cancer like that, without question. I do not doubt God's power to do that by any means. And I hope that they are healed. But this thing of laying out of hands and just, you know, announc pronouncing somebody healed and all of a sudden they can walk, or all of a sudden that You know, God has given this person the gift of healing, that's not in the Bible anymore. That gift is gone. And that that gift God can heal and through prayer, and I I I believe in the anointing of oil and praying over somebody and letting God do the work and God does it for his honor and glory. And I hope this individual is healed. But there's been thousands and thousands and thousands of people that have been given an empty promise when they said you were healed. And just for recognition of that person that was standing up there, for everybody to praise them for for healing somebody. If somebody has the power of healing, why don't they go to the hospital? And just heal some people? Why are the hospitals full? It's empty promises, empty words. We see after the traditions of men. Traditions, the traditions of men. Tradition is an established order. The trap of tradition is easy to fall into. There was a young woman who before she baked her ham, she cut off both ends of the ham and baked it She was asked, why do you bake why do you cut both ends of your ham off when you bake it? And she says, I'm not sure, but it's that's what you have to do. At least that's the way my mom showed me to bake ham. That's you have to cut both ends off. And so next time she was visiting her her mom, she said, Mom, why do y why do you c cut off both ends of the hand like that? And she's like, Well, I'm not sure. But but that's how you cook him, because that's how my mom showed me to do it. So they were there talking about it, so they got on the phone and they called her mom. She says, Mom, why do you cut off both ends of the ham to cook it? There's got to be a reason. She says, Yeah, because my pan was this big and that's how big I could fit. So I cut off the ham so that it would fit in the oven Sometimes things get put into place that become traditions, and tradition is not necessarily wrong, but we've got to be careful that the tradition doesn't become higher than Christ. That your tradition does not become something that we uphold or we value more than the relationship we have with Jesus Christ. And people like their traditions. People enjoy traditions. Traditions can be fun, but we've got to be careful we don't value them above what God's Word tells us to do. Okay, I've had people get mad at me because we did not have a Good Friday service. Well That's a tradition of men. There is no commandment in the Word of God that says you've got to have a good Friday service. Now, there's nothing wrong with having a good Friday service, except that traditionally it's a Catholic holiday. Okay, so traditionally that's where it came from if you research the history. Now we could have a Good Friday service and not be a Catholic thing, but I'm just saying we gotta be careful that we don't value a holiday so much that that's what's important instead of the relationship with Christ. Instead of doing what God wants us to do. It's about the relationship with Christ. The traditions of men we've got to be careful with The Pharisees loved tradition. And by and large, the cults are built off tradition. Wearsby said this. If a new Christian from a distant mission field were to visit many of our churches today, he would probably be astounded at the ideas and practices that we have or cannot That we have that cannot be supported by God's word. Now some of the practices aren't wrong. They might not be sin, but they're not necessarily directives. From the Word of God. One example of this is Sunday school, and I enjoy Sunday school. Sunday school is good for you. Opportunity to study the Word of God. But it's not commanded in the Bible that a church has Sunday school There was a young pastor that was starting a church and I advised him not to start Sunday school for a long time. I said I would not start it right away. Here's the thing, once you start it, you feel like you're backslidden if you don't have it. You feel bad if you don't do it. And so once you start that you're establishing something, you've got to have workers to teach all the Sunday school classes, you've got to have helpers to be in all of those classes, you gotta have nursery workers for that time, you've got to have piano players, you gotta have And I said, you're just starting a church, you don't need to add all that extra burden on you just starting the church until once God brings people in, then that's an opportunity for them to serve. and a place to train the young people and if God directs and the timing's right, you can start Sunday school. But it's not a command in Scripture that we have Sunday school. So, you know, I said, you do what God wants you to do, but that's what I would advise you to do. But I'm saying is we've got to be careful that we don't become so hung up on what has become tradition, and this is what church is. And but what does the Bible say? We need to follow that. And after the rudiments of the world, there's a real danger when we mix faith In with the forms of the world. This rudiment means orderly methods And we've got to be cautious, we've got to beware that we as a church don't allow the methods of the world to creep into the church. And sometimes in an effort to reach people, we can allow the methods of the world To come into the church, and that's not where they're supposed to be. We've got to be cautious about that. We've got to beware. We've got to put up a guard. We've got to realize that this is a warning that Christ gives us We'll guard against it very well if in fact we are rooted in Christ and we are established in our faith, like verse number seven tells us. in this passage, to be rooted in Christ, to be established in your faith. If you're rooted in Christ, if you're established in your faith, if if that is what's strong. Then you'll be less likely to be spoiled by these things. But we've got to beware of it. You see, they wanted to add to the church. And let me remind you here that this is brought into the church not by the atheist. This is brought into the church here in Colossae. This was brought to the church not by the deniers of Christ. This was not brought into the church by those that hated God. This was brought into the church by those that professed Christ, those that loved Christ, those that wanted, they were adding to Christ. What I'm saying is, this is something that comes into the church many times, we're unaware of it. But we're supposed to be aware of it because Christ tells us that it that it could happen. They were adding to Christ, but we see in verses 9 and 10 Christ's sufficiency. Verse number 8 there was the caution stated. And then in verse 9 and 10 we see Christ's sufficiency, the all-sufficiency of Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. Boy, the adequacy of Christ. Paul laid it out for them. Christ is all you need. Christ is all you need. The sufficiency of Christ. If we're looking to Him and it's about Him Then he's all that we need. Look at that. Look, he started right off from the very beginning, and he started giving it to him. Look at verse number two. In verses two, three, and four, he says, that their hearts might be comforted. Be knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding to the knowledge of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ. In verse number three, he says, In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. He right away tells them that it's all in Christ. It's all about him. In him are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. So we don't need to be taken away or spoiled by the wisdom of men. Because all the knowledge that we need is rooted foundationally found in Christ, in the mysteries of God. Now we might not understand them all, but they're all there. This word hid there is not to be hidden from us, but it's hid as in to be kept safe. I had somebody, a family member, I won't tell you which one, uh, but I had a family member some years ago who was going to be out of the country for a period of time, and they said uh they called me up and said, Caleb If something happens to us and you know we we are killed, we want you to know that there is $10,000 in such and such a place in our house. Just so you're somebody's aware that there's money there. Don't just pack up and sell the house. Now I've been waiting to find some money like that, and all the houses that I've remodeled I've never found any money that somebody hid. You know, I've been hoping somebody stuffed those walls with money somewhere. But they had hid some. Now it wasn't hidden to keep it from them, it was hidden to keep it safe This is what he's saying here is hid in Christ. All the mysteries and the knowledge, the wisdom of Christ is hid in him. That treasure of wisdom is there and it's there for us. That word treasure there is kind of neat. It's a Greek word that you're familiar with. The Greek word is thesaurus. Ah you know what that is. We look into a thesaurus to find the points that we need to alliterate with our outline. I mean We look into a thesaurus to get deeper understanding of a particular word. You look into a word that you might not have full grasp of or full understanding of, and when you see it in a thesaurus, it gives you the synonyms. It gives you all the shades of that meanings of that word, all the different ways in which it could be stated, and you start to really get a good understanding of the root of that and what it's trying to teach. So what he's saying here is is there there's this aspect of light that you don't really understand when you look at Christ That wisdom, that treasure of wisdom is there, and you can get a full understanding of the meaning of that, of the of the depth of it, of the reason for it. That w wisdom is treasure of wisdom is found in him. You know, it's all it's always bothered me. And and I'm almost done. But it's always bothered me how sometimes young people that grow up in a church like ours And they grow up and they get older and then they start blogging uh about their sadistic parents. Who forced them to go to church, who made them do this or do that, who, you know, uh and and there are some that come from homes that are abusive and that is not biblical and those people should be tarred and feathered, you know. That th that is not but most of the time it's just a little cryberry whining, uh, because now he has a soapbox to whine on. Um but what concerns me is how is it that a young person could reach this place in their life where all the love that was shown them All the compassion shown in church, all the concern over the years, and all the activities that the youth pastor put on and all the teaching that all the Sunday school teachers did, and all of that can be thrown out. And they they now are mad, mad at God and mad at the church. And here's what I've come to their conclusion is. is because they were forced to conform to a particular standard instead of shown Christ You see, mom and dad made their son or daughter into what they wanted them to be. Instead of showing them to Christ and letting Christ make them into what He wanted them to be. And that's the difference. You see, they feel like they were forced to be something all their life that they really weren't, but see they didn't really know Christ. See, Christ is all in all. He is what it's about. He is all sufficient. And if we could just somehow get the children to see Christ, then Christ could make them into what he wants them to be. We see the adequacy of Christ and then the adequacy of the Christian. We're complete in Christ I've taught on this before and I've got to hurry, but do you understand that uh the part of your body that uh we were made whole, a trichotomy back in the garden, body, soul, and spirit. But that part of our body which knows Christ, which knows God, died in the garden when man sinned. But when you are born again, You're giving new life in Christ, and you are made complete in him. That part of your life that has a relationship with Christ is now born again. It's given new life and is made alive and now you have that relationship with Christ because you're made complete in Christ. We're complete in him. That's our practically our position in Christ were made complete in Christ, but in a practical sense we are being made complete. through our life. As you know, complete in the Bible means perfect. Mature. That idea of being mature in Christ. And through our life I'm not what I should be, but I'm glad I'm not what I was. I know there's some things that I need to work on. I know God's still working on me. Still convicting me and helping me and stirring me and challenging me to greater things for him. But it's a process through our life, where we are brought along one step at a time as Christ in his goodness Shines the light of his glorious truth into our life, and we look at it and say, this is what Christ wants me to do. This is what Christ wants me to be. And we are being made complete one step at a time. As he works on our heart and life. That's what he wants to do for us. We praise God for how we are complete in Christ. He is sufficient, but we've got to be careful, beware of the wisdom of men that would creep in And spoil us. Spoil what God wants to do in your life. Through the philosophies, vain deceits, rudiments of the world, these things we've got to be cautious of.