And you can turn to Second Corinthians chapter number six. Uh well you you should be in your Bibles to first or Second Corinthians chapter number six now. We're gonna read uh a few verses together as we are looking at this uh topic of separation. Now last week uh brother Harding came and he kind of gave us the last point of the Baptist acronym which we've looked at and he dealt with the topic of the separation of church and state and really uh did an excellent job with his connection with the government and And all these things I felt he could do a very good job and far exceed what I could do in teaching on those things. So I'm very pleased with that. Uh but there's a little bit more to separation than just the separation of church and state. It it goes a little deeper. There's a little bit more that the Bible has to say about it and for the Christian and for our lives and I thought Uh we could go ahead and plug it in right here kind of on the end and I was telling John earlier this week, I think it was on Tuesday, that I was going to be teaching on this tonight, and he's been looking forward to it. Well my outline developed and I believe it's gonna end up being three messages. on the topic here of separation, dealing tonight with basically an introduction entitled Biblical Separation. We're going to kind of look at Biblical Separation And then the following week, not next week, because Brother Ted Alexander is going to be with us and concluding our summer study, but the week after that we'll be looking at personal separation. What does it mean according to the Bible? Personal separation, and then we'll be looking at ecclesiastical separation. And I thought about it, I could make it all peas and call it political, personal, and polity, but uh that word pology doesn't for work as well as ecclesiastical. Uh so uh anyways those those are the areas of separation that we are going to be studying. Let's uh read this text as you you follow along in your Bible as uh I read it to you and I'm not there. Um Sorry. Chapter number six, verse number fourteen, and we'll read down through verse number eighteen. Verse number 14 through verse number 18. He says, Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for what fellowship hath righteousness With unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness, and what concord hath Christ with belial, and what part hath he that believeth with an infidel And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will deliver in them and walk in them. I'm sorry, dwell in them and walk in them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing And I will receive you, and will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Areas of separation that are vital to us as Christians. Personal separation. Ecclesiastical separation, which today in today's world is being done away with at an exponential rate where no longer are these things taught. I was discussing this week with uh uh somebody and You may even be in here and I don't remember who I was talking to. But they were talking about uh Joel Olstein. And they were talking about how uh oh it was Catherine Fowler, that's who it was. I was sitting with her. And we were talking, she says, well, you know, she had listened to Joel Steen, and she said, all the people, all the ladies there where she lives, uh, you know, sing his praises. And she says, I don't know what it is. I mean when I watch it, it's like it's it's nice and like what he's saying I don't necessarily disagree with But I can't put my finger on it. There's something about it that's not there. And I said, that's what it is. A lot of what you would call new evangelicals Uh these people, it's not what they say, it's what they don't say. It's all the stuff that they leave out. And it's true, as you listen to them, you're like, oh yeah, I agree with that. I mean, this is this is correct, but they're not giving the whole counsel of God. They're not touching on things like this. What the Bible says, not just says, but yea demands of us as Christians, come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. That's what God says. We obviously are to be in the world, but not of it. We are to be holy, set apart. We are to establish a line in the sand, a standard in which we hold eye. We live by and keep them We're to bask in the light of God and stay as far from darkness and evil as we can. That's what this passage of Scripture tells us. Ecclesiastical separation for the church. The pastor, guided by the Word of God, and the Holy Spirit strives to keep the church pure and clean. Separate from the world and those false doctrines that are taught. So I want us to look at this idea of separation tonight. I want us to consider it. And by way of introduction this evening as we talk about this, is this just old-fashioned thinking? Is it just kind of is it a way of thinking that leaves no room for love, for compassion? Is it just judgmental? Is it just the idea of legalism, as people like to brand churches like ours as a legalistic church? But they don't even know the definition of the word, but they brand us as legalists because we believe that God would have us do more. Then just get saved and then live however we want to live. Is it being intolerant of other views? Or is it in fact biblical doctrine Doctrine means teaching. Is it in fact taught in the Word of God? And should be practiced. By any believer who wants to please God. What do you think? Anybody? Amen? I think it is in the book, and that's what we want to try and look at tonight by way of introduction. I'm just gonna I just want to lay the foundation. I just want you to see it in the book And kind of a launching pad for the next two weeks as we talk about personal and ecclesiastical separation, tonight is going to be the foundation of that, so that you have that biblical foundation to go from. And we're going to give you a lot of Bible in the coming weeks dealing with these things because this is all through the Bible. So first of all, tonight, separation defined. Separation defined. What is it when we're talking about separation? And what is it when we're looking at the Bible, what does the Bible define separation as? There are four biblical words that have very similar meaning in the Word of God. All of them essentially mean to be set apart. To be separated. I have here a cup of uh mints and cough drops. Now, if I took these mints and cough drops and I took the cough drops out, This is not a good illustration because they're two different things. I'm going to get rid of those. We're going to use just cough drops and we're going to start over. Okay. I mean just just mints. These are all mints. Okay? We're all in the world. We're all here. We're all human. Contrary to popular belief, we're not we're not all children of God. We are all God's creation. But to as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. So you get saved, and God sets you apart. Still a mint, still human, but set apart. From everybody or everything else. These four words that essentially mean the same thing is the idea of separation or separate The word separate and separation is found 58 times in the Bible The second word is that of holy. Holy or holiness. Holy means to be set apart To be set out for a particular purpose. The word holy is found 400 times in the Old Testament and 12 times in the New Testament, 412 times in the Word of God. The word sanctify or sanctification essentially means the same thing. It's used 137 times in the Bible. And the word saints means to set apart as well, to a saint. And it's found 96 times in the Word of God. According to Strong's definition of this word, separate means to divide, to sever. To part. That's pretty clear. To divide. To part. To set apart. That's what the Bible says, right? In the Hebrew, the word separate means to break through. To disperse, to divide, to divide, to part. In the Greek Covering all the basis here. No margin for error. In the Greek, it means to set off by boundary. To limit, to exclude, to divide, to sever. So certainly we're talking about this idea of being set apart. Of being divided, of being separated. This is what God calls us to. Now, there are three areas of separation that we find uh teaching on in the Word of God. Now the first one was covered last week by Brother Harding, and that is the separation of church and state. And he talked about that and showed us biblical references for where that is found and where our forefathers came up with the idea and why they said that needed to be in the scriptures. There's the separation of church and state. Then there's personal separation, and then there's ecclesiastical separation, and we're going to look at the other two in the coming weeks. inside of these particular areas of separation, the three arenas, as it were, of separation. There is also some aspects of separation. So inside of personal separation, there are some aspects of personal separation. There is moral separation. That is to be separate from sin and worldliness. So we're called to be separate from sin and worldliness, and we're going to give you a lot more information on that, on these things as we talk about the uh Personal and ecclesiastical separation, but there's moral separation, one of the aspects of the three arenas is moral separation, another is doctrinal separation This is separation from those who are teaching or practicing false or contrary, the word uses doctrine, the scripture uses doctrine, false or contrary doctrine. And then there's practical separation, and that is separation from brethren who are disobedient to the paths of righteousness. Brethren, people saved on their way to heaven, not lost and worldly, but who are not living right. Who are living in disobedience to the Word of God or in defiance to the authorities that God has set over them. And we're going to look at those aspects of separation as we dig into this a little bit deeper. Now, separation includes two acts. I know I'm laying foundation and we're doing a lot of teaching here. So you hanging on? We have the arenas of separation. What are the three arenas of separation? Help me out. There's yeah, if they're alliterated does it help you? There's political separation of church and state. The second arena is Personal. Personal. And the third arena is ecclesiastical. Okay, in the three arenas of separation, there are three areas or aspects of separation that we talked about. What are those aspects? Moral. First is moral, second is doctrinal, third is practical. Now there's two acts or steps of separation. Steps is a better word. It's just not alliterated, so I didn't use it. There's two steps of separation that all of these things include. And as we talk about these, it's going to make more sense to you. But turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number one, I believe. 12, chapter number 12, Romans chapter number 12, 1 and 2 You're not conform to this world, right? Is that where I'm going? Is that twelve, one and two? Alright, Romans chapter 12, verse number one. I want you to see the two uh acts or steps of separation. Romans chapter 12, one and two. The first here Is, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that He presents your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And then verse number two says, And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. The two steps of separation Is there is a separation from the world, verse number two, and a separation unto God. Both are necessary. There's a separation from the world, but we must understand that the purpose of separation is not just to be separate from the world. But it is to be separate that we might be separated unto God. So the two steps of separation from the world unto God. From the world unto God. And this is very, very, very important when you consider this because this is where a lot of people mess up, especially fundamental independent Baptists. Because we're all about separation, amen. Bless God. It's gotta be, you know, long enough and high enough and and uh the hair's gotta be short enough and you gotta look sharp and you gotta have a King James Bible and And I mean we're separate from the world, but they wouldn't know that we loved God for anything. Because there's a second part of it. You gotta be the purpose for our separation is not just so that we could be Pharisaical. And say, wow, look at me. Boy, I I've got all my uh teeth cross crossed and my eyes dotted, and boy, I really know this stuff. That's the problem with a lot of fundamental independent Baptists. Is they like to point to the stuff that they've got right, but their hearts are white as sepulchres. They don't have a relationship with God, and they don't love God and seek and follow after God. Oh, they've got The their separation's down, but they don't love God. But I just stepped all over Fundamental Independent Baptists. So let's just cross the line a little bit and talk about neo-evangelicals who are all about separating uh uh unto God. And it's all about love. And God loves us even though I am living in my sin. Even though I'm living in fornication and I'm not married. He's just gonna accept me like I am because God loves everybody. That's not right either, is it? No, it's not. There's two sides of separation and neither one is complete without the other. We need both. Many would focus, especially in our groups, especially as you deal with young people, they like to focus focus on the negative side. All the I cannot. Right? Man, I can't do this and I can't do that and I can't do this and and that's the negative side of separation. There's some things that as Christians we're not supposed to do. Amen? But that's not all that it is. There's a positive side of separation, and that's that we get put we get to be separated unto God. And I'll tell you what, if you get the positive side correct The negative side doesn't really matter. Because it's out of a heart of love. That we love God and we love Him first and foremost, and we're not too worried about what we can't do. We look at it and say, I don't have to do that. I don't want to do that. I don't desire to do that. Why? Because I desire first and foremost to please God. That's why I don't have to do that. Thank you, Lord, that I don't have to do that. That I've been freed from that bondage of sin because of God's goodness. Separation is not first and foremost an outward expression. It is an inward attitude of our heart. There are many religious groups. That consider themselves to be separate because of the things that they do or do not do. Example would be the Amish or the Minnesot. They they they live a separated life. If we were looking at just separation, just the aspect of separating from, right? But it needs to be separated unto God. We see this in the Bible as well with the ex with Paul. You think about Paul. I mean Paul had the separation part down. He was a Jew among the Jews. I mean he he was he you know he knew the law and he practiced the law and he followed it to the T. I mean he was separated. He did exactly what he was supposed to do All the while he was persecuting the Christians because he missed the second side of it unto God. And when God got a hold of Saul, who became Paul, His life changed. And then he realized the motivation and the reason for the separation that he had was because of the love of God It was a head knowledge at first, and then it became a heart knowledge. And that is the difference. If we are separated from the world in pride, without make taking the steps that we might be closer to God, that separation is empty and vain There is no purpose for it. It's empty and vain. If I do it just for pride's sake. Outside of doing it to please God. The degree of our separation is directly proportional I'm sorry, the degree of our separation from. There's two aspects of separation. What are they? From and to. It's two steps of separation. Sorry, I'm missing mixing up my own A's there. It's two steps of separation. From the world and to God. Okay? So the degree of our separation from is directly proportional to our separation unto. It may even establish one's potential to be separated unto There's a lot in that little statement I said. They are directly proportional. I cannot hope to be in close communion with God, to feel and know his presence, and be led by him. And live over here in sin. It doesn't happen. I can stand over there and talk about praising God all I want. The matter of fact is there's going to be a lot of people when they get to glory, they're going to say unto me, Lord, Lord, now say, depart from me, I never knew you. That's what God says. It's not about what I do with my lips. It's about what's in my heart and what I'm doing with my life. These are directly proportional. The measure in which I am willing to separate from the world, I believe, is directly related to how close I can get to God over here. And I believe it goes the other way too. How close I want to get to God, and desiring to be close to God will motivate and bring about a further separation. Does that make sense? So separation defined. I want you to see separation declared. Separation declared. We saw it in our text tonight, as clear as can be in verse number 17. Wherefore come out from among them, and what's the next four words? And be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, and I will be a father unto you. You know Separation is declared throughout the Bible. The idea in the practice of separation was given to us by God. God's very nature is separated. He said, Be ye what? Holy. Sorry, I'm yeah, good job, John. That's what it means. That's the definition of the word. But be ye holy, for I am Holy. God's very nature is to be set apart. Do you understand that when his own son was hanging on the cross and his own son took upon him the sins of the world? God the Father turned his back on his own son, forsook his own son, because he could not look upon sin. It couldn't be in his presence. You know the exciting thing to me as I contemplated this message, I just thought, wow, isn't that amazing? God forsook, he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Isn't that what he said? And then God tells us, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. God forsook his own son, but because of his son, he'll never forsake us. Because we've been washed in the blood. But God's nature It started with him, the idea of separation. A lot of people want to point fingers that churches like ours are those that would teach a matter of separation and biblical standards in these areas, and they would say, um Hey, where's the love of God in that? Is that that's not what God would do? God's nature is to separate. This was started from him. Holiness and sanctification is impossible without separation. There is a phrase in the Bible that means separation. And it's self-explanatory, but it the phrase is put difference between. That phrase is found several times in the Bible. Now I started out my little illustration here, and I had cough drops and mints, right? Put difference between Things that are different are not the same Put difference between this is a cough drop, this is a mint. There's a difference. So this phrase is found in the scriptures several places. I'm going to give them to you. You don't have to turn to all of them because uh sake of time. But Leviticus 10, verse number 10. He says, and that ye may put difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean. God said you're supposed to do that There's a difference between holy and unholy and between clean and unclean. Leviticus chapter 11, verse number 47. To make a difference between the unclean and the clean. and between the beast that may be eaten and the beast that may not be eaten. There was a difference between the animals in which they could eat and which they couldn't eat. There were some that were clean and some that were not clean. Ezekiel chapter 22, verse number 26. Her priests have violated my law and profaned my holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and the profane. I cannot help but think that there are many churches today that this verse typifies. That this verse is talking about the pastor or the leadership of that church. He says, the priests have violated my law, they have profaned my holy things. They have put no difference between the holy and the profane. What does profane mean Somebody help me. It is bad. You're absolutely right. It's bad. An actual definition means it's is profane is worldly. Is worldly. Is that right? I didn't look it up. I'm going from memory. Maybe I'm wrong. That's right, isn't it? Profane is to be worldly. According to that verse. The church should not be bringing things that are worldly into the church. They shouldn't be profaning the things that are holy. Now, this is just teaching. Are you guys alright? That's what and so many places are doing that, and and maybe the intention is good. Maybe they want to draw a crowd that they might share the gospel. Maybe in their heart they they they they want to do that because they they want to see people get saved. But my dad always said two wrongs don't make a right. And you don't do wrong so that you can do right. You don't say, oh, let's have a rock band in here because then we can draw a bunch of people and we can give them the gospel. No, because we are profaning the holy things of God. There's supposed to be something different. Separation is demanded. Let me ask you, does anyone doubt the intent of our Father? Does anyone doubt that God the Father knows what's best for us? Does anybody doubt that God the Father wants what's best for us? Amen. Alright. He said, Come out from among them. And be ye separate. God the Father, who we just by testimony of your amen said knows what's best, wants what's best, said what's best is to be separate. Right. Is to be separate. So let me give you a couple other things here. What have we looked at so far? Separation defined. You giving me these separation declared, separation demanded. All right, separation discussed. Last last point. Separation discussed. This is just a couple of side notes. Still scripture, but maybe not as directly commanded as some of the scriptures we've seen thus far. But just talking about this idea of separation in a practical sense and what does it mean for us as Christians? First of all, one's influence as a Christian. depends upon separation. It liter your influence as a Christian literally depends on your separation Let me ask you, does God want all of us to be light to this dark world? Yes? Does God say that we as Christians are to be salt? Right? Both of those words are talking about your ability to influence other people. This is an expectation of God that we would have influence in this world. That's why God left us here. He has a purpose that we should fulfill. Honor and glorify him and be an influence, a light in dark world, salt in a bland place. Well, separation is necessary for you to have influence. Without it, you are just like them Without separation, you are not light. You are not salt. You've lost your Savior. A man who had just been saved came to join the church. As he was joining the church, he was asked to give a testimony about what brought him to Christ. Unbeknownst to him, as this man was standing in front of the church, like we do, we say, Hey, would you like to give a testimony? This new Christian Looked into the audience and called a man's name. And said, a little over a year ago, I determined in my heart to find out what this Christianity was all about. So-and-so lives down the street from me. And I began to watch his life. I watched him for over a year, and I concluded that there must be something real about this Christianity And whatever he had, I know I needed. Let me ask you if somebody clocked you Watched your life from down the road. Would there be enough light there? Enough salt there To bring them to Christ. Your influence depends upon separation. Our power depends upon separation. You see, sin Steals our power. Sin steals the power of the believer. The power that is available to us in and through the Holy Spirit of God, sin steals that. The clearest example of this in the scripture is a really strong man. What was his name? Samson. He wist not that the Spirit of the Lord had departed from him. The power that was available to him was stolen because of the sin that he allowed into his life. Sin steals the power from us. A man was reading the scriptures during a Bible study in his church. He read from Acts chapter 16, verse number 31. He said, What must I do to be saved? Being an eloquent speaker and wanting to drive away the drive home the point. He said, Sir, what must I do to be saved? After a pause He read that phrase a third time. He said, Sir, what must I do to be saved? One of the members of the congregation called out, Go and pay John Williams for that yoke of oxen you owe. He had lost his testimony. He could stand up and read scripture But his life had lost the power because he wasn't living separated. He wasn't living separated unto God. Separation protects us. Separation protects us 1 Corinthians 15, verse number 33 says, Be not deceived, evil communication corrupts good manners. Separation will protect you. You can't run with a skunk, it's smell like a rose. You can't go hang at the bar and not end up being influenced that way. We're going to get into personal separation and talk about our friendships and what we're doing and what we're listening to and what we're watching. Listen, you cannot help but speak to things which thou hast seen and heard. And when you allow yourself to see and hear and listen to and participate in and hang around the wrong kind of people, you are being influenced that way. Separation protects you. If you follow biblical separation, it'll help you on your road to following the Lord and being what God wants you to be. Separation is a choice. It's a choice. One that we all must make. First Corinthians 10 31. Do all to the glory of God. You have to personally make the choice. Joshua 3, verse number 5, and Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. You've got to sanctify yourself. That's one of the words that we said has the same meaning of being set apart, to separate. You've got to choose to do that yourself. Your life. You have to choose to separate yourself. Leviticus 11, verse number 44 says, For I am the Lord your God. Ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy, for I am holy. Neither shall ye defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. He says, hey. Sanctify yourself. Make the choice to be holy, because your God is holy. This is what we have to do. It's a choice that we make. Biblical separation. Is taught all through the Bible. I barely scratched the surface tonight. In the coming weeks, we're going to look at personal and ecclesiastical separation, but I want the foundation to be laid tonight. That this is biblical is not something that I made up, but certainly something I believe. And I hope you do as well.