Okay, so interesting is that you could open your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter number six. First Corinthians chapter number six. And we will look at some matters this morning. So our ministry is Purity Plan Ministries, and you'll hear us say a little bit more about that throughout the day. And we have a table back there, and there's a few brochures left if you want to look at that. And of course you can always go on purityplan. org and see uh what we do. But um We deal mostly with spectral purity. Okay, that's our thing. Now that that branches out then into all the books you see back there. So I really encourage you to stop back there if you haven't already done that. But books for parents and books for young people and uh devotional books, how to get more out of your Bible, scripture memory plan, all sorts of things. So just realize it there's really only like m maybe of of my book, I only wrote one book on sexual purity and I've written I've got two other books out there on meditation or getting more out of your devotions, this type of thing, and a memory plan. So uh it it really is top heavy on resources that don't directly mention like sexual purity, but that's what we do to try to help people to live with clean hearts and clean um clean minds, you know David says, Who shall ascend into the hill the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place? And it's the question, who shall ascend into the hill the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place? And the answer is, he that has clean hands and a pure heart, and has not lifted up his soul into vanity. I mean it's like written for today's generation of staying if you want to walk with God you're gonna have to be pure. Amen. I mean God knows if you are. Right. That doesn't mean anybody else knows if you are, but if you want to ascend into the holy place and walk with God, then you're going to have to have clean hands and a pure heart and not lift up your soul into vanity, which we could say is immoral stuff online and things like this. But it brings us today to a subject that I haven't spoken often about. I've spoken a number of times on this, but I want us to look at. We're going to end up uh um with something that's gonna be very applicable to everybody in this room and to um to everybody that you know. And it's a little bit off-center from sexual purity, but not too much. And I'm not going to tell you what it is right off the bat, except we have PowerPoint, right? So maybe I will tell you. I have the title for this is Biblical Ethics for the Use of Personal Technology. Okay, now I don't know if that's what PowerPoint says, but that's what that's what I'm going to preach on. But I want to start by giving you a couple things and then we'll get to back to the title of this. We'll get to that at the end. But look at First Corinthians chapter Number six, but before we do that, go to 1 Corinthians chapter number 10. Okay, so keep your finger in six and go over to 10. Just a few chapters over. And then look at verse 31. So we'll start with 1 Corinthians 10, 31. It says, now we all know this verse, right? Probably everybody in the here knows this verse. You can say it by memory. And if not, then then um it would be very easy to commit to memory. But whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Now this is going to be kind of a strange question, but how many of you have read that or heard that verse before? Can you raise your hand? Okay. So there's none of us that doesn't know First Corinthians ten thirty one, that whether we eat or drink or whatsoever we you do, we're supposed to do it all the glory of God. So it's right there, very, very uh interesting. Verse that covers a lot of ground, but we uh we uh we kind of dis disannulate a little bit. We don't really think about the things that we do, often being to the glory of God. We we do a lot of things that have nothing to do with the glory of God, at least consciously, right? We just, you know, we're we're just we go to our job and we come home and get dinner and we, you know, do get gas at the gas station and we wash the clothes or we You know, we do these things. We're not constantly thinking about am I doing this for the glory of God, although the glory of God, although obviously we want it to be so if you're a dedicated Christian. And a lot of things you are thinking, you know, does this thing would this thing glorify God or whatever? But it it does say eating or drinking. Isn't that interesting? So I'm gonna leave that alone right now because I don't even know exactly where to go with that. Uh but we do have to be careful about the eating and drinking aspect. I mean he if if God wouldn't have said the eating and drinking aspect then if I said you need to be careful about what you eat or drink and make sure that's to the glory of God, you might c you might say, I'm taking it too far, right? Because you say, eating or drinking? You mean like uh God surely doesn't care what you eat or drink. Well and so if I said it you would say, We're not coming to Sunday morning service because that w he's legalistic or whatever, so you would go you'd go help with the donuts. Okay. And uh putting away the donuts, whatever that means. Um and uh you uh but then it says then whatsoever you do. So I think at some point God has to bring us back to are we doing what we do for the glory of God, or are we just doing what we do because we do it? And because other Christians do it and it's the way we grew up and we You know, people have modeled this. So biblical ethics for the use of personal technology, but I want to go back to chapter six now and look at verse number Twelve, all things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. Okay, so this would the idea of expedient would be like profitable or beneficial. Okay, that's what that word means. The Lord says about the Holy Spirit, is expedient for me that I go away, because if I don't go away, the Holy Spirit won't come Okay, so what he's saying is it's beneficial for me to go away. So it's better for you, he's saying, that I go away. So here's Paul says, all things are lawful to me, but all things are not. Profitable. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Okay, so uh this principle here, the last part of verse number twelve All things are lawful to me. In other words, things that aren't already called by God as unlawful. Okay, in other words, things that aren't already identified by God as sinful, Paul is saying here, all the things that aren't declared to be off limits. They're lawful, but they're not good for me necessarily. Does that make sense? And then he says, and all things are lawful that and we parentheses and say that that have not been already ruled out by God, right? So we know that. But then he says, But but I won't be brought under the power of any. So I'm going to um Paul says, I'm going to put checks on even things in my life that wouldn't necessarily be sin if I did them, but they do get questionable if they're not good for me. Or if I'm brought under their power. And this is where mature Christians are going to have to decide, if you're if you are a mature Christian, you might have to look at this and say, am I willing to go that far? If I want to go as far as say, well, there are things in this world that are not sinful, but if I see they're not good for me, since I still be doing all things for the glory of God, for me, I'm going to say, maybe not. And if I will be brought under the power of them, then I have to question whether I would be able to be always under the power of the Holy Spirit. And so it's interesting that as you get farther along in the Christian life, uh you have to make your own calls. If you wait for the pastor to to make all the calls for you, And and preach on this is wrong and this is right and this is right and that's wrong. You take all your choose from that. Well, um when you stand before the Lord At the beam of seat? If you're saved, you're going to be at that the the the judgment, right? The judgment seat of Christ. And what happens to that judgment? You know what happens? Our lives get evaluated. Evaluated. And the Lord's not going to say, oh, by the way, what does your pastor believe about this? Because the pastor is going to be in the, I mean I hate to say this, our pastors are going to be in the same line. Where they have to give account of themselves also. So every man shall give account of himself to God. So if I take all my cues from what the spiritual leadership in my life does or doesn't do, I'm not going to be able to say Oh Lord, hang on one second or whatever, you know. I'm gonna be like, oh yeah, I you know, I don't even know how it's gonna all go down, but the point is my pastor's not gonna be staying there with me. So that I can kind of blame him in other words. So we see that there's some can you go to chapter ten, verse twenty-three, for a moment? Ten verse twenty-three. So here's the last of the third things that Paul says about all things being lawful to him. All things are lawful to me, but all things are not expedient, so he brings that back in. But then he says, all things are law from you, but all things edify not. Okay, so just in case you were looking for if someone's preaching a message on what we might say um you know, things that are not black and white in the Bible, there are the three things here that we've just covered. So all things don't edify me, they don't all build me up, so I do have to, you know, I have to be careful about that. So Where are we at today? Well, we want to talk about personal technology, and we do have to move along, so I'm actually going to be flying through some notes. I think this could easily be an hour type message, and I know we don't have that. We have like 15 minutes or 20 minutes or something. But I want to start out by giving you something that maybe will stay with you. And that is that I I ran across a material one time that said this. So we'll start it out and then I'll give you the point later on. My point is that every now and then, okay, so here's where we're going, okay? We're going to go and we're going to talk about some things like about this. So when I call it personal technology, okay, we're talking primarily about the cell phone, but it could be a tablet, it could be um an iPad, this type of thing. But we're talking about this kind of stuff, not so much even like the internet as a whole or computers and this type of thing. Every once in a while there comes along an invention that becomes a revolution. Every now and then an invention actually is more than invention, it becomes a revolution. So let me just take a few minutes here to tell you about this revolution that might make sense to you. I'll give you a historical analogy here. I want to take you back to the 1800s in England. Okay, was anyone alive back then, eighteen hundreds? A man has written a book on what I'm going to tell you about, and it he says prior to eighteen thirty Now stay with me on this analogy. Prior to 1830, there were virtually no railroads in England. Okay, so we're just going to go. You can check it out yourself. But take my word for it. Prior to eighteen thirty, I'm much younger than I look, I was around back then actually, okay? And so I have validated all this. Prior to eighteen thirty, there were virtually no railroads. So what kind of transportation was happening up to the eighteen thirties? Can someone help me out here? Horses in what? Horses and um yeah, carriages, stagecoaches. And the writer says this by eighteen fifty Okay, and I just said prior to eighteen thirty he said virtually no railroads. This is what it is. Not that there was anything, but virtually nothing. By 1850, there were 5,000 miles of train track criss-crossing England 5,000 miles. Now what did this do? There was a paper at that time called The Economist, it may still be around, and it said this. They gave an analogy to this now this um steam powered train situation. They said Adam, when Adam was alive, a person traveled at four miles per hour. Which would be about what you apparently can walk in an hour. Four thousand years later, by eighteen twenty-eight, okay, so this is go with the the calculation here, four thousand years later. Or 6,000, pick a number. But they said 4,000 years later, by 1828, people could go ten miles an hour by horse, apparently. By eighteen fifty, you could travel forty to seventy miles per hour on the train. So 70 miles an hour is a lot different than four miles an hour, right? And so what you see how this would open up to be a revolution, not just an invention, but now what's opening up? The whole country is opening up, right? Because if you could only travel ten miles an hour or four miles an hour and you only had horse and and buggy and this type of thing. I mean think about you're not doing business on the other side of the continent it probably very often, right? Or if you're just a normal person, you're not traveling to the United States. I mean, you're probably you're not. So all of a sudden this train thing becomes where everybody can go visit grandma or whoever. Boom, boom, boom. And Binz is opening up, the whole world's opening up. And of course the same thing would have been happening in America, but this is the study was on England. But what it opened the door to also, and this is just the analogy, is this, something that had never happened before. It opened the door to a new kind of crime. Now this is just intriguing, but you know what the kind of crime was? Armed train robbery. And there are a number of train robberies that I mean numbers and numbers that happened, but there is a famous one called the Great Train Robbery of 1855. And um in that what happened, I'll just give you a synopsis though real fast. These people robbed what seemed to be like uh maybe money from the um you know the the government or something. Um while the train was moving and uh the guy actually ran across the top and they had a guy that was um his accomplice, one of his accomplices, uh as as far as I can understand, he may have uh there's other people but the two of them on the train. One of the guys was in the same place that the gold was in, but he was in a coffin. And they had made his body to smell like that you were not alive. And so he's covered with this green stuff and what happened is He got out of the coffin and helped the guy get in the train and they robbed this thing while it was still moving and no one had any idea what was going on, okay? And it's called the Great Train Robbery and and no one ever found out what happened in the money. Interesting thing. And and and they put in its place things that weighted the same as the gold. And so this gold went on and on and on and on and on and on and on. And no one ever till the very end of the line, when they're putting into the new bank or whatever, they realized, oh look, it's, you know Bricks or whatever. Okay, so say what does that have to do with anything? Well, it opened the door to a new level and new kind of crime. And this right here is an invention also But it is a revolution. And here's my analogy here. It has opened the door, doesn't mean it always has happened, but it's opened the door to the theft of time. Brain resources, family involvement, and self control. Okay? Now, it's actually not an arguable point. It's just an explainable point because it's true, and it may not be true in your life, but it is true. Here it is again. It's opened the door to a new kind of crime. The theft of someone's time. Do you know that the cell phone has literally changed the way we use time, our time? Literally changed the way we use our time. In other words, it's not just now that we answer the phone with this thing, right? By the way, just to let your teenagers know, it does actually take phone calls. I don't know if you knew that or not. But um it actually you you kinda have to go deep into the mechanism to find it. But there's a way to dial, it's pretty interesting. Okay. So you're like, really? I know. There's a reason it's called a phone? I I never put the two together. The kind you see on the wall and the kind you have in your hand. Mine's never rung, it's just always been about everything else It steals now teenagers, are you guys you're not thrilled with what I just said, right? Are you teenagers? They're kinda like, he's insulting us, we're not impressed. It's not the way to win over your audience is to insult the teenagers. But it's a theft of brain resources also, we'll look at that. Family involvement and self control. So this is what I'm going to call the robbery, the great robbery, if we're not careful of this thing. has given us the great robbery of Christian the great robbery and theft of Christian discernment. So what we're doing with cell phones, personal technology is this. We're we're rarely using self-reflection to look and say, is this thing way out of control in my life? But you can't ask your friend about it because he'll be like, oh, just a minute, let me finish this text, okay? Everybody's doing basically the same thing. And what's scary about it is that in the Christian world, we're actually doing almost exactly what the unsaved world does with this. So do you ever you all know this, but you go to a restaurant and everybody's like this, right? I sat next to a family one time in a restaurant and all four of them were sitting there waiting for the waiter or waitress to come. All four of them are on a tablet or a phone. You're kind of like, well praise the Lord for family time, you know. Um they're spending time together. It was in and you know a couple more kids, but where are the kids getting their cues? Right. Right. From the adults. But are you just think that with such a development, maybe we ought to use a little bit of Christian discernment about some things. So just so just point number one. I actually gave Brother Guest some some points this morning differently than maybe how I set it up sometime, but we'll we'll be we'll be close enough. I want to give you some um smartphone usage uh stats or talk about its pervasiveness for a moment. Someone did a study A number of years ago, and they said that people tapped, swiped, or clicked on an average day an average of 2,617 times. So the heaviest users were doubled that to 5,427 times tapping, swiping, or clicking. Um now that's how many times actually every time they touched it, okay? Like every every from what I can tell, every letter of a text, which Because that could kind of add up. So if you think, well, maybe, you know, how bad is that? But here's what they also did a study on, what they called, that was how many times they tapped or swiped or clicked. But then they did a study on sessions, what they called sessions. So a session was a separate usage where I put the phone down and I'm doing something else and I come back to it. That was a session, and what they found out is the average user engaged uh their phones 76 different sessions a day. And the heaviest users 132 sessions a day. And there's a lot of details I can give here, and I'll try to give you some reference or sources for this so you can look it up. But what they found out also is that nearly half of the sessions were when the phone was locked. Which means someone wasn't making a phone call or even surfing the internet. What they were doing was Um just the times that they picked it up to look at it for a moment. Because of notification or or something like this. Check the time, change the volume, skip a song. But then what's interesting is the man said this. These locked phone interactions are very shallow, and he said, and perhaps very OCD Because it what it comes down to is he relates it to Pavlov's dogs. My phone is down. I must check my phone. That's better. I see my phone. I must check my phone. Ah, no messages, I'm quoting him. Ah, no messages. Good. Where's my phone? Must check my phone. So I know you can't relate to that, but I'm just talking just you know, just go with me, all right? iPhone users unlock their phones an average eighty times per day. Android users found they unlocked their phone 110 times per day. I don't even get it. Well, there's a difference. iPhone users check their phones six to seven times per hour or once every ten minutes. And he said in some cases it might be said that we've become more concerned with digital interaction than with social interactions. So there's like I can say here and again I probably have an hour worth of material and even now we're gonna move ahead. But they said um eighteen to 24 year old women were spending eighty eight point five hours a month on average on their phones. Um now it's it's actually up from there from what I can tell. But a study of Global Tech Protection and Support Company, Suri, and found that the average person struggles to go little more than 10 minutes without checking their phones. And of the 2,000 people I surveyed, one in ten check their phones on average once every four minutes. Four hours is the longest time the average person studied was prepared to go before the need to check the phone becomes too much. The average number of texts sent by an American teenager every month? 3,339. And forty-two percent of teenagers say they can text message blindfolded Now that takes some skill. Because you were typed a letter out and you had your fingers on the wrong keys or whatever, you know, so each teenager sending messages that are totally unreadable to each other, which I guess that's a good point right there. Okay, so But now the powerful poll. So the powerful pull of this whole matter is what hooks a person. Well, what happens is one man, and I'll give you a name here of a man that you can look up later, his name is Cal Newport. He's a doctor of science professor PhD at Georgetown University, and he's got some stuff online you might want to watch or and look at. Cal Newport, he's written a book called Deep Work. Deep Work And Cal Duport has he believes that he believes that if you're if you're going to excel in this world, don't have social media. Now it's another guy and I'm not going to preach against social media right now because I have no idea if any of you use it, okay? If you've even heard of it before, okay. I know if you haven't heard of Facebook, it's a new thing kind of coming up in uh your popularity. But you'll hear about it over the next few years. And the point of this powerful poll is what they call what's behind it is What helps us to get hooked on it is what they call intermittent. Now hang with me with this kind of big psychology term, or not psychology, but a big science term. Intermittent variable rewards. And they liken it to gambling with a slot machine. And here's how gambling with a slot machine would work. They say this, people are drawn to slot machines because they can provide the thrill of a reward by total chance. You pull the lever, you probably won't win, but you could. And it's more satisfying when you do. And the wind pays out money, but it also flushes dopamine into your brain, which feels good and can become addictive. And this is what we have with our smart smartphones, okay? The the point is this, with our phones there are these intermittent rewards. Because we might just get a return text from w when we text to someone like, hey, are you, you know, doing this or that? Of course a lot of business related things here too. We're not knocking it for that. And I have one, so I'm not knocking the whole idea of cell phone. Can you all breathe easier? Okay. In fact, my wife lets me use it one hour a week, so just so you know where we are, okay? So thanks, honey. We're up a half hour from a few years ago. Um but um but I do hold it, it looks impressive when I have it, even though I can't unlock it right now. Because my hour doesn't start till Monday at 8 30. Okay. Um so but intermittent variable reward, so I can so I might have a notification that someone responded or liked my Facebook post Or someone responded or shared my Twitter. And the guy says this, one of the guys says this. It's okay. Now we don't believe in gambling, but he says this. It's one thing to go gambling for a weekend, okay? Don't record this message, bro. This is not gonna come out well. But he says when you have the slot machine in your pocket, that's very dangerous. Because he says what it's teaching us is this, and this guy Cal Newport written a book Deep Work. He says because the cell phones, we're los literally losing our ability to focus. Yeah. And he's a PhD and you ought to read I don't I'm I'm not saying you should read the book, but maybe you ought to read the book if you're interested. And he says if you want to get, if the next generation wants to be able to compete in the world that's out there professionally They're gonna have to deal with social media because he says you're gonna lose the edge. Because you cannot do deep work. You cannot focus. And it's got to get a PhD and if you have a PhD You have to learn to focus to write papers and and stay at it. And so it's just interesting that this is unsay these are unsafe people saying if you want the edge Your cell phone is taking the edge off you mentally. Because every four minutes you're and there can be some times where you guys go into the ministry, you're gonna need to plow away into a message for six to eight hours And if every four minutes you're looking over here and getting distracted by whatever, the Bible's got a lot needs your attention on that. Some problems of this though is that f uh physiologically, behavioral He speaks, Carl Newport speaks about their significant this is what he says, social media brings with it, this is his words, multiple well-documented, significant harms. I'm just repeating what they said in my doing my research. He says we actually have to confront these harms head on when trying to make decisions about whether or not we embrace this technology and let it into our lives. And one of them, the harms said, is social media can, quote, permanently reduce your capacity for concentration. By the way, the actual design, he says of these to fragment your attention as possible throughout your waking days. They just want you to keep coming back to it. Do you know if you're going to design an app, you can come with the greatest idea, but the app, the way that it'll make successful, is will people keep coming back to it? Okay? So the most successful apps are the ones that people keep returning to. They're designed to keep you returning to it. And the question is, have you fallen into that design? Where now you are always going back And and the question is this, when it comes to time usage, think about the time we spend on our phones. Now there are obviously legitimate uses. I mean The other day we're looking for a car, we're online looking for a car. Um uh the um you know, you pay bills online, right? You can track calories. You know, you can listen to sermon audio, right? I mean you there's all sorts of great usages. I'm not as bad as I am coming across. I'm actually nicer than I'm coming across, generally, when I have my medicine. What I'm saying is that when it comes to time usage, think about cell phone usage that's not um not mandatory, like that you like live or die type stuff. And by the way, do have you ever gotten a live or die type email or text where somebody's like, I'm having a heart attack in the garage And they text it out. And they put a smiley face afterwards or whatever, you know, or a frown face. And you're like, okay, be there in a minute, okay? No. So no life or desktop generally happens with texting or emailing, but we're on it all the time looking for it. to see if the next ones come in or whatever, you know, when we're bored. But think about this, time on that versus time that you spend in the Bible. Okay, I'm just throwing out there, because I don't know, maybe you spend eight hours a day in the Bible, I really don't know. And then you say, Well what about time you spend in prayer? And now I'm going to do something that is a little bit shocking. You would say, well, there's no way I spend as much time in prayer as I do on the phone. And what if I say, well, what about Bob reading? No. What if you put the two together? by reading a prayer. Do you come even close to what you spend on the phone? And I wonder, is there any significant harm If I don't ever reflect on the fact that I am more tied into the temporal than the eternal. And we're talking about the Bible and prayer time is a direct route to God, isn't it? And the phone can be, because you can read scripture on there too, but is that generally your weakness, reading too much scripture on your phone? Are you kinda like, Pastor, can you help me here? I need to schedule appointment. I'm just reading too much of the Bible on my phone. It's just it's just I'm just I just wake up with scriptural thoughts on my head and I just don't know what to do with it. Okay, and your pastor's like, yeah, you're gonna have to back off. That sounds kinda dangerous, okay? And there's then you say, well what does it have to do with purity plan? Well it has lack to it because there's a moral ramification of this too. And what happens is this, 62%, the largest porn website in the world, 62% of porn usage is done right here. Sixty percent. It's not a I'm not making this up. And another six uh seven percent is done on a tablet or a iPad. So the largest porn shop, uh largest porn website in the world who tracks everybody that comes, says 69%, 7970% of all porn users are on a private device. And my point is this, if we don't get back to the Bible about what we're doing and our kids pick up our habits Seventy percent of them could be vulnerable to looking at rotten stuff. And since we never it's not unusual that everybody's on their phone and no one knows what the other person is doing. They're just sitting there on their phone in their couch on their couch. You say, well that doesn't mean they're looking at porn. I get that. But the porn if the point is this We have got to apply and say, we've got to really start looking at what is going on in the phone because the devil is using this. Seven out of ten men are looking at porn on these And we don't, we take it for granted that this is just every day, every hour, we're on this thing multiple minutes. And the devil slips in there. I'm going to give you eight points here. Biblical ethics for personal technology real quickly. We've got one minute, so we can't do it all. First one is this, God first. If you want to try to bring this back to where it should be, think about the principle, the Christian value of God first in the day. When you first wake up in the morning, who should have your first thoughts? You ever thought about that? And often people are doing something else with their phone. They're checking something besides now I use it for myself for an alarm, but I'm saying if you use it for an alarm, which is great, make sure that you just turn it off and then don't look at it. Give God your first thought. Psalm 143. 8. Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Psalm 5. 3. My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord. In the morning shall I direct my prayer unto thee and look up What about praising God in the morning? Number two, God last in the day. The Bible, the Christian value of God last in the day. I believe that God should have both your law last and best thoughts. Before you go to sleep. Your last and best thoughts. Instead of one more time checking my account. Number three, the value of others involved or others centered. So when you're on your on your own phone all the time, you're not others involved, it takes away your other centeredness. Number four, the value of self control versus gadget control. Self-control versus gadget control, Paul says, 1 Corinthians 9, I will not be. Every man that strives for the master is temper in all things. But I keep under my body and bring this objectionalist that when I appreciate others I myself should be a castaway. False of self-control. Number five, the value of proper time use. Proper time use. Psalm ninety twelve, teach us to number our days. Number six, the the value of life example. You know people are watching us. Here's what's sad. My children are eight and eleven. If I ever come back in this area and you guys see me in church someday, they're going to be older than they are today. But one of those days they're going to get a cell phone. You know what habits they're going to have? The same habits my wife and I have. Because they've seen us for the last eight and eleven years on our phones. So if you were being challenged on what's your life example when it comes to this What is your life example? What are you passing on to the next generation? And the last one is this, diligently pursuing God's best. In other words, we're talking about the the the eternal and the important versus the trivial. Our cell phones in large part for much of our discretionary time has to do with the trivials. Yours may not, but I'm trying to say as a whole, Christianity needs to start talking about this more because by and large we're swallowing what the world is doing with this thing, which is online all the time. And I think God's got better things for our mind, doesn't he? We're supposed to love the Lord our God with all of our mind, not be checking this. And so take it for what it's worth. Maybe reflect on a little bit. If you have any questions. Please see me if you want to. I have an extended thing on this that's recorded somewhere else that I could let you hear the extended thing