Turn your Bibles to the book of Job tonight, the book of Job, chapter number 18. We're going to look at chapter 18 and 19. Job chapter 18 and 19. We're looking at Bildad's second accusation here, and uh this tends to uh going through this book here, um You know, you almost wonder why did God take so many pages and so many chapters to give us what tends to be kind of a repetitive uh example of continual conversation which you look at and say, Well this is the same thing that Eliphaz was saying or this is the same thing that Zophar was saying, this is the you know, we're we're dealing with this. Why why did God give us all three, you know arguments and I think maybe it was just so we for us to see that you know sometimes things are that way. And sometimes there's gonna be some opposition and they're they're gonna continue in that path and uh we need to stand strong like Job stood strong. And uh if you don't mind, I just want to ask the Lord to bless as we go through this tonight. Uh I pray that it'll be more than just uh a a look at a few verses, but that God would speak to our hearts. Let's let's ask Lord to bless. Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, God, that you would turn our hearts heavenward for a little bit. I pray that the pages of Scripture, the the Word of God that we look into this evening Uh I know that the content in the story itself is uh following the per sam the same pattern as the last couple of weeks, but I pray, Lord, that the nuggets that are present in these two chapters would jump out at us and that Lord you would uh bring the pages of Scripture to each and every heart where they're at and what what we individually need, Lord, I pray that we would be Thankful for the time that we've gathered in your house tonight. Give me liberty to speak and clarity of thought, and I pray that the messenger go forth as you would have fit in in your power and for your people. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. So we want to see here this uh display of exemplary character uh that is just continually uh evidenced by the life of Job who in this ongoing debate between him and his friends uh coming into the second round here, uh it doesn't end Uh they keep attacking him. And yet in all this the Bible says that Job sinned not. Job continued to be a man of exemplary character, doing uh what God wanted him to do, not just being upright, but even in the midst of this ongoing attack, we see him continually point to his hope. And we're going to see that tonight as we see the bitterness of Bildad come out. We're also going to see the joy of Job as we see what he's looking at and where he's looking, what his focus is on. So first of all, tonight, chapter number 18, verses 1 through 4, we see the deformation of somebody that is worthy. Deformation is a is an attack. It is a tearing down. It is a destruction. And he comes again at Job here. And I need to get to the book of Job. uh in the book of chronicles and that's not where we need to be. Job chapter 18, beginning in verse number one. Then answered Bildad the Shuddite, and he said, How long will it be? Uh are ye make an end of words He's saying, Job, you talk too much. Job, you keep saying, you keep arguing your point. He says, mark, and afterwards we will speak. Wherefore are we counted as beasts and reputed vile in your sight? He's telling Job, he says, Job, you feel like you're better than us. You feel like we're just like the beast of the field, like we're vile, like he there he's saying, why aren't you taking our advice? Why is it that you continue to debate or argue with us? We're telling you the truth. You should be hearing us Verse number four, he teareth himself in his anger, shall the earth be forsaken for thee And shall the rocks be removed out of his place? He's saying, Is the whole earth supposed to bow to you, Job? Is everybody supposed to submit to your way of thinking? Are we all supposed to come around to what you're saying to be the facts, Job, is everything in this world, boy, you you sure think awful highly of yourself. Even the earth is supposed to submit to to what you say. He accuses Job of thinking that this the rocks and all these answer to him. Then he begins to describe for us the wicked. In verses 5 through 21, he gives to us a description of the wicked. And you know what's amazing this again kind of repeats the pattern. They kind of describe the wicked and they try and attribute that to Job. But you know what's amazing is in all this time, the things they're saying about the wicked in a general sense are true But they have yet to point anything specific about Job and say, here is where you've sinned. This is what you've done wrong. They kind of say, well, the wicked man does this. But they can't point to Job and say you're the wicked man. They, by implication, they're implying it, but they've yet to be able to nail it down and say it of him. So we see this description of the wicked man as he describes here. And just listen to what he's saying. He says, yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out. And the spark of his fire shall not shine. Beloved, the light of the wicked is put out. It's going to end. Their life is going to end. There's no spark. It's not going to continue. You know, the light of the righteous will continue. We're going to live forever. There's not going to come a day when we do not, as a as a righteous man that is not our own righteousness, but the righteousness of Jesus Christ has been given to us, that light is going to continue to shine. He says, The light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine. The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him. This is the idea of no direction in their life. There's no you go to the tabernacle for wisdom, you go to the tabernacle to get guidance, to to know what you should be doing in life. He says, you're not going to have that. The wicked doesn't have the guidance that comes from the tabernacle and the candle that he might use to see his way is not going to be present. The wicked go through life without any direction. The steps in verse number seven of his strength shall be straightened, and his own counsel shall cast him down. Isn't that a description of the wicked? You think about the the the atheist who says in his heart, There is no God, the Bible calls him a fool. By his own counsel he's going to be cast down. For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare. Isn't that the truth about you, you know, think about uh the the wicked man who's cast into his own net. He he he he lays a trap. And he walks into it because of the temptation of Satan and the submission to sin. And you see the direction and you see what's happening. And oftentimes they even know it's happening. You take the man who is addicted to drugs or who's addicted to alcohol and he knows it's destroying his life He knows it's ruining his family. He knows it's costing him all the money that he has and he sees what it's doing to him, and yet he still continues down that road. The trap is laid and he goes right into it. Again and again and again and again. He describes here the wicked in this way and it's truthful in these statements. He says, verse number nine, the djinn shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail against him. The snare is laid for him in the ground and a trap for him in the way Verse number eleven, terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet. You think about the fear, the terror that people uh face today and going through life and And that's something that is very prevalent in our society today. I'm thankful that God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love and of a sound mind. And that we do not have to fear and walk through life with that kind of fear like he says here about the wicked man. His strength shall be hunger-bitten and destruction shall be ready at his side. It shall devour the strength of his skin. Even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength. His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors. It shall dwell in his tabernacle because none of his brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation brimstone uh is the idea of a sulfuric uh smell. You know how bad sulfur smells? If you get around that type of uh uh the volcanic activity and that sulfur is bur is is burning and coming up and it just it just stinks. It just it just something that just almost burns your nostrils with the with the smell of it Verse 16, his roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branches be cut off. Talking about the heritage and the legacy that's going to be cut off, the branches that's not going to continue. His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the streets. Nothing, nothing to carry on. He's going to be gone. He shall be driven from the light into darkness And chased out of the world. He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings. They that come after him shall be astonished at his day as they were when before were frightened. Surely such as are the dwellings of the wicked And this is the place of him that knoweth not God. Boy, it is amazing when you think about or contemplate this list. Summarized here in him that knoweth not God. That's the defining characteristic here of these wicked that he described, is somebody that knows not God. Now we know that it's not applicable. to Job. There's two thoughts that I would like you to think about as we contemplate this. First of all, If we see here that this is the way of the wicked, then we don't want to be in that way. And you could take this and look at it and say, okay, well, if this is the way of the wicked, then the opposite would be true of the righteous. And so we don't want to be counted among the wicked. We don't want to be in this state or be experiencing these things. But we do want to experience the opposite of those things, and so the opposite is a way of the righteous, and that is they have a shining light, a light that is going to continue. to live and go on forever. The righteous have direction in their life. They have wisdom and guidance from the Word of God and from the Spirit of God. He describes there in verses 8 and 9 and 10 the idea of the trap and the snare and just how men live in bondage But beloved, ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. We the the righteous don't have to live in bondage, they can live in freedom. They can be free from that sin. We already discussed it or talked about it, but the idea of the terrors that come and that those that live in wickedness they live in terror, but the righteous can live free of fear. The familiar verses in Psalms one, blessed. Or they that walk not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful. That's that's description there, but if you remember verse number four. He says there, but the ungodly are not so, for they are like the chaff, which the wind driveth away. So there's the description there. You have the righteous and the blessedness of them that walk with God and what they get to experience. But then in contrast, he says, But the ungodly are not so That's not how the ungodly experience this. And this is what the description we've given here of Job is the ungodly, the wicked man, and that is their fate. And so we, of course, as God's people, do not want To be in that fate. So we see the description of the wicked, but we get into chapter number 19 and we see the declaration of what is written. It's kind of neat to see, and you'll understand my reasoning for this point here in just a moment, but we see Job begin to describe and talk about his situation. His answer. to build at here. And he says in chapter 19, then Job answered and he said, How long will ye vex my soul? And break me in pieces with words. That idea of vex is to trouble, to to burden, to, you know, remember lot. Vexed his righteous soul in Sodom daily. Well here Job's friend was vexing his soul. He says, How long are you gonna vex me? You're going to break me into pieces with these words, this description here, of these ten times have ye reproached me. That ten times is a uh the idea of a a statement of magnitude. It's not necessarily describing the idea that, well, it has been ten times. Several times in the scriptures you'll see the description of uh stated like that ten times this happened. And it is a an expression of magnitude. It's almost like, well If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times. You know, it's ten times you've done this. So the idea is maybe it was twenty, maybe it was seven, but it spelt like a hundred. You know, so the idea of, you know, ten times you've come and and you've said this and I don't know if you went back and tried to look at the accusations or the statements to try and break them into ten actual statements. I I mean he made more than ten just in chapter eighteen here, but You go through and see, but he the idea is just that you you've been after me, you've been after me, you're vexing my soul. Would you stop it? He describes here how he's forgotten by his friends And verse we're gonna we're back up and see some of the stuff in the beginning here, but verses thirteen He talks about how he's been forgotten by his brethren and his acquaintances. He says, He hath put my brethren far from me, and my acquaintances are very estranged from me. 14. My kinsfolk have failed me, and my familiar friends have forgotten me. They that dwell in my house are my maids and count me for a stranger, and I'm an alien in their sight. I called my servant and he gave me no answer. I entreated him with my mouth, My breath is strange to my wife, though I entreated uh for the children's sake of mine own body. Yea, young children despised me and I arose and they spake against me. I mean you think about the idea of a child that, you know, anybody can be friends with a kid But even kids didn't want to be friends with them. I mean he says, boy, everybody has forsaken me. Everybody has turned away from me. His great friends, his good friends, his casual acquaintances. Verses 20 and 21, he describes how grieved he is for having received no pity. He says, My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. There's another one of those biblical expressions that have taken on meaning in society and people don't even realize it has come from the Word of God, but has escaped by the skin of his teeth And he says in 21, have pity upon me. This is how Job is feeling and he's expressing here. I just wanted to say Just a tidbit of wisdom, not directly from this text. But as I pondered and thought about this today and thought about Job here and You I get the sense that Job's going through a little bit of a pity party. And I'm not gonna say he doesn't have cause to. Job went through it in a much greater state than than we can even really understand or imagine. We have a full description of the story of what he endured, but still, you know, I don't I don't I don't think we can fully put our self in his situation. And even even in that, but I want to caution you, because today people love being the victim. People love talking about how they have it so hard. And you hear that tone in this description as I was reading through this with Job today, and I just thought, you know, that's something we gotta guard against. We need to protect against that that spirit of victimhood and that, oh I have it worse than everybody else, and oh have pity on me and My life is so bad and and somebody needs to care for my soul. Hey, God cares for your soul. Jesus cares for you, and we're going to talk about that a little bit more. I just want to Put it in your heart and mind and give you a word of caution with regards to that because I know it is promoted today and it's encouraged and Boy, everybody can be uh the the underdog. Everybody can be the downtrodden. Everybody deserves some type of recognition for your hardship. Uh praise God, I'm I'm saved by the blood of the Lamb and I'm on my way to heaven and I'm on the winning side. And yes, I got some problems, but I gotta stop looking at the problems and I gotta live in victory. Amen That's what we need to do. And this world wants us to continue to look at the problems. And I sense that a little bit in Job's spirit here, like, oh, woe is me. Have pity on me and my my problems are listed out here and he's just and listen I I'm not wanting to throw Job under the bus. We're gonna We're going to point out where his focus is here in a minute, uh, but he is describing kind of some of what's going on in his heart, and he's being honest with us. And that's a good thing, but He tells us in verse number 21, he says, the hand of God. He says, Have pity on me, have pity on me. He says, Oh ye my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me. You know, I I think on one hand he's saying, listen, this is not something that I've done. I haven't brought this on myself. This is God God did this. Uh brother Crane and I were talking on Sunday about the I the idea or the aspect that we know it was Satan that did it But the fact is, is God allowed it. And so in that respect And Job says it right here. God did it. God is the one that allowed this into my life. We know it was in the will of God to allow Job to go through this for a particular purpose. For whatever purpose he tells us ultimately to glorify God and his body. But God allowed it. And so he's telling us here, he says, Boy, the hand of God touched me And that's a powerful thought to think about that God allowed this to come into your life. We're going to discuss that further in just a moment here. But he ultimately is feeling attacked by God. He's forgotten by his friends, and now he's feeling attacked by God. He says, let's back up now and look at verse number seven. He says, Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I'm not heard. I cry aloud, but there is no judgment. He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths. He hath stripped me of my glory and taken the crown from my head. He hath destroyed me on every side, and I'm gone, and my hope hath he removed like a tree. He's talking about God here, saying he hath done this to him. He feels ignored. He feels trapped. Verse number nine, he feels destroyed. He feels all alone. These are hard things. But in the midst of this, Job says the hand of God touched me. But listen. There are those, the the lost world, the carnal Christians, that would look at that and they would say, if God allowed this, Why would I ever want to serve God? I mean, have you ever heard anybody say something like that? If God, who is supposed to be a loving, compassionate, caring God, allowed the destruction in North Carolina to happen, why would I ever want to serve a loving God like that? And you stand there and you look at them and you think, well, what can I say? What can I say? Of course, God does allow those things. James chapter 1, verses 2 through 5 says, My brother, encounter all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, once and nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let a mask of God that giveth to all men liberty and braith not, and it shall be given to him. You see, the fact is, beloved, outside of this trial, outside of the burden, Who would ever look to God for anything? A man that's not drowning does not call for a life preserver. If we went through life and we never endured any burdens, we never faced any hardship and we never had any challenges, what would be the motivation for us to look and say, hey, there's got to be something better out there There's got to be something more meaningful out there. You say, oh boy, if everything was just wonderful, if everything was perfect, boy, we would just love God for that. But the fact of the matter is we wouldn't Because only when we face hardship do we begin to pause and stop and look up. Beloved, you know that it's only after the storm, we're all looking forward to Sunday, it's going to be 43 degrees. Hallelujah! That's gonna be nice. Why? Because it's been fifteen degrees. And we're looking forward to that forty-three because it's been fifteen. And what I'm saying is when you have a storm or you go through a trial or you You face hardship. It causes us to look heavenward. And then we get to enjoy the blessings and the goodness of God because we've experienced the hardship. That's the only thing that I can point to. Ultimately, we know that it's God working in our lives. Bringing us to a point where we can look heavenward and see his hand bringing us along, molding us and making us into his image. Job, not knowing what's happening here, is just articulating his feelings, describing it. And he says, I feel forsaken. Can I remind you, beloved, that when this whole world forsakes you, that God will not? Job, Job just says, man, I feel like everything, everybody in this world is against me, but God tells us in his word in so many places, he tells us that when your family forsakes you, God won't. In Psalms 27:10, he says, When my father and my mother forsake me, the Lord will take me up. We know that Paul tells us that he was forsaken, but he wasn't forsaken by God. In Timothy chapter 4, verses 16 and 17, he says, At my first answer, no man stood with me. But all men forsook me. I pray, God, that it may not be laid to their charge. He said, God, they they forsook me. They left me here all alone. Nobody stood with me, but don't hold it against them. Verse number 17, he says, notwithstanding the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, that by me the preaching mighty Be fully known, might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear, and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. He says, Man, everybody else forsook me. They all took off, but God don't hold it against him because you were with me. You were with me, and the word of God went forth to the Gentiles in a mighty, powerful way, that men might be turned to him, and he was saved from the mouth of the lion. Paul went on to say, we're troubled on every side, yet not distressed, we're perplexed, but not in despair, we're persecuted, but not forsaken, cast down, but not destroyed, in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, 8 and 9. Beloved, although we don't deserve it, God will stay by you. We've failed him and let him down over and over and over and over again. And yet still God stands with us. Deuteronomy 4. 31 says, For the Lord thy God is merciful God. He will not forsake thee. In Nehemiah 9, verse 19, speaking of the children of Israel, he said, Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsook them not in the wilderness. The pillar of the cloud departed not from them by day to lead them in the way, neither the pillar of the fire at night to show them the light, the way wherewith they should go. God says, Boy, the children of Israel They didn't deserve it. They were complaining. They were griping. They were going against everything that you said, but you didn't forsake them. You continue to have a pillar of cloud there by fire and cloud by day and that you guided them so that they would know where to go in their life. Beloved God, in the midst of it all, is merciful and he's compassionate and he'll not forsake you His people are not going to be forsaken, Psalms 94, verse 14, for the Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. Psalms 37, 25, he says, I have been young and now I'm old, and yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken. Amen. We're not the God is going to be with you. No matter how hard it gets, or no matter what it is that you're enduring or you're going through, God is not going to forsake you. God is with you. It should give you and I courage to go on knowing that He is with us. That He is with us. You know I I probably shouldn't tell you this, but the fact of the matter is, well let me give you an illustration to be a little bit different. Um back when we were in a court case Every time the lawyer called, I mean, my gut just sank, you know. I mean I just got like oh just What now? I mean he may have even had good news. I don't know. But every time the lawyer called it's just, oh, I do not want to take this phone call. Okay, I brace myself and say, okay, what now? Where where are we at? What do we have to do? What are they asking us for? I mean the the struggle there, the the battle and just going going through that. But God was there. Every step of the way. He did not forsake us. Sometimes when we thought the decision that was made was contrary to what we would have done, ultimately God brought us through to the end. It should give you courage to go on knowing that God is there. Several times through that time when I was just praying, Lord, what w what are we doing? God showed himself strong in a mighty way, showed that he was present and he gave courage to just keep pushing forward. One example of this I shared with somebody just recently, but we were in the middle of that court case and At that time we were well over $900,000 behind on our legal fees. We had spent close to $400,000 in legal fees already. I had a $900,000 bill onto my desk and I'm just saying, Lord, what did I do? Did I lead the church wrong? Should have we got out of this a long time ago, we're taking this steps and Lord what what I mean I was battling with this in my heart and mind and we went on Christmas vacation as a family and we left on Sunday afternoon and uh I just looked on the map and saw like how far could we get where I could be in church. And this was in the middle of uh COVID. So a lot of churches weren't having any services, let alone Sunday night. And so I'm looking like, okay, can I go here and I called seven, eight churches and I'm like, you know, hey, are you guys having services? No, we're not having services, you know. Uh we're only online and that kind of stuff. Finally I found one up in the hills in in Virginia, somewhere West Virginia. And so uh I said, well we can make it there, but we're gonna be there about an hour early. But That's the only one I can find that we can make it to and we'll be there in time for church. And so we drove and we just sat in the parking lot. There was nobody there. The building lights were turned off and all that. We we waited around. People came and building got opened up, lights came on, and we went inside this church. And man, everything the church was beautiful. It was amazing. And after service I asked the pastor, I said, man, this auditorium, everything is so beautiful. Uh, you know, just want to commend you on that. And he says, man, you won't believe it, what God has done here He says we we were in the middle of a of a renovation and I don't remember the exact stories of what happened but ultimately uh the building flooded. Four the whole valley flooded. They had four foot of water through the whole they have pictures, uh you know, four foot of water through the whole church. Everything in the whole basement completely gone, but the auditorium was four foot deep. Piano, organ completely destroyed, uh everything gone. And uh he says, man, we were we were in a mess. The problem is uh insurance, we didn't have flood insurance. They weren't flood insurance whether gonna cover it. So we had to do something and he said so we started working and he said uh we um Got the construction, got it done, and he says it was $1. 2 million. He said our church is 40 years old and we had no debt. He says, so I went from having no debt to having a one point two million dollar bill. And he says just I just a month ago I was sitting in my office looking at that, and this is what he said to me. I'm looking at that bill and I'm saying, God, did I mess up? God, did I lead the church wrong? Should I have done something else? He said, I'm sitting there in the office and the secretary draws buzzes me and says there's there's a gentleman on the phone that wants to speak to you and He said, I pick up the phone and the gentleman on the other end of the phone says, You don't remember me. I don't think you remember me. He gave him his name and he says, I don't. He says, Well, I went to your high school. Twenty years ago. And he said, uh, you and that school shaped the character that I have today. And he says, I'm a very successful businessman today. And uh I want to let you know how much I appreciate what you've done for me. He says, I heard about your building flooding and your renovation. He said, what did your renovation cost? He said, well, it cost 1. 2 million. And the man said, okay. The checks in the mail. He said it's paid for. And I looked at that pastor and with a tear coming out of my eye, I said, God Brought us to this church tonight for this service so that you could tell me that. That is the only reason that I'm here tonight. Because I'm in the middle of a battle and I need to know that God's still there. And what I want you to know is God's not going to forsake you. Whatever it is, wherever you're at, Job looked and he says, Hey, God is here. I want you to see that as we look down in verse number 23 through 29. Here's where the point comes from. In verse number 23, he says, Oh, that my words were now written Job, I mean you talk about an answer to prayer. He says, Oh, that my words were now written. Oh, that they were printed in a book They were, weren't they? They were recorded. And look what he asked in verse number 24. He says, that they were graven with the iron pin and led in the rock forever. I mean he couldn't have had a more direct answer to prayer than that. And he says, boy, I wish these were recorded and they were recorded forever so that everybody would know that I was that that I did right and that I was not in sin. And he said, I just want to be, you know, I just want people to know about it. And God said, okay, I'll record it for you. He put it here in the book. He said, look at verse number 25. He says, For I know that my Redeemer liveth. In the midst of it all, he said, I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. What an amazing thing in the midst of this It declares that his hope is in God, that his redeemer liveth. The Bible I read records for us at least 18 times that God is the Redeemer of His people. In Jeremiah chapter 15, verse number 34, he says, The Redeemer is strong, the Lord of hosts, his name. Isaiah 63:16 says, Thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer. You know, I can't explain. You know that Job is the oldest book in the Bible, believed to have taken place sometime in the patriarchal period there, sometimes in early Genesis. How is it that Job would know about the Redeemer? This is before the law This is before the children of Israel. This is before the kingsman redeemer that's described for us in the beautiful picture that's given to us in Ruth chapter number four. This is before the New Testament, where Jesus Christ is the Redeemer of all mankind. And yet here not only d do we see this, but we see the fact that it is it is prophetic in nature that he's describing here The fact that one day there's going to be a Redeemer and that he knows that his Redeemer liveth, even then, this is amazing. His declaration here, I want you to see first of all, it's personal. He said, I know that my Redeemer liveth. Beloved, each and every one of us have to have a personal story with God, a personal relationship with God. It's not mom and dad can't get saved for you. Every one of us have to know it personally that I know that my Redeemer liveth. Do you know that your Redeemer liveth? Do you know that He's your Redeemer? That your sins are forgiven, that your name is written down in the Lamb's book of life. It's a personal declaration. It's a confident declaration. He said, I know, I know. Do you know that you know that you're on your way to heaven? Do you know that your Redeemer liveth? And it's a confident declaration that you can say. I like being able to tell people, well, I know for sure that I'm on my way to heaven. Because of the promise of the Word of God, these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. But I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep thee that which I have committed unto him against that day It's a confident declaration. It's a powerful declaration describing the redeemer. To redeem is to regain possession by paying the price To regain possession by paying the price. Jesus paid the price for you and I. He regained possession. What? Know ye not? Jesus paid for us. You've been bought with a price, amen. Jesus paid the price for us. Look at verses 25 through 26. We see how prophetic this declaration is. He says, For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand In the latter day upon the earth. How did Job know that Look at verse number 26. He says, though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. He says after he understood the fact that this whole body is going to die, it's going to perish, it's going to be put into a grave, and it's going to be eaten up. The worms are going to take it. But he said, hey, in my flesh I'm going to see God. What an amazing thing to know that he had it settled in his heart and mind and that he knew that his Redeemer, God, and that he would see him again. In his own flesh he would see him Verse number twenty-seven, he says, Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another Though my reins be consumed within me. He said, the time is going to come when I see him with my own eyes. Not another, not a not a dream, not something either in a second worldly state or a vision after the fact, no, one day's going to come where in my flesh I'm going to behold him with my own eyes. And we know that one day we will too see our Redeemer. In the midst of all this darkness, Job knew that his Redeemer lives. But his focus was on that. His mindset was not on the darkness, it was on the deliverance. Jesus one day is going to come and reign on this earth where he once was slain. The poet said, I know that my Redeemer liveth And on the earth again shall stand. I know eternal life He giveth, that grace and power are in His hand. I know, I know that Jesus liveth. And on the earth again he shall stand. Do you know that your Redeemer liveth In verse number twenty-eight, he gives us the the heart of the matter. He says But ye should say, remember he's talking to Bildad, he's responding to him, and he says, but ye should say, why persecute we him? So he's saying you should say, why are we persecuting him? He says, seeing the root of the matter is found in me. Spurgeon preached a message by the title The Root of the Matter, and I was planning to try and listen to it before tonight. and just didn't get back to it, but I I saw it in my study. Maybe you can look it up and listen to it. I'm sure it's very good. The root of the matter from this text. The root of the matter. And you know, a lot of times People are quick to throw stones or put you under the bus and a lot of times the root of the matter is their own heart. That's what Job was saying. He says, you you should say, why are we persecuting Job? When the root of the matter is in me. And you know, beloved, it's easy for us to look at other people and say, boy, the root of the matter is in you. But we need to hear what Job's saying to us tonight. Is the root of the matter in us? Is the problem, does the problem lie in me? Maybe we need to get the heart of David and say, search me, O God, and know me and see if there be any wicked way in me. Because the root of the matter is in here. It's this person. This individual. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed