I'm still not a hundred percent back to normal. Brother Aaron was telling me that the best way to get back to normal is to go camping. I said, I'll just stay unnormal then. I don't know. He said something about that that being out in the sun and rising and falling with the sun Of course, this time of year probably doesn't help much because that the sun is kind of out of whack two for our schedule, you know. Uh but He yeah. Just getting tired at weird times, you know, and that kind of stuff when I would normally be awake um, you know, like nine o'clock at night. I'm normally like wide awake at nine o'clock at night and so uh things are a little different. But It is a blessing to be home and uh glad to be here in our church and with with all of you with our church family. It's always a privilege to preach out and surely uh just you know that somebody would want me to preach is certainly an honor. Uh but I am most comfortable uh and uh enjoy preaching the most here in our church uh with our church family. Um and I know that uh You know, you guys get my idiosyncrasies and uh the there's some some inside jokes that I can that I can let go and you guys know what they are and I don't have to worry about what translates and what doesn't and all of that. You know, it's just it's gonna be okay. So that's that's a blessing. Uh but Well, we are digging into the book of Job. Uh that's the study which I had uh put off when I threw that out that hey I was thinking about doing Job the next I don't know why exactly, but then that later that week, uh Pastor Gus looked at me and he says, So you're gonna try and tackle Job, huh? He's like, And so I don't know if it's just 'cause it's so many chapters or there's something in there that I haven't found that I should be worried about. Uh I d I'm not sure. Maybe he was trying to warn me, but uh Uh I'm like, yeah, we're gonna we're gonna try. I've knocked out or done several of the smaller books and I thought, well, it's time for me to try and take one that's uh much larger at least in in number of ch of chapters and do one of those. Gotta do them sometime, right? We can't just do all the little ones. And uh so hopefully by the end of my ministry I'll be able to preach through all the books of the Bible is what I would like to do. But I'm gonna have to speed it up if that's the case, because we know I've only got twenty years uh to to do that. Uh but we want to get into the book of Job tonight. We're going to uh as far as the the text this evening, we'll be looking at Job chapter Now I was able to in Sunday school just kind of give a brief introduction, just kind of hit it lightly. because we are talking about the books of wisdom and poetry. Luther said about the book of Job, it is magnificent and sublime as no other book of Scripture. That's how he felt about this. And so we want to begin tonight and look at the manuscript, the manuscript as a whole, and some of this will be a little bit of review from Sunday morning, uh, but remembering that it Job is the oldest book or the uh as far as the oldest book in the Bible or the earliest written, written the earliest recording history for us there, believed to have been written somewhere around the beginning of the book of Genesis. in that time frame, the patriarchal period. Look, if you would in Genesis chapter, I'm sorry, in Job chapter 22. Job chapter 22. Uh, we are gonna get to first job, but I just want to show you this. So it's believed to be written sometime after the flood. Because of this verse here in Job 22 and verse number 16. I'm in 1622. I'm supposed to be in 2216. Here we are, 22-16. He says, um Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood. So the talking about the flood there, saying, okay, well hey, there w there was a flood. He's referencing the flood, so They believed that it was written sometime after the flood, but as we talked about on Sunday, sometime before the law. And so i it was sometime after that, you know, Genesis uh eight or nine and and maybe around chapters eleven or twelve of the book of genesis, a a uh contemporary with Abraham, maybe Jacob. Um and so Uh part of the reason was because there's no mention of the law, there's no mention of the priesthood. Uh we do see here even in the beginning verses that we're going to look at tonight that Job offered sacrifice for his children, which if you remember in the Old Testament there, the beginning patriarchal period, that was the the father's responsibility. The father did that. Uh it was written during this time, and then of course we mentioned as well because of the longevity of his life, uh because he lived a long time. And if you're keeping notes, that's referenced in chapter 42 and verse number 16, where it speaks of how long he lived. So Job is the first of the books of poetry and wisdom. It is a book of poetry which is slightly different than what we would think about as far as poetry Hebrew poetry is vastly different from the rhyme of modern verse. This type of poetry is built on other things, and I did not take time to try and study exactly what Hebrew poetry was. I did look into it and began to do some reading on it, but I did not see as trying to teach the ins and outs of Hebrew poetry so that we would have an understanding of that was going to benefit us as a group that much, and maybe I'm mistaken, but I did not dig into that to try and teach it tonight. But Tennyson said that this is the greatest poem, whether of ancient or modern literature. It is a poem, but it is based off of Hebrew poetry, which Is a give and take of contrast and parallelism. So there's great contrasts that are laid out in this poetry. It states something and then it states a contrast. or parallelism where it states something and then it offers a equal or greater of the exact same thing. An example of this would be in Proverbs where it contrasts between the kisses of an enemy and the wounds of a friend. The wounds of a friend are contrasted with that of a kiss of an enemy to try and teach something. Or parallel passage would be like that, our God is a refuge and a strength A very present help in trouble. This is parallel statements. These two statements are equal. They're the same. One reinforces the other. That, hey, our God is our refuge and strength Yes, he's our refuge and our strength, but he's a very present help in time of trouble. These two statements agree with each other and support each other and make each statement had been on their own to be that much stronger. And that's how Hebrew poetry is laid out. Sidwell Baxter said this. Hebrew poetry, with its parallel of ideas, lends itself perfectly to translating into other languages Rhythmic poetry, on the other hand, is almost impossible to translate properly. The Hebrew poetry can be reproduced in any language without any necessary uh diminution of its beauty of f or force. So any decreasing of its beauty or its force it can be translated into other language. And that's quite interesting. I hadn't thought about until I read that because when I'm preaching for other people in other countries My beautiful outlines do not translate. All the effort I put in into uh alliterating my outline And it doesn't make no difference to them because it does not translate, you know. And so I understand that idea of hey, if it was built on rhyme then it would not translate. Yet because it is designed the way God designed it and Hebrew poetry is that way, it can translate into any language and be just as powerful as it was in the original language because it can communicate the same message. It's just amazing, uh powerful truth. So these books, the books of poetry and wisdom have different focuses, they have different areas in which they uh kind of nail. Oswald Chambers described these five books of poetry this way. Job is doctrinal Concerning how to suffer. Psalms is devotional concerning how to pray. Proverbs is practical concerning how to act. Ecclesiastes is pinnacle concerning how to enjoy, and the Song of Solomon is experiential concerning how to love So describing these different books of poetry and wisdom and the different areas in which they influence us or are focused on in our lives. Now, just to state uh clearly, and I don't think there's anybody here that doubts it, but Job is supposed to be as part of the canon. Uh it is included in Scripture and it's supposed to be there. There are those that would doubt it because it's not historical in nature like some of the other books of history. I mean, where does it fit? Uh it was written way back in the early and and so it doesn't fit in the structure of our timeline all of a sudden way up here in the middle we're going all the way back to the middle of Genesis and why. But listen, if you believe in the inspiration of Scripture, that is that God divinely spoke into existence that he uh verbally inspired the word of God and uh he spake and men wrote as he gave utterance If we believe that to be true, well the New Testament references the book of Job. So if the New Testament is inspired, then it is in referencing, in more than one occasion, it referenced the book of Job. and speaks of this book that God had in his plan for us to learn of from. So we see this about the manuscript. Secondly, let's look at the message. the message. It is a masterpiece of literature. There is no question in all of time and all of the reading that I did and different commentaries and studying that this was a a uh common theme, the masterpiece of this literature. It is praised as a masterpiece by many. Victor Hugo said this Tomorrow, if all literature was to be destroyed and I was left, it was left to me to retain one work and one work only, I should save the book of Job. If he would if all literature was going to be gone, he had only one thing he could hold on to, he said, I should save the book of Job. Daniel Webster said, the book of Job. taken as a mere work of literary genius, is one of the most wonderful productions of any age or of any language Daniel Webster said that. Thomas Carlyle said, There is nothing written, I think, in all of the Bible or out of it as equal in literary merit than Job. And these are people that understand a whole lot more about uh literary concepts than I do. Uh, you know, I had to try and study just to get a little bit of a grasp of what Hebrew poetry was and why didn't it rhyme like the poetry we have. uh the poetry that I'm used to. Roses are red, violets are blue. You know, that that that's the level of my literary expertise. And so I'm not the one that's critiquing this, but These that are are gifted with literary expertise understand the great value of this book, and you would think uh because they see it. that we may not truly see it because we don't have that training or that understanding, but we surely could value and appreciate it and understand uh how much of a masterpiece it is. Not only is it a masterpiece of literature, but it's a master lecture on suffering and patience. Now stay with me for a couple of minutes. This book takes on the most difficult problem of why is there suffering in the world? But not just why is there suffering in the world, because that in and of itself we we tend to understand, even if you're a Christian and you look at it from a biblical standpoint, you say, okay, well, there's suffering because there's sin. And and sin is what causes this suffering. That wasn't God's plan or God's design, but here is the rub, and that is why is there suffering in the world where God Is 100% in control. So why is there suffering when God's in control and he could control this suffering when he could stop it or keep it from taking place? And beloved, although one might still wrestle in his heart and mind with the reality of it, Job does address it and talk to us about that. Why is there suffering in the world where God is still in control? And I know people still wrestle with it. Even after reading Job, even after hearing these lessons, and we're going to walk page by page and and chapter by chapter through the book of Job. And even after this there'll be people in their heart and mind that will still question why. But why is it like that? That doesn't help me understand uh all of the i nuances of it. But beloved, in the book of Job, the reader is given a look behind the curtain. We're able to see things that God gave us a glimpse into, such as that conflict between good and evil. The challenge that Satan brings to God. We're able to behold the absolute sovereignty of God as he rules in the affairs of men. Now Job doesn't completely answer the question for us, but it teaches us how. Where and where's be said this? Most people say that the theme of Job is the age-old question: why does a loving and righteous God permit the godly to suffer But if that is the theme of the book, then the question is never answered. The theme is better stated: how do the righteous suffer? So keep that in mind as we go through this, beloved, is not if in our heart and mind we think, okay, Job is going to give us the answer for why the godly suffer. then we are going to be disappointed when we get to the end and have not fully come to a conclusion that satisfies our heart and mind. What we need to understand is that the truth is the godly suffer And so the book of Job gives us insight and a picture and teaches us how to suffer righteously. How do the righteous go through this suffering? Further, it teaches us that not all suffering is a result of sin. We understand that God chastens them whom he loves. No one wonders why the prodigal is in the pigsty. Even the prodigal himself, there in the pig side of the Bible says he came to himself. He realized anybody who is running from God or who is living in sin, they know why they're suffering. The challenge for us is why do the godly suffer? Especially when it's somebody you love that's suffering. Or maybe it's you that's suffering. And then we come to God with the question, why? What have I done to deserve this? Why am I going through this of all the people in the world that are wicked and living wrong? Why is it that my father is dealing with cancer? Why is somebody in my family fighting this battle? Why am I dealing with this instead of the wicked people of the world dealing with this? I want you to consider a thought here this evening, just as a little side note. Would you turn to John chapter number 15? In light of Job, whom we will see in a minute as we look at the man. We know that he was an upright man, that he eschewed evil, that Job was a righteous man. And so we look at that and we say, well. Why is Job suffering? If you look at John chapter 15, just want to turn your attention to just one verse, John chapter 15 and verse number 2. He said, every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Beloved, the fruit or the branch that is not bearing fruit he taketh away. The branch that is not living righteously is cut off. The branch that is that is not pleasing unto God is done away with. But what does he say there of the second part? In every branch that beareth fruit, he purchased it, that it may bring forth more fruit. So in part, we could answer the question right here on the onset: why do the godly suffer? Because they're godly, because they are living pleasing to the Lord, because they are bringing forth fruit, God says, I'm going to purge you that you might bring forth more fruit. That you would accomplish more for the cause of Christ. There could be some satisfaction in that. There could be some thrill in that. Realizing that, hey, at least I am pleasing God. At least I know that I am doing right and that God is pleased with where with what I'm doing, because had I not been doing right, I would have been cut off. I would have been done away with. The Lord would have removed me. But He is purging me that I could bring forth more fruit. Thirdly, this evening, we want to look at the man. This is where we're going to get into our text as this is addressed here in these first five verses. Follow along as we read Job chapter 1, verses 1 through 5. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil And there was born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep and three thousand camels and five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred sheasses. and a very great household. So that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. And it was so When the day of their feasting was gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offering according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Beloved, here in this text, God, right from the beginning, mentions some things about Job. This man, whom the entirety of this book that bears his name is going to discuss and talk about Job, but right at the beginning, right from the onset. God sees fit to mention to us, to tell us some things that are notable about this man Job, to describe for us his character God was pleased with Job. You and I can do nothing greater with our lives than be pleasing to God. Are you living a pleasing life to God? There are many things that eat up our days and consume our time. But in the midst of it all, even in the endeavors in which we labor to earn income to support our families and homes. Even in that, we can do it as unto the Lord, and we can be doing that and pleasing God. I hope that we're motivated tonight to live pleasing lives to our Lord and Savior. I would like to go verse by verse here through those five things. We're going to look, first of all, his piety. We see in verse number one, there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and this man he was perfect. an upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. First of all, here in this point, I cannot help but I can't skip over the fact that it says there was a man. There was a man. I know I cannot be alone in having this thought Well, I know that Job did it, but that was Job. I'm Caleb. I know that Paul was able to be such a great missionary, but I mean, come on, that was Paul. Oh, I know that John stood up and John did what God wanted to do, but that was John. What I'm saying is somehow in our mind we of fix a supernatural level of spirituality to people in the pages of scripture as if they were given a great level of spirituality that's not available to you as I and like maybe like Samson who was endowed with a physical strength, we think they were somehow endowed with a spiritual think uh strength, and so we're not able to, or maybe not even expected to be, that kind of a Christian But I would have you know tonight that God tells us right off the bat from the very beginning that this was just a man. He was a man that dealt with all the passions and the heartaches that you and I deal with He got up in the morning and he was tired and he went to bed at night and he dealt with uh discouragement and he had dreams he wanted to fulfill. He labored raising his family uh for God and and and he labored in the field and he was just a man like you and I. We need to remember that as we read this about this man, that he was a man. We know he was a man of the land of Uz. We don't know where Uz was. As we said on Sunday, we know according to verse number three that it was somewhere in the east. We know that. The end of that, he was the greatest man in the east. So we know he was somewhere in the east. And we know that in verse number 19, it tells us it was near a desert or desert like. So we have some descriptions of it, and there's some references to some of his extended family in other passages of the Bible in Jeremiah. I think there's one in somewhere else. But ultimately we don't know exactly where this was, but this was a man It was just living where he was living and raising his family and doing what he could, but in it all he was living pleasing to God. We see he had great character. It says here first that this man, whose name was Job, was perfect. That of course we know is not perfect as and without error, but it means mature. Spiritually mature This idea of perfect is an inward look at who he was on the inside. He was spiritually mature. Can I ask you tonight, are you spiritually mature? You know, some people have been saved for many, many years, but they really are still babes in Christ. Can I tell you something? If you're always getting offended, you're a baby. You say, well, I don't like that. You're a baby. Okay, that's if that rubbed you the wrong way, you are a spiritually immature believer. That shouldn't bother you. You see, because great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them if you're a Christian who's always getting offended You are immature spiritually, and it doesn't matter if you've been saved for one year or thirty years, you're still a babe in Christ, and it's high time that you mature spiritually That means you get a consistent walk with God and you grow in your love for God and you're letting God lead you in your life. And when you're walking with him, some of those things that you were so consumed about and worried about, you're going to look at it and say, what in the world was I thinking? That is dumb. That is foolishness. I can't even believe that was a concern of mine. Why we need to be spiritually mature. Who might so job job was spiritually mature. He was he was perfect. He was mature. The Bible says, be ye perfect As your Father in heaven. We need to be perfect. It's a goal that we ought to have. That means to be spiritually mature. And so you say, well, how do I do that? We'll teach maybe on that more thoroughly another light another night, but it ought to be a goal of our heart. To be mature believers. It does not mean that he was sinless, but it means he was sincere. He lived with a conscience that was void of offense before God and man. He was able to lay his head on his pillow at night and knew that there was nothing between him and his Savior. He was able to lay his head on his pillow at night and knew there was nothing between him and his wife. There was nothing between him and his kids. He had a clear conscience before him and God and before God and men. That's what it means to be mature. Perfect. Then the Bible says that he was upright. As much as perfect was an inward look, upright is an outward look. And how he behaved and how he held haul handled himself out in the community. People looked at him and said he was upright. One thing that I remember that's in indelibly written upon the pages of my mind And and I didn't even get to know him that well, but my dad's father, who owned a muffler shop in Crossett, Arkansas, and Crossett, Arkansas is 6,000 people, the entire city. That's the total population is six thousand people. Little bitty town in in in Arkansas there. And he owned a little muffler shop. and anything that you you ask anybody in town and they would tell you uh that Glenn Battrell was an honest man It's he he handled himself in such a way and and dealt with people for years and years in that little bitty town, in that muffler shop. People came to the place that they respected him and they said, hey, he was an honest man. Do you handle yourself in an upright way? Where there is no question about your integrity, about what you do. It's an outward look. His heart was sincere towards God, and his actions were right towards men. He had integrity and he lived and did that which was right. He did not waver. What was right was right. He was an upright man. Then the Bible says that he feared God. He feared God. That is, he reverenced his majesty. He regarded his authority and he dreaded his wrath. Beloved, the reason men do not flee from sin today is because they do not fear God. Because they do not fear God. You know, we have a little dog at home. Her name is Haven. For some reason, I guess it's an affliction of puppies. She likes to chew on everything. And she's taken to chewing on the building. On the Brother Crane, we have cedar shakes on that shed. She has chewed about 70 or 80 cedar shapes off the side of the building. But do you know what happens? She might be up there gnawing on one of those and I come by or I come out or stick my head out and she just stops thinking She just acts like, nope, I wasn't doing that. Nope. Wasn't chewing on the building, not mean. Don't know where those claw teeth marks came from. You see, right away she stops. She doesn't want me to see her do that. You see, Christian, we would flee. Sin if we feared God. If we feared God, but we just continue in our sin. It is sad that the average Christian fears recession Fears who might be in the White House in November. They fear Mother Nature, the next hurricane or tornado, or flood that might come through. But we do not fear God. I want you to hold on to these characteristics about Job here in a few minutes as we bring this to a conclusion. But I want you to see lastly a description of his character and who he was. He eschewed evil. That is, he departed from it. He fled from it. He ran from it. He didn't want to have anything to do with it. I remember Dr. Bogun all the time when we were in Bible college, he always liked to say, he would say, you're playing footsie with sin. You know, just playing around with sin, you know, just getting close to it, just playing around with it, acting like it's not that bad. Nobody sees nobody sees it, you know, it's under the table. Nobody's you just just just playing footsie with sin, getting as close to it as you can without partaking of it. But you see, the what was a description of Job is that he eschewed evil. He said, I don't want anything to do with it. I don't want to argue about, well the Bible doesn't say I can't do this, so bless God, I'm gonna no no. If it was if avoiding the appearance of evil Anything that might look evil, anything that could be taken as evil. I don't I don't want to be around it. I don't want to be in that environment. We were in the Philippines there, and I don't know if any of the other group uh heard Brother Tesson or not. He we were walking to a restaurant that he wanted to take us to and he said, Now listen, Pastor Caleb, he said, uh, I know this is in a mall and And listen, if you if we get there and you feel like that the restaurant's too worldly or that the environment's not right or if there's anything that you think I'm not going to be offended at all if you say, hey, let's let's eat eat somewhere else. Uh I just want you to know it's, you know, it's obviously not a Christian restaurant and so just wanted you to know it's not gonna bother me if you don't want to eat there. Okay, he's being conscious of the fact that there's some places that Christians shouldn't be. And he didn't want us to eat somewhere that would offend our conscience before God. And he wanted to know that he was okay if we said no. Now there was nothing wrong with this place. I mean it was not was a place of the world, obviously. They didn't have any Bible verses hanging on the walls. But I you know, I told them I I understand. It's not it doesn't have to be, you know, it's not a church fellowship here. We're just getting some and and there was no music playing I don't think. I I couldn't understand if it w well I guess it may be Christmas music. There might have been some Christmas music playing Yeah, all the mall there played Christmas music nonstop. Uh but the environment wasn't that bad. So I told him no we could eat there. But see what I'm saying is that he he understood there's some places that just shouldn't go I wonder if we feel that sometimes, like, oh, uh this is too close to the world. I don't want to be a part of that I want you to see his parentage in verse number two. And there was born unto him seven sons and three daughters. He had a big family, lots of kids. Let me just encourage you. It is God that gives life and takes life, and we we have a pretty broad spectrum here of of of people. Maybe some of the young people will take this to heart. Some of you older ones are far past this. But listen, there is a great blessing in having a big family. Now you you Have to do what God will allow you to do. God's the one that gives life. Some of these things are not in your control. But sometimes people plan their family. And they plan God right out of it. And they're like, well, we want to have two kids, and that's all we're going to have because modern science makes it possible for us to adjust our schedule like that. Listen, I'm not I'm not one of these that would preach that bless God you have as many kids as you can have if it is 17 have 17 kids listen if you're gonna have kids you need to be able to take care of them You need to be able to care for them. And there's some parents that one is enough. Okay? That's all you need to have. And if you want to know if you're that kind of parent, come and ask me. There's some parents that that you know it ones as much as you can handle, I don't know. There's some that God gives grace and strength to to handle more, but there is great blessing in having a big family And uh listen, ladies, there'll always be somebody to wash the dishes. Okay? There'll always be somebody in the middle of the yard when you got a big family, you got lots lots of kids, that's what my kids say. That's the reason you had kids is so you would have a workforce I'm like I am just repeating what happened to me when I was growing up. So that there is some benefits to that, but also want you to know that with a big family there's great responsibility You guys know that the Lord saw fit to take our first one to heaven, so we say, well, we raised one good kid. We got one one good kid that that in went to heaven before I had a chance to mess him up, you know. Um but uh we we wanted to have six kids and we have one in heaven. The Lord gave us five more and and you know that's where We're stopping, Gus. So uh but let me just encourage some of you d in modern society people are like, you know, no no don't have kids, you know Have your career. This is what's most important, and so on. And I uh just want to encourage you to experience the blessing of God. and to have uh a big family. That God God blessed him with many kids. Then we see his prosperity given to us in verse number three. His substance also was seven thousand sheep and three thousand camels and five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred she has And a very great household so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. What a what a description of God's blessing upon his life. Not just that he had a great family and lots of kids, and not just that he had lots of possession, but the Bible takes it one step further and said he was the greatest of all the men of the East. You know, men today look at the car you drive, they look at the house that you live in and describe uh, you know, your your kind of your status, your level of wealth based off of those things, you know, are you are you driving a A Ford or an Audi. You know, I mean they they can kinda they they they gauge those things. Well, in Job's day it was gauged off of your livestock. It was gazed off of how many animals that you had and what kind of land that you had been able to acquire. And so God very clearly describes that he had blessed him greatly so much that he was the greatest of all the men of the East. From the world's point of view, he had it all. Let me just say this to you. It's only because of God's blessing That you have the possibility of losing it all. You see, if Job would have never had it all, he couldn't have lost it. Back when the Great Depression struck, there were men who had it all, that lost it all in one night, and there are stories of men that hurled themselves off the top of their building. Because they lost it all, and they thought, man, it's over. My life is over. I've got nothing left. But you know, for the guy that was living on the street, it was just another day. He didn't have to worry about all the money he lost in the stock market because he ain't never had any money in the stock market. He didn't have to worry about losing his house because he didn't have a house to start with. He didn't have to worry about trying to put gas in his car because he didn't have a car to put gas in. What I'm saying, beloved, is sometimes our perspective is wrong because God has so richly blessed us, we've got so much stuff to worry about. But if God hadn't blessed us with it all, we couldn't lose it. That's what we need to remember. That's what we need to think about is the magnitude of God's blessing that has put us in such a position that we have so much to worry about. There was a man living in London during World War Two and London was being bombed ra you know, bombs were coming and falling night after night and He owned three houses in London. And he thought, well, surely between them we're gonna we're gonna make it out. And that they they over a little bit of time him and his wife found out that one of the houses that he owned, which was rented, but the house was bombed and ruined, and he told his wife, he says, Well hun, now we've only got two houses to worry about. We don't at least we don't have three anymore. A ti a little bit of time passed, a few more nights passed, and his second house was bombed, and then a few more nights longer and his third house house was bombed, and he says, Well, honey, look at it this way. Now we ain't got nothing to worry about. And that's the spirit that could bring Job to the place that uh that uh you know the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord When we understand that and we approach life from that perspective and realize how blessed we are when something we possess is taken or breaks, stops to work, or has to be replaced. Instead of being so irritated about it, we realize this is just the blessing of God. If I hadn't been so richly blessed to own this. I wouldn't have this to fix. I wouldn't have this to worry about. You know, we were in the Philippines and I was telling Brother Tesson that the room that the Glovers were staying in didn't have any hot water. Now our room had hot water. And I was thankful for that. I was sure to tell them about the nice warm showers I got to take. And uh I was telling Brother Tessin about that as we were riding around in the car, and Brother Tesson said, Yeah, our house doesn't have hot water either. I was like, oh, okay. Um well brother brother brother Glover's been during it for a week, I guess. You guys live that way all the time. Now the water coming out of the ground of the Philippines is not fifty-five degrees like it is here. Um but What I'm saying is he didn't think anything of not having hot water, because he lives that way. He doesn't have hot water. You know if you don't have hot water, you don't have to worry about a hot water heater breaking. We're just blessed beyond measure and we forget that. We see this prominence in verse number four, but we see the description of how often they were able to throw these feasts. And his sons went and feasted in their house every one his day. You know, in our home, because there were seven of us For family devotions, every night each person had a night to pray. It was their night to pray. You know, it started with the oldest Which was Mary. She got the first day of the week. And then it moved down the line to the youngest, where Caleb prays on Saturday. Well, I don't know if that's what they did here. And we each get one day of the week. It's our day to throw the party. Everybody coming on over. And the guys threw a party every day of the week and said, Hey girls, you guys come to our house. I don't know what it was, but there was some level of prominence that they had there that that God had so richly blessed their family that Job was able to extend that wealth down or that blessing down to them You know, when Sam Walton died, he gave each of his children four and a half billion dollars. That's a lot of money. I don't know what Job was able to pass on to his children, what kind of inheritance or wealth, but I can tell you that they were blessed because here you don't see them laboring with uh the duties of life or the struggles and and facing all these things you just say, oh, they were able to enjoy their days. We see that in the midst of it all that Job was still a man of principle in verse number five. And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone, about that Job Sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offering according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and curse God in their hearts. Thus Job did continually. Let me just say a couple of things here. First of all, Job was not naive about his kid's spirituality. Parents, don't be naive about your kid's spirituality. I know they say love is blind. Sometimes parents are blind to their kids' problems. That is why you need a Sunday school teacher, you need a school teacher You need a homeschool worker. You need somebody that is not blind to look at you and say, your son lied. Parent, don't get offended at that. Don't get mad. Thank God that somebody else saw and pointed out something that you could help your child work with. I've had parents look at me and say, not my son. He would not. So you're telling me your four-year-old son with the nature of Adam in him Has more spirituality and is honest Abe, and the teacher in the class is a liar. That's what you're saying. Because the teacher said he said this, and this is untrue. And the parents like, well, I'm not- I don't know what happened, but I'm not- my son wouldn't do that. Listen, you're gonna ruin your children. You're going to ruin your children. You don't be naive concerning their spirituality. I've had parents tell me their teenage son would never look at pornography. My teenage boy would never do that. They are human. The attraction and the draw of the flesh is powerful. It is strong. Given the opportunity He will. That's why a parent must guard against those things. But what I'm saying is don't be naive concerning the spirituality of your children. Job understood this and he said, boy, I need to offer sacrifice for the sins of my children. Except for the grace of God, beloved, every one of us in here can and would be involved in the most vilest of sins. Except for the grace of God. And so how could we possibly think that our children are above that? That our children would not do that or be involved in that or could not be beguiled by Satan. To be involved in something they should not be involved in. Satan is destroying their life and you have your head in the sand. Can I remind you about the legacy that these kids had? A father that did right. We don't know much about these children, except that they lost their lives. God took them home. But do you know they went home with a legacy of a father that pleased the Lord? I don't know. I was going to take some time and kind of develop this out with the idea of, you know, the average young people and how they feel about dad and mom. Now they're unhappy and disgruntled with mom and dad's actions, but the Bible describes their father. He was not perfect, but he was upright. He was perfect in that he was mature. He loved the Lord. He eschewed evil. This father left a legacy for his children. What kind of legacy are we leaving for our kids? He offered prayer and sacrifice for them. Are you praying for your kids? You know, prayer is the greatest weapon that we have. Prayer is the greatest weapon that we have. Long after You can do anything specifically to direct the hearts of your children. Prayer will move them. We must be Involved in prayer for our kids as Job was here. As I bring this to a conclusion, I want to leave you with a thought tonight. I heard a description of Job, kind of a basic outline. And the basic outline for the book of Job was, we see the man before the trial. That's what we looked at tonight. The middle chapters of the book of Job, we see the man in the trial. In the concluding chapters, we see the man after the trial. Well here's the thing. If we looked at this man before the trial tonight, I would put to you that the reason that Job came through this trial so well. was because Job was a good man going into it. The reason he was able to come out the other side as gold Was because he was gold going in. I wonder tonight if God brought a trial into your life. Would you be able to come out the other side as gold? Understanding that something miraculous doesn't happen in the process of the trial where you are you are all of a sudden changed into of gold. No, the trial removes some of the dross. The trial refines it a little bit. But the only way we come forth is gold is if we were gold going in. And so I'm asking of you tonight, are you gold? Do you have that type of spirit? Do you have that spirituality before God right now? Are you mature? Maybe you know tonight that you don't fear him like you should. Maybe you don't avoid evil like you know you should Maybe you know you're not as spiritually mature as you should be. Or your actions are not as upright in every area that they really should be. So before the trial comes, tonight we can say, well, I want to adjust these things so that when the trial comes, I will be going into it as gold and could come forth as gold. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed in your I