All right, you can turn in your Bibles this morning to Mark chapter fifteen. Mark chapter fifteen. Let me ask you, we just sung The song Ten Thousand Angels. Um how many of you that's your first time? I was walking look just looking around. There's some of you that I was just looking around, there's a few that hadn't sung that before, I noticed you you're not alone. There was a number of round the uh audience today that I could tell weren't real familiar uh with that song. Uh it's actually not we have nine hundred and some songs in our songbook and that song's not in there. I said, What? It's not in there Uh so that's one of the reasons we haven't sung it here very much, but it's a very powerful song. The message is very uh real. I it's one it's among one of the favorites that I have. Uh and For the last couple weeks that song's been in my mind, but a particular phrase has been in my mind, a part of that song that I'm not sure that that particular lyric would have jumped out at you or stuck in your mind I know that the heart of the message of the song we grab a hold of and consider the fact that he could have called 10,000 angels. There's no questions that he could have stepped off the cross at any moment that he desired to. He wouldn't have been needed to call ten thousand angels. He could have just stepped off the cross and Anybody that had a desire to cause him harm would have been uh helpless in their endeavor to do so. He had the power of the Creator of the universe, God Himself, and uh the only reason that his life was Taken was because he gave it freely. He allowed his life to be taken. And I want you to know that long before he hung on that cross in submission to the Father's will He yielded himself to that will and submitted all through that process If you look in Mark, let's start year in 15. We're going to be there in a second, but let's look at the end of chapter 14. Let's pick up in verse number 53. Just think about the Savior, God, the Creator, going through what this describes here. And they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. And Peter followed him afar off, even unto the place of the high priest, and he sat with the servants and warmed himself at the fire. And the chief priest and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death, and found none. For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together And there arose certain and bare false witness against him, saying, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and will three days I will build another made without hands. But neither so do their witness agree together. And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witness against thee? But he held his peace and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed And Jesus said, I am, and ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. And the high priest rent his clothes and saith, What need we any further witness? Ye have heard the blaspheme. What think ye? And all And they all condemned him to be guilty of death. And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy, and thy servant did strike him with the palms of their hands. Through all this, Jesus answered nothing. Turn to chapter fifteen and verse number one. We see here in chapter 15, he says, and straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consult, and with the elders and scribes, the whole council And they bound Jesus and carried him away and delivered him to Pilate. Stephen, would you mind being Jesus? I told Well I asked Mary to pass on the request to sing that song this morning to Gus and Miss Darcy two weeks ago. For two weeks this song has been in my mind and just this one phrase, would you hold your hands out? Put both your hands out They bound the hands of Jesus in the garden where he prayed. I've just visualized over and over them binding the hands of our Savior. They led him through the streets in shame. Understand the only reason that happened is because he submitted. Because he gave himself. He allowed them to bind his hands. Thank you, you can be seated. Beloved and as we hear here on Palm Sunday and Obviously the song service, the message thus far has been contemplation of what Jesus did when he came and gave himself a sacrifice on the cross. For you and I. And as we think about that and we ponder and think about the fact that they mocked Jesus. They made fun. They slapped him in the face and said, Prophesy, tell us, tell us who it is that snacked you. And they mocked and made fun of him. And as you consider that and think about that, I I wonder if it doesn't just get you angry, if it doesn't just bother you that they did that to the Savior, that they mocked and made fun of, the creator of the universe, the one who gave himself a sacrifice so we could know salvation and be taken to heaven. I know, beloved, that it bothers my wife when her husband is mistreated. When somebody does something, I mean it doesn't even bother me. I'm not at all worried about it. And she's getting mad. And I'm like, why are you upset? And she's like, I don't like it when they treat you that way. And I'm like, well thank it'll be okay. You don't have to do anything. You know, it's it's all right. She really it bothers her when her husband's mistreated I wonder, beloved, does it bother us as we ponder and think about that they bound the hands of Jesus and they led him through the streets in shame But I want to take that one step further this morning as I propose to you the message that I have for you today. And the question I have for you is Have you bound the hands of Jesus? Have you bound the hands of Jesus? Just as we We're closing up the Sunday school lesson this morning from last week. We talked about Peter and Jesus going out in his boat. Jesus looked at Peter and said, I pray thee, can I use your boat? Can I stand in your boat? Can we uh thrust out from the shore a little bit that I might minister unto these people. He he looked at Peter and he said, Can I use your boat? Can I tell you, beloved, that Jesus, the creator of the universe, the savior of your soul, he is not going to force you To use what you have for him. He's not going to force you to do what he desires that you do. He's not going to force you to make the decision. He doesn't want robots, beloved. He could demand and he could make us do whatever he wants us to do, but he wants us to be motivated by love for him, to submit to his will, and gladly do it. But the sad thing is, is there are many who bind the hands of Jesus. Jesus wants to do, but he won't. Because we won't let him. First of all, can I let you know there are thousands, hundreds of thousands, that have bound the hands of Jesus right at the foot of the cross When they rejected his salvation. You see, beloved, Jesus is not going to force men to come to him He calls to all. He calls to us. He says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. His desires that all would come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, that people would submit to him and Confess the fact that they're a sinner and need a Savior. But beloved, they bind the hands of Jesus when they reject the salvation that's been handed freely to them. When you refuse the love of God, He longs for you to be saved. He longs for you to know your sinful condition and to see your need of a Savior and be willing to submit and accept His free gift of salvation. He is not willing that any should perish. Beloved, some people say, well, I don't want to serve a God that would send somebody to hell. And I tell you that Jesus never sent anybody to hell. Men choose to go there when they reject so great a salvation. Jesus provided a way of escape. Jesus lovingly sacrificed and paid your sin debt, and all you've got to do is freely accept it. But men bind the hands of Jesus and they reject the salvation and they choose to spend an eternity in hell instead Jesus wants every man to go to heaven. Jesus wants every man to know his forgiveness. Beloved, if one day you stand at the great white throne judgment and God looks at you and says, Depart from me, for I never knew you. I want you to know it's not because Jesus didn't love you. It's not because you had never heard the truth of the gospel. It's because you chose to bind the hands of the Savior and to neglect The salvation that's being offered to you today, all you have to do is acknowledge the fact that you are a sinner and that Jesus paid that sin debt for you and accept that payment as your payment for the sin that you've committed. It's easy. It's free. All you gotta do is humble yourself before an Almighty God. Acknowledge the fact that you're a sinner and beloved, Jesus wants to do it for you today. But I wonder, are you binding the hands of Jesus? Are you keeping him from being able to save your soul as he would desire to today because you reject that? I don't know if there's one here or two or three that maybe you're in that place and you thus far have rejected I would ask of you to loose the hands of Jesus and let him save you today. And where do you go? Do you know I would assume and believe that the vast majority of us here are saved. We know Jesus has forgiven us of our sin. And we know that God has given us a home in heaven, and we look forward to that with great anticipation. So I wonder as a saved individual, are you binding the hands of Jesus? When you refuse to renew your mind. Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Your mind. Beloved, you know that salvation is just the first step. Sanctification is a process that takes place through your life where you slowly yield to Him and allow Him to renew your mind. We sang the song The Old Rugged Cross and in the middle of the third verse it jumped out at me knowing my message this morning. But uh Gus, what's the page number? I can't read without my glasses. 132, the end of verse number three. We sing it over and over. But he says here, for 'twas on that old rugged cross Jesus suffered and died to pardon And sanctify me. Many of us have grabbed a hold of the pardon and praise God for the pardon. Yes, we're on our way to heaven. Our sins are forgiven. But beloved, you understand that was just the first step. There's a process of sanctification that God does Jesus Christ desires to renew your mind to Let the old things pass away and behold all things are become new. To let your life be changed from the inside out and conformed into the image of his blessed Son, but it's something that you have to allow him to do You can hold on to your old way of thinking. You can continue to go the places you used to go. You can continue to participate in the sin you know you shouldn't And you can bind the hands of Jesus and keep them from doing what he desires to do in transforming your life. Oh, we want our life to be transformed. Boy, I saw something this week. I don't know if you've any any of you have ever seen it. I almost sent it to you last night, Brother Greg, but it was about eleven o'clock and I didn't want to wake you up. I uh I saw this guy He had a bodybuilder on the stage. I mean this guy was ripped. Okay? He was strong. And the preacher was a little more like me. Yeah, I've got a well I haven't spent much time in the gym. But this preacher did go on a regular basis to the gym and and and The preacher took his coat off and he said, You understand that he and I, we go to the same gym. We go to the same gym every week. And do you know what? We lift the same weight, different quantities, but the same same pieces of weight. He said we lift the same weights week after week after week. We hear the same things while we're in that space and and we go there and he says, so I'm just standing here before you right now and I just want to ask you why Does he look like that and I look like this? He's like, I don't understand. And he says, I can tell you what it is. The problem is is because he takes what happens at the gym to shape his life I use what happens as a g at the gym to be an excuse for my life. You know, he works out at the gym and builds these muscles and so he goes by McDonald's and says, well, no, I'm not getting a double cheeseburger because I just worked out. I go by McDonald's and I buy a double cheeseburger because I just worked out. Come on, how many of you know what I'm talking about? Yeah, a whopper. Flame broiled. Amen. I'm not gonna have two scoops of ice cream because I just worked out. No no, I deserve two scoops of ice cream because I just worked out. Let's take that into the spiritual realm, beloved. There's some people that come into God's house and they hear the same message that you hear And they carry the same Bible that you carry, and they hear the same songs that you hear. And some of them are strong Christians where God is transforming their life They get to walk in newness of life, and it seems like they're on the winning side, and they're just excited about what Jesus is doing. Meanwhile, you're walking around as a weak, anemic Christian that can't get the victory anywhere, and you wonder what the difference is Beloved, it's because you're using church as an excuse to continue to live the way you want to live. Oh, I can do this because I went to church on Sunday. Oh, I can participate in this because I'm gonna read my Bible. You think you're exchanging some good works for the the ability to go do that instead of letting church and the Word of God and the work of the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ in your life change you from the inside out. We bind the hands of Jesus when we refuse to renew our mind to be transformed. That's a work that God wants to do in our heart. That God wants to do in our life. But beloved, you have to let him. You have to want him to do it. You have to be willing to let go of those old things that are supposed to be shed from the life of a new believer. You've got to submit your body a living sacrifice. You might as well take the hands of Jesus and tie the rope on there yourself. Because when we do not Allow him to bring about that change, we're binding the hands of Jesus. Beloved, we as Christians bind the hands of Jesus when we resist the work of the Holy Spirit. In Acts chapter 7, verse number 51, he says, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart. And ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye Now this is Stephen speaking, and Stephen very shortly is going to be stoned for the words he's saying unto them. They were not saved, the people he was speaking to, obviously they stoned him and put him to death, but they resisted the Holy Spirit trying to do something in their life. You understand Stephen stood there and saw what happened to Paul. And the Holy Spirit spoke to him and changed him. And what Stephen is saying to these guys is you guys are seeing what God's doing, and the Holy Spirit's trying to speak to you, but you're resisting it. You're resisting it. You're not allowing him to do his work in your heart. You're not allowing him to motivate you to do right. He said they were stiff-necked. I mean stubborn. I think that's a human trait that we all have on some level. Just stubborn. The Holy Spirit comes and speaks to you and says, boy, why don't you read your Bible? And you resist that. You're like, oh, I don't need to do that. That's not going to make any I don't ever get anything out of it anyway. You argue about reasons why you don't want to read the Bible. Why why aren't you in church? Oh, I can be spiritual and and and not be in church every time the preacher thinks I should. I can I can do this and the Holy Spirit's trying to lead you to guide you beloved the ministry of the Holy Spirit is a is a magnificent thing. The Holy Spirit was given to us by Jesus Christ as a gift. When he went up into heaven, he was going to send the comforter. He sent that comforter that was going to come and be a gift for you and I, the amazing work of the Holy Spirit. He's not just a comforter, but he's a convictor. He convicts us of sin and when we're doing wrong to try and keep us from going down a path that we shouldn't go. Beloved, he's a conveyor of truth. The Bible says the Holy Spirit will guide you unto all truth. As you read the Word of God, the Holy Spirit helps you to understand the Word of God. The Holy Spirit is a companion that's with you all the time. The ministry of the Holy Spirit, a magnificent thing, a gift given to us by Jesus Christ. And yet we bind the hands of Jesus when we resist the Holy Spirit. When we say, boy, I don't want you today. I don't want to hear you today. I don't want that message in my mind today. We resist him. Beloved, I've sat down with Bob and Carol Some dear saints of God. I get in conviction just being around them. I enjoy talking to them. I enjoy hearing about their life and situations and things that they've done. I just if you get a chance to By the way, I'm just going to throw this out. Bob and Carol aren't here and I hope they're not listening. They probably are. But I'm just going to tell you. You know during handshaking time, Bob and Carol can't come to you. Okay. You need to come up here and shake their hand. That was free. All right. But here's the thing. Do you know the work and how important the work of their dogs is? I've sat with Bob and talked to him about how I just can't imagine the level of faith that you have to have in that dog. to take you down the street, to take you to a place you've never been, and to guide you through this world. And he says it is a level of trust that's just unbelievable. And here's the picture It would be like Bob and Carol having a guide dog that's there to protect them, that's there to help them, that's there to guide them through this life. And they saying, I don't want your direction. No, we're not going to go that way. The dog wants to go this way. No, no, we're going to go this way. We're gonna go walk out in the street, the dog's saying don't I've stood at the corner where there was traffic with him and the dog won't let him go. What if Bob was like, no, go, you go, and just pushes himself out into the street That's what the Christian does. When the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us as a gift, is trying to minister to us, is trying to protect us, is trying to guide us. And we're saying, no, I don't want that. We would look at Bob and Carol and say, man, that would be so foolish, this dog. has been thousands of dollars have been invested in training this dog so it can adequately and correctly guide you and and you've come to trust him and you know he's trustworthy. Why wouldn't you follow him And the Holy Spirit has been given to you and I as a gift to guide us through this life, to be a companion, to be a comforter. And God wants that work of the Holy Spirit to help you, to empower you, to live a victorious Christian life. But too many of us are binding the hands of Jesus. When we resist the work of the Holy Spirit. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?