A year ago, October or November, I was considering some Christmas gifts, getting things for family and friends and others. I bought what I thought was a great bargain. It was supposed to be a box of assorted tools. They were returns to Amazon. Okay, now you didn't know what you were going to get, but on the advertisement Uh it had pictures of DeWalt and Milwaukee Tools and uh Sony PlayStations and you know all of these things and a box of assorted things These Amazon returns was $25. I thought, hey, I mean you don't know what you're gonna get, but I mean whatever I mean anything, you know, I mean I'm gonna give it away. If I could get a nice gift for twenty-five bucks, I mean that's pretty good and and I mean surely. So I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, well I'm gonna increase my chances if I get more than one. So I bought four of them. So hey, four boxes of assorted tools. I'll be able to give some nice tools to Matt and uh you know I'll be able to give some tools that I mean this will be great Christmas gifts for my boys and everything And a few weeks later, I got a box with four things in it. And they were some little cheap Chinese knockoff Uh there was no tools. There's a pair of headphones and uh I think this little uh little plastic uh liquid flosser. uh just a little little plastic liquid floster that you could use and a couple other little things. And uh you know I was getting what I thought Was a great bargain. But after they arrived, I thought, had I been thinking I would have known that if it sounds too good to be true, if Rowley is, right? Yeah. You see, the title of this morning's message is Brainless Bargains. Brainless bargains. You know, there are a lot of brainless bargains out there. Things that uh end up costing you a whole lot more than you thought, or certainly more than they were worth. And after you receive them, or later down the road, you look back and in your mind you think, well, now I I can't be the only one. That has been there, where you look back and you say, boy, had I been thinking, I would have not done that Had I had my mind engaged, but for some reason we get this anticipation, we get this excitement, the possibility of of of getting this great bargain, and all f<unk> goes out the window And we just jump on the bandwagon or we take advantage of that and we think, boy, this is going to be great. And we find out it was a brainless bargain. Man have been doing that from the beginning of time, if you consider even Adam and Eve in the garden. They thought That what they were getting was going to be worth the cost, but that was the most expensive bite of fruit that anybody's ever taken in their life It has cost mankind from that time until now because they what they thought they were gonna get is not what they got. They ended up reaping The punishment and sin on the whole world. A brainless bargain. Beloved, we need the wisdom and the power of God to overcome this. Because everyone who ever lost it all in a brainless bargain, Did so thinking that they were winning the lottery. You know what I'm saying? Every one of us that have ever been uh tricked or uh gone down that road We are at that place and we were do we are doing it with anticipation. We're doing it with excitement. We're thinking, man, this is gonna be awesome. Look at what I'm gonna get. Look at what this is gonna per bring me. And and we think we're winning the lottery But then when you get down here and you look back, you realize it cost you everything. I want to talk to you this morning about three areas in which Mankind, people tend to make brainless bargains. First of all, they choose comfort over character. They choose comfort over character. Look with me if you would in Genesis chapter 25. We have been talking about this character in Sunday school this morning. We dealt with this And I am not going to reteach the Sunday school lesson, but we are going to read these verses that we read in Sunday school. I'd encourage you if you're not part of Sunday school, uh you could learn a lot. It would be a blessing to you to come and and get here and Here are the Old Testament survey that we're going through, but in Genesis chapter 25, verses 28 through 33, he says, And Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison, but Rebekah loved Jacob. And Jacob saw pottage, and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with this same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die, and what profit shall this birthright do to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day, and he swear unto him, and he sold his birthright to Jacob. You see, beloved Esau chose comfort over character. At the moment when he should have been engaging his brain and realizing what that decision what that little uh bit of meat, what that small portion of meal was going to cost him, he would have said, Nope, it's not worth it. I'm not gonna give up my character. I'm not gonna give up what is right to uh partake of this little bit of food. Well, Jacob is to be commended for his desire of spiritual things, for the birthright, although it included much wealth, land. It also included the spiritual heritage, the Abrahamic covenant that had been promised to his father and grandfather So he wanted the spiritual, but he also has to be condemned in the method or means by which he went to acquire it. But Esau lost sight of what was truly important, that spiritual heritage that was his. And he bargained it away, beloved He bargained it away for a little bit of meal. He gladly gave up the blessings of God on his life for a little bit of food. He showed the world and us what his character was that day. He showed everybody that he was going to be a person that chose comfort over character. And the fact of the matter is, beloved, is that we, by and large, as people, if we're not very careful, that is something that we're given to. Choosing comfort over character. We've got to watch ourselves and ask God for the strength and help to be sure that we do not do that. It is only in the storm that the strength of one's character is realized. Beloved, everybody can do it when sun's shining. Everybody can be faithful when things are going good. Everyone can make it a church when it's a sunny day and they're feeling tip-top. The strength of your character is on display when things aren't going good When there is a storm, when there is a struggle, when there is a battle, when you're hungry, like Esau was hungry, he said, I'm so hungry, I'm about to die. Boy, I need something. You know, here you go. What about this one? Everybody is going to be the best dieter in the world when they've just had lunch. You know, I just ate lunch, boy, uh I am not gonna I I am gonna be on a diet at starting nurse after lunch here, I'm gonna you know, they're not hungry right then, right? For somebody that's been dieting for about a year and a half now, I can tell you that right after lunch, it's easy to be fully committed to the diet. When you haven't eaten for about ten or twelve hours, you know uh what I do for diet is I I fast. I I try and only eat between twelve and six. So I don't eat after six o'clock in the evening. Um that's my plan. I'm not saying that's what I do. Problem is I cheat too much. It's my family's fault. Blame it on them, because I come home at 9 30 at night and they're pulling fresh hot pizza out of the oven. And I haven't eaten since noon and and I'm starving and I'm like, you guys are killing me And they're all standing around there eating and then a few minutes later, I mean I had said, I told everybody, I know I'm not eating tonight, you know. A few minutes later I'm eating a pizza and Alicia comes in and says, Dad, I thought you said you weren't eating tonight. Like, you shut up. Who asked you? So you're like, well we would have made more if we would have known you wanted some. I said I would have asked you had I known I wanted some, but that wasn't the plan. I was planning not to eat. But when it got hard, when I was really hungry, I said, uh I'll start tomorrow. I I gave it up, and here's the problem, beloved, is our character gets put to the test on things that really matter or that are really important, and we throw away our character for a little bit of comfort For a little bit of sustenance, for a little bit of satisfaction. Everybody's going to get victory spiritually walking out of church on Sunday morning. I mean they're getting in their car and and boy the birds are singing over the back fence of their soul and they're on fire for God and they're ready to uh charge the gates of hell with a squirrel gun. They're excited about Jesus and what God has done in their heart. Man, everything changed that night. Hallelujah. And they're just singing Jesus praises But Monday morning when they wake up with a headache and the coffee isn't doing anything for it and they walk into work and the burst the boss yells at them because they were a few minutes late and they find out that they got a doctor bill that showed up that evening and then the Satan comes and what happens? All of a sudden the spiritual battle gets real. And then is when you get to decide if you're going to actually stand and do what's right, if you're going to actually stay in the book, if you're going to actually go to the God in prayer, or if you're going to throw it all out of the window. Everyone looks good in the light of day. Everybody can fix the problem until they're truly asked to. You know you got all those uh shade tree mechanics, all the guys that know the problem, you say, Oh, well, can you do that? Oh well. No, I don't have time for that or I I uh not not really. I mean everybody knows the answer to the problem until they have to sit down and take the test. And here's what I'm telling you. We need to get back to realizing the priority of the character in our lives. Albert Einstein said, try not to become a man of success, but rather try to become a man of value. Your character. The kind of person who chooses comfort over character is the kind who's willing to lie to get ahead. Willing to lie to get ahead. It's okay to be dishonest as long as you don't get caught. As long as nobody knows about it. You know, we could talk this morning about the our elected officials and the extreme lack of character that's seen there. It seems like almost weekly there's some other elected official whose dirty laundry is being aired on television, and we begin to wonder, is there any one of them that will just do what's right? And and we can talk about them and we'll all say, amen. And yeah, boy, that'd be nice, them stinking politicians, boy. But what if we don't talk about them? Let's talk about us. What about us? What would it take for you to throw your character out the window? There's been studies done on what people would do for $100,000. What they would do for a million dollars, and I'm talking about all the way up to murder, and people are like, yep, I would I would murder somebody for it. I mean you talk about people willing to lie, they would lie for five bucks. They would choose comfort over character. I don't know about you. But here here's the here's the telltale thing right here. Are you ready? Anytime you make a decision based off what you'll gain instead of what is right. You have made a a decision to throw away your character for comfort. It's a brainless bargain To choose character, to choose comfort over character. You see, we we don't think about it. This world looks at it Why are some people successful and others fail? The guy that's failing likes to look at it and say, well, he had a lot more chances than me. He has he has a lot more uh natural talent than I do. He was given a better start than I was People say, boy, I wish I could be a success like that. What they need to be saying is, boy, I wish I had character like that. You see the athlete that makes it to the top. The ones that make it and stay there. I know there are some, they're very gifted, they have a natural ability, but you know, usually those people they're there very short time because they're just relying on their talent. And then talent fades. Those people that make a career out of it, those people that hang there, what you find out later is that they actually practice four, six, eight hours a day, six days a week. You're talking about character to get where they are. And the guy that's sitting on them on the couch saying, Boy, I wish I could do that. What you need to be saying, Boy, I wish I had that kind of character. But you've chosen comfort over character, and that's why you're not succeeding at the things that you wish you were succeeding at. That's pretty straight. But that's the fact. That's the facts. We are a pleasure-driven society. Some of the biggest industries in our society, even in the middle of a recession, when people have no money, is entertainment and leisure. Paul said there was going to come a day when men would be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. You see, beloved, we have made the pursuit of pleasure the goal. Pleasure is the goal instead of the byproduct or the reward for doing what's right. Paul told Timothy in 1 Timothy 5, verse number 6, he says, But she that liveth in pleasure is dead. while she liveth. You see, beloved, the problem is that men think that they're going to have joy and happiness if they work less and just do what feels good. They feel like as long as I indulge myself, I will be happy. The eyes of man are never satisfied. And that is a backwards thinking. It i from a worldly standpoint, we look at that and we say, well, obviously the more things that I that I get to do, that I enjoy, the happier I'm going to be. Well, why is it that there are more people depressed and on antidepressants and deal talking about killing themselves today than there ever have been in history? Because people are seeking to satisfy numero uno and they're self-indulgent to the point where they are fed up and there is no satisfaction in that. They find that the more self-indulgent they are, the less satisfied they are. You have to decide. You see, joy and happiness is the reward of doing right. Of success comes from working hard and doing what you know you're supposed to do, of living by character. And when you're successful, you're happy. You're satisfied. You have that joy and that purpose for living. The more self-indulgent you are, the less happy you are. That is the truth. You see, people look at other Christians and they think, boy, I wish I had that kind of power with God. But what they need to be saying is, I wish I had that kind of character in my Christian life. I wish I had the character to get out of bed every morning and read God's Word. I wish I had the character to study and memorize the scripture. I wish I had the character to walk with God and do what was right. Put a priority on his house and not mischurch. I wish I had the character to respond to the Holy Spirit when he touches my heart. Because power with God comes from a consistent walk with God. It's not that somebody down the pew from you just happens to have a magical way of a relationship with God and it's unattainable for you. No, it is attainable for you. You just have to decide you're gonna choose character over comfort. You see, when you stay in bed instead of getting up to read the book, you chose comfort over character. When you go out fishing on Sunday, instead of being in God's house, you chose comfort over character Anytime you make a decision based on what you get instead of on what is good, you're choosing comfort over character. We think about the power that Daniel had with God, the prophet who went and prayed three times a day in his chamber in the upper room. The Bible says that Daniel prospered. And people look at Daniel and think, boy, I wish I could prosper like Daniel prospered. But they're looking at it wrong. What they need to say is: I wish I had the character that Daniel had, that even in the face of his own death, listen, I'm pretty sure that Daniel wasn't real excited about being brunch for the Lions Club. I think what Daniel was more concerned about his Lord than he was about the lions. And so when it came time to pray, he went to his window as he did aforetime and prayed, even in the face of penalty. He chose character over comfort. Beloved, we as God's people, listen, this is so important. We are making a brainless bargain when we decide to give in and choose comfort over character, comfort over doing what's right, comfort over We're following God. We're gonna look down the road and we're gonna see we're gonna look back when we get down the road and we're gonna see all that it cost us. And we're gonna say, Man, that was a brainless bargain. Man, that was stupid to do that. We could talk about the cost this morning. I don't I don't have time. We're good we're gonna move on. It's gonna cost us. I want you to see, secondly, a brainless bargain is when we choose riches over righteousness. Turn your Bibles with me to Joshua chapter number six. Joshua chapter number six. When we choose riches, In Joshua chapter number six here we have the story of Achan Esau was the one who chose comfort over character, but Achan chose riches over righteousness. In Joshua chapter 6, and we don't have time to read all of chapter 6 and 7 where the whole story takes place. But I'm going to take for granted that you're familiar with at least a little bit of the story where they were told. Well, let's let's begin in verse number 18, Joshua 6, verse number 18. Read verse number 18 and 19. It says, And ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing. Lest ye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel accursed and trouble it But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord, that they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. Everybody was told very clearly, listen, when you go into Jericho, the land, everything, this is the first fruits, this is all given to God Don't take of that all the gold and silver you see, everything there. This is all going to be for the Lord. We're not don't take any of it. It's going to curse you. It's going to curse your family. Everybody understood that. There was no question about what was required or what was asked of them. But look in chapter 7 and verse number 20. Chapter 7 and verse number 20, he says, And Achan answered Joshua and said, Indeed, I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done. When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonian garment, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold, and fifty shekels of weight, then I coveted them and took them And behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. Joshua in verse number twenty-five, he says, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble thee this day, and all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones. I think that if we could talk to Aiken today, he would say that was the most brainless bargain he ever picked up. He went into that city and he knew that he wasn't supposed to, but that allurement of riches, that desire for more gain was present in his heart and he saw it and he thought boy I could just take this and nobody's gonna know I'll hide it under my tent and I will be the better off for it. Boy, look at I've won the lottery. I'm on top boy I'm way ahead now But he didn't realize what it was going to cost him. Beloved, riches and the accumulation of wealth has a strong pull on every one of us. It doesn't matter if you are trading goats in some faraway backwoods jungle somewhere, or if you're trading stock on a stock market The desire for more is an equal opportunity, corruption. It is an equal opportunity since everybody. It doesn't we read these missionary stories as a family. And the same thing happens even though we're only talking about trading some chickens or we're only talking about trading a goat over on the other side of uh in in Africa or in Papua New Guinea or something like that They do the same thing. Here we're talking about boats and cars or the stock market or whatever else, but the desire is the same. To choose riches over righteousness. 1 Timothy 6:10 says, For the love of money is the root of all evil. The love of money. But while some men coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. I think that's a view from the other side where they look back and they say, boy, the acquirement of gain. I mean I thought I was winning the lottery. I thought I was on top But look at what it cost me. It was a brainless bargain to pursue riches and wealth like that. We're consumed, beloved, today with the love of money. We're as consumed with the love of money as we've ever been. That word, the words there, love of money, literally means to be a friend of silver. Beloved, any time that we choose to be a friend of silver instead of a friend of God. We choose riches over righteousness. Mark chapter 8 and verse number 36 and 37 says, For what shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? What shall it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? I saw the light go out. I know you guys are looking at that light. It's it's Satan. This is a uh uh critical point in the message. By and large, you understand that the world chooses riches over righteousness. God said, Jesus said, what's it going to profit you if you gain the whole world? If you had every piece of gold and silver this world offers, and you die and go to hell. What good was that? What did it profit you? But so many would rather have this world's riches than the righteousness that could be imputed unto them by Jesus Christ, because they look at it and they say, oh, I'm not ready to give that up. I'm not ready to let that go. William Jennings Bryant said, those who live for money spend half of their lives getting it, and the other half trying to keep others from getting it from them. And they don't enjoy either half. Amen. Who would pursue money instead of pursue Christ is headed for trouble. Do you choose riches over righteousness? You say, well, not us, Pastor. We're spiritual. Do you call in to work and ask somebody else to punch in for you? Even though you're not there yet? Hey, I'm on my way. I'm only going to be a few minutes late. Can you go ahead? Just punch me in. I'll be there quickly That's wrong. That's choosing riches over righteousness. It's tax time. And listen, I am all. Did the light just come on? I am all I am all for you following the letter of the law and getting any discount or break that they will give you because this government taxes us to no end. Get whatever break you can get inside the law, following the law, get whatever discount you can get. That's why we give, you give to the Lord here, that's the tax deduction, we give you the paperwork at the end of the year. I think that you ought to take it. That's great. They allow that. That's inside the letter of the law. But if you lie on your taxes because of profit, You say, boy, if I put this number down right here, I only drove this many miles, but if I put that I drove 12,000 miles or I put 16,000 then I'm going to be able to duck this much and I'll end up not owing anything instead of owing $1,200 or $1,500 or $2,000 or whatever you whatever you owe for taxes. That's wrong. And you're choosing riches over righteousness. You see the same principle applies here anytime you make a decision about what you're going to do. Based on gain instead of good, you're choosing riches over righteousness. You see, right is right. Wrong is wrong. And we, as God's people, need to choose righteousness. We need to choose right. One man sent a letter to the IRS. He said, dear sirs, last year I deliberately misrepresented my income. As a Christian, I have found myself feeling very guilty about this and finding it hard to sleep. Please accept the enclosed check for $150. If I still can't sleep, I'll send you the rest. Sadly that's how many of us think. Well as long as I can get away with it, it's okay. There is nothing, beloved, that can replace laying your head on pillow at night with a clear conscience before God and men. When you know you've done right. And every one of us can look back in our past and we can see where we've done wrong. I could give you examples this morning about myself because they're coming into my mind, the foolish things I've done over the years. But everyone, I don't need to tell you because you got your own. I'm glad this morning that we confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And what's done in the past is under the blood. God's forgiven me, and I move forward from here. If I have something I need to make right, you've got to get that right. You take care of that, it's done, you can move on. But what am I going to do tomorrow? I don't have to live with a guilty conscience. I can just do right. There are so many that put a price tag on their righteousness. For enough money they'll do anything. They'll lie, cheat, steal, hurt others. And this is a brainless bargain indeed. What good, beloved, is all the money in the world if you lose your own soul, if you die and go to hell? What good is all the money in the world if you let somebody else die and go to hell? A man who's in love with money is going to live completely different than a man who's in love with the master. What are you in love with today? Are you making a brainless bargain? Are you letting Satan trick you into thinking, boy, I'm ahead, look at how I'm gaining, look at how I'm getting ahead at work, and I'm getting these benefits or I I was a little bit dishonest, but hey, I I got this bonus at work or or I I had to miss church and I had to go to this wicked uh party at at work and I and I wasn't a very good testimony, but hey now I'm getting the annual bonus. Are you choosing righteousness or riches? It's a brainless bargain to choose comfort over character. It's a brainless bargain to choose righteousness. over, I'm sorry, to choose riches over righteousness. Lastly, this morning it's a brain is bargaining to choose the world over wisdom. You don't have to turn there, but in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 10 we read about a man. You guys know him, his name is Demas. Paul said, Demas hath forsaken me. Why? Why did he forsake him? Because he loved this present world. You see, Demoth Demas had an affection and an appetite for the world that couldn't be quenched, and he departed from Paul, which by implication is the idea that he left work of the Lord. He stopped doing what God wanted him to do and went to pursue the world. And the greater tragedy for you and I today is that we would leave off wisdom for the world. Jesus Christ is wisdom personified, and anytime we choose the world over wisdom, we're choosing the world over Christ. Can I tell you today that most people alive today gladly make the brainless bargain to trade Christ for what this world has to offer? They're wrapped up in the silly rat race of life, never learning how to live I read for you Mark 8, 36 and 37, for what shall it profit a man? Because you gain the whole world, lose your own soul. But Mark 8:35 says this: For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. But whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, and the gospel's the same, shall save it. You see, it's been called the merry-go-round of life. Because you get on, you spend some money, you spend time, you go round and round and round, and you get off right where you got on You spent a bunch of time, you spent some energy, you spent some money, but you didn't go anywhere. And a lot of life is that way. For a lot of people, they're not accomplishing anything. They're just in the rat race of life, and they're not learning or going or growing anywhere. So many people live their life running down trails that lead to nowhere. You know, one place that we get wisdom is in the house of God. I need a church. I hope you come to the place in your life that you realize the priority that Jesus Christ put on his house and that you begin to put that priority in your life. I know it's a step of growth. I know there's people here in all different stages of life, and some very young Christians and just growing, just coming around. But as you learn and see the priority that Jesus Christ put on the church. I mean he he died for the church. He gave himself for it. He tells us to forsake not the assembly of yourselves together and you say, okay, that's the priority Christ put on it. That's the priority I need to be putting on it. I need a church where I'm challenged spiritually. I need a church that faithfully preaches the Word of God where I can be strengthened to live this life as God would have me live. I need a church that provides opportunities for me to serve and witness and use the gifts that God's given me to benefit and help the cause of Christ. I need a church where I can learn the Bible and the Word of God and be strengthened in the wisdom of God. When we stay away from church, we're choosing the world's enjoyments. over the wisdom of God. The songwriter said, take the world, but give me Jesus All its joys are but a name, but his love abides forever, through eternal years the same. Oh, the height and depth of mercy, oh the length and breadth of love, oh the fullness of redemption, pledged of endless life and love. Take the world, but give me Jesus. How precious is Jesus to you! Are you willing to trade trade him for something this world has to offer? For some enjoyment? Some per some some uh of this world's satisfaction? There is pleasure in sin for a season. But when we take that, we trade the presence of God. How precious is he to you? You know, I think about Daniel again. Sometimes you and I might have to go through a lion's den. But when we go through it with Jesus, we come out the other side without a scratch. We're able to use the lions. as pillows. It was hard. It was scary. It was a struggle. But I can tell you that when Daniel was raised up out of that lion's den the following morning. He had the joy of the Lord in his heart. He had chosen righteousness over riches, character over comfort. Wisdom over the world. This is what we need to do. Let's not make brainless bargains.