And uh, you know, this this construction equipment uh that they have that can do just amazing, amazing things. And I watched the other uh a video the other day, the quickest way to move a mountain And they had huge machines just dismantling, just cutting this mountain down and watching the time-lapse of this mountain getting moved. I don't know what they were moving it for. But man has seen some amazing displays of power You know, you could talk about the military might that we have available to us in the world today and and that that can start at at just Any type of firearm or or bomb that's available from the smallest from the smallest one is an amazing display of power. But then you take that up to what's probably the most powerful thing in the world, nuclear uh bomb, and the destructive force. That that can have. But you know, all the power, all the manifestations of power the world has ever seen doesn't compare to the power that was displayed by Jesus Christ. When he defeated death and the grave and he rose. When he rose from the dead, he did that which man can can can work teleaffinity to try and accomplish and never achieve. that kind of power. We're amazed at the power of the of the force of nature. I mean you think about just a small thunderstorm It doesn't even have to be that bad and we're running for shelter, right? We've got to get in. Get in. Get out of the pool. There might be lightning. You know, the the the power that's available for just just a basic lightning storm In El Paso, Texas, where I grew up, uh well spent my teen years there, I always said I enjoyed El Paso the most. And I think the reason I liked El Paso so much is because I was old enough to have a good time, but not old enough to have any responsibility. And I could just you know those teen years where you think you know it all, where you're old enough to go out and you don't have to be right under mom and dad, you could just go have fun, uh, but you don't have any responsibility. That's why I like to pass the m Most probably. You know, we want to go back to those times. But in El Paso we had what they call dry lightning storms No rain at all, but lightning just lighting up the sky. And that happened often throughout the summertime there. Amazing to see that display of power. And those are just small storms, but you you know you think of the tsunami And the tornadoes and the earthquakes and the power that's available there. And uh that again, just the small display of the power of God uh which was displayed to us when Jesus Jesus rose from the grave. Paul wanted us to know the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. In Philippians chapter three, verses eight through eleven, he says, Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and to count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. That we would know him in the power of his resurrection. You know, we may not have been there to see the seal broken. We may not have been there to see the the stone rolled away or to see the angels sitting there on the stone and talking to those that came, but You know, the miraculous thing is we can know the power of his resurrection. Each and every one of us can know the power of his resurrection. It's through the power of his resurrection that bonds are broken Bonds are broken. So for a couple of minutes this morning I want to talk to you about the bonds that are broken through the power of the resurrection. Bonds that we might have in our lives and And certainly I don't have the time or the ability to expound upon all the things that we have through the power of the resurrection, but I want to give you a couple of thoughts this morning about the bonds that are broken because of the power of the resurrection First of all, resurrection gives us the power to break the bond of damnation. The bond of damnation. The bond of sin that sin has on our lives. In Matthew chapter 28, look at verse number 5. Matthew 28 and verse number 5, he says, And the angel answered, and he said unto them, Woman, Fear not, for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come see the place. Where he lay. He says, Ye seek Jesus. And Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus came and he died on the cross that he might forgive mankind, each and every single one of us. Of the sin that holds us in bondage. Jesus came and he gave himself. He gave up the ghost. Nobody took it from him. He gave himself as a sacrifice for you and I and died there on the cross so that we could be free from the bond of sin. Everybody is a sinner. We know that all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. We know that every man, woman, boy, and girl is a sinner. I've knocked on doors before and talked to people that could not be convinced of the fact that I think they were just saying it Because I think in the heart of every man and woman they know they're a sinner. But I've had them stand there and tell me, no, I've never done anything wrong. I say you never lied, not one time. No, never did You're never disobedient. You were never angry when you shouldn't have been? No, never done anything wrong You know, I think in their heart they know that they are. We know that we're we're all sinners. This one thing that we cannot hide from and we cannot deny about ourselves is that we are sinners. From the youngest to the old of us, each of us stands guilty before God. Guilty as a sinner. And there's nothing that we can do to change that. We can change the color of our hair You can can you know put some some different nails on ladies and change the type of nails you have. Now for some reason my nails grow like crazy. My sister has always been envious of my She's like, Kib, how'd you get such good nails? My nails are always growing. I gotta clip them like nonstop and they're strong. They they hold up And my sister's like, man, that's just not fair. I mean your nails grow really good and look at these things I gotta deal with. I mean you could you can change your nails You can do different things, but you can't change that about you. You can't take away that sin nature. You can't forgive yourself. You can't earn your own way to get rid of that sin, but Jesus Christ, who was not a sinner. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him You know what? Jesus didn't know any sin. We're all sinners, but Jesus wasn't a sinner. He didn't have to, but he did give himself for us. He said, I know that you seek Jesus that was crucified. You seek him. He lived a perfect life 33 years without sin. that he might pay for your and my sin. In 1 Peter 1, verse number 18 and 19 says, for as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, As silver and gold from your vain conversations received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot. Jesus was the Lamb without blemish, without spot. He didn't deserve to die, but he did die for you and I. Why? Because we deserved it And so he went in our place. He went in our place. He died for us. He allowed himself to be arrested. He allowed himself to be unjustly tried. He allowed himself to be brutally beaten. He allowed himself to be hung on a cross He allowed himself to give up the ghost. All of it without saying a word. And my how we fight for our little right. Whatever it might be. It's just amazing to me to think about Jesus with all that power and with all of that knowledge. Being able to do whatever he wants. He could have called 10,000 angels. He could have done whatever he wanted to do, and he did without saying a word, endured such persecution. He endured it for you and I because he loved us. He did it for you and I. He suffered every agonizing moment Even God the Father, if you think about that. I mean, can you as a parent think about watching your child being unjustly bullied? That's a uh word today right everybody's I've been cyberbullied because they use all caps when they talk to me and that offends me We are so sensitive today. It's mind-boggling. So I'm gonna use caps and I I I feel the oppression. They're putting me down. It's just not right Jesus didn't answer a word. God the Father didn't do anything. I think that probably was the hardest thing for Jesus to endure. I mean, if you know, he says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Jesus. The whole world could hate him, but at least he had his father. But his father couldn't look on sin. And when God allowed the sin of the world to be put upon his son, he had to turn his own back on his own son. Can you imagine your son going through all of this unjust, brutal treatment, and then just turning your back on him? Knowing what was happening, he did that to break the bond of sin for you and I Jesus Christ gave us this, and you hath he quickened, who were dead in your trespasses in Satan. Because he was perfect, he was able to die for us who are not perfect. The power to break the bond of damnation, the power to break the bond of death. Look at verse number 6, chapter 28, verse number 6. He said, He is not here, for he is risen as he said. Amen. He is risen as he said. Hey, don't look for him among the dead because he's living. He has the power to break the bond of death. And he breaks the bond of death for himself. And he broke the bond of death for others as he was walking here on earth, and he will break the bond of death for each and every one of us. And well, maybe at his second coming and maybe before then. Some of us won't have to see death I d I don't know. I know that every generation's had those that were uh praying and hoping, even so Lord, come quickly, and maybe we'll be caught up together in the air and we don't have to experience or go through the valley of the shadow of death But if that time comes, I know that even though if I'm put in a grave that I that I'll be uh caught up together with them in the clouds. I know that because he's breaking the bond of death. This great truth to each of us are here on earth. And, you know, they say there's only two things that are for certain, right? Death and what else? Two things that are certain. Two things that are definitely gonna happen. It's gonna come to all of us. Death doesn't take a vacation. He doesn't skip over any generation. He doesn't just decide That, oh, well, you you've been good enough. You don't have to experience death. All of us at some point are going to pass away. We're going to die. Death comes to the young and the old alike. Ecclesiastes chapter 8 verse number 8, there is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit. No man has power to be able to do that. You can't say, you know what? I'm not going to die. I mean how much money you got doesn't matter. How how healthy you are, how how buffed you are, how much time you spend in the gym doesn't make any difference When death comes calling, no man has power to say, you know what? I'm just going to keep living. Sorry. Death calls. There hath neither hath he power in the day of death, and there is no discharge in that war. There's no escaping that war. You can't just say, you know what? I'm AOL. Sorry. Sorry, Death. I'm not present. You can't call my name. I'm not here for this war. No, when death calls, there's nothing you can do. And there's no discharge in that war, neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it. Hey, when death calls, we all will answer. We're able to do things about a lot of things we deal with in this life. A lot of times, you know, you feel sick, and it takes a little something to help you through that. But when death calls, you've got to answer. But death doesn't have to be the end. Why? Because Jesus Christ arose. He kicked the end out of that grave. And he rose up. And you and I can be assured of that fact. Jesus broke the bonds of death. John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. Hath everlasting life. You say, Well, we go through the valley of the shadow of death. We go through death here on earth, but we know that to be absent from the body is to be present with The Lord. We're going to be with the Lord and we know that. And we know that although we are going to be asleep for a little while, that we're going to be in heaven. One day. We're gonna spend an eternity there. We don't have to uh live separated from God forever and ever The power of God of Jesus Christ in his life there was sacrilege given to us breaks the bond of death For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory. The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law, but thanks be unto God, which gives the victory. Through who? Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Because Jesus went to the cross, we have the bond of death has been broken, and our body can put on the incorruption. We will Live again. Not only does it break the these bonds we've discussed already, but it breaks the bond of depression. Breaks the bond of depression and great sorrow that people endure here on earth. Jesus Christ has given us the ability to break that bond. Look in Matthew 28, verse number 8. And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and what does it say? And great joy, and did run to bring his disciples this word The trip that Mary Magdalene had on the way to the grave, as they were walking to the grave, they were a little depressed. Jesus was in the grave. He was dead. Their master, the one that they loved, the one that they followed. It was all over. And they're on their way to the grave and they were discouraged. They were downhearted, they were despondent, they were in despair, they were depressed. But they got to the grave and he said, don't seek him among the dead because he's not here. He is risen. And they went away with great joy. When you come into the presence of Jesus Christ, he gives you the power. to be able to break the bonds of despair, to break the bonds of depression, to be at a place where you have no hope and you can have hope because of Jesus Christ raising from the dead. Their trip away from the grave From the tomb that day was a lot different than their trip to the tomb. You know, they received the news from the angel, and it changed everything. His body wasn't stolen. It was standing. His body wasn't lying there in the grave because he was among the living. Walking around talking because he was risen. Power to break the bond of depression. We can have hope. We can have joy and anticipation. Because we'll see our loved ones again. Because the pain that we experience in this life is going to be replaced with the perfection that we get in glory. Is your body feeling some aches and pains? Last week during missions conference several nights we played basketball with Brother Hoffmeister and my boys. And after the first night, Brother Hoffmeister said, why don't we play for push-ups? If you lose, you've got to do 10 push-ups. That'll be some motivation. Well Brother Hoffmeister is a pretty skilled basketball player. He didn't do much losing. But I did some losing and I was doing push-ups and I said, man I gotta stop losing cause this is killing me. It's like great motivation, isn't it? But I got to the place where I could hardly move my arms by the end of like we're playing again tonight, man. My arms are killing me and my whole body was sore from all this extra running that I'm not used to and from the push-ups we were doing. Have you felt those aches and pains? The pain we experience today is going to be replaced with the perfection that we'll get in glory one day. Yes it will. You know it all be replaced. We have the power to break the bonds of depression. We also has the power to break the bond of Fear. Of fear. What did I tell uh him to put? Dread I came up with the D later. I emailed it to Gus for the outline, but I didn't put it in my I'd already printed my notes and I said, Oh you know what I need to change that. I have one in this morning's service that doesn't match either, you have to let me know what it is. I searched and searched to try and find a word that matched my eye, but I I couldn't find one. So dread, power to break the bonds of dread, the fear that we have. You know, they had much fear. Look at verse number ten. Chapter 28, verse number 10, he says, Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid. Be not afraid. Go tell my brethren that they go unto Galilee and there. shall they see me. Be not afraid. The message the disciples were given to take to this larger group was be not afraid. You don't have to have fear because Jesus is risen. Whatever it is that you're afraid of, whatever it is that you're dealing with, you don't have to be afraid of it. Because Jesus is risen. Because he is alive and he can break the bond of that fear. You know, there's a lot of phobias out there today. Many, many phobias, things that people dear that they deal with. But God can break the bond of that fear that you have, whatever it is, and give you victory over it. Because he has the power over death. Surely he's got the power over a fear that you have, right? Whatever it is that you might be afraid of, some people are so afraid of spiders. I don't like 'em. And my mind begins to wander when I'm crawling through a dark space. And I was wonder I wonder like what kind of spiders in here And, you know, is it crawling on my pant leg right now? My dad woke up this week, he went to bed not feeling very good, and he woke up and the whole side of his face was swollen Grandma sent us a picture, but they think he got bit by a spider. I mean his his face literally looks like this, like my hand. It looks like that. Woke up. Said, pray for daddy's gotta preach three times tomorrow and he looks like this So I don't know what they're gonna do, but man, we don't like spiders. Whatever that fear is, God can can give you victory over it. And the the fears, you know, they're real. I mean people are dealing with some things, whatever they might be, but God can give you victory. Over it. Because he said, Be not afraid. The fear. They had lost their leader. They had given up their livelihood. They had gone down a new road, and now he was no longer there. This life has a lot of uncertainties. Our health is fleeting. Our circumstances change. Our relationships at times are volatile. We have a lot of unknowns and uncertainties, and a lot of times that can bring about fear, but Jesus said, be not afraid. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Amen. He also gives us the power to break the bond of doubt. Look at verse number 17, verse number 18. Verse number seventeen and eighteen he says, and when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me. In heaven and in earth. He had all power. Some doubted, but he had all power. It's an indication. the of the choice that you make. You know, we have a choice to believe or not to believe. Right. But it doesn't matter what we believe or don't believe. It doesn't change the fact that he has all power. It's just we have a choice to make, whether to doubt or to believe. There's some who saw him that believed. They saw Jesus and they believed it was him. And there's some who didn't believe. Maybe they didn't believe until they had opportunities to actually touch the holes in his hands and the hole in his side. They didn't believe until they saw him eat when he said, Have you any meat? Don't be afraid, I'm not a ghost. He said, Do you have any meat They said yeah and so he began to eat in front of them to show that the food didn't just you know just eat and fall out on the floor like Casper the ghost or something, you know and uh like no no, I mean he ate and he took food and consumption and and and it was it It stayed in his body, he says, Hey, I'm not a ghost, it's me. Today, we don't see him Physically. At least I hope you don't see him physically. If you do you got other things you need to worry about But we do hear him. We hear from him in the Word of God. We hear from him in our spirit. Because the Bible says the Spirit beareth witness. The Spirit of God speaks to us in our heart. We can choose to believe that. Or we can choose to put it aside and say, oh, that's just this, it's just this, it's this. But God's trying to speak to us. And you can believe that? Or you can choose to doubt it. But God is trying to be real. He's trying to speak to you, trying to move in your heart and life. Some will choose to believe. Some will choose to deny They may be skeptical. They may refuse. In Romans chapter 10, verses 8, 9, and 10, he says, But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thine heart, that is the word of faith which we preach, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Belief. We know faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Believe. You have the choice to make. We can start with the choice of believing on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Belief for salvation But then as we walk down this Christian life, we have some other choices. We've got to. Are we going to trust God? Are we going to believe him, take him at his word when he says, if you do this, I will? We say, ah, that doesn't make sense to me. I don't know if I want to believe that. But he has all power. And we can believe and trust him for salvation. I think we can believe and trust him. For the other things in our life where we experience doubt. And you're not alone. The disciples themselves said, Lord, help our unbelief. Lord, we believe, but help our unbelief. And maybe that's where you're at in some of the things in your life. You say, oh, I believe. But help my unbelief. And uh God can give you victory because he's broken the bonds of doubt this morning. Well let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Ask the Lord to go with us as we go into the morning service and help us experience these broken bonds in our lives. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school. We thank you for The victory that we have, Lord, through Jesus Christ, through the power of the resurrection, we have broken bonds, the bonds that tie us or bind us up in this life, things that we deal with we feel we have no hope over. Sometimes it may be even be a sin that's holding us so strong we think we can't get free, but God, you've got all power and you can give us victory over that sin. I pray, God, that you would help us as Christians to experience The power of the resurrection. That we wouldn't just know about God. We wouldn't just know that He rose. We wouldn't just celebrate Easter as a matter of a date on the calendar, but we would know Him. And the power of his resurrection individually, Lord, and we'll thank you for it. Go with us as we go into the morning service. Please be with every single heart present. I pray God you'd speak them through the Word of God. And if there's one here this morning in our midst that does not know you as their Lord and Savior, I pray that they would turn and trust you today. And we'll thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen.