So you want to be in First Chronicles chapter number twenty eight. First Chronicles chapter number twenty-eight. Back in two thousand and two, I was an assistant pastor. at uh Heritage Baptist Church. Uh Mary and I went into the ministry after Bible college in 1999, and we went there first. and served on staff and were involved in a lot of different things. We're assistant pastor, Sunday school administrator, uh ran a bus route and taught Sunday school and uh was taught in the Christian school all day and then I became the principal and Mary taught all day in every class. She taught a lady Sunday school class and she taught uh a teen girls Sunday school class for a while and then we both together did junior church for a number of years. Uh lots of different areas of ministry where we served. But one of the big aspects of my service there was I was in charge of all the construction. I know that's shocking to you guys that I was in charge of all that building. And uh I enjoyed that. I really enjoy working with my hands. And uh in the in that time in two thousand and two we were in the middle of a building program. We were building a lot of buildings. The first building we built Uh we built three buildings. There were 90 by 125 with 25 foot eaves and uh from the ground up and then we built one that was 150 by 150. I didn't get to see that one to completion. Uh because the Lord moved me on before we finished that one, but we laid the foundation for it. Anyways, I oversaw all that. We were in the building program and the pastor got up one Sunday in the middle of this building program and just encouraging the people in the labor. And from this text he preached a message entitled Lessons When You're Building. And uh that's what he was preaching on this that that morning. But I as we read through this text, the Holy Spirit of God jumped out of thought at me, something that just really just stirred me. And I jotted down some notes and then over the next few weeks I began to study. about this idea that God had given me from this text. And I began to read about it. And I began to read what other people said about it and really began to muse and spend some time Looking at this text back in 2002. From that time of musing, back then actually I wrote what became the message I'm going to give to you this morning entitled Building Bridges Building bridges. Look with me if you would in Chronicles chapter number twenty-eight. Follow along with me. I'm uh the main part of my text comes the first part of the chapter, but I've Maybe you want to read the first ten verses if you just follow along with me. And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes. and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by chorus, and the captains over the thousands, and the captains over the hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and the possession of the king. and his sons with the officers and with the mighty men and with all the valiant men unto Jerusalem. So David called together anybody that was anybody and gathered them in in front of him. Anybody that had any any aspect of service, every friend, family, and anybody serving anywhere in his vicinity, called them all together. So in verse number two, he says, Then David, the king, stood up. I think this is pertinent because it wouldn't be uncommon, I don't believe, for a king to remain seated. and talk to his subjects. I think God put this in the Word of God for us to see and pointed it out specifically that David, the king, stood up. Because he had something that was important to say. He stood up in the presence of all these people. He gathered them all in front, and then he stood up. Now follow along with me, he says He stood upon his feet and he said, Hear me, my brethren and my people. As for me I had in my heart to build a house of rest for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord and for the footstool of our God. and had made ready for the building. But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a house for my name, because thou hast been a man of war and hast shed blood How be it, the Lord God of Israel, chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. For he hath chosen Judah to be the ruler, and of the house of Judah, the house of my father, and among the sons of my father he likened me to make me king over all Israel. And of all my sons, for the Lord hath given me many sons, he hath chosen Solomon, my son, to sit upon the throne of the kingdom for the Lord over Israel And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my courts. For I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father. Moreover, I will establish his kingdom forever if he be consistent to do my commandments and my judgments as at this day. Now therefore, in the sight of all Israel, the congregation of the Lord, and in the audience of God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the Lord your God, that ye may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you forever. And thou Solomon, my son Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind, for the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts If thou seekest him, he will be found of thee. But if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. Take heed now, for the Lord hath chosen thee to build an house for the sanctuary. Be strong and do it. This morning I want to bring a message to you entitled Building Bridges. And it's going to take a little bit for me to develop this thought for you and hopefully give you a glimpse into the chorus of my mind that took from this passage of scripture and maybe challenge you spiritually this morning. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you for the opportunity to share your word. I pray, God, that you'd give me liberty to preach to these your people, and that God, you would stir every heart That you would motivate and move us out of our complacency and our comfort zone to be exactly what you want us to be. God, may we be thankful for what you do in our hearts today. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. I don't think anybody here would disagree with me when I say David was a great man. David was a great man. I mean, after all, probably the number one, the number one Bible story, the greatest and most well-known Bible story in all of the Bible Probably David and Goliath. I mean that story, I mean people so many times we've told that story or the stories around David's life and you know tackling a bear and a lion. Uh, you know, I mean, it's amazing the story. David was a great man, a man after God's own heart. But you know, as you think, as great as David was Solomon was greater. David was a great leader, but Solomon was a greater leader. David was a great king, but Solomon was a greater king. For all of David's greatness, Solomon was greater You say, Pastor Caleb, how can you be sure of that? Turn over one page in your Bible or maybe to the opposite side to page number chapter 29, chapter 29 and verse number 25 of 1 Chronicles. Chapter 29 and verse number 25 says, And the Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king. Before him in Israel. So it's not just an opinion. It's not just a thought or an idea. Obviously, we know that the Bible declares Solomon as the wisest man that ever lived. It's not just an idea, but here we see God in his word recorded for us that God bestowed upon him a majesty beyond any other king before him So indeed Solomon was greater. Let me just throw a plug in here for you, parents, you should desire for your kids to be greater than you. You should desire that your kids be uh smarter than you, that they be more educated than you, that they succeed further than you than you, that they're able to go further in their life than you. Too many parents Just want their kids not to embarrass them. As long as they don't embarrass me, that's okay. But we should want more than just they don't embarrass us out of them. We should expect more and we should push them to more and desire that they be more successful than we ever were. Look at what David wanted for his son. Turn back to chapter 28, and we read it here, but in chapter 28 and verse number 9, what did David want for his son? As we see here a charge that he gives his son. In verse number 9, he says, And thou, Solomon, my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. For the Lord searcheth all hearts and understandeth all imaginations of the thoughts. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee. But if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. You see, David wanted his son to know God. That's what he desired for him. What I want you to see this morning is that although David was great, Solomon was greater. But Solomon was greater because David made it possible David, his father, prepared him and gave him what he needed, and pointed him in the right direction, so that Solomon could be what he should be. Yes, Solomon was greater than David, but what made him that way, and what made it possible, was the fact that David did his part. What if all the way back there in Psalms 51 David hadn't repented of his sin? What if he hadn't turned from the wickedness that was in his life? What if he had stayed hard against God and not repentant of the wickedness that he had done for the remainder of his days? Do you think Solomon would have ended up where he ended up? Yes or no? No, I don't imagine so. If David had stayed against God and something between him and God and he hadn't had a humble spirit and repented when the prophet said, Thou art the man. And the Holy Spirit convicted his heart, and he said, Yes, it is me. And he confessed his sin and forsook it and turned back to God. If he hadn't done that, Solomon wouldn't have made it. Oh, I tell you this morning, what would have happened if Solomon had not been trained the way that he did? What if he wouldn't have been pointed to God the way that he was? What if Solomon didn't ask for wisdom? On that day, because of the training that David had given him. What if he didn't have a daddy who had a heart after God's own heart? What would have Solomon asked for on that day? Instead of wisdom, would he have asked for wealth? Instead of wisdom, would he be asked for power or popularity? What would have been in the heart of Solomon had not Solomon's dad prepared him for that day? Do you think Solomon would have had a chance if his dad hadn't pointed him so strongly towards God? Beloved, can you picture with me today David there on the balcony of his castle? Can you picture him there as he looks down at his hands They're rough and scarred from the battles that he's been in Oh, not not literally, but he looks down at his hands and he can see the blood there. From the wars that he's had to fight. And he hears in his mind: Thou shalt not build a house for my name Because thou hast been a man of war and hast shed blood. He looks down and he thinks about this desire in his heart to build a house for God. to do something great for God, but he understands that he is limited, that because of the scars that are in his life, because of the blood that he shed, because he's been a man of war God says, you cannot do this. You cannot build a house for me because of the battles that you've had to fight, because of the hardship that you've dealt in your life, but your son is going to do it. And I can picture uh David there looking at his hands and saying, you know, uh maybe I can't build a house for God. But I'm going to fight so that my son can. Maybe I can't go and be a missionary, or maybe I can't teach a Sunday school class, or maybe I can't do this service for God that I would like to do, but I'm gonna fight. I'm gonna do whatever I can do so that my son can go further than me, so my son can achieve more than me, so my son can be what I cannot be. David determined in his heart he was going to build a bridge for his son He's gonna promote God and push God and push his son towards God. He's gonna build a bridge so his son wouldn't have to fight those battles You know, there's a lot of parents today that do that for their children when we're talking about education. They may have only been sixth grade, eighth grade, tenth grade. And they look at their kids and they say, nope, you're gonna go to school You're gonna get an education, you're gonna get a degree. And and they get out of high school and the kid maybe the kid doesn't want to go to college at all. But mom and dad are like, nope, you're going to college And dad goes and he works and he works and he slaves and he labors to try and put his kid through school because he wants his kid to have more education than he had. Wants him to have a better opportunity in his life than he had. Am I making sense? Dad does all that. Maybe he couldn't go that far, but his kids can. That's what he wants for his children But what I want you to see this morning is the verse that I showed you in number nine, what David wanted for his child was something spiritual, was something beyond just education. beyond just finances. He wanted his son to know and to be all that God wanted him to be. Where are the parents today that are pointing their children to God. We don't need more electricians. We need more soul winners. There's a world that's dying and going to hell without Jesus Christ. We need people to preach the truth and to stand for righteousness in this wicked day. We don't need more doctors. We don't need more lawyers. We don't need more politicians. We need people that would be Christians. And stand up for God and do what's right. That's what we need. Where are the parents that are pointing their children toward God and have a vision for what God's going to do in their life? Many times you heard stories of mamas on their knees praying and saying, boy, God, would you call my baby boy to preach Would you call my son to be a missionary? Would you call my son to work in your service in some way? Oh no, today we're pushing him to be a doctor or be a lawyer or to go. Listen, there's nothing wrong with those things But we need to push them to do what God wants. Not push them just to have a higher education. They could be the most educated prisoner in Leavenworth. Didn't do him any good. We need to push them towards God. You know, there's not a lot that I would be willing to die for. If somebody found me out on the street this evening and pulled a gun and said, give me your wallet, or I'm going to shoot you. No, I think they would be a little disappointed. Uh but I would gladly give up my wallet. Okay. Here you go. Uh if they held me at gunpoint and said, Give me the keys to your car, or I'm gonna shoot ya I'd say, okay, here you go. You can have it. God will replace that. Do you know what? If somebody held me at gunpoint and said, give me one of your children Give me one of your kids. I believe I would say you better pull the trigger before I get there. Cause there's no way you're getting one of my kids There's no way. What are you willing to die for? What are you willing to fight for? I want you to see, first of all, David believed it worth fighting for. He proved his persistence He was willing to stay in the battle that his kids might succeed. He was willing to build a bridge so his kids wouldn't have to go through the battles that he went through. He was willing to fight so that his son could succeed. David looked at his life and he wanted to do something great for God. But that item God said no, but he said, okay. But I'm gonna make it possible so my son can. I'm gonna go fight these battles so my son won't have to fight these battles I'm going to go clean this land up so my son won't have to clean this land up. There's some valleys that I've got to go through, but my son won't have to because I'm going to build a bridge over the valley. Maybe I've had to go into war, and maybe I've not been able to go that far because of the valleys I've had to tread through, because of the muck and the mire I've had to fight my way through. But my son is going to go further than me. Do you know, does anybody here know what Solomon means? Means peaceable Means peaceable. I don't know what that David was standing there with that baby Solomon in his hand and he said, Son, I've had to fight a lot of battles. But I'm doing it so that there'll be some peace. in your day. I'm doing it so that you can know peace. I'm fighting these battles and I'm going through this so that you can know peace. Many of you here, you've had to fight some battles to get where you are. Maybe you're a first-generation Christian. Maybe you got saved when you were older. you know, up in either teens or twenties or thirties or forties, and you had to make some changes in your life. And when you made those changes, man, the family didn't understand it. They're like, What why are you doing that? And why are you going to church all the time? And why are you doing this? And what is that for? And what is that change for? And you're fighting these battles in your life. You've given up on all this sin and the filthiness of your life. You've cleaned the trash out of your life. And you've made it so that your children won't have to fight those battles. The things that you went through, the things that you had to fight your way out of, you're making it so your kids won't have to fight their way out of that. Kids, don't get mad at your parents, young men, young ladies, don't get mad at the adults in your life that are striving to keep you from going down into the valley and getting scarred Your parents, yes, you say, well they did it. Yes, they did, and they bear the scars in their body because of it. And they're looking at you and they're saying, we don't want that for you. We don't want you to have this scar. We don't want you to have this weight. We want you to be able to cross over without going down into the muck and the mire of this whole world. They're trying to protect you from all that So that you can go so much further than they had ever did. Some of you fought your way back from alcoholism. And what you want to do is you want to try and keep the kids from getting tied up into that. So you set some boundaries, you built some bridges over it, and kids, you don't have to go through that, you don't have to experience it, you don't have to struggle with that. Maybe you fought your way back from severe depression because of the sin and the toll that it takes on your life. Many of you fought some battles and you're burying in your body some scars from that part of your life. And you're striving to keep the next generation from having to go through the valley. They don't have to walk down into the trash that you've been through already. If you remain steadfast and fight the battle that you're supposed to, your kids won't have to. The next generation here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church won't have to. Some of you have been fighting battles for a long time, and you're worn out. But can I ask you, is it worth Oh, I know at times when you're in a battle you're weary and you're tired and boy it's hard to get up and come to God's house and it's hard to get all the kids ready and get here and and be in church and it's such a struggle to to to do what you know God wants you to do and and you feel like sometimes it's it's such a battle. But is it worth it? Is it worth it? Well, let me ask you this. What do you see in your kids? What do you see in the next generation coming behind you? If you don't see anything, then Maybe not. Maybe it's not worth it. Maybe just forget building a bridge. Maybe it doesn't matter at all. But let me tell you something. In Isaiah 49, verse number 1, the Bible says, listen, Ois, unto me, and hearken, ye people. The Lord hath called me from the womb, from the bowels of my mother, he hath made mention of my name. What I want you to understand is God sees something in the next generation. Even though maybe you can't, God sees something. And every one of them is precious and valuable in God's sight And it's our job as those that have gone before to build a bridge to make it easier for them God sees something in your kids. I can think of Moses' parents as they stood there on the on the bank of the river and And they had Moses and they were commanded, they were told to kill him. And I can imagine them looking at their baby Moses and thinking, he's going to do something great. for God. God has a plan for him. He's valuable. He's important. There's a reason why I can't just give in. I can't just give up. We can't just kill him. And at threat of losing their own life They put their baby Moses into a basket and set him loose on the river. And you know the story how God miraculously provided, but what I'm saying is they saw something in their baby And they said, it's worth it. At the threat of my own life, I'm gonna do what I can to save my kids' life. Is it worth it to get here to God's house? Is it worth it to have your kids in master clubs? Is it worth it to have your kids around the Word of God and hearing good teaching and preaching? and instruction in the Word of God. Is it worth it to give up a little bit of time each week to focus on the Word of God? Is it worth it to sit down and have family devotions and study the Word of God together? Is it worth it to build those bridges? Well, an unknown author put it like this. An old man going a lone highway Came a evening, cold and gray, To a chasm vast and deep and wide, Through which was flowing a sullen tide. The old man crou crossed in the twilight dim, To the sullen stream had no fear for him. But he turned when safe on the other side, and built a bridge to span that tide. Old man, said a fellow pilgrim near, you're wasting your strength building here Your journey will end with close of day. You'll never again pass this way. You've crossed this chasm deep and wide. Why build you this bridge at Edentide? The builder lifted his old grey head. Good friend, in the path I've come, he said, there followeth after me today a youth whose feet must pass this way. This chasm that has been not to me, to that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be. He too must cross in the twilight dim. And good friend, I'm building this bridge for him. We're building a bridge above the muck and the mire of this world, above the trash, and we've fought some battles and we've had to take some stands and We've let some of the world go and we've cleaned up some things in our houses and we've took some stands on the Word of God and we're doing it because there's a generation coming behind us That we don't want them to have to walk down in the trash of this world and to endure and to have all the scars on their life that we have. We want them to live above that. And is it worth fighting for? I hope in your heart today you're stirred and say, yes, it's worth fighting for. Yes, it's worth investing in yes it's worth giving time and energy and listen let me say this to you if your kids are out of the house don't think that you don't still have influence in their life You say, well, my kids are all raised. You still have a great influence on them. I can't tell you how many times I've talked to somebody whose parents got a divorce after they were out of the house. And the parents thought, oh, it's no big deal, the kids are gone, we can get a divorce now. And it hurt their kids immensely They think, oh, the kids are gone, the kids are grown, it's okay. Don't think that you don't have influence in their life. What you're doing speaks volumes to your children It speaks volumes. And right now some of you are dealing with children who are away away from God or going their own way and you think, boy, I I I I am trying to do right and it doesn't seem to be making any difference. You keep doing right And let God draw them back to him. You know how much farther you can go when you don't have to go down into the valley and back out again? You know how much more successful you can be when you don't have to fight those battles? The problem many times is that it costs to build a bridge. The San Francisco Bridge cost millions and millions of dollars to build them. But the greatest cost was 23 lives. Twenty-three people gave their life to build the San Francisco Bridge. And since that day, millions upon millions have successfully crossed the bay. Because the bridge was There. It's worth it. I'm thankful for the bridges that God has built through other people that God has put in my life, allowed me. There's many, many years ago, my dad. decided on the word of God that this was the word of God. This was the infallible, powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, word of God. of God. This was a battle that was settled for me. I didn't have to go through it and find it on my own. This was something that I didn't have to try and figure out. This was settled. The old King James Bible is the word of God. It was settled for me. There's some things in my life, some of the world's entertainments that I never had to listen to or never had to get out of or whatever, because Dad, when he was Deciding, hey, we're not going to be a part of that. That's a battle that I've already fought. I've already decided. For us, for our family, we're not going to be involved in those things. And he took flack from his brothers and sisters and from his friends in those days. Uh he took flack because he took some stands in his life. He fought some battles and took some separation from the world. I'm saying, parents, what battles are you winning? For your children, serving God, Christian education Educating your children in a Christian way and manner so they don't have to be scarred by the trash of this world every single day. Are you building a bridge? So they don't have to walk through the faith, the filth, but can walk by faith One of the most heroic stories of self-sacrifice was in the depths of winter, the French army was pressed on every side. And they had a river at their back which was just crusting over with ice, but not frozen yet. They had to get across this river, and Napoleon ordered his men, We must cross this river, men, and some men went into the river to try and construct a a bridge that people might cross and the current was so strong that they were swept away downstream and so some men went into the river And and ru arm by arm they they linked themselves together to uh slow down the current, to allow other men to get in, and they constructed some devices Some kind of a apparatus that allowed the army to get across and these men held fast and held the bridge from flowing away the whole time that these All the army crossed. When they crossed the other side, Napoleon called back and he said, Men, we're all across. You can come out. And not one of the men moved. They found that they had been frozen to death. Those men gave their life to literally build a human bridge to save the lives of all their comrades. Are we building a bridge today? David proved his Consistency, his willingness to fight. He also provided a pattern. Look at chapter 28 and verse number 11. Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, of the house thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place of the mercy seat. David gave his son a pattern for success. He provided him a pattern. Can I ask you this morning, are you providing a pattern for other people to follow? Are you providing a pattern for those that come behind you? Look in chapter 28 and verse number 19. Where did David get this pattern? It's not just what he wanted. Where did he get the pattern that he gave them? Look at verse number 19, 28-19. He says, And all this, said David, the Lord made me. To understand in the writing by his hand upon me. Even all the works of this pattern. The pattern David gave to his son was the pattern that he got from God. Living and doing what God wanted him to do. So I ask you this morning, what kind of a pattern are you leaving? Not this world's philosophies, not this world's ideas, but what pattern are you giving your kids to follow? Some of you are building patterns. that are going to lead your children to destruction. You're building patterns in your life that are going to lead them to folly and you feel like it's okay. Oh, it's all right if I just Skip Bible reading. It's all right if I just skip church. It's not going to make much difference, but you're building a pattern that your children are going to follow. And oh, you might be able to come out of it, but will your children come out of it Kids are going to follow the pattern that you set when Alicia was just 18 months old. My daughter, who I just took to Bible college, who's now eighteen. When she was just eighteen months old, I wasn't quite home yet. I came home late in the evening and Alicia was a little bit different when she was a baby in that she you know children typically they want to be up. But she would just say I'm tired. She'd say night night, she's ready to go to bed. Night night Well, when she was 18 months old, she was ready to go to bed. We had a particular pot spot in the house where we would sit and have our devotions together as a family. family and Alicia went into daddy's room and she got his Bible and she went over. We always sat on the floor down where Alicia was. She sat down on the floor next to the wall and she opened Daddy's Bible and she went Then she closed the Bible and she bowed her head. Then she looked up and then she walked over to her bed and she said, night night. She knew because of the pattern that was set in her life. You don't go to bed until you read God's Word. Until you pray. She didn't want to wait for mom and dad, so she just did it herself. She read the Bible, she prayed, she's like, I'm ready for bed now. They're going to follow the pattern you set. What kind of a pattern are you setting, friend? What kind of a bridge are you building? For those that are coming behind you. In South America, there was a group of people that there was a much-needed bridge for the health and the safety of a very large number of people. The government saw the need and the government allotted an amount of money to build this bridge and they sent this money in segmented allotments to the local municipalities to get So they began to construct this bridge and they would send back receipts to the government saying, here's what we've done thus far, here's the materials we purchased, here's the contractors we've hired, here's these receipts for all these things. Then they even sent pictures of Inauguration Day, of everybody standing in front of this bridge, and the pictures of the bridge, and all excited about this bridge uh there. And uh then they even had thank you letters come from people uh saying thank you so much for this bridge and getting this bridge built because we need it. It's gonna help us so much And then one day, when there was a government official out in that area of the country, they said, Hey, I want to go see this bridge that I was help instrumental in getting for these people. I just want to see it. And he went out to where the bridge was supposed to be, and there was no bridge. None of the money had been spent on building a bridge. The bridge, it was all fake. Those local politicians took all that money. But here's what I'm wondering for you and I. I wonder how much of our bridge building is fake. How much of it is real? Are we just going through the motions? Or are we really building bridges that the next generation can walk across on Let me give you the last one. I want you to see that not only did he have persistence and And stand there, not only did he give or provide a pattern, but I want you to see that he prayed. He prayed for his son You know, you can't do it yourself. You've got to pray. You've got to pray. The minute that you think that you have it under control, you're going to be faced with the fact that you don't You know, when I just had Alicia, I thought I was a pretty good parent. I thought I was doing a pretty good job. And then when I had Andrew, All that went out the window. No, actually two wasn't too bad. You know, one for mom, one for me. We're doing good still. Where we're tag teaming it, right? But then when God gave us Timothy, now there's three of 'em. And every one of them is at a different place in their life, each one struggling with different things, and that's when I threw up my hands and said, God I can't do this. I can't do it. I realized I didn't have it under control. Let me say, as soon as you feel that you've got it under control, your kids are going to let you know you don't. What do you what do you think my mom felt as the pastor's wife when she answered the door And there stood a police officer and her six year old son. Who w he was not coming to the door to say, your son was just saved from an accident He wasn't coming to the door to say, your son was lost and we brought him home. You see, he came to tell my mom that your son got caught stealing at the Piggly Wiggly down the street. I remember it like it was yesterday I never even really thought about stealing. I wasn't even supposed to be at the store. I was supposed to be in the backyard. One of my friends came and Said, hey, let's go to the store and we went to the store. And we were in the store and he told me, Oh yeah, you can have as much as you want. Just put it in your pocket. You know sin will make you stupid I'm like, well as much as I want. So I filled up my pockets. Both of my pockets were like this. I'm walking out of the store, you know, both of my pockets bulging And the guy at the counter goes, and hey, I was taught to respect authority. You see, kids nowadays they would just take off running. That didn't even cross my it didn't even ig I It never even crossed my mind when an authority looked at me and said, Come here, I turned around. I walked up to the counter and he goes, What do you got in your pockets? And I put all my candy on the counter. And then he took me into this back room, a little small room, about the size of my office right now. All white walls, nothing in there but a table and three green chairs. And he sat me down right there and I thought this is how it ends. This is what happens to them. Sat there a while and then all of a sudden a police officer walked in and I thought, oh no. The police officer took me and put me in a car and I didn't know where we were going. Then he pulled up in front of my house and I thought, oh, anywhere but home. Take me to jail. I'll go to prison. No, don't take me home. He pulled up in front of the house and he walked up to the door and rang the doorbell and my mom opened the door and he told her what I had done. And I remember the compl Complete, utter disappointment in her face. She didn't even know what to say. She didn't even answer. She just took me by the hand, put me in dad's uh bed their in their bedroom, and she turned She never even said anything to me. She just did just was taken back. Had no idea like how in the world. What I'm saying is, parents, you can do it all right. You still need God. You need to pray. You need to pray for God to do a miraculous thing. We do all we can to build the bridges and pray that God. would hold them up. Let me close with this last thought. I want you to understand this morning that there is somebody that has built a bridge for you. You say, I don't see that, Pastor. There's at least one. There's at least one that's built a bridge for you. For you, and that is Jesus Christ. The Bible says that there was a great gulf fixed between here and there. There was no way any of us could get to heaven on our own. But Jesus Christ laid his life down across that great gulf for you and I to be able to cross the bridge. Of his sacrifice, what he paid, so that we could be forgiven of our sins and go to heaven. Neither is there salvation in any other. But Jesus Christ. For there is no other name under heaven given among men whereby ye must be saved. Jesus laid his life down. He is the one that built the bridge for you. You and I that we might go to heaven. That great gulf was fixed. If nothing else, you can be thankful that Jesus did that for you today. And if you're here this morning and you have not crossed that bridge or you don't understand what I'm saying Saying about Jesus giving his life and sacrifice for you, you can know today what that means. Let us take a Bible and show it to you