All right, 2 Peter chapter 1 tonight. 2 Peter chapter 1 is where we'll be. I wanted to thank Pastor for the opportunity to preach. He asked me uh this week and uh I said, Well I'll take any opportunity that I can get um to gain experience in preaching and I enjoy preaching. It's challenging. It causes you to dig into the Word of God, to really study out the meaning of a passage. And it really challenges you to be able to communicate that correctly to others. And I'm just thankful for the opportunity to preach. So we'll uh begin in verse uh chapter one, verse number five. Chapter one, verse number five, and we'll read all the way down uh until verse 15. Second Peter chapter one and verse five says, And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to your virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance, patience, and to patience godliness. And to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. I want you to, as we read the next uh few verses here, notice the couple times that the phrase these things is repeated in the next couple verses. So verse 8, for if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure, for if ye do these things, ye shall never fail. For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Wherefore I will not be in Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though though ye know them, and be established in the present truth. Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance. Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ has shown me. Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able, after my decease, to have these things always in remembrance. So you notice that probably five or six times Peter says these things. I want you to remember these things. Well what's he talking about? What are these things? And I really want to take the message tonight and focus in on verses five through seven. And these this is what he's talking about, these things. And verse 5, and beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to your virtue knowledge, and to knowledge, temperance, and to temperance, patience, and to patience godliness. and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. So I want to focus in on these three verses tonight and we'll kind of systematically go through them And I think that you'll notice there's a lot to learn. There's a lot to learn. And I know the Lord has showed me through these verses some things that I can work on, and I pray it'll be a blessing to you tonight. Let's pray and then we'll jump in. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, Lord, and uh the power it has to change our lives. And uh Lord, we are thankful for that, and Lord, uh we we wouldn't um go far without it, Lord. I pray that our hearts would be open to whatever change you would have us to make tonight. And uh Lord, I pray that these uh truths would be evident To the believers here tonight, Lord, I pray that you would use it to challenge, Lord, and to encourage and Lord be a blessing tonight. Pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So I want us tonight to imagine ourselves as builders. Um and in the Christian life I want us to imagine ourselves as builders. Have you ever had uh let's say you're working on something and you have the wrong tool? And I had this happen to me a couple weeks ago. I was working on something and it took me like I was working on my car and it took me like an hour and a half to get this one thing off. And then Mr. Glover came and helped me the next day, and he had the right to one. It took him like two minutes. Isn't that so frustrating? It's just, ah It drives me crazy. Um so I was like, Mr. Glover, how much did that tool cost you? And he told me I was like, uh not right now, I'll take the hour and a half. But that's so it's um so frustrating. Um same thing uh maybe you're cooking and you don't have the right ingredients, so you have to try to, you know substitute it or put pull these other things together and try to figure out how to make it work. And that can be frustrating. And as builders, you have to have the right materials. And we kind of experienced that with the carpet and some things like that. You have to have the right you have to have the right materials. And I want us to Place ourselves in that mentality tonight. Just as we go through the message, I want you to place yourself as builders. And I want to focus in on to start the message, verse 5, and it says, and beside this Giving all diligence, add to your faith. Add to your faith. And what I'm going to change it, I'm going to change just the word add, and I'm going to call the message tonight building on your faith. Building on your faith. So I want us to focus in on build as as I want us to picture ourselves as builders. And I think the main part of the messages tonight, what I want us to see is as Christians It is imperative that we are daily building on our faith. And using the building blocks that God instructs us to use. So I'm going to call My first point, God's building blocks. God's building blocks. We're going to find these in verses 5 through 7. God's building blocks. So the first one. And beside this, giving all diligence, so we have to do this diligently. This is this is some this is not something that we're supposed to be oh yeah, I can get to this later. No, this is with all diligence. Giving all diligence Add to your faith virtue. First one, virtue. So the first building block that God has for us is virtue that He wants to add to our lives. This is after we get saved. So that should Pretty much encapsulate everyone here tonight. We are to build um with virtue. The first thing is virtue. The first, what this means is pleasing to God and set apart. Virtue, this the word meaning virtue here, set it holy and set apart. God wants us to be holy and set apart. The best way to kind of illustrate this is you see these professional athletes that have like these strict dieting plans or people that are bodybuilders in the gym that Have these strict dieting plans that they have to stick to like oh I can't eat this or you see people that are like calorie counting all the time. They have to look, oh how much how many calories is this? They have a strict dieting plan And as Christians, we have a strict plan to follow to, which is in God's word right here. And so Maybe that's a building block that we we forget sometimes is that we need to compare everything we're doing to the what's in here and what God wants. How often do we find ourselves well, I think the Lord would think that's okay. I think uh you know I don't really know a verse about that in the Bible. But I'm not going to go study and find it and see if what the Lord thinks about it. I'll just I think the Lord will be okay if I do it. The first building block is virtue. What the Lord wants us to add to our faith is virtue. And are we comparing our lives to what's in the Word of God? Every day. And that's that's that's hard to do. Um because the word the word of God is the truth and some we all know the phrase, the truth hurts sometimes. It's hard to it's hard to hear. But God wants us to add to our faith. He wants us to build on virtue. That's the first building block. So again, we're picturing ourselves as builders tonight. We're picturing ourselves as working working with these building blocks that God wants us to use. And the first one is virtue. And how are we doing in comparing are we using the building block of virtue in comparing our lives to God's Word? So that's the first one, virtue. The second one, add to your faith virtue, add to your virtue knowledge, verse in verse five, add to your virtue knowledge. So we can we're continuing to build here. Knowledge, the word meaning here, and just so you know I looked at the Greek words here that sometimes in the Bible the the word will be The word you'll see this a little further down. It might be a word that has a different mean that you may think has a different meaning. But the Greek word here means to show a thorough participation in the subject To show you're so passionate about the subject. To illustrate this, I kind of think of a guy who is getting engaged. Jason? No, I'm kidding. Not yet, not yet. But you'll get there, maybe. A guy who's getting engaged, he studies everything he can find out about rings. He wants to find the right one for for his girl and make sure that you know he's got the right cut, he's got the right style, he's got the right band, he's got the right diamond, he's got all this, all these things. He's he's studying he's he's completely engrossed in it. Well, we're supposed to add to our faith. Knowledge. And that type of knowledge is how passionate are you in studying this? How involved are you in the Word of God? And so as Christians, uh I think this is I mean we're gonna go through this. It's pretty simple. And uh Pastor, I try I was trying to fit them all into the alliteration, but I just I was gonna spend hours and hours and hours. So um so we're we're adding to our our faith knowledge. And that's and you think about it, you know, how passionate are we in in studying the Word of God? And is it a conversation in our lives? Is it do people know that we're in the Word of God? And that was a challenge to me. Um but that's just a kind of if you think about it as a builder, uh the is this part of your Part of your materials as a Christian. Do you have this? Are are is is the knowledge of God's word and of God really um involved in your life and is does it show a thorough participation um in in God's word So we've seen virtue. We've seen knowledge. Virtue being set apart unto God. Are we comparing our lives to His Word? Knowledge, are we showing a thorough involvement in God's word? And then number three, temperance. Temperance, meaning self-control. Temperance, the word meaning here is self-control. I was uh thinking of different uh illustrations for this and um you know we all have things that we really really enjoy I was thinking of Pastor Gus and his cookies And uh Pastor and his Mountain Dew. And you know, I thought of one that really, you know, that I I'm proud of myself for thinking of. For me, are you ready for this? For me, what what really what really I really enjoy and I just can't get enough of and I really have to practice self-control with is my wife's cooking. Brownie points, right? You know, I thought of that. That was good. Like I was like, I'm proud of myself. I'm learning. I'm learning. Okay, I'm learning. It's been a year. I'm starting to learn. But it takes So we're supposed to add to our faith temperance, which is self-control. And I believe we all have areas in our lives where I mean I was thinking about this. I could go down and list Area after area in our lives that we could all, oh, I need to practice self-control in that area. But you each and every one of you know know what that area is in your life. I don't have to go through and list them all. Each of you all know what that area is. And what how are you doing in in and using that building block? That the Lord wants you to have. How are you doing in using that? Self-control. So virtue, knowledge, temperance. Fourth one, patients. How are we doing in the air patients? And this meaning, this is the one that I want you to see. The meaning is not you know, m necessarily you would think patience with people. You know, I just need to be more patient with people. Uh this one is meaning patience and a trial. We're supposed to add to our faith patience and a trial. Interesting that the Lord used that that this was important to him. Patience and a trial. I have a poem I'd like to read to you here. It says, Although things are not perfect, because of trial or pain, continue in thanksgiving, do not begin to blame. Even when the times are hard, fierce winds are bound to blow. God is forever able, hold on to what you know Imagine life without his love, joy would cease to be. Keep thanking him for all the things love imparts to thee. Move out of camp complaining. No weapon that is known on earth can yield the power praise can do alone. Quit looking at the future, redeem the time at hand. Start every day with worship. To thank is a command Until we see him coming victorious in the sky, we'll run the race with gratitude, exalting God most high Yes, there will be good times, and yes, some will be bad, but Zion waits in glory where none are never sad. God wants us to be patient through our trials. And we've pastors talked some about this on Thursday nights, about dealing with trials. But this is a part of God's building plan. In 2 Peter here, it's part of his building plan is building patience through trials. And each of us have our own trials that we deal with. And how how are you are you staying patient in the trial tonight? Right and it we all have to be reminded about that often because it's hard to stay patient in the trial. But just remember remember what the poem says To thank is a command. Don't forget what God's done for you. God is forever able. And then of course, if you're saved, you're going to heaven where you won't face any more trials. And that's a good thing to remember. So patience in trials, that's what the Lord wants us to practice, to use that building block of patience. So patience. We saw virtue that's setting ourselves apart, comparing ourselves to the Word of God. We saw knowledge, a deep passion for the Word of God. How passionate are we in studying His Word, to know His Word, to know Him? That's vital in God's building plan. Thirdly, we saw temperance, self-control. We all have our areas. We all have our areas that we can work on in that. Patience, patience through the trials. And then to add to patience, verse 6, and to patience, godliness. And the word godliness here meaning complete devotion toward God. And I want to illustrate how we show complete devotion toward God. Two boys were playing in the snow one day, one said to the other, Let us see who can make the straightest path in the snow. His companion readily accepted the proposition. And they started. One boy fixed his eye on a tree and walked along without taking his eyes off the object selected The other boy set his eyes on the tree also, and when he had gone a short distance he turned and looked back, to see how true his course was. He went a little distance further, and again turned to look over his steps. When they arrived at their stopping place, each halted and looked back. One path was true as an arrow, while the other ran in a zigzag course. How did they how did you get your path so true? asked the boy who made the crooked steps. Why, said the other boy, I just set my eyes on the tree and kept them there until I got to the end, while you stopped and looked back and wandered out of your course. This is a perfect picture of what devotion to the Lord is, what the Christian life is. So often The Lord is over here. We need to be looking up toward him. And so often we're turning back. Oh well, they shouldn't have done this to me. Or Um this shouldn't have happened in my life or but where our eyes are supposed to be fixed on him. And That's godliness. That's devotion to God. How do we stay devoted to God? Keeping our eyes fixed on Him. Keeping our our everything we're doing is for Him. And so often we we we well I I did this for this person and they didn't thank me. Or you know, we get so focused on these type of things, but we're doing it for the Lord. And we have to remember that. Devotion to the Lord, godliness. Is this a building block in your life? Are you keeping your eyes on the Lord, or maybe your eyes are focused somewhere else? Our eyes are supposed to be on the Lord. So godliness. Um and just two more here. Two more. So to add to golliness, brotherly kindness. Don't we all love this one? Uh we're supposed to Love one another, brotherly kindness. I was thinking of a way to illustrate this, and I enjoy sports. I like watching them, I like playing them. Um I used to like it too much. Um but I enjoy sports and I was thinking about how you see a team work together. And how they'll pick one another up, how they'll encourage each other, how uh they'll give each other high fives, how they'll you know, hug each other after a big win. Um but you don't see a team what you don't do is you you don't see a team that You don't see a team member while they're playing the game, like let's say in basketball, you don't see them dribbling down the court and their teammate comes up behind them and just kicks them real hard in the leg and injures them. You don't see that happen. And so often in in our churches and in in as our lives as Christians, we do that to fellow Christians. And we we're we're running down the basketball court. Oh sh let me get you out of the way. Let me uh take you out. And it just like in sports, it takes them out of the game. And it takes it takes, not only does it take them out out of Christian service for a while because they're hurt, it takes you out of Christian service as well because you sinned before God. And so often we do that um to our our brothers in Christ, and that that shouldn't be the case. Um So brotherly kindness, is this is this a building block you need to work on in your life? Is this is this what God is having you to maybe he's showing you tonight I need to work on brotherly kindness. And that may involve apologizing to people. That may involve um it it it may involve it it will involve you having discipline. You know, I have to think. No, I can't get upset about this. This is uh the Lord wants me to have brotherly kindness. So one more here, and then I'll just show you quickly what if we don't if we don't um put these building blocks into our lives, um there's consequences. And but if we do, there's rewards. And that's a blessing. So we will see that real quick. Charity, the last one. A tender love. That's what this word means here: a tender love. We all know the picture of Christ's love by his death on the cross for us. I have a little illustration of how I think, I believe, how our love is for others. The story is told of a young girl who regretted breaking her engagement and wrote this letter. Dearest Tommy, no words could ever express the great unhappiness I felt since breaking our engagement. Please say you'll take me back. No one could ever take your place in my heart. So please forgive me. I love you, I love you, I love you, I love you. Yours forever, Marie. P. S. And congratulations on winning the state lottery. She wanted the money. If you didn't get that Isn't that how w we love sometimes. Well, I love this person so they should love me back. Or I gave them this, why aren't they being nice to me? Or You know, all these things we have in our head, you know, we're humans. That's just that's just naturally how we are. But Christ's love is so much different than that. And the building block that he wants us to have is charity, is a tender love, a love that pictures him. And the building block here is how are you showing Christ's love to others In the church, outside of the church, in the world, how are you showing Christ's love to others? How is that charity being manifested in your life? And how is that being seen in your life? So you see the building box here. It's very simple. We just went through verses 5, 6, and 7 of chapter of 2 Peter chapter 1. Virtue. Adding to your faith virtue, to your virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, to temperance, patience, to patience, godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity So, this is God's building plan right here. These are the materials he wants you to use to have a successful Christian life And if you look in verse uh let's see here. If you look in we'll look at the consequences here first. The consequences of of our own way, the consequences of our own way here. If you look in verse 8. For if these things be in you and abound, it make ye that ye shall neither be barren nor fruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. Um so the consequence is you're blind. You don't get to see the blessings of God because you don't have these building blocks in your life. And it it could be any of any of these that we mentioned. Um virtue, are you set apart unto God? Are you comparing everything you do to God's word? Um, knowledge, are you Engross are you do you want to find out more about God? Do you want to know more about His Word? Um any any of these that we've mentioned. Um could could cause you to be blind to the blessings of God and you see that eventually you forget that you've been purged from your old sins. I never want to forget that. So you see the consequences here of not not doing it God's way, not using God's building plan. But the promise of God's way. The promise of God's way or the reward of doing it God's way Verse 8, for if these things be in you and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want to be the Christian that produces fruit. I want to be that Christian. I hope you do tonight as well. And so in order to bear fruit, we have to follow God's plan. And God's plan is found right here and he's saying, um, you won't be barren, you won't be unfruitful. And then if you see, if you look down In verse ten here, wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure, for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall. Ye shall never fall. Oh you you may stumble. Obviously we're gonna stumble. We we we These things get beaten down in our lives. We lose brotherly kindness. We lose virtue. We lose knowledge. We lose we're human. We're going to lose these things, but they have to be built back up. Just like um just like just like we had to put in new carpet um that had to be um revitalized, that had to be renewed. Um maybe that's something maybe one of these building blocks needs to be renewed in your life tonight. So you see the consequences and you see the rewards. We are fruitful Christians and we will never fall because we have the right building plan. Um so as I close tonight, I just want to review um these uh these God's building blocks here. Virtue virtue being setting apart ourselves unto God. Are we comparing ourselves to God's Word? Knowledge Are we passionately seeking after God and to know his word and to know him? Temperance Self-control, that's a hard one. We all know our areas. I wasn't going to go through and list some. We we know which what what those areas are. Patience, patience through trials. Oh, that's a tough one too. Are we working on that? Are we reminded, oh I gotta be th I have to wait on the Lord in this trial, He knows what's best. Temperance, our patience, godliness. Are we devoted to God? Are we keeping our eyes on Him? Or have our eyes gotten on on the things of this world, on the things around us? Has that happened? Brotherly kindness. How are we doing in that area? And then charity. How are we showing God's love to others? Seven areas, that's a pretty it's a broad spectrum. But this is what Peter was saying here is this is what we have to be building on in our faith. How are you doing and using these building blocks to build on your faith? You know there um when they when they were building the church here there was you know a due date to get everything done opening Sunday And everyone was, you know, from what from the stories that I hear, everyone was going crazy trying to get everything done. You know, people were here at all hours of the day and night. and, you know, putting everything they had into getting this building ready. You know there's a due date for our Christian life being done. It's the judgment seat of Christ. It's when we face God and and are judged by Him. Are you building on your faith? And Because you're going to face God one day and He's going to judge you for your life. And so just like there was a due date on this building, there's a due date for our Christian life. And God is going to judge us. So are you continually building? And you're not gonna you're not gonna take all these blocks at one time and just you know have everything perfect. That's not gonna work like that. Oh, I need to I I need to really work on my knowledge. I need more, I need to know more about God's word about God. It's not going to be all in one time. And Like I said, just like in the foyer we had to replace the carpet. There are gonna be times when, well, I thought I was doing well in in devotion to God. I thought I had my eyes on him, but this got me off track. It's gonna you're gonna have to revitalize, re you know, come to the Lord Lord, I'm sorry I need to work on this. And so as we close tonight, how are you doing? How are you doing in building these areas of your life? And maybe want Maybe it's a couple of these areas that you need to come to the Lord and say, Lord, I I got to work on building in this area. And He'll help you. That's the great thing. You're not building alone. He's helping you. Yep. So every head bowed, every eye closed, faster