Amen. Well, we appreciate the opportunity to come and uh to be here with you all. We have enjoyed our time here. We appreciate your hospitality and we appreciate your church and uh we We love coming to church church plants, those who consider themselves church plants. I mean, every church, one of the girls asked me today, isn't every church a church plant? And and kind of the truth is, yes, I mean although some of them go back a long time, right? Uh but at some point somebody started the church, somebody planted the church. And uh but we love coming to church plants and churches that have been planted that have a desire to plant churches and have a heart for that. And so we're always um We it always gets us excited because we see, we look at the potential of what God can do a little bit down the road, you know? And I think pastor this morning in Sunday school or or church said talk was talking about being faithful. In fact, I think it was Sunday school and um about uh Um anyway, and he was talking about being faithful and just sticking with it. And so we are excited to see what the Lord is going to do with us. We're going to be in just a few moments in Mark chapter number five. Mark chapter number five. You can get your Bibles ready and turn there. But let me give my testimony a little bit and say a few things about uh the ministry and such. You saw the video this morning. Hopefully if not, you can go to Newcastleforchrist. org. Newcastle and then forChrist. org. And you can see the video and uh take um some time to look at that. It's also on Facebook, we've got it there as well. You can uh see it there on our Facebook page Newcastle for Christ and uh you can see uh the video and um and uh what God is doing. Uh but we um let's see, I I was saved at the age of five years old in Traverse City, Michigan. In the corner of the Sunday school room, I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. And my wife also got saved at an early age. Both of our dads are Baptist preachers. And we have a great heritage, a godly heritage that you know we were able to grow up in a Christian home and uh in preachers' homes. And we're thankful for that. We're thankful for the opportunity that we had for that. We're also grateful for the chance that we have to raise our children in the same and that we can teach our children in the ways of the Lord as well. God is not dead. Amen. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. So the same God that I had growing up is the same God my children have, and hopefully their children and their grandchildren as well. uh if the Lord should tarry. Uh but uh at a y at a as a young man I had the desire to be a preacher. I mean this is you know pastors talking about proclaiming the gospel and and and uh having the chance as a preacher to open the Word of God. And to me there's nothing more sacred uh and there's nothing more um enjoyable than than for me to get up and preach the word of God. I I love doing that at the age of nine years old. I had the opportunity to preach my first sermon. And um I am grateful for those who gave us that opportunity and began to train us. Um and I say us because I wasn't the only one that had the opportunity to to do that and to at a young age uh really feel the call of God on my life and as Isaiah said, Here my Lord, send me And um my uh family started a deputation to be missionaries to the Philippines when I was five years old, uh but we never made it there. We began collecting Bibles, tracts, materials, anything the churches weren't using. that we would ship in our personal container. Uh well through a series of events and talking with pastors and and missionaries in the Philippines, uh there was just such a need for the materials in the Philippines that we began shipping containers over there. And then we began a printing ministry as well. And so we never lived in the Philippines. We would travel back and forth, especially my dad mostly. Um but when I was a teenager We uh my brother and sister and I there's actually six of us but three of us traveled with my dad. I played the guitar, my brother plays the banjo, my sister plays the violin, slash fiddle, whatever you want to call it. And because our last name is Baloo, they called it Baloograss And so we traveled for a number of years with my dad. Uh when I was 18 years old, my dad was spending a lot more time in the Philippines. And so my church in Adrian, Michigan, uh Pastor Toby Weaver, Brian Baptist Church in Adrian, Michigan, licensed me to preach And the three of us set out. We would sing in churches. I would preach and present the ministry and such. And uh so we started that at eighteen and uh just uh traveled for a number of years like that. Then in 2003 my wife and I got married And she and I continued to travel for a little bit in ministry. And then in 2008, excuse me, in 2008, we moved to Shepshawana, Indiana. where her uh dad and mom were getting ready to start a church there. And so we moved there just about two months after they started to help them with the church plant there. So we understand uh church planting, uh we understand the the work uh behind it. and uh the work um in front of it too, right? Um and what you have to do and uh I say I tell people uh you know been there, done that, bought the t-shirt, although we didn't have to buy the t-shirt, it was given to us Um and so you understand what I'm talking about. But um and so we were there for a number of years, about thirteen years uh that we were in Shipshawana, Indiana, and uh then the Lord moved us to um a little town in uh Pennsylvania. called Kerwinsville and there I pastored a church for a little bit. The Lord moved us on from that and then we began praying about what the Lord wanted us to do. And you saw the videos I won't repeat all the things on the video but we just felt like the Lord wanted us there in Pennsylvania. and began praying about the opportunities that were there. Uh there are a number of churches without pastors, and we prayed about that for a while, but the Lord just seemingly closed every one of those doors, would not give me peace about pursuing any of those And uh so we began praying about starting a church and the Lord led us to uh Newcastle. And so we're we're excited to get there. Uh we actually the end of January last year um uh really made the decision. We felt like the Lord was calling us to Newcastle and so we put together the video in February and put our house up for sale and began calling pastors and and texting and all of that and began writing the schedule. So we will from March of last year, we began our deputation, March 1st. uh to the end of March this year, so about thirteen months, we'll be in 124 churches in that time frame. And uh there's many that have already taken us on for support. We're uh about 80% of our support. And uh so um we're uh we've got a little bit left to go. We've got a few churches left to be in, but April 6th is our start date. And so it's coming fast upon us. And uh I tell people it's getting real. Um we feel like it's it's it's happening. And so in January we started a uh Hope for Newcastle campaign. And that in uh really is a couple things that we're doing with that. Uh the first is we started um on social media, we put together a gospel video of me just presenting the gospel And uh we started putting that out on social media. So far we've had 40,000 people that have have scrolled through and actually impressions. So 40,000 people that have scrolled through and saw at least the ad that we had on it. Over 700 people have actually clicked on it and gone to our landing page and watched part or all of the gospel video. And so people are getting the gospel. As we speak, there is a mailer going out. We've already put 4,800 in the post office, and we've got um about 20,000 more this week that will go out um in a jumbo postcard that has the gospel on it. And so pray for that if you will that as people start getting the gospel, that they'll respond and be saved. And then on this coming Saturday, so March 1st, we begin putting John and Romans on the door. So yesterday at our home church we had about 65 people gathered together. and stuff John and Romans in in little bags with the uh insert with the uh grand opening uh date on there and invitation for that And so we're going to begin putting those on the doors uh here this next week. And so for two or three weeks we'll do that. And then once that's complete, we've got a bunch of churches coming to help us. We're not doing that by ourselves, by the way. Um and uh so uh about two or three weeks after we do that, uh we'll go back and we'll knock on those doors again and uh try to give them the gospel, try to, you know, w uh talk to them one on one and give them an invitation uh to the church as well as the gospel as well. uh uh uh also. And uh so we appreciate your prayers for that. We've got, like I said, a number of churches that are coming to help us over the course of six weeks. And then April 6th is our start date. The name of the church is Keystone Baptist Church. And if you're familiar with Pennsylvania, which you're close enough that probably most of you do, Pennsylvania is known as the Keystone State. And what that basically means, the top of the arch, that last stone that's put in place is called the keystone, and it holds the arch in place. You remove that and the arch falls, obviously. And so that's what holds it in place. And so Keystone Baptist Church will be the name of the church. And yes, we do have a building. That's the most asked question that we do have a place to meet, which is good since we're getting ready to get started this quick. And um so pastor took us by your um former uh your first place that you guys here started in and was telling us that it was 3,500 bucks. And that just about blows our mind. I mean uh that is I mean, I know it's probably a much more expensive area here uh than where we're at in Pennsylvania in Newcastle It was um so Newcastle is the hot dog capital of the of the country and it's also the fireworks capital of the country. Just, you know, fun fact there. But it was one of the steel towns in Pennsylvania and so from like Pittsburgh up into you know the Cleveland area, you know, was n that was all the steel steel industry. And so in the 70s, when all the steel industry or a lot of the steel industry moved out, it devastated some of the towns. And one of them was Newcastle. Newcastle went basically from 50,000 to 20,000. And uh so it just it it it really went downhill um quickly, but it's it's stabilized, so to speak, and um there's still a lot of people to reach there. Um And um but uh I was going somewhere with that that I don't normally go. Anyway, it was uh uh uh there's there's a lot of people to reach. So from the city center, um to about ten minutes radius anyway you go, there's about fifty-five thousand people. So there's several townships that surround Newcastle. So it's not just it's not just Newcastle. My wife's trying to tell me where I was going. The building. Oh yeah, right, absolutely. Um so we do have a building that we're that we're gonna be meeting in and uh the the um it's a former school building that was closed down a number of years ago and sold. And so it's been well maintained. There's a group that owns it. It's called Don Enterprises. Don stands for Disabilities Options Network. And so they're very community oriented. They've got three nonprofits that help people with disabilities. And so they're almost more excited that we're going to meet there than we are. But we um as we were you know talking and negotiating for this building. So it's a we'll be meeting in a gym, in a small little elementary school gym. There's a commercial kitchen and bathrooms and everything that we'll need. There's plenty of parking and all of that. So we're excited about that But um uh a thousand dollars a month is and that includes all utilities and everything. That's just a flat thousand dollars a month. And so we'll have it as much as we want it. Basically, they say up to twelve hours a week. If we need it much more than that, they said we'll have to consider something because of utilities. But basically they're giving us the building. uh for that and considering they're moving out of the they're moving their offices out this spring and they're potentially going to sell it to us if we want it, if we want it long term on a land contract or something So the Lord has really opened up this door for us at this first meeting place, and so we're we're excited about that. If you have other questions uh after the service. You know, we'll stick around and answer any questions you might have. We do again have prayer cards, and if you didn't get one of those this morning, see one of us and we'll make sure you get a prayer card. That was a lot. But we're excited about what the Lord is doing. There's so many stories that we could tell you of what God is doing. And I'll probably tell a couple as we get into the Word of God and in the message. uh tonight. Um but there I was telling pastor at lunch, uh we've even in places like Massachusetts, we're in Massachusetts, and a man told us of a family that lives in the area. Nine hours away and they're getting g getting us connected with people. Yesterday as we were uh stuffing um our pastor's mother Told us that there's five ladies that she had met and that that in Newcastle and uh they want to come to the church when we open And there was a pastor there yesterday helping us, and he said, I've got a I've got some folks in our church that have connections with somebody in Newcastle that they've invited to come and they're gonna they're gonna come and be there for your first service. So we're praising the Lord for the opportunities that He is opening for us already And just looking forward to seeing what the Lord uh will do. Mark chapter number five, and we'll read the first few verses there and get into the Word of God for a little bit tonight. Mark chapter number 5, verse number 1, and they came over unto the other side of the sea into the country of the Gadderenes, and when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no not with chains, because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. And then I want to call our attention to verse number six, where we'll find our title and text. The Bible says this, but when he saw Jesus. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him. Father, we thank you, Lord, for your goodness, for your love to us. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to open the Word of God. And we pray this evening that you would uh speak to our hearts through the Word of God. May it be real to us, and may you anoint my lips to speak the words that you would have me to say. Help me to say only those things which would be helpful and profitable And may we as a people, as your people, be challenged and be changed by the Word of God. We'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. As we look at this passage of Scripture, we find a very familiar scripture, a very incredible miracle that Jesus did while he was here on this earth Um I can imagine as Jesus stepped off the boat that this man who met him, this man who was uh possessed with the devil, this man who was uh a maniac uh we um we often refer to him as the maniac of godera and i can imagine uh the disciples as they uh as they see this man maybe they had heard about him Um, I can imagine Jesus uh when he sees him. Jesus knew, uh did he not? I mean Jesus was, yeah, he was all man, but he was all God. And Jesus knew, he always knew their hearts, he always knew where they were. And we find even at the end of this passage that Jesus gets back on the boat and goes away after this story is done. So Jesus came to the other side of of the of the um of the water just for this man It's an amazing thought to think about. That Jesus cared not where where the man came from, cared not his estate or his current uh you know physical limitations or his um you know hi the problems that he was encountering or he that maybe he was considered the worst of the worst. But Jesus came and he came over uh through the storm To come meet this man and change his life forever. So in the previous chapter we find the storm arises, Jesus says, let's go over to the other side. They get into the boat. And as they go over onto their side, the storm is raging and the wind is strong, the the waves beat against the boat, and the disciples uh cried out and say, Master, carest thou not that we perish? And Jesus stands and and and says, Peace be still. And I don't know what his motion was. I don't know if he just stood there and said, Peace be still, or maybe if there was just a wave of his hand. I don't know what the what what You know exactly how he did it, but just peace be still. And the wind and the waves ceased. And the disciples said, Wow, what manner of man is this that the wind and the waves would obey his voice? But watching that event, there was a man in the tombs. Watching, excuse me, watching the storm. Was a man in the tombs, cutting himself, a man who was possessed, a man who people had tried to tame him. I'm sure he had tried to turn over a new leaf, so to speak, and yet he could not. The Bible tells us in verse number two, and when he was come out of the ship immediately. Which tells us that this man, possessed as maniac of Gadera, saw what happened. He saw Jesus calm to storm. And I wonder if in his heart and mind, uh, you know, though he was possessed, maybe said, you know, if this if this man, if this master could calm the the storm on the sea. I wonder if he could calm the storm that's raging with inside of me. And and so we see this as Jesus You know, calms the storm, he steps off the boat, and and here this man, this maniac, meets him immediately. The Bible says in verse 6, he ran and worshipped him. So there was there was gr uh an effort for him to come uh to find Jesus. And uh we see uh first of all the problem of the maniac in verses one through five The Bible tells us in verse 2, there met him out of the out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit. A man with an unclean spirit. He was possessed. And you know, we don't like to think of it in today's world. I mean, we read it and we like the fact that Jesus can heal the maniac, we like the fact that Jesus can cast out the demons, right? But we look at this and and we don't think of it so much today, but the problem of today is the pro is no different really than the problem of yesterday. No difference in the problem of Jesus' day. And that is that people are in bondage to sin and Satan. They're in bondage to the devil. The devil, the Bible says that Satan walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. There's nothing more than Satan wants them to destroy us and destroy our testimony, to destroy our credibility, and to destroy people who would come in and get saved. And and he wants to destroy lives and he wants to destroy people and uh and keep them in bondage. And uh you know, we don't talk too much about, you know, people possessed with devils. I think today uh so much of it is masked by Maybe um you know modern medicine even. And so we don't really think about it or or we don't recognize it so much today. Um but the same Satan that walked Back then, walks today. And and can I say we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and the rulers of the darkness of this world. And so, you know, we're not, you know, we're not facing an enemy that we can see. We're facing an enemy that's unseen, a spirit enemy, uh, the devil, Satan. And um and now I'm not saying that everybody out there is possessed with with a demon. I I think very few, uh relatively speaking, uh are. However, they are still in bondage to sin, they're still in bondage to Satan. And uh and so uh very little difference uh from you know from the Bible days to now uh of uh the problem that arises or that has arisen We see he was possessed. We see he was wild. The Bible says that he had often been bound with fetters and chains. And the fetters and chains were broken in pieces. And the Bible says this: neither could any man tame him. Now that's not language we use when we speak of people. Have you ever heard somebody say about someone you know they they couldn't tame him? We use that language when we're speaking of animals or beasts. Maybe horses or or some other animal. But boy, that's what they were that's what they were saying of him. They couldn't tame him. He was a wild man. He was self-wounded. Look at verse 5. He was night and day in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. Uh can I say there's a whole culture of that even in today's world and uh uh especially among young people uh that are um that are um you know, without Christ and young people who uh have problems with uh you know with um s you know even socialization uh sometimes but but uh they are without Christ And uh and and they need Christ. They need the word of God. They need someone to take to them uh the gospel. And so he was possessed, he was wild, he was self-wounded. There was a great need in his day. And can I say that's the need of today? That's the need of Newcastle. Um, several months ago as we got started on our deputation Uh someone came to us and said, oh man, Newcastle. I I know about Newcastle. Oh man, that's a there's a lot of drugs there. And and I'm you know we're like, thanks. Appreciate the you know the the encouragement there. And uh then we were uh a few churches later and and somebody said, Oh man, Newcastle, that's full of drugs. That's a that that town really needs Jesus, you know. And we're like, oh man, thanks for the vote of con thanks for the vote of confidence. You know, thanks for the encouragement here in uh in Newcastle. And uh, you know, we we moved there, we lived there, um, and we haven't necessarily seen it, but we've never been in the drug culture, so we're not looking for it, right? And so we don't necessarily see it like um maybe somebody else would. But we were told several times of how Newcastle was just riddled with drugs and how they were filled with drugs And you know, I got to the point after a couple times where I would say to people, well, I guess that's why the Lord is putting us there, because they need Jesus. And and that's the truth about it. But here's the thing. Where where do you find a town that's not riddled with drugs these days? I mean it's all over the place. And uh people need Christ. People need the gospel. Uh in fact, we were a number of weeks ago at a church uh just north of Newcastle a little bit, and um There was a lady that met us at the end of the service we were getting in our vehicle and we were getting ready to leave and and uh this lady and her husband come up to us and and uh she said I I wanted to tell you that uh I wanted to thank you for going to Newcastle. She said I grew up in Newcastle, but I never go back. She said I was uh I grew up in the drug culture there in Newcastle and uh you know that was most of my life and most of my family. She said, in fact I I couldn't even tell you where my family lives. The family that lives in Newcastle, she said they are running from the law, and I couldn't give you an address to go and even witness to them. But she said I don't go back. Too many bad memories And uh she's when she was fourteen years old, her uncle was killed deal dealing drugs in downtown Newcastle. And she told us a couple other things and And uh, you know, it was just you're looking at this lady who's in her mid-40s and she doesn't look at all anything like what you would think of the drug culture. But ten years ago, this lady got saved. And the and the the the Bible, the word of God, God has changed her life. And uh she she told us, she said, I I don't go to Newcastle, too many bad memories. She said, when Pastor got up and said that we were going to come help you knock doors in Newcastle and distribute literature. She said, I leaned over to my husband and I said, not me. I can't go. And she said, then the Holy Spirit smote my heart. And she said, I got thinking about my family and the people that are there that need Christ. She said, we're going to come, we're going to knock doors with you. I'm going to come anyway. And so here was a woman who realized what Newcastle was and was in the midst of it and and exactly what was needed is Christ. And she got saved. And uh now she wants to make sure that others have that opportunity as well. So we see the problem of the maniac, we see the power of the master. Look at verse number six. The Bible says, but when he saw Jesus, he ran and worshipped him. There was something about Jesus that drew people to himself. You know, everywhere Jesus went, he drew crowds of people. And he would he would go uh to a hillside and he would try to find some time alone, and the people would find him and they would flock to him for two reasons. Number one, because never a man spake like this man spake And so they came to hear his words. They came to hear him speak. And the other reason was they came for the miracles. They came for the loaves and the fishes. Uh they came because they you know i it was entertainment for them. I mean they came to see uh what new miracle that he was going to do. And so he but there was something about Jesus though that drew people to himself. And all over the scriptures, all over the gospels, we see as as individuals come to Jesus that were in need of help. I mean we could I mean there's 37 miracles I believe it is in the in the Gospels that are sp uh specifically mentioned uh and given by story. And uh one would be the woman who uh you know had the issue of blood for twelve years and she came just to touch the hem of his garment because she said, if I can just get that close, if I can just touch his garment, she said, I'll I'll be healed. And she was. And uh but there was just something about Christ that drew people to himself. And here, this maniac, here this uh man who was possessed with the devil. Um Though he had Satan inside of him, though he had devils and demons inside of him, yet when he saw Jesus, he came and fell down and worshipped him. And the Bible says he ran and worshipped him. You know, Jesus said this in John chapter 12. He said, And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto myself. And you know how true that is. And you know that just in itself will shoot a hole in the balloon of uh the uh um of the uh Calvinist. I couldn't think of the word for a moment. Um because Jesus uh will draw all men unto himself. Not just some, not just a few, not just the quote unquote elect, but Jesus will draw all men unto him. And so thank God that he drew you to himself. My in-laws were saved about forty-three years ago this summer. Um my father-in-law had uh been really contemplating and thinking about uh what more there was to life. Uh you know, the Go to work, uh, you come home, you live to work and work to live, and it's just this cycle, vicious cycle. And he said, there's got to be more to life than this. And as he's pondering that, on a Monday morning he goes back to work, and there's a man there that he knew that had been laid off six months before. And this man, Rod Boyer, came back to work different. He had his Bible under his arm. He no longer was drinking or cussing or swearing or anything. And my father-in-law was like, man, this whoa what is this? You know? And so he began to talk to him and they began to converse And throughout the course of that week, my father-in-law would give uh excuses and this man would give scripture. And my father-in-law would give excuses and this man would give scripture And by the end of the week, my father-in-law realized he needed to be saved and he wanted to be saved because he saw the life of the changed man. So, on Saturday night he tells my mother-in-law, I'm going to church in the morning, you're welcome to come with me So the next morning they get up, they come to church, to an independent Baptist church in Sturgis, Michigan, they hear a gospel message uh uh from blind Bartimaeus, and both of them get out of their out of their pew and walk the aisle, one on one side, one on the other, both were dealt with. and trusted Christ as their as their Savior forty-three years ago this summer. And I thank God for that. But it's because they were drawn to a life changed by the power of God, by the power of the Master. So he drew the maniac, but then he cast out the demons. Look in verse 8. For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. You know, man had tried to tame him. Man had tried to bind him. Man had tried to change him, but only the power of Christ could cast out the demons and make him whole again. There was nothing man could do. that would change that. You know, I think of John and uh Peter and John in in uh Acts chapter three, when they came to the temple and there was the man lay on his feet. And Peter reaches down and says, silver and gold have I none, but such as I have, give I thee. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Man, Peter and John understood that nothing they were doing was their own power. It wasn't their own strength. It wasn't them that was doing anything, but by the power of Almighty God, by the power of Jesus Christ He says, Rise up and walk. And he took that man, lifted him up, and that man stood, stood up on his feet that were lame. And the Bible says he went walking and running and leaping and praising God. And I'll tell you what, if I were lame at my feet And uh Jesus healed me, and I could stand and walk, I'd go leaping and jumping and praising God too. Amen. But it was it was the power of the master. Not the power of a man, not the power of a person, but the power of Christ. And then we see in verse 15, he changed the man's life. I mean, think about what a difference That happened in that moment. Verse 15, we see, and they came to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion. Sitting and clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid. Oh man, what the what the power of God can do to change a life, my dad. Uh my dad got saved at the age of seven years old in in Goodhart, Michigan, in a vacation Bible school. If at that point you would ask anybody in northern Michigan about the Balou family, they probably would have laughed at you. My grandfather died a drunk My great-grandfather died as a drunkard. Most or many of my dad's aunts and uncles would have died as drunkards in northern Michigan. The Blue family really didn't mean much to anybody. But when my dad got saved at the age of seven years old in vacation Bible school, my grandmother was a Christian and she endured a lot in her life. um especially by the hands of my grandfather. But God changed like my dad's life And I stand before you today, and the truth is I should be in northern Michigan following the path that my grandfather and great-grandfather followed But because God changed my dad's life. And God used that to reach us as kids as well. And so I thank God for the power of a changed life. So we see here the power of the master. And then and then number three, the proclamation of the mended. Look at verse number 18. The Bible says this, and we when he was coming to the ship. So here's Jesus. He's come. He's landed, he's healed the man, and now he's turned around and he's going back. So Jesus came to heal that man, to change his life specifically. But this man that was possessed with the devil, the Bible says he that had been possessed with the devil, prayed him that he might be with him. You know, here's the truth about it When a person gets changed, when a person gets saved, you know what their desire is? Their desire is to be with Jesus. I mean, his desire, he just wanted to be with Jesus. Now think about that. If you're if you were in the tombs naked, cutting yourself, running around, possessed with demons, and all of a sudden God changed your life and and Jesus comes by your way, wouldn't you want to just be with Jesus all the time? I mean wouldn't wouldn't that be natural? And uh but you know uh the truth is when someone gets saved, the the natural desire becomes a spiritual desire You have a desire to be with Jesus, a desire to read your Bible, a desire to pray, a desire to be in the house of God. When it's real in your heart, then it's going to be real on the outside as well. And so here was a man who just asked God. He just wanted to be with Jesus. And so he says, you know, let me come with you. And Jesus says in verse 20 He says, go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord had done for thee and hath had compassion. on the y you know uh we find a man who wanted to be with Jesus but Jesus says listen I've got a different plan for you I've got a different uh task for you uh and that is that I want you to go home and tell your friends What great things God has done for you. And you know the same task that this man had is the same task that you and I have today. to tell people about Jesus. That we would go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Till the whole world knows, till everyone knows our job is not done. Um the book of Isaiah in Isaiah chapter six we find uh the uh we find Jesus or God high and lifted up on his throne. And uh the I uh the vision that Isaiah has of of God on his throne there, and it changes Isaiah's mindset. It changes his mind And uh Isaiah um responded to God, to God's challenge and charge. Who whom shall I send and who will go for us? Isaiah said, uh then said I, here am I, send me And we often stop right there in the scriptures. And we don't read on. But if you read on a couple verses later, Isaiah says this. Isaiah basically asks a question. He says, Lord, how long? In other words, how long do I need to be out there witnessing? How long do I need to be out there giving the charge that you've given me? How long should I go out? How long should I be preaching? And God's answer to Isaiah was this: until the land be wasted without inhabitant. In other words, until there's no one else to tell, until until everyone has been told, until there's no one left there, and our job is the same until the whole world knows that everyone may have the opportunity to be saved. So he desired to be with Jesus. He declared what Christ had done for him. Jesus tasked him with the same task that we have today. To go and tell everyone how great things the Lord have done for thee. You know, the Bible tells us in Peter, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. We're different. That ye should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. He changed us. He changed my heart and my life, and he changed everything about us. The Bible tells us in Corinthians, Paul says, but such were some of you, but now you're washed, you're sanctified. Praise God for that change, that transformation that happens. And then we see that he dared to stand out for Christ. Look at verse number 20. And he departed. Excuse me, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things the Lord uh or how great things Jesus had done for him, and all men did marvel. You know what caused this change in his life was Christ. And what a change in his life that now caused him to live for Christ. And you know, when we stand out for Christ, men will marvel. Um can you picture in your mind as this maniac, as this man who was a maniac, goes back home? Can you picture as he begins to enter the street, the main street of his hometown, and people began to look And the the furrowed eyebrows, and the whispers, and the pointing, and the question Is that him? That looks like him, but he's different. What happened? Can you can you see as this man comes through the main street? And he starts seeing people that he once knew. People that maybe they're snickering now. Maybe they're looking at him. Maybe they're confused. Like, what happened to this guy? And as he comes through the street and he says, hey, I just want to tell you what Jesus did for me. Hey, I just want to tell you, yeah, I was the one who was uh in in bondage. I was I was uh blind but now I see right I was I was uh possessed but now God has made me whole Jesus of Nazareth made me whole No doubt for Newcastle, our goal is to reach them with the gospel, that the power of the Master may change their lives. That they, having received mercy, will in turn show Christ with their lives. The Bible tells us in Acts 26 to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the power of Satan. unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. We're excited to get to Newcastle, to begin to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to the power of Christ. A few months ago we uh sold our house in Kerbinsville, Pennsylvania, and uh we began looking for a house in Newcastle. We found a way that we could get a loan for the house. And so by selling our house, we had enough down payment money for a special type of loan to be able to get our house. And uh so we we went through the process and it took a little bit, but we found a nice fixer-uffer type house and and we bought this house. It it just was dated. Um The bones are solid and we didn't have to change too much in it, but uh we were pulling up carpets and and doing a little painting and just some a few different things like that. And uh we had we had to hardwood floors under the carpets downstairs and we had to get on our hands and knees and pull out like literally hundreds of staples. And I was pulling up the tax strips and I called my brother who's kind of a carpenter on i in he owns properties and so he does a lot of this. I'm like, there's gotta be a better way than what I'm doing for this. And he asked me about the tax strips because I'm, you know, putting you know, trying to pull 'em up. Well, there's inch and a half Staples in the tax strips, not just the regular nails. So, oh man, so we're spending days doing this, and as we're working, um the some of the girls were out playing with some of the kids And uh they were helping us and in between helping us, you know, taking breaks, they'd go out and play with some of the neighborhood kids that were coming off the buses. And uh one of the kids, uh she's ten years old, she's almost as tall as I am actually, but uh her name is Jacqueline And uh Jacqueline's playing with the kids and and finds out that uh we're gonna start a church and the girls told her that we could pick her up for church And so she thought, you know, okay, I'll get ready for church. So uh that next Sunday she was ready for church. Well we were in you know, I don't know, we were in a church somewhere, you know, presenting the ministry and And we get back on Monday, we get back to the house and we're working. She gets off the bus and and she comes up to the girls and she said, Where were you yesterday? She said, I waited for you for three hours to come to church Here's a young girl who uh her family lives right across the street from us, and we've watched their family, and uh we can tell, and the girls have have have made comment of how they need Jesus Um this last fall. There was kids coming uh and l meeting our kids and at one point uh there was it on our property Uh there was twenty kids on our porch in our front yard, uh in our side yard playing. Twenty kids on I mean we don't have a big yard, we just have a little yard And uh, you know, we don't let our kids go wandering the neighborhood like some of them do, but here's all these kids. And and we're talking about this summer hoping to do uh some type of neighborhood Bible time or something to try to reach uh these these kids with the gospel because the opportunity is is there and they need Christ. David Livingston was on his way to a medical career When his whole future was turned upside down by his father-in-law, his future father-in-law, Dr. Robert Moffat. Moffat was a missionary to South Africa and shared his vision of taking the gospel further north into the continent. After hearing Moffat speak, Livingston joined him as a missionary to Africa. For the next 30 years, he traveled over 29,000 miles, mostly on foot. Preaching the gospel, providing medical services, and building churches. After seeing the horrors of the slave trade, he became a major voice for abolition. in England. Livingston was the first European explorer to see much of Africa and was the first man to map the vast continent. Uh which certainly was some feat because Africa is bigger than the US, China, India, Japan, and most of Europe combined In traveling to the far reaches of the continent, he went on for years without, or often went for years without contact with his family, and at one time was even presumed dead. He was once attacked by a lion on the mission field, crushing his shoulder to the point that its mobility would be hindered for the rest of his life. So what would drive a man What would drive a man to give up so much and suffer so much for the cause of Christ? While there may have been certainly a mixture of motives, what started it all were the words of his father-in-law, Dr. Moffat. who said, Many a morning have I stood on the porch of my house, and looking northward have seen the smoke arise from villages that have never heard of Jesus Christ. I have seen at different times the smoke of a thousand villages, villages whose people are without Christ, without God, and without hope in the world. May God help us as we try to reach our land, our country, our people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Heavenly Father, we are grateful for the time that we have to open the Word of God. We pray that the words, the message, would be a challenge to the hearts of the folks here and to the church here. And may we each one of us seek an endeavor to reach someone with the gospel this week, this month, this year. That we may disciple, that we may win to Christ those that come in our path. And we'll thank you for all that you do in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor.