You can turn your Bibles this evening to Matthew chapter twelve. What has the power to break a heart without touching it? What has the power to end a war without firing a shot? What has the power to start a fight without striking a blow? Turn in your Bibles here in Matthew, chapter number 12. Look down in verse number 33. We're going to read through verse number 37 for our text tonight. He says, either make the tree good and his fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and his fruit corrupt. For the tree is known by its fruit. O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. But I say unto you, and every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. It is estimated, beloved, that the average individual will speak around fifteen thousand words a day. Plus or minus some, I reckon, in today's world, but that's the average. I wonder where do all of those words come from? The psychologist Norm Chomsky says, we have universal grammar. All conversation comes from our brain. The philosopher Ludwig says all language all language is simply a social construct. Its meanings are established over time by a shared understanding. You see, the world has an idea of where all those words come from. But God says they come from the heart. The world might have a suggestion, they might have some input, but God says They come from the heart and I want to speak to you a few minutes tonight on but I say control your tongue. I'd have you see, first of all, the root of all conversation, the root of all those words. The Bible is very clear. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or else make the tree corrupt and its fruit corrupt For the tree is known by his fruit. The heart, beloved, is the root. of the tree. Trees are recognized by the fruit that you see on them. You know it's an apple tree or an orange tree. There's not a lot of us that could pick out the tree by its bark But we certainly would know if peaches were growing on it, or if apples were growing, we would know for sure what kind of tree it was. And beloved, our words are the fruit Of our heart. It is what comes out that people can identify and understand if a spring flowing deep from the earth has in it fresh, delicious Clean water, it's because the spring at its source is fresh, delicious, and clean There is a couple places up in Pennsylvania and one not too far from our house there where they have springs coming out of the side of the road. And you'll see people stop their cars and they'll get out there with their jugs and they'll stop there and they're they're filling their jugs with this fresh spring water. Why? Because that is fresh, clean. uh delicious spring water because the source is good. Beloved, if you find or catch yourself at times being critical That's because the source is critical. If you catch yourself speaking hurtful words or resentful or re revengeful words, it's because the source is that way Do you catch yourself complaining? So many times we look at the words we say and we think, oh, you may catch yourself and think, oh well I I should not be critical like that or I should not exaggerate the truth so that I can look good and you may catch yourself, but beloved you understand that that comes from the heart. It is the age-old problem. The heart of the problem is a problem with the heart that is the source Here's what I want you to get tonight. You don't fix your conversation by changing your words You fix your conversation by changing your heart. That is a byproduct. What comes out of the mouth is a byproduct of what is in the heart. It's like a cancer. All of those, the the cancer, you you don't just put some topical ointment on your skin I mean unless you have scancures of the skin, then that directs the the what I'm getting to is that you'll find they always want to go to the source. They want to get down to where the cancer is. They want to narrow in on that and they'll they'll measure it with lasers and figure out exactly how far they need to go if they're going to try and get it with uh you know, radiation or if they're going to try and get it with this treatment, or maybe they have to do surgery and and cut it out depending upon the methodology, but they want to find the source. And they want to try and get right down to it. And beloved, that's what we are told here very clearly in the Word of God that the root of all the conversation is the heart If you find yourself cursing, it's because of what's been put into the heart. I would have you see, secondly, the revelation of your conversation It's revealed. The world sees it. He says, O generation of vipers, how can ye be being evil speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things, and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. A truth is shared with us in verse number 34. He looks at them and he sees them and he says, Oh generation of vipers. You know, they may have been able to put on a good show for a little bit, but ultimately what's in is going to come out. And he says, oh, you you you you look religious, you look all fine, and you you're dressed up for church and everything seems right Beloved, when somebody bumps you in the four in the in the foyer And a cuss word comes out, and the foyer of the church, that's because that's what's in the heart. It's going to be revealed. A viper is a poisonous, deceitful creature. And God calls them vipers. And he asks of them a question. He says, how can ye? That's kind of a rhetorical question. I remember when I was a kid and I learned what a rhetorical question was. Yeah, a question that's not, you know, you're not necessarily supposed to answer. It's supposed to drive a point home. It's supposed to provoke you to thought. you know a rhetorical question is the sky blue? You know, is the Pope Catholic? How about this? Let's go to the Bible. How shall ye uh my mind just went blank, if we neglect so great a salvation? Help me out. What's the beginning of that? If we neglect so great a salvation. What is that verse? Yeah, you're there. My mind just went let me look. Yeah, how shall we escape? That's the word I was looking for. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? That's a rhetorical question. If God be for us, who can be against us? Questions that don't require an answer, and that's what he's doing here. He says, How can you? He's saying it's an impossibility. You cannot speak good things from an evil heart. What's going to come out of your mouth is going to be evil things. You might be able to disguise it for a time, but it's going to come because corruption is going to reveal The source of a corrupted heart. But note what he says here. He says Ye being evil speak good things from out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. Out of the abundance of the heart. So I wonder, beloved, what do you have in abundance in your heart? What do you have in abundance? What is your heart full of and overflowing? The love of God, so rich and pure. What is it? Or is it this world and the words that are said there? Some people in conversation somebody will say, well, you said that, and you'll be like, Well, I I didn't mean that. You you just made me mad. You just made me, or no, I wouldn't have said that except for this. Out of the abundance of the heart. What is your heart full of? I wonder I have here a an illustration which is already spilling. Um I have here black water which represents an evil heart. And some people may be able to control their conversation for short periods of time, but beloved, when you get bumped, what comes out? Whatever you have in abundance in here. That's what's gonna come out. And as you have that stuff in here, you get bumped, and and and more of that's gonna come out, and more of that's gonna come out. That's what's very clear. The revelation Of your conversation is going to let everybody know what you have in abundance in your heart. Christ says it's out of the abundance. Beloved, if rot and ruin spills when you're bumped into, it's because there's rot and ruin in abundance in your heart. Your conversation reveals your character. Your conversation reveals your relationship with God. It puts it on display. Note what else he says here in verse number 35. He says, a good man out of the good, what's the next word? treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things and an evil man out of the evil treasure What do you treasure? What are you storing up in your heart? What is it that you value so much? That you are collecting it in abundance and storing it as a treasure in your soul that's going to come out when you are communicating with others. What's going to overflow? This is why it is so important, beloved, that we put the right things in. That we treasure and value and feed our soul with the right things. The only way for us to fix this problem is to start putting the right things in out of the abundance. of the hearts. When we start putting more and more of the right thing in, it slowly cleans and purifies and slowly gets Cleaner and cleaner and cleaner. You have the right thing in. I'm giving myself a baptism. This is why you have to listen to godly music. That's why you gotta be reading the scriptures and memorizing verses. This is why you need to listen to some good preaching. I don't want to put him on the spot, but there's one of the men of our church that uh he sends me messages that he listens to. Five, six times a week. Different messages that he heard that were a blessing to him. He's putting some good things in. He's feeding his heart. And I'll tell you what, that's what's going to come out When you're in casual conversation, what what comes out? I can tell you it's the things that you've put in. And I tell you also that God knows what you treasure. God knows what the treasure of your heart is, even if it doesn't spill out in front of others. Well it will eventually. That's clear. The Bible tells us that. But I'm saying you might hide it for a while, but God knows. There's an old Chinese proverb that said, Words whispered on earth are heard in heaven like a thunder. I'm saying is you you may be disguising or hiding it, but God hears it, God knows it. Psalms 139, verse 4, For there is not a word in my tongue, but O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. There's not a word in there that God doesn't know. God knows them all. Amen. God knows them all I would have you see lastly tonight the reckoning of all conversation. In verses 36 and verse number 37, he says, But I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak They shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. You see, he tells us here there's a review coming. Our words not only have a profound impact, we know death and life are in the power of the tongue. And it it has a profound impact on who we speak to, but it also impacts us. Because there's a review coming, every idle word that we speak. Idle words are a serious matter, beloved. None of them are neutral. They all are here, he says, it's either going to commend you or condemn you. Every idle word has that power Ephesians 4. 29 says, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Beloved, a Christian should be using sound words. He says in 2 Timothy 1, verse number 13, Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me. In faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. Sound words. We begin to speak. We should pause and ask ourselves, does it help? Is it encouraging? Does it strengthen? Does it edify? Does it solve a problem or start a problem? Would I want it said to me or about me? Beloved, all the words, none of them are neutral. Every idle word is going to be judged and we're going to give an account, and we must control. our tongue. James chapter 1, verse number 26. If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, that man's religion is vain. That's how important controlling that little member is. And if we don't get that under control, don't learn how to bridle that tongue. And our religion is vain. Christians should avoid cursing. I think that's pretty well established. I don't know that anybody here has an issue with that statement. But you know, beloved, I think Christians really should avoid Christian cursed words as well. I I think That in a desire to honor and please God, we really shouldn't be trying to get as close to the world and the devil as we can and still not sin. You know, we have our our replacements. You know, gosh darn it. I mean is there anybody that doesn't know what that stands for? We and we use it in the same place. It's not becoming of a Christian. To communicate in that way. Doggone it. Dang it. Fudge. And there's a bunch more Christian Christian curse words that people use, things that they put in place of the world's language. You know what? I'm glad you're not cussing. But I think we ought to try a little bit harder, get a little further from the edge. I think we ought to strive to be as honoring in our conversation because we're going to give an account for every idle word. You guys remember Steve Irwin? You guys knew who that was, the the crocodile guy, the wacko, you know, the guy he's like, there's a lion over there. It's a dangerous man-eating beast. I'm gonna go over there. I'm gonna say hi. Oh, he's really mad. You know, he wants to kill me right now. You know, it was inevitable He kept walking so close to the edge. And he got stung by a stingray of all things, which is not necessarily lethal. I mean you can get stung and it it it hurts it gets infected. But it just happened to be right into his chest and went into his heart. You know, he's standing there uh describing this thing and y what I'm saying, beloved is when you walk so close to the edge you're bound to get stung. And as Christians we ought to strive to uh come back from the edge a little bit. Uh do I have chapter and verse to tell you say you know you shouldn't say dang it? I mean I just wanna admonish you or encourage you to come back a little bit. To try and honor God in your conversation. We must be cautious and careful. Oh, I know by the letter of the law, maybe you can do it. But beloved, just because I can doesn't mean I should You know, uh Joe where s oh he's up in the sound booth. Just because I can work legally on a two hundred and twenty amp plug with it turned on Doesn't mean that I should. I mean I might be able to get away with it, but that doesn't mean I should do that. Now I up the amperage because Joe works on 120 all the time with it on. He doesn't bother turning it off, you know. But most of us would turn it off. You know, even at 120. We don't want to get zapped and say, well, you know, I could do that, but why? It's you know, it might be lawful but not expedient. Amen. That's why we want to be careful in things in our life that we are controlling and coming back from the edge. We see, beloved, that there's a reward or there's reproof coming. In verse number 37, he says there For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. There's reward or there's reproof. Your conversation is either going to commend or condemn you. The other day we were on the slopes and the boys and I got a g in a gondola with three or four other people. There was a guy there, I mean he had to be in his mid-30s. And I mean he couldn't say five words without one of them being a cuss word. The whole way up the mountain. I mean just ridiculous, just constant And and it's like he was trying to be a cool eighteen year old, seventeen year old, but he was way beyond that, but he was still trying to fit in with the young crowd. And i it was so unbecoming and so ridiculous. It just so frustrating that people's language is so poor In this world. And the Christian should not be that way. I'm going to give you a few things here as we wrap this up. What kind of words should the Christian be using? We should be using true words. True words. Proverbs 1219, the lip of truth shall be established forever, but the lying tongue is but for a moment. Psalms 34, 13, keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. Beloved, as we're going to be speaking, we should speak things that are true. You understand as I describe these things, that means we have to put those things into our heart. We can't be listening to the wrong type of thing. It's uh I mean it's mind-boggling, especially some of the music out there, this rap music and other things like that that uh the the language is so vile and the topic of conversation of the music is so putrid uh and that people are filling their heart and minds with that stuff. It's no wonder that's what comes out when they're talking to people. But we should be filling our heart with the right things, with the right music, with the word of God, and uh with good sound preaching and good uh fellowship and communication with God's people. And that will help you to speak true words. We should speak tempered words. We should be temperate, controlled, humble. You need to be careful about sarcastic swager. Another way to say that would be talking trash. The kids, the young people, it's probably not as prevalent in those that mature out of it. But young people they love I see some smiles like uh maybe not. Uh they like talking trash on the on the ball court, you know, whether whether that doesn't matter what kind of ball court it is, uh you know Soccer or football or or you know, you can't do anything and oh you couldn't make that shot and they just talk all kinds of trash. Can I tell you what God says in 1 Samuel 2 3? Talk no more so exceeding proudly. Let not arrogancy come out of your mouth. I think that's like a definition of trash talk. That kind of communication is not becoming of a Christian. Christian young man, Christian young lady, we shouldn't we shouldn't be trash talking on the on the court. These are the kind of words that a true believer should speak. Let our words be represented by humility. We should speak timely words. A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold and pictures of silver. Let your speech be always with grace seasoned with salt that ye may know how you ought to answer every man. You know, they they say communication is one of the major problems in marriages, and I'll tell you what, if we could just control what comes out of this mouth, it would fix a lot of problems in marriages. And I think some issues between children and parents. Gotta learn to control it. But that starts by controlling what goes into the heart. If it's not in there, it's not gonna come out. You've got to control what goes into that heart. Beloved, God is watching our mouth, and every sound and syllable is going to either commend or condemn. None of its neutral. Oh, how we need to beg God to help us to control our tongue. Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. Keep the door of my lips. You see, beloved, you don't fix or clean up your conversation by changing what you say. Yes, I gave you some practical things about what we say. But how we change what we say is we change what's in the heart, according to this text. So the question is put forth, are you controlling your tongue? Are you putting the right things in so that the right things will come out? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed