Amen. I enjoy singing good music. It's one of the things at the Marriage Matters Conference that many people comment on. The exciting Uh just the singing we did together packed in that that room. It was completely full and everybody lifting lifting up their voices and singing loud. It was uh it was a blessing. And uh certainly the Lord ministers to us through music. I want you to turn your Bibles tonight to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter number five, a familiar passage of scripture to us in the book of Matthew. I want to ask you, do people generally find your words to be trustworthy? Are you a man or a lady of a sure word? People take you at your word. Let me bring this a little closer to home because the fact of the matter is, is we really uh can put on a front for people that know us less and less. The e it really is the most easiest to be impressive to a stranger. The closer you get, you know, the old saying, familiarity breeds contempt. Why? Because the closer you get to somebody, the more you find out about them, the more you realize that they really are just a sinner saved by grace. That they too are not perfect. And the closer you get to them, the more love has to forgive and grace has to be extended. Not just to others, but to us individually. So if I'm to bring this question home, the question I have for you is: do the people who know you best in the world Believe you to be a man or woman of your word. Would they say that you could count On some it's about you individually that they people could count on what on your word, what you say is gonna happen You see, today's culture is built upon contracts because man's word is no longer his bond. We have reached a place where commitments and promises made mean very little, if anything, at all. Even kids from a very young age that sometimes have come to the place where they've found that their word is a little less than reliable, often you'll hear them say things like No, no, no, I swear. I I s I swear, I promise. This is this is what happened or I won't do it again or you'll you'll hear them say uh no no cross my heart, hope to die, poke a needle in my eye. Uh you know that those those statements that are basically like somehow supposed to add more credibility to their word. Like they have said something, but we've got to add something else to make it more sure. People today have come to believe that misrepresenting something and even flat out lying. Making promises without any intention of keeping them is just fine as long as you haven't signed any binding contracts. Well, you didn't really mean it. Oh I know you said it, but your fingers were crossed, you know, behind your back and that that I I uh I I didn't mean it. My fingers were crossed. So I I it's not I'm not held to that You know, today it's it seems like it's it's acceptable to make commitments, to make promises, to make oaths and not keep them. One example. When you buy something from a store and you take it home and you have no intention of keeping it. When you buy it and take it home to use it and return it, that's dishonest. I don't know why that's acceptable today. I don't know why people feel like They could go to Walmart and buy something. Now, if you don't use it, if you buy it and you say, Oh, I end up not using that, the store is gracious and they take it back. You didn't open it, you didn't use it. But I'm saying you buy something, a pair of dress shoes for a big event, you wear the shoes for the event, and then you put 'em back in a box and return 'em, that's wrong. That's being dishonest. And that's where today people like to they like to kind of blur the lines and and act like, well, you know, not really. I mean uh there there's an idea, you know, today's society you can just rack up a whole bunch of debt. And then just write it off. Call it call it uh bankruptcy. And and I know Christians that have racked up hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of debt. They bought trucks They bought construction equipment. They were going to start a construction company. They were going to start this big business. They bought all this equipment. Found out they couldn't make it work. Declared bankruptcy. Wrote all that off. The courts just said you don't have to pay it. And they did the same thing again. That's wrong. Now I know the courts say, well, you're off the hook, you don't have to pay it. I don't think they should be able to do that. It's one thing if I owe Stephen fifty thousand dollars And Stephen wants to come to me and say, Hey, I see the situation you're in, you don't have to pay that. That's Stephen's uh prerogative. I'm he's the one I owe the money to. But I don't think the court should be able to just come and say, hey Stephen, you're flat out of luck. Forget you never gonna get anything and uh you don't have to pay your debts. The fact of the matter is, is you signed up for them. You should pay them And uh uh i I remember Dave Ramsey uh he teaches that. Now if you know his story, you know he he c declared bankruptcy. To the tune of several million dollars. But he went back and paid all those people back. He declared bankruptcy to get out from under the weight of it, but he kept a record of everybody he owed money to, and as he began to make money, he went back and he paid all those people he owed. And that's the right thing to do. I want to speak to you tonight just a few minutes from this text here I've described for you the society norm, kind of like what people say. This is acceptable. You can do this. This is all fine. But God tells us something else. We'll see in Matthew chapter 5, verses 33 through 37. He says, Again, ye have heard it hath been said by them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, neither shalt thou swear by the head by thy head, because thou cannot make one hair white or black. But let your communication be yay, yay, nay, nay, for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. The world wants to say it's okay. God says, but I say unto you, swear not at all. I want to speak to you just for a few minutes on, but I say, be careful with your commitments. Be careful with your commitments. And we're going to dissect these few verses here for just a few minutes. Let me open in prayer. Lord, I ask you to guide me through the thoughts tonight. I pray that your word would go forth. God, that the an understanding of it would be ours. And the commitment to keep it would be made in our hearts. And we'll praise you for it. In Jesus' name, amen. We see here, first of all, that we live under the culture of contracts. And it's described for us here in verses 33 through 36 the description of swearing, of committing uh by heaven, by earth, by Jerusalem. He states these things. And we've reached a point in our society where we need contracts for everything. And I I was shocked and I've said it before, but it's still I was amazed at how many pieces of paper I had assigned to buy a car. I mean uh It's not even like I didn't have the money. Like here's the money and I still had to sign like fifty pages of documents, uh contracts and then backups and you know the the release causes and and all of these things that you have to sign to do anything today, all of these contracts drawn up by whole legal teams and worded in such a way that nobody can finagle their way out of it Why? Because these lawyers, they go and they argue and they say, well, this contract wasn't specifically clear on the point of the law, and therefore this person shouldn't have to pay that and they have to rewrite, you know, there's three more pages in the next contract because we've got to find a way to make sure people can't get out of that that. This is what we live under today. But the fact of the matter that a oath is necessary is in is evidence of man's sinful nature. You understand, beloved, if there was no sin, there would be no necessity for an oath. Because people would keep their word. You would never have to say, no, no, no, I swear. That is secondary. I mean you've already stated the fact. If you said you were gonna do something, you're gonna do it. There there is no need for a promise. There is no need for an oath. There is no need for a commitment beyond that because you said it and therefore it's going to happen. But sinful nature Is what established for us the need, because why? Because men don't keep their word. Because men don't abide by and live up to the commitments that they've stated. The reason Christ gives this description to us here in this passage of Scripture is because the Pharisees had corrupted the method of making vows. You see, they were trying to make vows on things other than God. They would list things that are close to God, like the heavens. But didn't want to do to make a vow because a vow that included God was binding. But a vow that didn't include God was kind of like, well, you gotta way out of that one. Listen to what Wearsby says about this. He said the Pharisees used all kinds of tricks to sidestep the truth and the O's that were among them. They would avoid using the holy name of God. But would come close by using the city of Jerusalem, the heavens, or the earth, which God describes for us here as the heavens is his throne The earth, his footstool, Jerusalem, his city. And so they would want to swear on those things, but kind of like saying they're going to swear on this, but not actually invoking the name of God. You see they had developed a convoluted way of making oaths that were not binding. Does that sound like today? Does that sound like it like some today w it's amazing the verbiage can be such that you can get out of it. That oh you can you know you have to have your lawyer read the stuff that their lawyer wrote in order to find out if it's you know, gonna be binding or not. And there's so much of that today. Turn into Matthew chapter twenty-three for me. I want you to see the again A description of vows and how God described uh what they were doing, the Jews We see in Matthew chapter 23 and verse number 16. He says, Woe unto you, ye blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple. It is nothing. But whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor. You see what they're doing? They're saying, oh, you're saying, oh, you just swore by the temple, but that doesn't really count. But if you swore by the gold of the temple, then that's something that's binding. And he goes on, look at verse number 17, ye fools and blind? For whither is greater the gold or the temple that sanctifieth the gold? And whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing. But whosoever swears by the gift that is upon the altar, he is guilty. Ye fools and blind, for whether is greater the gift or the altar that sanctified the gift? Whosoever therefore shall swear by the altar sweareth by it, and by all things thereon. And whosoever shall swear by the temple sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein, and he That shall swear by heaven, sweareth by the throne of God and by him that sitteth thereon. You see? Do you understand what Jesus is saying? Oh no, I was just I was swearing a by heaven, I didn't invoke the name of God. And God says, You swear you swear by the the God of heaven, you've sworn by the throne of heaven and the person that sat on it. You swear by the altar and and you're you're committing a commitment, you're making a commitment that is binding, as binding as the one that sanctified the altar. These are all binding commitments, and what he's trying to get people to understand is the fact of the matter is, is your word ought to be sure and sound, and a promise is a promise, an oath is an oath. And there's not a means in which you can finagle or move your way out of it. The Jews had simply left off honesty. Striving to be religious and maintain their Judaism and yet make oaths they had no intention of keeping. Now the idea of making oaths as a that this passage of scripture has been taken literally And some have said the the idea that, well, we should make no oaths ever. It's very clear here that you should never make an oath. So don't swear by anything. And uh the Essenes And the Quakers, the Quakers are still that way, but Josephus writing about the Essenes, he said this. They uh would not make any kind of oath, not even an oath in court. They would not allow uh you to swear them in and I swear to tell the whole truth, nothing but the truth, so help me God. And because of their religious stand against that, even the Quakers have dealt with this in court where they don't have to be sworn in, but they affirm that what they're saying is truthful. That's as close as they'll get to actually making an oath because they believe it to be wrong. Josephus said, The Essen say, he which cannot believed without swearing, is already condemned. A guy that can't be believed unless he's unless I stand up here and swear and make an oath, I can't believe believed, they're saying you're condemned already. Everybody already knows you're lying If that's the the gist of your character. So the question I have for you is does does the law forbid the making of any oaths? Just an understanding of this passage of scripture. I've given you some description and from my study what I've seen it to be talking about, the fact that the Jews were trying to finagle their way around making oaths and and being able to make an oath and not keep it. Well, there's several things. The law itself did not forbid making oaths. Let me give you a couple of references. I'll read these texts to you. Leviticus 19, 12. He says, and ye shall not swear by my name falsely. Okay, so he says, Don't swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God, I am the Lord. In Numbers 30, in verse number 2, he says, If a man vow a vow unto the Lord, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond, he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth. So again, in in both of these references, I'm going to give you one more. There is not a declaration to not make vows. The declaration is, is when you make a vow, follow through. When you make a promise, fulfill it. In Deuteronomy 23, 21, he says, When thou shalt bow a vow unto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not slack to pay it. For the Lord thy God will surely require it of thee, and it will be sin in thee. So rather than Restricting any vows, I believe that the law taught, and the New Testament here where Christ is talking about this takes it one step further, but the idea is not that you don't ever make a vow, the idea is that when you make a vow you keep it You plan to keep it. James gives a similar warning in James chapter 5, verse number 12, similar to what we've just read. He says, But above all things My brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, nor by earth, neither by any other oath, but let your yea be yea, and your nay be nay, lest ye fall into condemnation So Christ and James are are very similar wording here. James is using very similar to what Christ said. They're both giving the warning. The idea is Not that you don't ever make a vow. He's saying, Don't swear by these things, but any time you do, but let your yea be yea and your nay be nay. He's saying when you say something, it ought to mean it. It ought to be something you plan to fulfill. It ought to be something you plan to follow through with. Both James and Christ give an immediate explanation of the careless and flippant oaths in which the Pharisees continually made. that idea of swearing by heaven, by earth, by any other oath, that they just kind of they wanna, you know, oh, you know, I swear by this that this is true. When in fact, if you were truly a man of your word, you wouldn't have to swear by anything. That's what he's saying. That's what Christ is saying. You don't need to swear by the name of God or the altar of God or the place of God or the heavens of God. No. Why? Because what you say is what you mean So you don't need to be one that says, oh no, I swear. I this is definitely the truth. I I am beloved not only Do I see this as evidence for the fact that he's not saying don't ever make any commitments, but Christ is the one giving us this instruction? And Christ would not tell us, don't make any oaths, don't make any promises, and then continue himself to do that. And Christ has given us promise after promise after promise in the pages of Scripture that He will keep. That he will follow through with. Not one of his promises have failed. And we have that example that he's given to us. So he's not saying don't ever make a promise. He's saying when you're you be a man of your word You don't need to swear by something. You just need to hold up and do what you say you're going to do I'm not going to go into it, but Paul made several oaths, several promises in uh the books that he wrote to people uh stating to them uh certain things and and uh so that example as well in the old in the New Testament given to us uh after Christ was here, that it's okay to make an oath, to make a promise But you need to do so with planning to fulfill. We see secondly a call for clarity in verse number 37 That's very clear. He says it the same as James. He says, but let your communication be yay, yay, nay, nay. There should be c that that doesn't get any clearer. That doesn't get any more straightforward. It ought to be something that's built into the character and the heart of man that when you say something you mean it Use clarity instead of clever wording. You know, people want to make a promise and they want to do so in a clever way so that they have an escape clause. Well, I said I would do it for you as long as the sun was shining and the ravens were winning So now I don't have to. You know, you you want to put whatever clauses on there, you want whatever clever uh phrasing you want to put on there and Sometimes in a husband and wife relationship there's commitments that are made and they're made in such a way that there's a clause or there's a there's a way to get out instead of just being clear, clear. You're using clever wording. A promise is a promise. A commitment is a commitment. An oath is an oath. And it doesn't matter If you swear by your faith or some little toy that you say, well, a toy has no meaning, it doesn't matter. Your word should have a meaning. What you said. You said it and doesn't matter that you oh well, you know, I I was swearing by this and that does that's nothing. You're right, it's nothing, but what's your word? Your word should be something. There's a call for clarity. Yea, be yay. You know, living consistently instead of Calculated speech. What I'm saying is fulfill what you promised. Do what you said you were going to do. How many of you have been out visiting or you met somebody at the store and you gave them a gospel track? You talked to your banker. And they said to you, Yeah, I'll come to church. How many of you? And yeah, did they show up? Nope. Now listen, you can't make 'em show up. All you can do is invite 'em and and they gotta do it, but I don't understand it. I don't understand it. Why is it? This apparently, and I haven't done a whole lot of this in the South, but Daniel's in the South, and he says, man, they will just flat out lie right to your face Like, oh yeah, I know right where your church is. I'll see you on Sunday and they're all excited about it and you never see them but you never see them. They just lie right to your face. And here you're in the Bible belt and these people all call themselves Christians Oh yeah, we love Jesus. We'll see you Sunday. Looking forward to it. No intention of fulfilling it. That's what God is saying is wrong. You you made a promise, you made an oath. And what we ought to do is live consistently instead of using calculated speech. You see, beloved, an oath will never make up for poor character. You can say, Oh, I got your back until you're blue in the face. But when the chips are down, where are you? You see it it ultimately doesn't matter how much comes out of this mouth, what promises are made, what statements are said. If we're not living it and backing it up, let your yay be yea. And your nay be nay. Whatever you say you're going to do, do it. Whatever you say you're not going to do, don't do it. I can tell you right now, this would help a lot of marriages. There's a lot of marriages that I know have had problems, uh, even let's just pick a realm of finances. Where they sit down together and they agree that they're not going to spend money on on this this or that or they're going to save money towards something and then the husband or the wife goes out and spends the money that they said they weren't going to You see that destroys tough trust. That breaks down the bonds of the marriage, the trust you have for one another And when I open this, I says, Do the people closest to you say that you are a man or a woman of your word? That your oath can be trusted. Well, I wonder. Have we told her that we would be home at a certain time consistently and we have failed to fulfill that promise? Have we said uh that we were going to stop communicating with that old guy, that old friend on Facebook, that person that really, you know, for whatever reason, it doesn't matter what the reason is, but your husband doesn't want you communicating with that guy? And you said you would quit, but you haven't quit. What I'm saying is that you you you you are destroying The trust that should be in the marriage because you're not living what Christ said to live here, let your yea be yea and your nay be nay. Just do what you say you're going to do. You might not like it that people would say about you that you're untrustworthy. You might not like it that people would say of you You gotta take what he says or what she says with a grain of salt. Like yeah, you can't quite count on it. But can I tell you the reason people say that is because your yay hasn't been yay and your nay hasn't been nay. Because you have said one thing and done something else. And therefore people have come to the place, well, I mean they're a good guy, they're good this is a nice lady, it's a great lady, whatever, you know, back and forth, whoever we're talking about, but you're basically you're saying I've just found I can't really rely on him. And none of us want to be in that place. But that means we have to live in such a way that our yay is yay and our nay is nay. You see, the Pharisees had adopted the idea that as long as they didn't invoke the name of God, it wasn't binding. That God was not involved in that contract. But I think that we understand, beloved, that God is involved in every aspect of our life. That God is involved in that promise that you made, whether you invoked his name or not, whether you called and made that commitment before God. The fact of the matter is you shouldn't have to put your hand on the Bible and be in danger of perjury. That's true, like what's the word? Perjury before you'll tell the truth. And parents this is important. You gotta train your kids from the very young age to tell the truth. No matter the consequences, tell the truth. Tell the truth. Tell the truth. And you know what, kids, more often than not, if you'll just be honest and tell the truth, it'll get you out of so much more trouble than trying to finagle or lie your way out There's been many times that I was very thankful that God told me to tell the truth. I mean that my dad taught me to tell the truth. God told us too as well, but but dad taught me to tell the truth and basically I just was too afraid to lie is what it boiled down to because You know, I just knew what happened when I lied. And there was times I mean, even in my life I I can go back so many times where I was in deep trouble. I mean I was in trouble. I was there with the police. Yes, your pastors Been in a police car. And uh they're like, what about this? And I just was too afraid to lie. And I was taught to be respectful. And I just looked him in the eye and talked to him and told him what happened and explained it. And the grace or the mercy of God, I don't know what it was, but you know, they let me off Not it hasn't been, but a year or two ago I got stopped going down uh Cuba right here and I got I got pulled over and the officer comes up to the window and he's like, Do you know how fast you're going? I said, Yeah About forty five. He's like, Yeah, forty six point eight or something or whatever, you know. And I said, Yeah, I know. I said, I know the speed limit. I just Was wasn't paying attention till I saw your lights and I knew no and I understand. And he came back to the car and he says, man, I appreciate you just being honest, owning up to it He said, I'm just gonna let you go with a warning. Slow it down. You know, this is a small road. I said, thank you very much. You what I'm saying kids is uh just be honest And sometimes that means you get a ticket. Now it was a year ago I was in Kansas and I tried the same thing and it didn't work. The lawyer gave or that the guy there gave me a ticket, a big one. And in can't I can't do anything about in Kansas. I had to paint it remotely. So just own up to it. Unless you're Yay B Ye and your nay be nay. You see, beloved, a pure heart produces plain speech. You don't have to try and think about it. You don't have to try and figure out what did I say? How did I say that? Just uh the the the ability some people have to be conniving is shocking to me It's just shocking. I'm thinking, how can you even think that up? Like how where did that even come from? I mean, I'm not even sure how you would get to that place But you don't have to be conniving if you just live with a pure heart and plain speech. The reason, beloved, many people have to say, no, no, I really mean it this time. Is because they haven't lived in such a way that their yay is yay and their nay is nay. Trust has been broken. And somehow you're trying to add more credibility to your words. Like somehow you're trying to make your wife or your your husband or your boss No, no, no, I I won't be late again No, no, I I mean it. I I'll I will do more words somehow make you more believable? It actually doesn't. If you were simply honest and forthright, plain and simple speech would be sufficient. If you have somebody in your life that is constantly over-promising, can I tell you that they're compensating for a lack of character? You see, they have to constantly over-promise because they have continually underperformed. They have not fulfilled their promise. They haven't done what they said they were going to do. And so now they have to continually over-promise. Sometimes you'll see parents do this with their kids. Oh boy, no, today uh we're gonna go to Chuck E. Cheese and they try and do this really big fun thing To make up for the fact that they haven't spent any time with their kids in three weeks. But they haven't talked to them, they haven't they haven't sat down with them, they have not They were supposed to go to the ball game, but they didn't do that. They were supposed to go get ice cream, but they didn't do that. And so now we're we're gonna go to Chuck E. Cheese and have a big party and and overpromise because they've underperformed. If you would just be a man of your word, a lady of your word, and honor what you say with your children, that would go a long ways to you having the respect. If you have a boss that often says, hey, we'll get to that tomorrow. We'll deal with that tomorrow. We're going to fix that tomorrow. I'm going to take care of that. You're not going to have to deal with that again. He's overpromising because he's underperforming. When if you and I would live a consistent life, we would not need clever speech to try and convince someone of our sincerity. If we would simply live a consistent life, let your yea be a and your yay be nay. An honest man does not need an oath to guarantee his statements. Beloved marriages do not survive on dramatic declarations, but they thrive on consistent dependability. You see, your grand gesture, your dramatic uh declaration of, oh, I'm gonna do this for you and I'm gonna do that for you, or whatever, does not make up. For consistent failure, failure, failure, failure, when if we would be consistently dependable We wouldn't have to make those dramatic declarations. You see, just don't spend the money that you said you wouldn't spend. Just don't go to the places that you said you weren't going to go to. Don't text that person that you said you were done with. Don't get involved in those things that you said you weren't going to be involved in. Do what you said you were going to do. Be home when you said you were going to come home. Help with what you said you were going to help with. This will make up. This will make a d dramatic difference in the trustworthiness and the reliability between a husband and wife. Lastly, I want you to see that the cost of complexity given to us here in verses verse 37, part B, he said, For whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. So he's describing the idea of making an oath or a promise, and he says, listen, just let your yay be yay and your nay be nay. And he says, when you go beyond that, whatsoever cometh more of these leads to sin. And he's saying, you know, when you start trying to over-explain, to over-complicate, you start adding other things, it's just going to lead to problems. I mean it's amazing how true the Word of God is. A multitude of words shows a lack of character. Proverbs 1019 says, In a multitude of words there wanteth not sin. I think that's what he's kind of saying here. For whatsoever is more than these cometh evil. He says if you if you've got to add a bunch of I swear, I promise, cross my heart, you know, I'm gonna do it, I really mean it, if you've gotta try and find a way to convince a person that you mean what you say, you're gonna end up in trouble. And he says it leads to evil. You can add a whole lot of extra verbiage, but the extra verbiage doesn't mean you're more trustworthy. Just think about this, it actually a lot of times means less. Let me just ask you, Caleb, if Timothy Came downstairs where you were sitting there working on your schoolwork and uh he comes in and he says I I've got this for you. I just wanted to be nice. I mean it's water. I mean it. It's just water, I swear. I promise. Just drink it. No, no, no, it's just water. You can trust me. Just drink it. What do you think he's gonna do? He's gonna be like, what'd you do to it? Uh what I'm saying is the more Timothy says, the less trustworthy he gets, you know The more it I mean his brother's looking at that he's like, I ain't touching that at all. There's no way I'm drinking that. You put something in there, like it looks clear, but I don't oh, I ain't drinking it, you know He could keep on going the rest of the day and say, No, no, it's just water. And it may actually be just water, but nope, tick Caleb's not going to touch it. I ain't touching that. Why the more you say, the less trustworthy you are If he would have come down and just says, oh, I brought you some water and kept going, Caleb would be like, oh, thanks. Wouldn't have thought anything of it. I think that's what he's saying. Whatever comes of of more than these, it just leads to evil. It just leads to problems. Jeremiah knew this about Israel. In Jeremiah chapter 5, verse number 2, he says, And though they say the Lord liveth, surely they swear falsely. He's saying, oh, they want to declare this, but they don't believe it. They aren't living it. They are swearing falsely. A bunch of extra words is not going to help. Most of the times, it's going to hurt Let me just uh bring this to a conclusion here and bring it back to us personally. Let me ask you, is the swearing or the making of oaths of stating some promises to other people in your life trying to make up for a lack of character in your life. Do you find yourself, this is an individual evaluation, do you find yourself happening to reassure people? Because you've underperformed in the past and therefore people have come to not really trust or rely on you. Have you established a pattern in your life Of your yay being yay and your nay being nay. That's what God wants for us. We're going to live one way or the other. We know that according to God that's how we should live. You see, successful leadership in the home or in business Rise and falls on controlling your commitments. Letting your yea be yea and your nay be nay. The world might say it's okay. Don't worry about it, you can just fluff it off. Oh, you didn't really mean that commitment, that's fine. But I say, let your yay be yay and your nay be nay. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The strength of your influence in this world, in your home, in your business. Is directly tied to the strength of your word. How trustworthy is your word? Lord, we preach what you wanted us to preach tonight. This is a straightforward message, but I pray, Lord, that our habit in life Would be such that we would fulfill our promises, that we would do what we say we're going to do. We wouldn't have to constantly be making up for or covering for our lack of fulfillment or following through with what we said we were going to do, but that we indeed, because we do so before an Almighty God who is involved in every commitment and every decision, Lord, we would honor you. That our yea would be yea and our nay would be nay. Lord, use this invitation in Jesus' name, Amen. If God spoke to your heart, you come