Turn in your Bibles this morning to Hebrews chapter eleven. Hebrews chapter number eleven. This Book of Hebrews and specifically this chapter number 11 is the great chapter of faith. This is literally the hall of faith. Written by God and placed in the canon of Scripture were the names and the events or circumstances in which these people exercised and displayed extraordinary faith. These are placed in the scripture for our encouragement. for our edification, for us to learn from. You see, the early Christians were persecuted. They were attacked. It was literally in an environment and such where you might find in other countries today where if somebody says, Well, I'm going to follow Christ, Their family would cut them off. Their family would shun them. Their family would have nothing to do with them. Sometimes they would be beaten. Sometimes they would be imprisoned. Uh you see they didn't like the fact that people began to live by faith instead of living by the law. And so they were persecuted. And written for us here in this chapter is this list of these men and women who by faith followed God and did what God wanted them to do. The broad measure of the situations that are expressed here in this chapter serve to encourage all of us That no matter what situation you're facing, no matter what struggle or battle you're dealing with, Or who you are, man or woman, or young or old, or where your situation is in life. We look into this text and we see others who Dealt with things that they were able to overcome by faith. The writer of Hebrews finishes the tenth chapter. He gives to us at the closing of the tenth chapter that most familiar phrase is there in verse number 38. He says, the just shall live by faith. Now, this phrase, the just shall live by faith, is found four times in the Word of God. But this is a characteristic which is to define the Christian's life. We of course are not to walk by sight. We're to walk by faith. We're to trust God that God has a plan, and although we don't see the end Although we're not positive of the outcome, although sometimes it doesn't make sense to us, we can trust God. And you just keep driving. You just keep pushing forward. You keep doing what God wants you to do. So I want us to look at a particular character this morning and see some things that he did by faith. If you would look down in verse number 24. We're going to look at Moses in a message that I've entitled by Faith Moses, which comes from the very first three words here of verse number 24. Follow along as I read down through verse number 28. He says, By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God. Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king For he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith, he kept the Passover. and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to us concerning this matter of faith in our life? And if we are really living by faith. Lord, we come to you now and I ask your grace. I ask for your strength in this service. Lord, on my best day, I'm an unworthy vessel to preach your holy word. But Lord, you've got a message in your word that your people need to hear. Lord, I pray that they would hear the Word of God, they would hear the message from the Holy Spirit of God, and you would just allow me to be a simple instrument in the hand of God for a few minutes. Lord, would you take the cares of the world away for a minute? Would you take the stresses of our life away? Would you allow us to focus our hearts and minds on this message? Lord, if there's one here that hasn't trusted you, I pray God they would do so today. For that message is true. You will save now. In Jesus' name, Amen. The idea of faith Uh it has been expressed and explained in many different ways, but I just want to remind you this morning that faith, the kind of faith that the Bible is talking about is Not some whimsical hope, so. The faith that the Bible speaks of is a faith that's rooted in a surety. It's a faith that finds its resting place. In the very strength and power of God Himself. It finds its meaning in the fact that God can and God will fulfill all that He has promised us to do. If I was to say to you this morning, the next person that stands up, I'm going to give five dollars to. There is not one person here that believed what I said. I had five dollars here that I would give to anybody that stood up. You see your faith did not translate to action. You say, well, Pastor Kibb, could you do that over? I didn't realize It's too late. I had five dollars here ready to give you. But my word there, you're like, oh well, I didn't know I I didn't uh I wasn't sure. Um But you see what happens in our lives when we take God at His Word, and God says, stand up, and we do so, And God meets that need, God supplies that shortfall, God comes through, God answers that request, your faith is strengthened. Not only that, not only is your faith strengthened, but the people around you, their faith is strengthened. You see, let's say, for instance, this morning. My illustration was effective either way. But let's say Eli stood up and I gave Eli this five dollars. Now you missed your opportunity, man. So too bad. But let's say I gave it to him. Not only would he in his mind like any time pastor talks about money, I'm standing up. I mean it would he would put it in the back of his mind forever from now on He would say, Whatever happens, I'm gonna move. But not only him, every other every other one of these guys would do it too, right? Their faith would be strengthened. And when we live by faith and do what God wants us to do, our faith is strengthened every time until we get to the place where God asks of us something that seems impossible. Seems like couldn't be done. Yet because we have lived by faith and walked by faith and seen God come through over and over and over again God says, I want you to do this, and we say, okay, Lord, and we take a step into the impossible because God has been faithful. It's when we live by faith that we experience the faithfulness of our God. And our faith is strengthened. So as we look at this, Hebrews chapter 11, and specifically Moses, we see in this text three things that Moses did by faith that I want to encourage and exhort you to do as well. First of all, we see in verse number 29 that by faith Moses, when he was come of years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. First of all, I want you to see Moses refused some things. He refused some things. He did this by faith. To refuse is to deny or to reject something. You know Moses could have had a cushy life. I mean you think about it. The son of Pharaoh's daughter He could have had like anything and everything he possibly wanted. He could have been living high on the hog, as it were. He could have been on the top of the world at that time, sitting around with power and prestige and financial gain and a big position in the country probably He could have had it all, but by faith he refused that. He gave that up. He refused to be associated with the world's crowd. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Christian, there are some things that we as Christians are just not supposed to be a part of. There are some things that as Christians that are just not supposed to be part of our life. And by faith, we are supposed to refuse to be a part of those. We're we're we're supposed to refuse to participate or be associated with or to have that tied with our lives. Why? Because we're Christians and because we trust what God says in His Word that it's It's gonna be real, it's gonna be true, it's gonna happen. And so by faith we say, you know what? I'm not gonna do that. You refuse Beloved, the believer has been freed from the dominion of sin in our lives. Why would we continue any longer therein? Why would we want to continue? Some have been consumed by addiction in their life. By this or that, and those addictions have taken control, and they hate themselves for it. They despise themselves. They are controlled by this addiction, and every time they fall into this addiction again They look at themselves with disgust and say, This is not what I want. I'm trying to quit this. Why am I continuing to do this? And they're bound in bondage to that addiction. But Christian, by the power of God we've been given freedom and victory over sin. Oh, there is pleasure in sin for a season. Which is why the addicted person continues to go back to that, because for a time There is relief. For a time there is pleasure. For a time, there is excitement. For a measure of time, there is something that draws them to that. There's no doubt that that's the case But by faith Moses refused. He rejected what the world had to offer. Why? Because he refused. I want you to see there at the last part of verse number 26. Assuming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense Of the reward. I want you to understand, beloved, that there is always a payday. There's always a payday. You see, the Bible says it like this, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. There's always a payday. There is a in this the recompense of the reward, and I want to take a minute, and there's there's two aspects of this or two sides of it But you see, you reap what you sow. You sow to the flesh, you sow of the flesh reap corruption. But it's just as true that if you sow to the spirit, you shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. So you reap what you sow. You see, Moses had recompense to the reward. He had acknowledgement to the fact that if you sow to the flesh, the flesh every time, always is going to reap corruption. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. If we live in sin and go after sin It's going to re result in death every time. Faith says, I believe God in His Word. God said that to follow after this is going to lead to death. It's going to lead to corruption. So by faith, I'm going to refuse to be a part of that. Oh yes, there's fun. Yes, there's enjoyment. Oh boy, this is pleasurable for a few minutes. But understanding the promise of God that He says it's going to lead to destruction, it's going to lead to that. Death, you say, you know what, I'm gonna stay away from it. By faith. Some of you older folks here, you've lived Different types of lives. You've been through some things, you've endured some things. And if you had the opportunity to talk to these young people up here You would take a few minutes and you would tell them, listen, I'm telling you, I've been down this road, it doesn't lead anywhere good, don't do it. Am I right? You see, they would have to by faith trust what you're saying, and you hope they would have enough common sense to do it. But what happens, most young people say, Well, I've got to experience it for myself. And they go down that road And they reap all the heartache, turmoil, the stress, the burden, sometimes the even bodily pain. That you went through. And you're sitting back there almost pulling your hair out, saying, I told you, I told you, if you you shouldn't have gone down that road, wouldn't you just have listened to me And our Heavenly Father gives us instruction in His Word about this life of sin that men want to pursue after, and He's saying you gotta refuse to be a part of it. You say, But it's fun, but by faith you just trust what God said that it's not going to lead to anything good and you just avoid it. That is a good spot to say amen. Because I think if anybody knows, God knows. And God says that to sow to the flesh, you shall of the flesh reap corruption. To go after this world and these things, it's not going to lead anywhere good. So by faith, we refuse that. I'll tell you, if we could just keep the fact of the recompense in front of us. This last week. I heard a lady who was so very upset. She was so upset at her friend because her friend told her husband that she was having an affair. And she was so mad at her friend, and she said, My life is over now. My husband's gonna leave me. And her friend said, I suppose you should have thought of that before you cheated on him. What do you expect the end of that road to be? Oh, everything's gonna be okay. I mean you have untold number of examples. Of the heartache and the burden and the turmoil and the stress that it causes, the destruction of everything that you value and call precious. And yet Satan blinds your eyes for a few minutes and you go after that pleasure of sin for a season. Not acknowledging or recognizing the reward that comes, the recompense that comes, the sowing to the flesh you shall of the flesh reap corruption. If we could just keep that in our mind, it might help us to refuse a little easier. Beloved, there's a reaping for sin. There's a reaping for doing right. She would still have a loving relationship and a unified home and peace and happiness. Had she done right? It takes faith in God to refuse the pleasure of sin. There's many a today involved in drugs and alcohol and all this world has to offer. You know, alcohol isn't a is I mean I talk about drugs and and everybody in here is like, that's right, preacher. Gotta stay away from drugs But if I talk about alcohol, I'm stepping on some toes. Because we uh we like to justify it. We like to say, well, what's wrong with it? The Bible says wine is a mocker and strong drink is raging, whoever is deceived thereby is not wise. It's mind boggling how Christians acclaim the name of Christ Want to support and give their money and partake of that filth. By faith we should refuse it. Not going to have any part of it. The Bible says you're not even supposed to look at it. Look not on the wine when it turneth itself about. You're not even supposed to look at it, let alone drink it. Yet Christians, by the thousands, want to justify it. Oh, it's okay. You know what they like to say? A little wine for your stomach's sake. You know what? I'm 46 years old and I have yet to meet one person, one, who takes a little wine for their stomach's sake They don't they that's not why they're drinking it. The Bible is very clear there's up teen number of verses about the destruction of alcohol. And Christians want to partake of it and act like it's it's okay. They bear they want to bear no responsibility for the destruction it causes. Let me let me ask you, if I had a home where I brought ladies into the home And I brought children into the home and I beat them And I verbally abused them to with to where they were just a shell of their former selves. Not only that, I killed some of them. And then I came to you and I said, Hey, I'm having a hard time getting enough money to take care of my home. Would you give me some money to help me with my home? He's saying, no. Not giving you any money to fund to fund that, to provide for that. You are killing people. You're beating people. You are abusing people. Do you know ninety-five thousand preventable deaths are caused by alcohol every year in America? Ninety-five thousand people are killed every year by preventable deaths because of alcohol. And we want to justify it. Over seven hundred thousand children are abused every year. According to WHO, for whatever their word is worth, they said over fifty percent of those are caused by the consumption of alcohol. Over 700,000 kids, so 350,000 kids are abused every year by the cons by those that are consuming alcohol. And yet as a Christian I want to justify it I can have alcohol. I mean I'm just touching on one little thing here I can wait a little bit. David. was driving his two sons. Well, he was driving his family home. It was a hundred yards from his house. And they ran out of gas. You ever run out of gas? Yeah. They were 100 yards from home. So David and his twelve year old son David Jr. and his eleven year old son Caleb got out of the truck. Went to the back of the truck to push his wife and other two kids up to the driveway. They were gonna leave the car, get gas tomorrow. They were pushing the truck And a twenty-year-old drunk driver came around the corner, struck them, killed David Jr. and Caleb Yeah, we want to give our money to fund that. The illicit lifestyle of today looks fun. But the end is destruction. The Bible's clear. The Bible tells us that. And by faith we say, you know what, it doesn't make sense. This looks fun. And it does. That whole nightclub scene, the whole partying The all that they show it on TV, all that it looks looks like they're having such a blast. That's why there's an appeal to it that draws these young men and ladies. They want to go be a part of that. It looks fun, but by faith we trust what God said and we refuse. We don't have to experience it to know Because by faith we say God says stay away from it. Those things in the world might be pleasing to the senses, but they're not satisfying to the soul. They might be pleasing to the senses, but they are not satisfying to the soul. By faith, he refused some of the things the world had to offer. Are you exercising faith today? Are you refusing some things that you look at and say, you know what? It looks okay. Seems like it'd be fine. I don't understand what the big deal is. But by faith, I'm just gonna trust God that I'm gonna I'm gonna get away from that. I'm gonna put it out of my life. I'm gonna refuse some things. We've got to look through the eyes of faith. Because one day when the wealth withers and the glory is gone and the pleasure is past, We will see the results of living a life of sin. Don't you see he forsook some things? I'm sorry, refused some things. Not only did he refuse, but he also forsook. Look at verse number 27. He says, by faith he forsook Egypt. Not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. He forsook. To forsake is to leave behind, to abandon, to forsake some things. Moses, by faith, forsook Egypt and all that Egypt had to offer. And you know Egypt is a picture of the world. There's no question about that in the Word of God. You know that everything in your life to some degree has an impact on you. What are you allowing to influence you in your life? Your family, your friends, what it is you get fulfillment out of, your focus in life, all these things influence you in some way That's why it's so vitally important that we have the right kind of friends. Because they influence you. I guarantee you, if you hang around me, I'm going to influence you to be in church on Sunday. And I will not influence you to go to the club. Guaranteed. I don't even have to try and think about what I'm saying. I don't even have to try and control. I don't have to focus and be careful. I will influence you to try and be in church, and I will not influence you to the club. Now I'll probably influence you a little bit about Tesla. Okay, I might influence you some about them and and you know those cars are awesome and And uh, you know, that that's I might influence you something about that. There may be some other ways that I'll influence you, but I will influence you if you hang around me. The people you're hanging around are influencing you. The question I have for you is are they influencing you the right direction? No. Is your friend telling you, hey, I'll see you at church on Sunday? Hey, what'd you what'd you read in the Bible this morning? Hey, would you pray for me? I've got a friend I'm witnessing to right now. I I want to see him, I want to see him saved. How are your friends influencing you? You getting together doing a Bible study? Or you getting together together and partying? You might have to forsake some things. You know Judas. You see, Judas had a problem. He forsook Jesus. The Bible says, because he loved this present world, Egypt. But how about we forsake Egypt because we love Christ? He had to forsake some things. Are you willing to forsake some things? You say, oh, but I enjoy it. Come on, in the in the grand scheme of things. Can you by faith trust God and realize that that way is not, yes, there is pleasure there, but could you just say by faith? I'm going to forsake that and follow God, and I guarantee you you will not be disappointed. I agree right there. You will not be disappointed. Moses' motivation for forsaking Egypt was because he saw him who was invisible. He saw God. Have you seen God? You know, maybe our mind is too occupied with the visible for us to get a glimpse of the invisible. Paul talking to Timothy said, Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the one and only wise God, be honor and glory forever. Amen. Have you got a glimpse of him who is invisible? You might have to stop for a few minutes. You might have to slow down and pause your life for a few minutes to get a glimpse of him who is invisible. But you know when you get a glimpse of him, you won't feel like you're forsaking anything I'm glad to bring you. The other day I was at Roe Farms down on McCormick. I pulled in there to get some gas. And then the last stall was a twenty twenty-one suburban high country. Yeah. 8,000 pounds of towing capacity, 10. 2 inch digital control screen, independent rear suspension, Beautiful. I looked it up. It's an eighty-five thousand dollar car. And you know, I wasn't that interested, except it was the color that I like. Which is wood metallic. Beautiful. That kind of kind of a deep rich brown. I mean, I was telling my son Tim about it and he says, Dad, did you did you ask him if he would trade right now? Would he trade even up? Now listen, I like my suburban. I like it a lot. Yes, my kids will be driving down the road and I'll be like, man, this car is awesome. I'd be like, look this is this is sweet. Look at this thing. This ride is so smooth and and drives so well and I mean just goes straight down the road and toes really I mean I love this car, but you know what as much as I love The car that God has blessed me with, if that guy would have traded me even up there, I would have drove away in a heartbeat and I wouldn't have felt like I was forsaken anything. Would I? No, because of what I got in return was so far above and beyond anything I could even ask or think that I would have been glad to forsake my car In a heartbeat. You can have it. Here's the keys. Thank you. Get out of there before he changes mind That's what it ought to be, beloved, when we get a glimpse of God. We ought to look at God and see who he is and what he means to us. And we ought to look at this world and say, hey, I haven't forsaken anything. I haven't given anything up for God. I don't have a problem letting go of that because what I got in God is so much more than this world has ever offered me. That should be our focus. And forsaking this world should not be a matter of, oh, I've got to give it up. I've got to quit doing this so hard. I love it so much. That's demus. The problem is is our love is here instead of there. He forsook some things. That through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch He kept some things. There's some things that he knew he needed to do. And you know what? They probably didn't make that much sense to him. I mean you think about him there if you know the story of the Passover and that death angel that was coming through town And they had been instructed, if they take some blood of a clean lamb and put it over the lintel of their door, that the death angel would pass over their house And would not take their firstborn, but any home which didn't have the blood over the door would be taken, and the firstborn would be killed that night. You can imagine the neighbors looking at Moses and others, you know, putting this on their door Like, boy ar aren't they dumb. That doesn't make any sense. How in the world is that gonna protect you? I mean that that doesn't make any sense. But dearly beloved, the Bible says that without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sins. And it might not make sense sometimes what God asks of us. We think, I can have all the weight of my sin forgiven by simply praying and asking him to forgive me? That just seems too easy. Like I o I oughta have to like really like crawl on my knees from here to DC or something. I mean I gotta do something hard to get forgiveness. It doesn't make sense to me. Like, well, how could that be enough to actually be forgiven of all my sins that I've ever committed, past, present, and future? And and and and actually get a home in heaven, be guaranteed of heaven? How could that be enough? But by faith, Moses kept some things. And that's what it is. The just shall live by faith. You get eternal life by putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And in him alone. Not in anything that we can do. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast It doesn't make sense. Like why is this possible? How does that happen? Well, it happens because it's what God said And by faith you follow it. And by faith you reap the rewards of it. Now some of you here might be I know Dr. Keller, and just give you a little bit. He is doing a little bit better. Thank you for your prayers for him. Dr. Keller, if you've spent some time talking to him, you know that he likes Shackley. He's probably encouraged you to start taking some alfalfa and and such. And uh you know what If I could be 90-some years old and as strong as him, he's a pretty good testament for how it works, you know. So I think it might be worthwhile listening to him. But here's what I'm saying is sometimes you do something like that, maybe you take vitamins every day. You can't really see a lot of times what it's doing. But by faith you're doing that. Because you just have been convinced or you believe that that's going to help you. That that's going to make a difference. And sometimes as Christians we've been encouraged and challenged to do certain things. Read your Bible and pray every day, and you'll grow, grow, grow. And you read your Bible for a few days and you feel like, oh man, it didn't really change anything. It didn't do anything. But by faith, you get up tomorrow and read your Bible again. By faith, you spend some time in your life. You say, Well I'm not really seeing the difference, I'm not seeing it. But if you would by faith keep some things, if you would by faith just do what God asks of you. By faith Be faithful to God's house. You say, oh, well, sometimes Pastor Preaches are real flop. I know. I'm the one that did it. I know But by faith we gather in God's house, and it might not even be the message that day. It might be the ministry of music, something that was sung. It might be a brother or sister in Christ that came to you and gave you a word of encouragement. It's something, but God says, forsaking not the assimilative of yourselves together as the manner of some is. You say, okay, if God wants me to be in God's house, then I'm going to go. You don't answer to me. But by faith you say this is what God wants, so I'm going to please God. Now I work real hard to try and catch everybody in the back and and say hello and and And say goodbye and and greet you and make sure there's anything I can any way I can help you. But you don't come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church for me. I hope not. I hope you come to church for Jesus Christ because you want to honor and please God and your your f joy and fulfillment and being in God's house today is because of your relationship with Him, not because of your relationship with Mr. Caleb. And so that keeps you doing it. By faith you just keep doing. There's a lot of things in the Word of God and might be a good study for you to think about what are we what are we supposed to keep doing what are we supposed to um you know the Bible says um that we're to keep Your heart with all diligence. We're supposed to guard our heart. The Bible says that we're to keep the commandments of God. We're to keep the comm to keep doing the commandments of God. The Bible says that you're supposed to This is Paul talking to Timothy. He talking to Timothy, and he said to him, You need to keep the things with which you have been entrusted. Now that's a paraphrase, but something like that. Keep the things that you've been entrusted with. So it's the things we've been entrusted with. We're to we're to keep doing those. We're to we're to keep those, to guard them, to protect them. That's what that idea of keep is. So by faith we keep doing those. And I'll bet you there's some others You could do a little study and find some others that we're supposed to keep. Things that as Christians were to keep. By faith Moses did it. Are you doing it? Are you keeping what God wants you? to keep. That word belief that we think about believing something means to be fully persuaded. Moses was fully persuaded that his God was worth refusing some things, forsaking some things, and keeping some things. I hope this morning you're exercising faith in your life. And refusing some things, forsaking some things, and keeping some things by faith.