Deputation, we're heading to Brazil as missionaries to plant churches there in the state of Mato Grosso. You can see is that where where is that? Well if you pull out your map of Brazil, that's in your pocket. called Google Maps. Um you can look you can look at Mato Grosso and you can see you can zoom in and see you know what convenience stores are open and you can see it's just amazing technology these days But there's there's two cities in the state of Matagroso that we're praying about. One is called Lucas Duhio Vergi, and you you can go and look at it. You'll see there's 80,000 people who live there. And then the other city that we're praying about starting to work in is called Holmanopolis. Starts with an R. Randonopoulos is what it looks like Uh but it's a city of a quarter million people. And to our knowledge, there's there's no good Bible-believing church in either one of those cities. Uh they have Catholic churches. Brazil is still a Catholic majority as far as the religion down there Back in the 1870s, 1880s, it was the state religion of Brazil. But since they had the republic, they got away with they they separated the state from the religion. But even until the 60s and 70s, Brazil was 90% Catholic. Today the percentages dropped drastically to about 55 to 65% Catholic, depending who you read after. Uh you say, well that's a really good thing, right? There's there's well, there's more Catholics today than there was back in the sixties because population growth has doubled. Uh there's a hundred thousand hundred million in Brazil in 1968. Today there's 218 million who live there. And so there are more Catholics today there than there are than there were you know back 50, 60 years ago. Um besides that, you say, well w what are the other denominations? The Assembly of God is now about thirty percent of the country, and so they teach a lot of Pentecostal teachings that They'll say Jesus saves, and then they'll add in you have to be baptized and speak in tongues, and they start adding all these other works into salvation that People get awful confused and it's not it's not the true gospel of Jesus anymore. And so the Lord's Lord's called us to go. Uh go down there and start independent Baptist churches and And to see see him do a work there. And if you pray for us as you travel in deputation, uh appreciate it so much. Miles sometimes get really long with young people in the car with you But Lord's given us grace right now. We're about 14 months into deputation. Lord willing, we'll finish up in November. Right now about 72% of our support's coming in. And God's just blessed. We're thankful for what God's done A little bit, my wife noticed on the, I don't know if it's a missions board or if it's a TV screen back there, a wall of missionaries. Your church supports her brother, Jed and Gloria Duarte. So their missionaries down there, went down there in 2020, and they've started to work up in the top part of the state of Mato Grosso. Where we're heading is six, seven hours to the south, is where Lucas, the city that we're praying about going to, that's where that is. But thank you for supporting them. I just want to say thank you for for that. I know that they appreciate it very much. And it's neat to see what God's doing there in their ministry. If you take your Bibles with me this morning, 2 Peter chapter 3 is where we'll be Love for you to stop by the the table in the in the lobby there. We have prayer cards, we have coffee candy. You know, if it gets a little bit longer in Sunday school, you didn't get your cup before you came in here, you can go back there just I don't mind if I don't know how Pastor feels about it, get people getting up and leaving. But you can get up and go grab a handful, come back and sit down, and we'll keep on going. There's also a sign-up sheet there if you want to follow along with our ministry. We send out monthly email updates. Just appreciate. And if you want to just have a question for us, be happy to field those for you back there. We're just excited to be with you all today. 2 Peter chapter 3 starts out in verse 1 and says, This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you, in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance. So as Peter is starting his third chapter in his in his second letter there, he's talking about remembering things. It's so easy to forget. Isn't it? I mean sometimes you don't even like I don't even have to remember to forget. I just forget. People who study memory say that we forget for four reasons. First, because we don't consider something important to remember. We didn't pay attention to it in the first place. I might say, what what did you have for breakfast on Tuesday? Well, unless you don't eat breakfast or you eat the same thing every day, you would have to struggle for a minute to remember, okay, what did I have for breakfast on Tuesday? Why? Because at the moment it's very important. But now it it's not that important. So we we forget things because we don't attach significance to it. We don't think it's important to remember. Another reason why we forget things is because other memories interfere with the information. I was reading an article this week about how people their memories change. You know, you you talk to somebody, hey, remember how this happened? They say, no, no, no. That's not exactly how it happened. And they tell their version of the story. You say, no, no, no, I I'm sure it was this way. And and your your m other memories sometimes come in and they and they interfere with it. A third reason they say people forget is because we actively try to suppress the memory. Perhaps some trauma, some difficult thing in life. Something we just don't want to remember and we say, you know what, I'm I'm I'm gonna choose to forget that. And every time it pops up, I'm gonna no, I don't want to think about that, I'm gonna think about something else. And eventually that kind of whitewashes it and we don't remember it as well. Lastly, we forget things because we don't rehearse it. Perhaps in your family you have family legends. Or stories that passed down from grandpa and great-grandpa and and and the reason why we have those stories is because they were told over and over again. in the family. Hey, do you remember the story? You ever talk to somebody and they repeat the same story they just told you? You know? There are some folks, you just sit there and you listen and you smile and you pretend you laugh at the right time and you pretend you've never heard the story before. But sometimes we don't remember things because we don't rehearse it in our mind. We don't think about it, and so it doesn't become a memory. uh remembering events and facts. As we go over it, as we think about it again, you know maybe study and I don't know. Pastor Son just graduated. I'm sure before finals He went and he rehearsed the information he had to have. So that way he could remember it. If you don't rehearse it and and uh scientists say as you As you rehearse something, as you think about something, it cuts grooves deeper in your brain. It strengthens the synapses and the neuron connections in your brain. The more you remember it, the stronger those connections become, the easier it is to remember next time. But if we don't do that, then those connections aren't very strong and we forget. We put the information in there, but we just can't go back and get it out. God gives us a promise in His Word. And if we summed up all of 2 Peter 3, I believe it would be this promise. Jesus is coming. And we are likely to forget that for the same reasons we forget everything else. First, because we neglect the importance of it. We don't consider it as important. Now, Sunday school Christians in an independent Baptist Church, every one of us would agree, oh, that's important that Jesus is coming back. But it doesn't always change the way that we live on Tuesday afternoon. The fact that he could come at any moment. Oh we would shout about it on Sunday, but on Thursday morning when we're getting out of bed, it it doesn't always sink in. and change the way that that we live. Secondly, we we might have other things that interfere with that promise than that memory. The thoughts of today and today's work and tomorrow's trouble, they crowd out thought that he's coming back. Some might even try to suppress the knowledge of the Lord's return. I don't want to think about it. I want to live my life right now. But I believe, and this is the summation of the message this morning, we need to take time to rehearse the truth and let that impression burn the truth a little deeper into our heart so that way it changes who we are and how we live. Let's pray and then we'll jump into the chapter. Lord, thank you for this morning. Thank you for everyone who is here. I pray that you would make this a profitable time, that your Holy Spirit would work in our hearts. And Lord, help us to remember that you are coming back. And Lord, that that truth would change our lives and how we live and how we serve you. Thank you for the opportunity to be here today. Pray that you would use this message now in our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. First, I noticed that God rehearses his promise. He tells us to remember something. We should probably remember it In verse one we read, The second epistle, beloved I now write unto you, in both, which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance, that ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of us, the apostles, of the Lord and Savior. What is a common theme among the Old Testament prophets and the apostles in the New Testament? A common theme is the Lord is coming and he's going to dwell with his people. Zechariah chapter 2 verse 10 says, Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, for lo I come and I will dwell In the midst of thee, saith the Lord. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day and shall be my people. Psalm 24, 7 Says, lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. Malachi 3, verse 1, Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple. Even the messenger of the covenant whom ye delight in, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. God did not reveal the time span of the church age to the Old Testament prophets. No other prophecies mention how the Lord's coming back in power and glory and he's going to reign. We call it the millennial reign or the thousand-year reign of Christ here on earth. The New Testament reveals to us through rapture. 1 Thessalonians 4 tells us: for the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout and the voice of the archangel. And with the trump of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Won't that be good? I mean, we think of all the problems of today, and all the difficulties and issues and worries of tomorrow. And when you think, you know, the Lord could come, and I'll go home, I'll go to my mansion over the hilltop, and I'll be with him, and I'll dwell with God in heaven. That just saps all the sting out of death. That takes all the worry out of tomorrow because he's going to fix all that one day And I'm looking forward to when we get to dwell with God. You think all the way back to the Garden of Eden. This morning we woke up over at the church property in the missions house. Um and stepping outside in the back deck you could hear the birds singing in the trees. See the bunnies hopping in the grass. Everything was just so peaceful. And after a rainstorm it gets kind of peaceful it seems. Just so serene, so beautiful, so peaceful. And you think about how the Garden of Eden was just perfect. And Adam and Eve, they walked with God. And one day, all the noise and the pollution and the busyness, all of that's going to go away, and we get to dwell with God again. That's wonderful. And God rehearses that promise. He says, the Old Testament prophets, they told you about all of this. They told you, the New Testament apostles, they told you, the Lord is coming back, the day of the Lord is at hand. We too easily forget that Jesus is coming. The rapture is what we await, that Jesus is coming back in the air. He's going to take home His own, both those who have died, those who are living, we have such hope because whether we live or we die, we're the Lord's. And we're looking for Christ to catch us away and then to be with him forever. Revelation 21, 3 says, And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he shall dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write, for these words are true and faithful. God wanted John to write some stuff down about heaven and about how he's going to make everything new. Why? Because we're liable to forget. And he said, write it down so it's right there in black and white, right there on the parchment. So you can go back and you can remember and rehearse the memory that Jesus is coming and we're going to dwell with him. God wants us to think about the words of his promise. But if you get on in verse 3, the Bible goes on saying, Knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lust and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation. First, God rehearses his promise in the chapter. Then we see there's some scoffers that are ridiculing the promise. We know at the time of it, it's in the last days. Peter thought he was in the last days. How much more are we in the last days? Right before Christ returns. Notice these scoffers, these mockers, they walk after their own lusts. That idea of after mean is the idea that their lusts, their desires, were the standards by which they live. How did they govern their lives? How do they make decisions? Well, they took out the tape measure of what did they want? Their desires. Say, you know what? This doesn't match up to what I want, so I'm going to leave that behind. This is what I want over here. And that's how people live. Isn't it? Oh, this is what I want, so I'm going to go after it and get it I'm going to manifest my truth. I'm going to go after what I want. That's what I want, so I'm going to set myself to go and get it. Isn't that how the world around us lives? Isn't that how we sometimes live? Walking after our own desires It's not like Jesus said in in John chapter 4, My meet is to do the will of Him that sent me and to finish the work that He's given me to do. A lot of times we say, well what do I want? Do I want this? No, it doesn't quite measure up to what I want. Do I want this? Ah, there's the standard. That's what I'm going to walk after. That's what I'm going to go after. And here are scoffers. The thing that governed their life was their own desires. Now we humans, we differ in what we want. Perhaps did last week when Anniversary Sunday, did you have a potluck Yeah. Or I don't know what you call them here, you know, um, you know, they're not luck, but whatever. Um you have a little dinner there, dinner on the grounds or whatever, and you notice people's desires are on full display. You know, you get into the line with that plate and you wish you had to. And you say, I'm going to give a little bit of this, a little bit of that. You go over to the dessert table and some people, oh you've got to try some of this. You know chocolate chocolate brownies or ice, whatever you have, you can notice people like different things And people even desire different things in life. Now, there are some general things that we all want: the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. And that's hardwired into all of us. But sometimes it manifests itself a little bit differently. But it really doesn't matter what we're walking after. If it's wrong. We'll still walk according to our own desires. What is your standard for life? What do you measure decisions by? For some it's it's all about money. For some it's all about fame and what it will look like in the eyes of other people, you know, pe people pleasing. While I submit to you, the Lord wants us to do the will of God. Second Corinthians 5. 15, and that He died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them. and rose again. We need to measure everything we do by the standard of, does this what God want me to do? Is this what God wants me to do? Not do I want to do this. Because we get in a whole heap of trouble if we're just following what we want to do. Notice these scoffers, they're walking after their own lust, and they challenge the promise of God. Reminds me of Satan back in the Garden of Eden. Did God really say that? No, he didn't. He didn't really say that. These scoffers, they say, where is the promise of his coming? It's their desire to ignore God. In verse 5, it says, for this they willingly are ignorant of. Now I've been ignorant. I've been dumb. But here's some guys who are willingly ignorant. They say, I want God to escape my notice. I want to ignore God And you say, well, what are they ignoring? It says here they're willingly ignorant of that by the word of the Lord the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water, whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished. But the heavens and the earth which are now, by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto the fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. These folks say, where's the promise of his coming? Nothing has changed since the beginning of time. Everything's, you know, people people are born, people live, people die, the sun rises, the sun sets, the moon rises, the moon sets, all these nothing has changed. Since God created the world. Well, first, they don't even accept the fact that God created the world. They're ignorant willingly that by the word of the Lord the heavens were of old They're choosing to ignore the fact that God created the world. The same word that said, Jesus is coming, the same word said, let there be light, and there was light. And the scoffer saying, Where's the promise of his coming? They're ignoring the fact that God said, let there be light, and that God created the world. It's their desire to ignore that God created by his word. You can go and look in almost any secular textbook about science and read up on evolution. And how everything happened without a creator. And sometimes you get down to brass tacks and you're like, this makes no sense. It's this is silly. I I could talk to my four-year-old and she realizes Legos don't get put together without somebody putting it together. And the fact is there weren't even Legos to work with when the Big Bang happened. There was nothing. Oh, but then something just happened, and here we are. A very highly structured, sophisticated very mathematical universe that we live in, it just happened. And you look at it and you say, how could people be so ignorant because they choose to be? They choose to be ignorant. They choose to escape. They want God to escape their attention. They push them off to the side and say, no, it just happened. Because he see if they can say evolution happened, well then Jesus isn't coming back. I mean if if there is no God, how could he come back? But the fact is God says Jesus is coming, and here's some proof. God created the world. If he did that, couldn't he come back to the world? He's already been here once. Couldn't he come back again? You could. Not only creation, but you see that God keeps his promises in verse six, whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished. Here's another promise that God made. He came down to Noah and said, I'm going to send a flood. It's going to destroy everything on earth. Build an ark. I'll bring some animals. You and your family. Anybody who trusts in that ark. You come into that ark and you'll be saved. God made a promise. Decades later, God fulfilled that promise and sent the flood. And you can climb many mountains in this world today and you can still see evidence of the flood way up high on top of a mountain. Marine animals fossilized. How'd they get there? Well, you know, there's like plate tectonics, you know, and there's earthquakes and things, and they kind of got heaved up there. Couldn't we just say the flood answers all of those questions? But people are willingly ignorant that God created by His Word, and that God kept His promise of sending the flood already. And then in verse 7 it says, But the heavens and the earth which are now by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. Talking to scientists From what I've studied, they don't really know what holds everything together. You got molecules, you got atoms, and then you're getting down in like the quantum stuff. Which is just it's beyond me. I'm I'm too old to learn that kind of stuff. I've I've tried to wrap my brain around it. But you get down into the tiny, you know, the electrons and the neutrons and the protons and stuff and When you get down to the very bottom of it, they still don't know what holds everything together. And the Bible tells us it's God who holds it together. Colossians tells us that it's he holds he sustains it. He holds it all together. And even right now, God is the one holding it together. All he has to do is let it go. And it's all going to fly apart. And that's that's what's going to happen later, as we see uh in verse ten. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Talk about nuclear power. I don't know if that's fission or fusion, but it's all coming apart. And there's going to be a lot of sound and a lot of heat when God lets it all go. Even right now, the heaven and the earth, they are sustained by God. They're laid up. It's like storing treasure. God says, I have a plan for this, the heavens and the earth. And he's telling us his plan. Jesus is coming back. He rehearses it to us. Scoffers will mock it. But beloved, let's remember it. Verse 8 goes on. But beloved, I hope you fall into this second group, not the scoffers group. I hope you fall into the beloved group here. But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing that one day with the Lord, excuse me, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. We look at the time frame of life and we say, well, it's been 2,000 years since Jesus was living. Is he really going to come back? Well, God is above time. Today is Sunday. Two days ago was Friday. Wasn't that long ago, was it? What were you doing Friday? Well Pastor, I think you were in Indiana graduation. It wasn't too long ago. We were driving North Carolina to Harrisburg, PA, seven and a half hours in the van with three little kids. It was actually really good. God gave grace and we made it with our sanity. We were driving. No, that wasn't that long ago. And when God looks at this span of time, he says, oh yeah, Friday. was when Jesus arose from the dead. And when he went back to Friday was the church age. When Peter and Paul are going around and and preaching and people are getting saved, the church's getting started. Saturday was a thousand years, you know, the Middle Ages. That was just yesterday. That's the way God views time. God's above time. He's not bound like we are in time. God's not dragging his feet about fulfilling the promise. You say, well where's the w why he hasn't he come back yet? Well, his time hasn't come yet. Verse 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. He's not dragging his feet. He's not forgotten. He is not failing to keep his promise. The Lord is not slack concerning this promise, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The idea is God is not loose-handed about it. He didn't just make a promise, Jesus is coming back. And then, oh, well, I'll I'll let that one slip. Oops. No. No, he he still has it firmly in his hand. He still has his plans, and his plans haven't changed. Say, well, why hasn't he come back yet? Well, it was just a couple days ago when this whole thing got started. And God's above all the time. That we live in. God's not being slack about it. He's not being lazy about it. He hasn't forgotten about it. He still has it under his firm control that Jesus is coming back and he's going to fix all this mess that we've gotten ourselves into. The scoffers mock the promise. If you're looking for an excuse, you can find one. You can always find an excuse to dismiss what God has to say The very long suffering that allows the scoffer to take another breath is their excuse to mock God The Lord is being slack concerning this promise. No, no, no. The Lord is being long-suffering concerning his promise Aren't you glad that he is? Aren't you glad that he's merciful and long-suffering to you and to me? That the first time I sinned, he didn't take me out? The seeming delay is not because God is impotent or he can't or he's not willing to, but it's because he is long suffering. It's God's mercy that the scoffer uses to excuse their listening to his promise. And they mock him. Oh, God can't do it. Well God's actually being patient with you. God's being patient with me. God's will is it all come to repentance. As we finish up the chapter, there's three expectations we should have. First, we should expect the Lord to come. Verse 10: But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned shall be burned up. We should expect that the Lord's going to come. The day of the Lord talks It really points to the everlasting establishment of the kingdom of heaven, as one dictionary put it. The fact that God's going to come back and establish his kingdom. Here the focus is on the destruction of the heavens and the earth at the great white throne. When all the dead, small and great, stand before him, and the heavens and the earth they vanish away. That's the focus of this verse here. Well, let's expect that the Lord's going to come. Second, let's expect that these things are going to be destroyed. You know that house that we work so much on? Getting it fixed up and replacing this and changing that around and and we put a lot of work into it? It's all going to be gone one day. You know the car that we're so proud of when we wax and or maybe we just try to change the oil and keep it running on the road, that's going to be gone one day. All the fun things that we do, if I was talking to children, I'd say, all your toys. You know, but I find out that adults we have toys too. You know, they're just a little more expensive. But they're all gonna be gone one day. What's really going to last? I remember doing a study in January this year on what is eternal And you say, you had to study that? Like I I know those things. Well, I I just wanted to see what the Bible had to say. What is eternal? What is everlasting? And everything fell into three groups. The first group was God. He's eternal. His character is eternal, his person is eternal, his plans are eternal, his purposes and his promises, they're eternal, they don't change. The second thing I saw that was eternal was heaven and hell. Everlasting burnings, everlasting fire, eternal fire. Heaven is a place of everlasting joy, everlasting light So we have God, heaven, and hell, and then the other thing that's described as eternal is souls or people. People are eternal. And you'll be hard-pressed to find anything else in the Bible that is eternal. You say, well, Israel is eternal. Yeah, that I kind of lumped that under God's purposes and plans and under people. That his his choice for Israel, you know, that was eternal. He's kind of set him on a shelf right now. We have the church age and all, but God's eternal, heaven and hell is eternal, people are eternal. All this stuff that we spend a lot of energy on. And we have to. We have to live. I mean we can't just go through life and We could do the whole monastery, you know, not nunnery. What's the word for that? Wherever nuns live. Abbey. I learned something watching the sound of music. An Abbey. You know, we could we could just like sell everything, get rid of everything, and go move into a hole in the ground. But I don't think that's how the Lord wants us to live. He wants us to live in the world, just not be of the world, and not be so focused on the stuff here that's going to get destroyed. Because it's all going to burn up one day. So we can hold it a little more loosely. So expect the Lord to come, expect all this stuff to be destroyed. Expect a new heaven and a new earth. In verse 13, it says, Nevertheless, we, according to his promise. See how the promise changes the way you think? We, according to his promise, look for a new heavens and a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Because of God's promise, we look for the new Jerusalem. This world is not my home, I'm just a passing through. Like the heroes of faith in Hebrews 11, if they had been mindful of the country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country that isn't heavenly. They weren't looking just right here, they were looking for a heavenly country. So let's expect a new heaven and a new earth, and let's look for a place where there's righteousness. Right now I'm trying to teach our children that blessed are the peacemakers. I tell them we want to have peace in our home. Let's go after peace. Let's try let's strive for peace rather than arguing in strife. Well, as saints, we should desire a place where there's righteousness. We look around our world and there's so much wrong, so much sin. We should desire a place where there's righteousness. Because where there's righteousness, there'll be peace and there'll be joy. But heaven is where we're gonna where righteousness dwells. And we should be looking forward to that day. We should be preparing for that day In light of this promise, we should expect these three things. But what should we be doing? Well, first, we should live holy and godly lives. Verse 11, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved. What manner of persons are you to be in all holy conversation and godliness? How should we be? We should live holy. And godly. When we remember that Jesus could return at any time, we'll start living the way that He asks us to live Secondly, in verse 12, we should be diligent, looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of the Lord, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Verse 14, wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless. So, how should we live? Expecting that the Lord's coming, expecting that this world's going to be destroyed, expecting a new heaven and new earth? Well, first we should live holy and godly. Second. We should be diligent to be found of Christ without spot and blameless. 1 Peter 1. 9 tells us the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. God wants us to look like Jesus while we're still here on this broken world. And it's his blood that can wash away those stains. Trusting in him as our Savior, and then confessing our sin is what will wash away those stains, and we can be found with Him without spot and without wrinkle without blame, blameless. Is there anything worthy of blame in my life? And when Christ returns I want to have everything taken care of. And he could return at any moment. So we should live holy and godly lives. We should be diligent to be found blameless. And lastly, we should account that God's long suffering is salvation. That's verse 15. And account that the long-suffering of our Lord is salvation. We should regard it. We should think this. Why is God being so long-suffering? So that way I could get saved. God waited until 1997 so I could get saved. God's waited until 2025 so that other people can get saved. Well, why isn't God coming back and fixed all the problems? Life would be so much easier if I could just go to heaven. That's true. That is very true. But the fact that God's waiting and delaying is for a reason. It's for salvation. So I'm already saved. I can go now. Well you'll now you're ready. It's for the salvation of other people. So that way they can be saved. And they can enjoy the new heaven and the new earth as well. I remember when my parents would be gone for an afternoon. They would tell us, oh, we're going to go out shopping, we're going to go to this store, we're going to go to the bank, you know, and this and that. And as kids, we would calculate. There were there were six of us, six kids in our family. We would calculate How long are mom and dad going to be gone? How long will it take for them to drive to the bank, drive to the store, drive to the other store, come back home? And we would calculate in our mind. Mom and Dad told us to clean the house, you know, have have stuff ready for them when they come home, and we would say, okay, if they leave at two, they won't be back till probably four thirty. We would wait until 4. 15 to start cleaning the house. I mean, we would just go out and play, we would play games, we would just read books, we would do whatever we wanted to until about 4. 15, and they came home at 4. 10. And we weren't ready. Jesus is coming. It's not that he's forgotten to tell us that. It's that we've forgotten to remember that. And we haven't let that change how we live. We say, oh, we can just kind of mess around, have some fun here and No, God says we want live holy, live godly, live blameless. Look for Him to come. Don't scoff and doubt God. He's coming, He's being long-suffering so that way other people can get saved. Let's be found with him. Let's do what we can while we can. And the reason why he's left us here is so that way other people can get saved. And let's be involved in that work as well. Pastor, would you come? The closest morning.