Well, very unusual, but uh kind of fun. Uh we're going to be in the same chapter of the Bible that we were this morning. Turn of the Bible to 2 Kings chapter number 5. 2 Kings chapter number 5. As I began studying for the message that I preached this morning, I read a particular verse. And uh it just jumped out at me. And I I even asked my wife, I said, have you ever heard a message on this verse? And she says, Well I've heard it as part of a message, like they preached in that verse as part of it. She's like, I don't know if I had And actually the thought in my heart and mind when I first read it is not a correct interpretation. Uh when I started studying it, I'm like, oh that's not even what it's saying. In my mind, what I saw And uh and so I had to study it a little bit deeper. And uh so the title of tonight's message is Can You Be Trusted? And I have for some time now tr been trying to put together some thoughts on trust And if if you have any uh uh anything regards to the topic of trust, of of building trust, how how to build and establish that trust. You understand that any profitable or fruitful relationship is built on the foundation of trust. That's the the foundation of it. Without that, there can't be much of a relationship. And that is so vitally important. And so I've been trying to to just kind of collect thoughts and let that muse in my heart and mind and grow and and gather anything I can, maybe even on the side of like, okay, what now the trust is broken, how do we build that back How can it be restored? And it can be restored. And so what is the steps and processes to do that? And so there's a lot of aspects of it. If you have any thoughts, you can share it with me. But tonight Specifically, I'm going to deal with one aspect, and that is, can God trust you? Can God trust you? And I want you to see in our verses this evening, and we're going to begin in verse 15. Which we stopped this morning in verse 14, where Naaman was cleansed, made clean. He comes up out of the water and he's got new skin. He's he's like a newborn babe. And uh really a newborn babe in Christ. He just found God. And so we're going to begin in verse number 15. And as much as this morning's message was really directed towards those who didn't know Christ, and was really focused in on the lost and how to be cleansed. Tonight's message is focused in on those who are like Naaman. They know God. They've been cleansed. They have gone through the cleansing and washing of Christ, and they've been introduced to God. They know that And then you go from there, which is what we see here in the story of Naaman, that he's been cleansed and he comes up out of the water, and we see what happens next. Would you follow along? We're going to read down through verse number 19. 2 Kings 5, verses 15 through 19. It says, and he returned to the man of God. He and all his company, and came and stood before him, and he said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth. but in Israel. Now therefore I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. But he said, As the Lord liveth, for whom I stand, I will receive none And he urged him to take it, but he refused. And Naaman said, Shall there not, then, I pray thee, be given to thy servant two mules, burdens of earth? For thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. Verse number 18 is which jumped out the verse that jumped out at me. He says, In this thing, the Lord pardoned thy servant. That when my master goeth into the house of Ramon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimon, When I bow down myself in the house of Rimon, the Lord, pardon thy servant in this thing. And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a little way. You know, first of all, I want you to see this evening the recognition of God. The recognition of God. He tells in verse number 15, and he returned to the man of God and all his company, and he came and he stood before him, and he said, Behold, now I know there is no God in all the earth. But in Israel. And that's what happens when somebody comes to Christ. When somebody experiences the true forgiveness of Jesus Christ and their sins are washed away. That burden and that weight. uh of sin is removed from their heart and their life and and they they just like Nabin rising up out of that water and his his skin being made clean and it is much the same way where a man's heart is washed and made clean, and they know that God in heaven did it because there's nothing else that could have removed that weight of sin. And they're excited about it. They're thrilled about knowing God and knowing his forgiveness. That's what happens when a soul is introduced to Christ for the first time. Their eyes are opened. There is a recognition of the God in heaven that has the power to forgive and to save. And their heart is filled with gratitude, like that leper in the New Testament, the one who had gratitude, and returned to Christ to thank him. So Naaman comes up out of the water and he doesn't return to the king. He returns back to the men of God. To the place where the grace of God was shown and his heart is filled with gratitude. He's thankful. He sees the state of the man of God. I can't imagine, I mean you know the stories of Elisha. I can't imagine he was living in prosperity. I can't imagine he had uh he was much to look at or you know he certainly wasn't driving a Cadillac. Uh you know, his chariot was probably a little broken down if he had a chariot at all And uh the the prophet, the man of God, you know, the uh Naaman sees him and thinks, man, this guy could really use some help, and I can help him. And after all, why not? I mean, look what he did for me. I mean, I'm ready, and he comes up to him. In verse number 16, we see the refusal of a gift. But he said, As the Lord liveth, for whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it. But he refused. You know, Naaman wanted to be a blessing, and there's nothing wrong with being a blessing. Nothing wrong with uh you know your heart's been touched, your heart's been blessed, and you have the means or wherewithal to be a blessing to somebody else. There's nothing wrong with that But there's a lesson that God is teaching here, and that is that the grace of God is not for sale. The mercy of God is not for sale, and there's nothing that Naaman could give for it that would pay for what he received Just like you and I, there's nothing we can give that could possibly pay for what we've received. We know that from a grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourselves it is a what? Gift. It's a gift. Oftentimes when I'm giving a presentation of the gospel or dealing with somebody, I will try and take that a step further and illustrate. And probably 50% of the time people get it wrong. I will ask them, let's say I wanted to give you this Bible. Wasn't going to cost you anything at all. But I said, all you have to do for it is 20 push-ups. Is that a gift? And they say, yeah. And I said, well, what if after you did the push-ups I said, ah just kidding. I'm not giving it to you. And then they're like, well that wouldn't be fair. I said, why? Because you earned it. Right? Because you did the twenty push-ups for it. You see, the minute you begin to work for something, it ceases to be a gift. And Christ was trying to, God was trying to teach us a lesson about His mercy, and that it's free. And there's nothing that He could give for it. So the man of God refused it. He said, No, I I'm not going to take any of it, even though Naaman urged him the more and said, Please, you know, do it, man, I just I've got it here. It's from the king. It's it's you know It's all yours, but he wouldn't take it. You see, he didn't want to take God's credit, so he wouldn't take any recompense It reminds us, beloved, that the gifts of God are more valuable than silver and gold. But also as a reminder to any prophet That the principle of not being greedy of filthy lucre still stands. We as God's servants are not to be in it for the money. Any preacher of the gospel of Jesus Christ that's in it for the money needs to get out. Needs to go work a job and get paid because the ministry, although God blesses There's a difference between God blessing somebody and you standing back in awe and seeing what God did and feel completely unworthy and just almost embarrassed about how good God's been. To somebody who is seeking more and more and wanting more and more from those whom he's had opportunity to minister to. He refused the gift. I wonder how often we as preachers of the gospel refuse the gift. Might be a lesson for us at some point. We're to put aside all covetousness, understanding, beloved, that it's God who does the work. It's God who does the work. It's never us. You know, sometimes I have I have fun with my outlines. You guys know that. I I work at them and try and, you know, like tonight's my last point is still blank. I need help with that one But I I have fun with it. But you know you can have the most eloquent outline and not do anything for the heart of men. And you can get up and just say a few simple words and have no outline at all, and God changes the heart. It's God that does the work. It's not it's not us. I think people men preachers of the gospel need to remember that. Maybe we'll be more likely to refuse the gift when we realize it's God that does it, not us. The heart of the message tonight here, we're getting to it now, but we see in verse number 17 that he has a request for some ground. It's kind of interesting. Naaman said, Shall there not? Then he says, Well, you won't take my gifts. Can I have some dirt? He asked for some ground. He said, He says, I pray thee. Be given to thy servant two mules, burden of earth. For thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offerings nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. He says, hey, can I have two meals full of dirt? Can we take two meal loads of dirt back home? God's probably like, whatever you want. I mean, sure. Have some dirt, you know. Feel free. You know, I did some studying on this and there is a great significance in that culture to the dirt, to the land. Where God was, to the place that God was. You see it often even in this story where he says, There is no other God but the God of Israel the place. And he maybe uh maybe out of a little superstition, maybe because of the culture and understanding, even today, Jews Have a veneration, a a they put extreme value on dirt from Palestine. Even now. It is one of the highest honors for a Jew to be carried home and buried in Palestine. If that is impossible, the next best thing for them is actually to have dirt from Palestine placed in their casket. That they're buried with dirt from Palestine. There is something about that ground that they look at and they say this is holy ground and Naaman having been healed of God and and seeing the God of Israel, he looks at this dirt and he says, You know what? If I'm going to worship the God of Israel, maybe I got to have some of this dirt back home I gotta have some of this there where I can meet with God, whatever it is. I I want to be sure to be able to worship the God of Israel. And he asked for some dirt. He wanted a reminder of the great goodness of God towards him. A Gentile. It wasn't his land. It wasn't his home. It was foreign to him. But he wanted to set up a memorial to remember what God did, so gracious and thankful for it. Maybe he wanted to use it to set up an altar, as he described in this verse, that for thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offerings nor sacrifice unto other gods but unto the Lord. Set up an altar to give offering to God. But then verse number 18 comes, and this is where I When I first read this, I thought, man, in verse 15, he says, There's no other God but the God of Israel. And look at this, this is what God did for me. And just two verses later, he goes in. And he bows before a false God. And I started reading it. I'm like, well, not really. At this point, he's just planning to do that. He's just planning to. And there's several thoughts that I want to give you here with regards to this, but beloved He was planning to do that which he knew God would not be pleased with. He had just experienced the grace of God, he had just been healed by God in putting it in our our Typology in the story which we had today with regards to being forgiven, he had just experienced salvation and God had forgiven him of his sin, washed him clean, and that Law of God that's written on the heart of man told him that he shouldn't be bowing to any other God. And yet he in his heart and mind says, Hey, when I go back home, I'm gonna do this. So in advance, will you say it's okay? I've had people come and ask questions like that of me. I'm just a pastor. It doesn't doesn't matter at all what I say. I mean I can put my blessing on it, but if it's sin, it's still sin. Doesn't matter what I say. It doesn't matter what God says I mean I've had people come and ask me, hey Pastor Caleb, will you give us permission to get a divorce? I'm like, no, I can't do that. I can tell you what God's Word says. That God is not pleased. That's not what God wants. Your options with regards to the Word of God are separation or reconciliation. This is what God's Word teaches. And when you put it that way, that means you gotta figure it out, amen? But I've had other questions, you know, people try and explain why it's okay for them to this, you know girl and man who's not married to live together. No, it's not right. But he was asking, he was planning, he was wanting to go do that which he knew in his heart was not right. But was looking for approval or forgiveness ahead of time. Beloved, there's several things. Consider with me, first of all, the very least. Think about the missed opportunity he had to be a witness to his fellow man. I wonder how many people thought it was Rama who healed Naaman When Naaman went in to worship and bow to a false God, I wonder how many of the nation, I mean Soldiers, he was a captain of the guard, the host, and and he was a leader in the country and and had huge influence And instead of standing for God and pointing people to the truth of the God of Israel that cleansed him and washed him of his leprosy, he went and bowed before this false God. And what a lost opportunity to be a witness. What a lost opportunity to be a testimony. But I want you to know that he was planning to defile his conscience. You see, beloved, we are to live with a conscience void of offense before God and man. Acts 24, 16 says, and herein do I exercise myself to have always a conscience void of offense. Towards God and toward man. Dear friend, a conscience that is clear is worth more than money can buy. A clear conscience. A conscience void of offense. You know what it's like when there's absolutely nothing between you and your Savior You know what it's like when there's nothing between you and your mate. When there is that clear conscience, that sweet fellowship between you. A clear conscience, I mean you can't buy it. There's nothing like it. I actually believe, beloved, that Many of today's mental challenges are a result of a continually defiled conscience. Men in today's world live in such a way that they continually over and over and over again do that which in their heart and their mind they know is wrong. They defile their conscience over and over and over again, and they cannot live with themselves. The value of a clear conscience cannot be overstated A clear conscience brings peace. A defiled conscience brings turmoil. A defiled conscience will make shipwreck of your life. First Timothy 1, verse number 19, he says, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck. Some have put away. They've taken their conscience and they just said, no, it doesn't matter. Like naming here. I know it's not right, but I'm going to go do this anyway. I'm going to defile my conscience. And 1 Timothy there, he says, it's going to make shipwreck of your life. It's going to ruin your life. Man is in big trouble when he's no longer restrained by a God-directed conscience. You see, really that is the only place that we get to where we are trustworthy. Here, Caleb, come here. Getting bigger all the time. Probably gonna be taller than me soon. If we flatten the hair then he's uh You know, he'll do right. Walk with me as long as I'm standing right here. As long as we will only do right when there's external control. We're not trustworthy. I've tried to tell my kids, just because you do right what I'm saying here, it's not where you get where you get to earn trust. As long as I'm here and I'm with you, then I'm controlling your attitude and your actions and what you're going to do and not going to do. There's external control. Where we begin to earn trust is when dad's gone. And Caleb, you're home alone. And I didn't turn the internet off. And you have access to it. And you on your own decide what you're going to do. That's when you begin to establish whether you're trustworthy or not. And that is when our conscience has to control our actions. A God-directed conscience. And it's not just for the kids, thank you, you can be seated. Because the older we get, the less external control we have. But the more we need to be yielded to a God-directed conscience. That God is directing our life We have got to live in such a way that we are not defiling our conscience. You see, Naaman was planning to go do that which he knew God was not going to be pleased with. And I don't know about you, but I know in my heart there has been days and hours, there's been times where I planned to do that which I knew God didn't really want me to do That I knew was not going to make God happy, that he wasn't going to be pleased, but I thought, well, it'll be okay. The Holy Spirit was telling me no, and I put it aside and I said, I'm gonna do it anyway. I know God will forgive me. I'm just getting real honest with you. The question tonight is, can God trust you? God, we can begin to trust you. He can begin to trust me when the Holy Spirit speaks to us and pricks our conscience and we say yes, Lord. We say okay. We respond. We don't say, oh, God forgive me. How does he put it here? He he says, pardon me in this thing, right? Queen Victoria once noticed one of her sergeants drilling a group of soldiers. She was very impressed by his discipline and organization and wanted to reward him. She called and uh called had him beckoned and brought to her and And she said, I would like you to come with me to some very some private theatricals. The sergeant hesitated and asked, Majesty, could I graciously decline? For the theater has at times been a snare to me. And the queen agreed at once and said, I value men who keep their convictions short at hand And she sent him a token of royal favor for his stand. He wasn't going to yield to that. He had something that he knew that God wouldn't be pleased with. And he said, you know what, I'm not going to do that. Even at the queen's request. I wonder how trustworthy are we? What is it that God has asked you to do or to not do that You've yet to respond or make right. Can I tell you, beloved, you and I were we're saved and God expects it of us. I know Satan will contrive to cause you to defile your conscience. In any number of ways. But I praise God he can restore it. I just see the last verse. I'm still working on the point for this one, but the last verse has offered quite a controversy in the commentary world because it appears as though the man of God says, okay, go ahead. So the so Naaman asks, Hey, can I go do this thing that God's not going to be happy with, right? He says, Can I go? Is this okay? And you see what the prophet says in verse 19. And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a little way. So there's been some considerable controversy because it appears that Elisha says, sure. Go in peace. God bless you. You know. Have at it. Go bow to whoever you want to. That's not really the case, beloved. First of all, I'd like you to consider a couple things with regards to this. First, consider that this is a new babe in Christ. And none of us would expect a hardened sinner, somebody that had spent the entirety of their life Involved in the sin of the world, and they come into church and they find Christ and they raise from the river a new man and they're excited and thrilled. We wouldn't expect them to have everything. 100% taken care of and cleaned up. For we know that God's grace is still working on us. We've been saved how many years, and yet still it's God God is changing us, right? So we wouldn't expect somebody that was just saved to necessarily have it all. So I I think maybe the the prophet is is really just recognizing some grace in this man's life and understanding that he needs to grow a little bit Maybe he doesn't understand the full ramifications of this, but he says, listen, it'll be okay. I also think that possibly with regards to the thought about him and his conscience Maybe the man of God is saying, go in peace, and I think he's maybe just kind of saying, you do what God will give you peace to do. As long as you have peace with God, you go do that. And I I can't I've told it before, but there's no other story that I know that more clearly explains this than Herb Trinese. And I was there as a young man, pro I don't know, twelve years old maybe, thirteen maybe. Herb Chinese and Mrs. Chinese, they were Germans and We were out knocking doors in El Paso, Texas, and Herb Chinese and his wife wanted to get saved, but before they did, he looked at my dad and he says, Now, preacher man, He says, we're German, and Germans drink. We drink with every meal. I'm gonna get saved, but I want you to know I ain't quitting drinking And my dad looked at him and says, Herb, you just do what God wants you to do. You just do what God wants, and I'll be as thrilled as can be. You don't don't worry about that. Herb bowed his head, put his faith and trust in Christ, and we said goodbye that night. Two weeks later, I remember him walking into the Baghdad Church and he's crying, he's tears coming down his face. My dad walks up and I was again standing there and I saw him coming up and he looks at dad and he goes, Preacher, I gotta quit my drinking Dad didn't say anything. He just said, you just do what God wants. And God convicted her of trying to heart. I think maybe a little bit like that, the man of God was saying, Go in peace. You just do what God will give you peace in your heart to do. The problem is many of us as Christians We're living where Naaman was in verse 18. Instead of letting the peace of God reign in our hearts. Can God trust you? Can God trust me?