Well, I'm gonna continue the thought from this morning. I know it won't be long. But we concluded the message this morning. I should say I stopped with the very just a thought for the Christian. This morning was really a message to the lost with the extra influx of visitors we had this morning, not knowing where they were at, I felt really needed to focus on that. But obviously for a large majority of those that come to church You've made a decision for Christ already. You've cast your ballot. You said, I believe in Christ, and I choose Christ. And you've cast your ballot for him. So then comes, like the question was posed for Peter, who do say ye that I am? And Peter said, Thou art the Son of God. He recognized him as the Son of God and Christ looked at him and said, Okay, well, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his Cross and follow me in Matthew chapter sixteen, verse number twenty-four. You know The Christian light, the beginning, is choosing Christ. It's deciding Casting your ballot for Christ. But you and I both know that daily we have to cast our ballot for your cross. You have to decide to pick up your cross. As Christ said, if any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross. Follow me. These three steps here have been described as the marks of a true disciple, the steps of being a disciple of Jesus Christ. Require that a man deny himself, that he take up his cross, and that he follow after God. I want to give you just a couple of simple thoughts with regards to this evening. Beloved, I feel so inadequate to preach the Word of God. As we bowed our heads this evening and were brought into the presence of God Himself, As we can come into the throne room and bring our burdens to Him, each and every person here, as I hear those pray for your pastors and The leadership of the church and asking that we might have the wisdom that's needed and the messages that God's people need and My heart cried with you, Lord, yes. I stand behind this sacred desk week after week, and I'm a finite man attempting to preach an infinite book To reach an infinite number of problems, to address and help each of you in every different situation that you're facing in your life. And it's only God that can do that. And we need him this evening to speak to us. I want you to see, first of all, that it's a simple request. He said, if any man will come after us. This is available to anybody. I find comfort in the fact that Peter was such a mess up. That Peter didn't always get it right. That Peter wasn't perfect. As a matter of fact, you remember this morning we read the couple of verses just before this. Where Jesus called Peter Satan. He said, Get thee behind me, Satan. I was referring to the work that Satan was doing in Peter's life. You understand sometimes Satan can use you and I? You know, I think Christ was probably looking at Peter, but he was, he recognized and understood that it wasn't Peter that was saying this to him. It was Satan. Beloved, sometimes we need to recognize it's not our brother and sister in Christ that just stuck their foot in their mouth. mouth or just said something that they shouldn't have or somehow weren't as considered as they should have. We need to recognize it as an attempt of Satan to get in and cause a problem between you and a brother and sister in Christ. We need to, like Christ said, get thee behind me, Satan. Don't let Satan do that. And obviously we need to strive to not be used of Satan, but He looks at her and he says, if any man, any man can follow Christ, you don't have to look around the church and see somebody and say, boy, I can't be like them. I'm not as godly as that person. I'm not as perfect as was prayed this evening The staff have no problems. We have no I mean, he was not saying that, he's just saying sometimes you look at other people and you think they've got it all figured out. You understand every one of us are just a lump of clay. And God is still working on us. We need God's power and God's direction, and we have things in our lives individually, each one of us, everybody in here, that we need God to do a miraculous thing just to keep us going from day to day. But I'm glad that it's available to any man to follow Christ. It's a simple request. It's also a selfless request. If we're going to follow Christ, we've got to be selfless. We've got to deny ourself and take up a cross. The fact, beloved, is if we're going to follow Christ as Christ would have us, it's going to cost something. It's going to cost something. It might cost a little bit of time. It might cost a little bit of sleep. It might cost some some finances. It might cost some some of our friends. I don't know where the cost for you is going to show up. But if we're going to follow Christ, it's gonna cost. We've got to be ready, ready and willing. It's combined willing and ready there. We gotta be ready. We gotta be ready and willing to follow Christ, to pay the price. Whatever the price is, beloved, my boys wanted to go to Sky Zone and bounce on the trampolines. They desired to do that. So they got online and they found out what it cost. They came to me and they said, Dad, this is what it costs. If we pay for it, can we do it? They were ready to pay for it. I said, sure, if you're going to pay for it, that's fine. They did it gladly. Why? Because they wanted to do that. You know if you're going to be a bodybuilder, you're going to pay the price to build the muscles. You you just determine because that's what you want to do. If you're going to be a runner, you pay the price for getting faster. You know what, it's not up for debate. The fact of the matter is, is you and I, we do pay the price for what we want to do. Sometimes we want more sleep. So we pay the price. Of the chaotic and hectic morning, running around with her like a chicken with her head cut off, trying to make sure everything happens before we get to work and find out oh we left the lunch at home and all you've all had a morning like that at some point You paid the price because you didn't get up and do it like you know you you had a plan and you're like, oh I want to sleep and so you sleep and then you just you you run and oh man I overslept and I didn't mean you sleep that long and you and you pay the price for it because that's what you wanted to do was to get some extra rest. It's a fact that we will pay the price. We always do and we choose to and we almost Gladly choose to pay the price to do what we want to do. So the question is: do we want to follow Christ? Do we really, really down in our heart desire to be followers of Jesus? If we do, we'll pay the price, we'll give up the sleep, we'll give up the finances, we'll give up the reputation, we'll give up the pride, we'll give up our own ambitions and desire to pick up our cross and follow Christ We don't do it reluctantly, we do it rejoicingly. Too many of us put requirements on our surrender to Jesus. If you give me, Lord, I will If you help me, I will. Here's one that's used a lot, and I'm sure many of you have heard it. If you heal me. I will. Job said, though he slay me, I will. The price literally is denying yourself. Denying yourself. The idea of taking up your cross is quite literally dying to self I've used this illustration many times, and I'm pretty sure it was less a roll off who said it. Somebody said to him, you know, I'm sorry for offending you, brother. He says, You didn't offend me. He said, you can't offend a dead man. You can't offend a dead man. Love it if we're getting offended. We haven't died to see Because you can't offend a dead man. Understand it's not about us Years ago there was a girl who, out of curiosity, walked into the back door of a church. She sat and listened to the service and hearing the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ for the first time, her heart was touched, and she went forward and trusted Christ as her Savior. She hid the fact that she was attending church from her family because her family was a very wealthy, well-to-do family, well-known in the community. And she snuck out of the house, as it were, and went to church week after week. And after some weeks of being in church, she felt God wanted her to be a missionary to China. Finally, she could hide the fact no more, and she told her family of her salvation decision, and she told them about how she felt God wanted her to go to China as a missionary. The daughter of this multimillion-dollar businessman is socially prominent and wealthy family. Mom and dad were having none of that. They laughed and sneered and they thought, well, we'll get this out of her. We'll find a way to get her to deny this and walk away from it. They crafted plans and tried to get her discouraged and it seemed as though nothing would work. This girl was engaged to a successful and prominent businessman in the community as well, and she talked to him about Christ, and he took the position that her parents did. Strove to try and get her to deny Christ. Later, as an effort, as a goal for this young lady to give up this idea of going to China, the family held a large public event. And many of the movers and shakers in the community were there, and everybody gathered, and this was a big, a big to-do, and everybody was present. And it was the goal each of them had come with the ambition of talking this girl out of giving her life to Christ. And why would she throw her life away like that? Why would she waste all that She had been blessed with and go to China as a missionary. It's crazy. And all night long people came up to her one after the other, these prominent people in the community, trying to talk her out of this. Finally, she walked to the front, went over to the piano, and began to play and to sing a song that holds these words. Jesus I my cross have taken all to leave and follow thee. Destitute, despised, and forsaken. Thou from hence my all shall be. She played that and sang it for all of those presents with tears in her eyes. She was declaring, It's not about me. It's about Jesus. Her fiance that night came to her and said, if this Jesus means that much to you. Would you introduce him to me? He trusted Christ that night and that family went to China. as missionaries. Beloved, you either deny self or you will deny Christ. That's what Peter did. Jesus told him, you've got to take up your cross. You've got to deny yourself and follow me It hadn't registered for Peter yet. I don't think that we can effectively pick up our cross unless we've denied ourselves. Jesus denied himself and picked up his cross for you and I The price of picking up your cross many times in the world has been described as some challenging thing. You know, some ladies, it's their husband is the cross they have to bear. Some some thing, it's sometimes they say, Oh, my work is the cross I have to bear, or or or oh it's it's this This situation that it's the cross that I have to bear. It's this old worn-out car I have to drive. But in reality, the cross we have to bear is denying our Beloved, you don't lose a seed when you plant it, although it seems dead. When it dies, it brings forth life and is able to flourish and be all that it was supposed to be by God's design. And when you and I deny ourselves, through the power of God in a miraculous way, it allows us to flourish and grow Grow and be what God designed us to be for His honor and glory. We take up our cross in exchange. For our own cause. Put our cause down, put our desires down, put what we want down, and pick up our cross for Jesus. Beloved, what I want you to understand is that it's a satisfying request. It's a satisfying request. There's nothing more More satisfying or fulfilling than following Jesus. Than following Jesus I know everybody knows it's we get distracted, we get sideturned, we get involved in our own endeavors sometimes, and we've got to get called back. We've got to get pointed back in the right direction. I scoured and scoured trying to find a applicable illustration. I know there are many, but calling them to mind or using Their names or describing exactly where they were is hard for me. But as I think about it, I just Just think there's nobody I've ever met that reached the end of their life that said, I'm sorry, I followed Christ. I've never found anybody at the end of their days that were disappointed that they served God or that they followed the Lord or that they did to the best of their ability. What God wanted them to do. But beloved, I can tell you time and time again the sorrow in the heart of somebody Maybe not at death's door yet, but when they realized of the years that they've lost and wasted because they weren't following Christ. There's nothing more satisfying or fulfilling than just following the Lord. You're not going to be a perfect father. You're not going to be a perfect mother. Stephanie John's not going to be a perfect husband. Now she's probably gonna be a perfect wife, but it's just not gonna happen. But you don't have to be You just have to follow God. I don't like using uh my own life But my parents are at that stage where they're looking back at their life and They're just they are just overcome with joy. They're so full of blessings from God. And you know what, beloved Dad never pastored Omega Church. He never pastored more than about 200 people. He had big days and saw large groups for different things, but I'm saying as far as you know, a a pastor who has ambition and would love to see the church grow and do great things and and God used her in many different ways and you know as he looks back on his life both him and mom say We don't deserve it. It's nothing we did. We're just sitting back here thinking, why did God bless us so much? And they can't hardly talk about the blessings of God on their life and the joy that they have in their heart without crying and just saying, God is so good to us. God is so good. And listen, I'm my father's son. I can tell you dad wasn't perfect. Dad wasn't perfect. To be honest, when I was these guys' age, when it was Andrew's age up there, I looked at dad's imperfections. And boy, I w wanted to point those out. I wanted to show how dad m messed up right here and see dad didn't do this right and dad didn't do that right. How you know dad how how dare dad try and tell me You know what I can say is dad and mom followed the Lord. They tried to fix what they were, they messed up They just said we're going to do better, we're going to follow God. And there is nothing more satisfying than that. In the end. Yes, there's a cross that you've got to pick up between here and there and and And sometimes the cross is heavy, and sometimes it's uncomfortable, and sometimes it's hard, and sometimes you're weary, and you get worn out. But there's nothing more satisfying than following Jesus And when we reach the end of our days, we'll be able to look back and we'll say we have done what He commanded us to do And you'll have that joy and that satisfaction and that fulfillment of not being perfect, but being real and being what God wants you to be, and doing what God wants you to do, and you'll see fruit from it. And you'll be so full of just, man, God is good. And we know what we are. We know we're just lumps of pay and wretched sinners and we don't deserve any of it. But we just sit back in awe and say, look at what God has done. All I did was try to follow him. As best as this old weak flesh could. I just said I want to follow him. That's what I want to do. So you start that direction. And beloved, I just want to implore you tonight Pick up your cross. Follow him. Cast your ballot for the cross. I'm not going to preach it this evening. Evening, but the last point of this is cast your ballot for the commission. Cast your ballot for the commission. Beloved, we've been given a great commission, a job to do while we're here. We cast our ballot for the commission every time we pass out a track. We pass cast our ballot for the commission every time we put money in the plate that supports our missionaries around the world. We cast our ballot for the commission every time we're a witness. Every time we're here in God's house and we say amen to the preaching and decide to go out and be a witness for Jesus Christ.