Well you can grab your Bibles and turn to the book of Ephesians. The book of Ephesians, we have had the privilege of reading through this book. Um not that I don't enjoy the other books, but uh These New Testament books, these practical books that we've been reading through are just, you know, each chapter is just full of of so much truth and practical teaching. and just really have enjoyed the the reading as we're walking through these New Testament passages. But we've just had the privilege of reading through this passage and then as well as today is our you know, Faith in Blue Sunday, we supported the police and recognized their position and honored them for for what they do and As I was considering that and thinking about the aspect uh of these people in authority, the position that they have and We we have a a problem. I was talking today to several officers and I said, how can we change the mindset of the next generation? What can we do to help them understand? I said, I remember when I was a kid, everybody wanted to be a police officer Everybody wanted to be a fireman. I mean it was basically at some point in every boy's life was a that's what I want to do, at least every every boy. There was lots of girls too that this is what I want to do when I grow up. That there was something that you looked at with admiration of a officer in uniform and serving his community and and and and just helping to keep the peace and And that level of of respect that was kind of instilled in the next generation, the young people, they they somehow they got that. And today it obviously is gone the other way. As I pondered that earlier this week and thinking about this passage, I wrote a devotional of the same title. The title of tonight's message is Children Obey. In Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 through 4, the Bible says, Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise. That it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I understand that in our modern society, there has been a philosophy adopted by the majority of people that children are equal with adults There is the mindset and the aspect of oh these kids are equal with the adults. Well, I'm sorry, but as long as the child is dependent Upon mom and dad to feed them and clothe them and house them, then they're not equal with mom and dad They're still under the care, and I don't care if they're 18 years old, they're still driving mom's car, they're still uh living and eating uh mom and dad's food, they're still dependent on mom and dad. They're still, at 18 years old, they're still not equal. They have not lived long enough to even know what they don't know. And this philosophy that's been adapted by modern society is destroying the next generation. We have got to be careful that we follow this biblical command here in training our children. We could spend the rest of the night talking about and giving you illustrations about the mess that has been produced with this modern philosophy. The ridiculous things that are taking place. For instance, the latest TikTok challenge. That children are taking on. First of all, a kid shouldn't even have a phone in school, let alone i i if he does have a phone. The latest TikTok challenge is slap a teacher and get it on video, post it online so you can get likes. It is taken it is taken over. There are there are numerous children being arrested. Because they beat their teacher and put it on video. Eighteen-year-old student Struck down and beat sixty-four-year-old English teacher For likes. That's what has been produced in this society where children have been made equals with adults, where children have not been taught to obey. One of the problems, I didn't touch on it, just very briefly, just trying to get people to think today as I described and talked about the police officers and the idea that when they give a warning If the warning is not heeded, there's consequences. I didn't chase that rabbit very far because I understand there's a whole can of worms with that. And there is people that use uh unreasonable uh or extreme force in situations that it's not. But I want you to understand if somebody would stop, turn around, and respond respectfully. The whole situation that's blown out of proportion, regardless of what it is, and I have no situation in my mind because I've got this message in my mind. But regardless of the situation, that wouldn't have happened if they just would have responded respectfully. I had it so ingrained in me That when an officer speaks up, you stop and listen, turn around and respond respectfully. That even when I was about 14 years old, and I was on a skateboard in a parking lot, and the owners of the business called the police on me Me and another boy, we saw the police coming. And my friend said, run And I s I I took off on my board. We were skating as fast as we could. We cut through some buildings. We ran behind some other buildings. At this point the sidewalks were gone. We grabbed our boards. We're we're running as fast as we can. And my friend and I were both neck and neck, we're running from the police, which you should never do. But the police officer, he comes around the corner and he sees us, and he's a long ways from us. But all he did is he called out, boys! And I stopped running and turned around and said, yes, sir. My friend was gone. Meanwhile, I get put in the back of the police car And hauled down here, called called my parents, and of course you know I got it. Uh all for riding a skateboard in a parking lot, you know But all he had to do was call, and it was so ingrained in me, police y you stop and respectfully respond to a police officer. Right. And then he calls me and I turn around like, yes sir. Where is that today? In this day and age where children have been getting equal white rights with parents, I want to remind you that your chids your children in your home do have a couple of rights. First of all, they have a right to know that mom and dad love each other. They have a right to know that their mom and dad love each other. Parents should openly express their appreciation and love for each other. Consistently. It enhances the child's security in life. Both of my oldest siblings expressed concern when it had been I mean I heard this this summer for the first time in my life. Alicia told me. She's like, oh yeah. She's like, I get worried when you see Mary on occasion, I'll walk into the room and she'll just go, hey kids, you see that guy right there? I love him with all my heart. Or she'll say, hey, did you see him? Woo, there's your dad. Wow, look at that guy. You know. She'll just come out and say something off the wall like that and and you know, she just expresses her love for me and and I was shocked to hear that there's been occasion where some weeks have passed where she didn't do that. So you need to encourage her to keep it up, you know. And she didn't do that. And my older sibling said, Oh uh yeah, like we're listening for it. And when it's been some weeks and it hasn't happened, I get a little concerned Thought, wow. As stable and as secure as our home is, that public that expression of love and concern brought security to their heart Everything's okay with mom and dad. Mom and dad love each other. There should be appropriate levels of PDA. In front of the kids. Your kids may even say, Oh, yuck. Gross But they secretly like it. They secretly like it. They they they like to know that mom and dad love each other. And they have a right to know that. They also have a right to know that mom and dad love them. In this society where all attention has been put on children, Where children have become the center, we've got to be careful because children are not the center of the universe. There was a day when children were taught to be seen and not heard. Every a you know, every adult in the room should not stop talking to listen to a child. Children need to know the level of respect they need to have for the adults around them With that said, your children should know that you love them regardless. You might be disappointed with them, but you love them. You are sinning against your child if they believe that your love is based on performance. You've got to be careful with that. They need to know that your love is there even though they have disappointed you You can say amen tonight if you're glad that God's love for us is not based on performance. And kids have the right to remain silent. I throw that one in there just for good measure. So kids have a couple of majors, but uh a couple of uh rights that I believe are important. But other than that, they need to understand and realize their place. We have a command given to us in the Word of God, and I want to share you a couple of truths with you from this passage of Scripture. First of all, we see the established principle, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise. You see that it is a command. It's a command This is not something that you get to decide or determine if you like or want to do. I know kids that at times you think your parents live for the only reason that they're alive is to make your life miserable That they are doing all they can to just try and be dictators and destroy your enjoyment out of life. But that's not the case. They love you and want what's best for you, and you have been given a command to obey. I want you to see this principle as it is applied to the child's actions. The child's actions should be one of obedience Children are to obey, whether they understand or not, whether mom and dad have felt the need to explain to them the reason or not. Kids do not need to know the reason. Kids do not need to know the why. Kids just need to learn to obey. As they learn to obey, sometimes you need to tell your kid to do something that maybe they don't understand and make them do it without any explanation. Then later you can come back and say, here's why we did this. And you train them. But they need to learn to obey out of just rote action that this is what we do, we obey the adults How in the world do you ever expect a child to obey the police officer or a child to obey his teacher in school when they aren't taught to obey their mom and dad? How in the world would a child ever go to school and just blatantly slap a 64-year-old teacher? What in the world is in this mind? There was a day that it didn't matter what the rules were at school and what was going to happen at school, there was a day when Children wouldn't act up at school because they knew when they got home their mom and dad were going to hear about it, and mom and dad was gonna knock them in the next week. So they weren't gonna mess up at school. Some other kid might, but they won't, and it's not because the teacher's gonna be upset, it's because my dad is gonna kill me. I ain't doing that. Mom and dad need to stand up and follow biblical principle when it comes to training our children to obey. You you understand we're not getting to deal this m this evening much with discipline, but you that's the job of the parent. When they disobey, there has to be discipline. When they disobey, there has to be discipline. Biblically that's a s that's a spanking. That's the board of education applied to the seat of learning. This command, beloved, was given in the moral law, and it's the first commandment that deals with our relationship with man. After your relationship with God, after the first four commandments, where we first, God is first, thou shalt have no other gods before me, thou shalt bow down to no other uh Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images. I said bow because of the image of my head of bowing here. Three, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Four, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Five, honor thy mother and father. This is the first commandment that begins our relationships with man. The rest of the commandments deal with our relationship with man. After your relationship with God is right, the next most important relationship that you need to keep right is your relationship with your parents. Right. Right. This is important and its importance can't be overstated. The priority that this that is put on this in the Bible is substantial. This is given to us in the in the law. This is given to us in the New Testament. This is repeated over and over. This sin, it's mind-boggling, but this sin is listed in the sins that would be prevalent in the last days. I mean with all the other things that could be listed as sins that are taking place in the last days, disobedience to parents is listed. This is important to God. That we I don't know that I have time to develop it, but you understand the r the one of the reasons is is because when a child learns and understands to respect the authority of his parent, that's his first Place of accountability. That is the first point where they answer to some power greater than them. And that's where they start to learn about a God that's greater than any of us. And that we all answer to Him. And if they are never put in a place where they answer to that greater authority, how do you expect them to respond to God? We see this principle as it applied to the child's actions, as actions is to be obedient. We also see it applied to the child's attitude. Honor. He's to honor. This goes beyond just the act of obedience. This is a heart matter. He's to honor his mom and dad. This is a type of lasting respect that dwells in the heart of one that governs his actions. It's not just fulfilling the letter of the law, it's not just doing what I have to do because I have to, but it is putting honor, it's putting respect there for mom and dad. When you honor mom and dad, your attitude is going to be right, not just your action. You will act with respect towards them. You know, you're s you should when your parents speak, you should stop what you're doing. Right. Right. Kids are Melissa, when you're I know you like coloring, drawing, right? You drew a lot of really nice things for the police officers. Thank you for putting those in the in the packages I'm sure they're gonna love that. But you know if you're coloring and your mom comes in and says, Alyssa, it's time for lunch. Mom spoke, that means you stop what you're doing and you respond to mom. That's what honor is. You stop what you're doing because you s oh well I'm d I'll be there in a minute. I'm gonna just finish coloring this. You're you're saying that that piece of paper with your orange marker is more important than your mom. And that's not true. Honor mom, honor dad, stop. Recently, We give Timothy a hard time, so I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna praise him for a second here if you'll allow me. Um but uh recently Timothy has been very, very responsive to me. Even when I come in a room, if I have even if I haven't said anything, he stops what he's doing. And he looks at me and he says, Dad, do you need something You don't know what that means to me as a father. That respect Stop the game for just a second. Your mom and dad are in the room. Stop the game. Respect, honor. Sometimes, he doesn't know this, but sometimes I may have been ready to say, let's go out and work, but because of that response, I let you keep playing It might be because I'm making him nervous. Like I come in and he's like, what do you want? You know? I don't know, but I tell you what I appreciate it. And that respect that is honor for your parents' kids. The there's there's uh a thing today that I don't understand. I I don't know. I I don't think you should do it. I don't think you should allow your kids to call you by your first name. This is something that's happening a lot today. We see that. And and I think it's a matter of honor and respect. That they can call you mom, they can call you dad. Get real formal and call you mother or father if they want, but but to say Matt, they shouldn't do that. They shouldn't refer to you as old man. Right. Kids, you should always respond in a respectful manner with yes, ma'am. No ma'am. Yes, sir. No, sir. And I want you to understand, parents, it's your responsibility to teach them to do so. Yeah. But now it's almost a bygone thing. But that's honor. That's respect. Yes, sir. No, sir. It needs to be part of their conversation Parent ch children should never curse at their parents. The reason that I say this is because that's actually found in the Bible. It's biblical uh that you're not to curse at your mom and dad. But the just to even ponder and think about even saying that in church to a group of kids is is mind boggling, but you know what happens. The way that kids communicate with their parents is mind-boggling. I don't know how it could ever get to that point. I don't understand it. But it's because the child has never been made to do right, made to obey You also should not according to the Bible children should not strike their parents. Your children and and this training starts when they're very young. It's not something that uh you wait until they're fifteen and say, Hey, you can't hit me, the Bible says so. No, you treach them when they're train them when they're young. Even when they're very small and they're a baby and you're holding them in your arms and they slap you in the face and you're trying to talk, you have to train them not to do that. And by the way, training is not turning them around so that they can't reach your face. That did not train them in that all that did is show them anything that's within reach is okay, but if it's out of reach it's not. Training them is taking that hand and saying, no, you don't hit daddy. Right. Right. And they will hit you again. Yeah. But then you slap that hand hard enough that it hurts. You train them. Say, no, you don't hit daddy. And it'll get to the place where you can hold them in your arms and they will s they will sit there and be fine. They won't be slapping you in the face. They won't be pulling your glasses off. You'll be able to have a conversation with somebody and they'll sit there contently. But it takes training. And this is our responsibility, not the child's. Can we see here the essential process? And ye fathers, provoke not your children wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It starts by understanding, parents, that your child is a gift from God. And as a gift from God, God has a plan for them. From the moment of conception, it is God's plan. God has a plan for what He's going to do with them, and it's our job as parents. to raise them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord that they might fulfill God's plan for them. From the time that they're infants, we begin to prepare them to fulfill God's plan, not our plan. We're raising them for God. In Psalms 139, verse 13 through 16, he says, For thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect, and in the book of all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them From in the womb, God knew exactly what your child was going to be. He has a plan for them. He God gave your child, your child's gender. Amen. That is God's plan. From the moment of conception, God gave your child his or her gender. This is not something that they need to decide or figure out for themselves later in life. They have been assigned by God their gender. They have been assigned and given by God their strengths. Their skills, their ability. Some are gifted with the ability to think and to calculate in very high IQ levels. Some don't have a real high IQ level, but they're gifted uh like me with my hands. You could do things with your hands and work with your hands good and that might be your skill but from the moment of birth God knows what your child has and has a plan for them. And if your child is especially gifted in Airy, it's not something to be too extremely excited about because God gave them that for a purpose. And it's your job to help them find that purpose and do what God wants. And if your child is maybe not as gifted as another child, it's not something to be discouraged about because your child is fearfully and wonderfully made. By God for a purpose. And they can and fulfill that purpose by God's plan just as effectively as God has for this child to fulfill his plan there Regardless of who they are. So we look at that as a gift from God, and it's our job and responsibility to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of God to prepare them for God's will. It's our responsibility to train them. In this process of training them, preparing them for God's will, what can you expect from your children? I can tell you, the Bible says a whole lot of foolishness. That's what you can expect from your children. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. That's there. Kids are gonna do dumb things. That's just the way kids are. It's something that's in their heart But it's the rod of correction that drives it far from them. Understand, beloved, that behavior is an outpouring of what is in the heart. Foolishness is bound in the heart. That's where all that foolishness comes from. As you begin to train and raise them and point them in the right direction. You begin to overcome some of that foolishness and they start to grow up a little bit. But I want you to understand, parents, that as you're disciplining your children, what you've got to do is get to the heart of the matter We can't be so overly consumed with the behavior that we forget about the heart. What is it that causes this child to act this way? What heart issue needs to be dealt with? It's not just a matter of he didn't obey. It's why didn't he obey? What is here that caused him to do that? Was it he wanted his own way? Was he trying to impress somebody else? Was is it just pride? What is it that caused him to do that? We need to address and ask God for wisdom on how to do it, but deal with the heart of the matter. If our correction does not bring about an inward change, the child will rebel at the first opportunity. You see, because we could take any one of these kids here on the row with Pastor Derek and Miss Christina, bring them up here, and I could make them obey. Because I'm substantially larger than them. I got a couple pounds on them. I could force them to obey. And if your control over your children is just about size, You've lost it. Right, right. Because it happens very quick that your kids get pretty big. And that's no longer gonna work. At some point you have to deal with the heart so that they're responding in obedience because of the inward change. If all you do is control the external, as soon as you are free, as soon as they are free from you, they're gonna go do what they want. You can keep everything in check because Right now you're in control. But what about when you're not in control? They have to somewhere through those years, and I've taught on this before, not going to get into it tonight, but there has to be a transition between discipline and where they share or give their heart to you. When they're very, very young, it's all discipline When they get up here to the teens, somewhere between late teens and here, there's a transition where it's all influence. And they respond to you because of their heart, not because of the discipline. As parents, if we understand that the way a child behaves because of what's in the heart, then we need to be careful about what we allow to influence the heart. We've got to be cautious about that. That means the friends they have, the shows they listen to or or or watch uh books they read, uh any anything that's influencing that, what is it that is shaping their heart? They're shaped by the external influences that are there. Mom and dad, you're the greatest influence on them. You wanna you you want your child to be a certain way? You be that way. You want your child to read read their Bible? You read your Bible. You want your child to uh love God? You love God. You want your child to to not smoke? You don't smoke. You want your child to never pick up any alcohol? You don't ever pick up any alcohol. You want your your child to be a certain thing, you determining your heart to be that because you are the greatest influence in their life. And and like it or not, we are our parents' children. I know that we could go through the room here, and these older members of the congregation tonight, they would tell you that they have so many characteristics and patterns of their parents that they swore they were not gonna do. And they are part of their life. Why? Because that influence is there. And you will have that greatest influence of any on your children. Be what you want them to be. Raymond Barber in his book, The Christian Home, says loving, cooperative, compassionate parents. produce loving, cooperative, compassionate children. Hostile, angry, and critical parents produce hostile, angry, and critical children. So what are you? Because very likely your children are going to be what you are. You want to provoke your children to wrath? Preach to them about being something you're not This verse says, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. That means you live that life that you're bringing them up in. You know, kids, you decide. You decide whether you're gonna obey or not It's a decision that you you you you make. Mom and dad say clear empty the dishwasher and you determine that you're gonna go do something else. It's it's a decision that you make You have control over it. It's not something that just happens arbitrarily. It's a decision you make. Curtis Hudson used to tell a story about when he was whipped by his father the very last time. He said he was in fourth grade. And his dad told him to go out to the tree and get a switch off the tree. He said, Dad pulled his pocket knife out and handed it to me. Sent me out to get a switch. He says I went out and got one. Dad said that's too small. He said Dad went and picked his own. And I wished I would have picked a better one because the one dad got, I thought he was gonna kill me with it. He said, Dad, Dad whipped me. He says, I thought he I thought he was never gonna stop. He says, I t I turned to him. And I called him, I got his attention, I said, Dad, Dad, Dad, can I say something? Dad, stop whipping me for just a minute. He said, I looked up into his eyes. He looked down at me and he said, Curtis, what do you want? He said, Dad, I want you to know that I'm sorry for disobeying you. And I want you to know you can finish you can finish this spanking whatever you want to do, but I want you to know, Dad, this is the last time you will ever have to spank me for disobedience. His father looked down at him and said, Curtis, do you mean that? He said, I do. And his dad stopped the spanking and they walked away. Curtis never got another spanking in the rest of his life. Until the day that his father died. His father looked back on that day and many, many times. Looked at Curtis and said, Curtis, you meant it, didn't you? He didn't even have to bring up the conversation. He just had to say you meant it, didn't you? You see kids, you can decide. Yeah. Curtis hasn't decided in the fourth grade. It's never gonna happen again. Because I'm gonna be obedient. You can decide to be obedient and honor your mother and father. And we see here an exciting promise as we close, honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long. In the land which the Lord God giveth thee. As you ponder and think about this, God had something, an inheritance for them to receive He had land that he was going to give them. Well, I don't know about God giving you any land, but here's what I do know. God has something he wants to give you. God wants to give you, God wants to bless you in your life beyond measure. He wants to do that for you, all you all you kids. But you gotta honor your mother and father. You gotta be obedient. And you get to be a partaker of that exciting promise