So you should be in your Bibles here this morning in Luke chapter fourteen, verses seven through eleven, we have the parable what I've entitled Choosing the Least at the Wedding Feast. Choosing the Least at the Wedding Feast Let's read together, follow along, verses seven through eleven. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out of the chief rooms, saying unto them When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him. And he that bid thee, and him come and say to thee, Give this man place, and thou Being with shame to take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room. That when he that bid thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up hither. Then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that is set at meet with thee For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Friend, we have here this parable which Christ gave. And I know that you all know and understand that a parable is an earthly story with a heavenly meaning. The most basic definition, a story wherewith Christ would take a divine truth Something of eternal value, something with great meaning, and he would clothe it in human attire. So that men could grab a hold of it. So that man could understand it. And I'll tell you what, Jesus Christ was the greatest of all teachers. And you watch and read Christ as he deals with people, you will see him use this method of getting a point across, and anybody that shares the truths of the Word of God would do well to follow Christ's example. And that is taking the divine truths of Scripture and finding a way to bring it down to a practical way to the heart of men. And that's what the job and the responsibility of a pastor is, and somebody that shares the truths of the Word of God, is to find a way that these divine and eternal truths that are held in the pages of Scripture might be made in such a way that they would apply to our heart and life each and every day. It's one thing to know of a truth that's lofty and high, but it's another to have a truth that changes the way I walk day by day. Amen? And that's what the truths of the Word of God are supposed to do. And what Christ did, he took that truth and he applied it to the hearts of men as he taught and gave them parables, such as One parable that I read. In an early century, there lay in the middle of a road A great boulder. Traveler after traveler passed by this boulder, veering to one side or the other to get around it All the while they walked by, shaking their heads and muttering, can't believe that this has been here this long. Someone should get that big thing out of the middle of the road. What an inconvenience for all that passed this way. It would be far better if it had been moved and everybody could walk a straight path Finally a man coming along seeing this boulder took a nearby branch and Smaller boulders and constructed a fulcrum through which he was able to move and persuade this large boulder off the path Taking his own effort, time, and energy to accomplish this. But lying underneath that rock, he found a small bag with a note. The man saw this bag and this note and it read as follows, thank you for being a true servant of the kingdom. Many have passed this way and complained because of the state of this problem. They spoke of what ought to be done, but Near stopped to do it. But you have taken upon yourself the responsibility to serve the kingdom instead of serving yourself, to serve other citizens instead of serving yourself We need more in this kingdom of this caliber. Please accept this bag of gold that every traveler before you Has walked by simply because they did not care enough about the kingdom to serve it. A truth. An understanding. Too many of us are consumed with our own lives and thinking about our own our own agendas and not willing to pause and to do something that might not help us immediately, but it would help somebody else. But there is great reward when we do that. There's the truth of this parable And this man reaps that reward. I wonder, beloved, how many bags of gold you and I are missing each and every day simply because we do not bother to get involved in serving the kingdom. Instead, we're fulfilling our own roles and accomplishing our own goals. The parable before us today is Such a parable. Something very short. A truth. Very powerful. That if we could get a hold of it, it would change our lives. Certainly applicable to us all. And as we have looked at each and every one of these parables, we're going to give you three three points. We're going to talk about the telling of the parable. Kind of explaining there the context and the characters that are involved, the truth of the parable, what is the truth, because each parable really only has one interpretation There's many applications, you can take a parable and stretch it out in many applications, but there's only one interpretation So we try and find that interpretation and give you that in a clear and succinct way, and then we take the truth of the parable and maybe apply it to our lives a little bit. So we want to look at that this morning. First of all, the telling of the parable. Each time we look at the telling of a parable, we've got to understand the context. The context is where we many times get a hold of the purpose and the reason for Christ telling it. And that would really help to give us a scope and sequence of what Christ was getting at. And so as we look at the context, we back up into verse number one of chapter number 14, we see that Jesus was among some Pharisees here. And it came to pass as he went into the house of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, and they watched him. And behold, there was a certain man before him which had dropsy. So they were watching him. I don't know if they had this man invited to this uh feast here with Jesus on purpose. Or if he just happened to be there, or maybe he came because he heard Jesus was going to be there and he was hoping to be healed. But Jesus was among these Pharisees, and as was their habit, they were watching for a means or a way to trip up Jesus. They wanted to find a way to trick him. They wanted to find a way to to see where Jesus broke the law, right? The law of the Pharisees. And they wanted to see where he might be inconsistent, so they were watching him, and Jesus sat down with them and saw this man that needed healed. And realized what the was in the heart of the Pharisees, so he asked them, Hey, is it lawful? To heal somebody on the Sabbath day? He goes on and he he talks to them. He says, Hey, what w which of you having an ox? In a ditch wouldn't pause and stop to help him. And Jesus exposes the Pharisaical heart of these Pharisees. The hypocrisy that's there, where they would look and want to try and attack Christ for healing a man, yet they would have pulled their ox out of a ditch. I'm not going to spend much time here, but there is a situation that's facing America today or the world today, which is mind-boggling, and that is that many people have come to the place where they value Animals, dogs, cats, an ox in the ditch, more than they value human life. And it's a complete misapplication. Yes, we should treat our animals correctly. And I'm not for the abuse of of any animal. Whatever animal you have, you ought to be taken care of. You ought to be fed. It's your responsibility. To take care of them. But we've gotten to the place where people value and take care of their pets more than they do their children. And that's what Christ was exposed in the heart of these men. You would take care of an ox stuck in a ditch, but you wouldn't take time to help a human being. To heal a man? Why? Because of the Pharisaical heart you have, that's why. But Christ went ahead and healed this man. Now, just for educational purposes, uh Dropsy was a a condition of a gathering of water, uh an accumulation of water, and sometimes you'll see that where people's body will start just can start taking on water and it it's like they don't the Bob doesn't know how to handle it and they'll have a portion of their body and there's different types of dropsy where they literally uh assign to like if it's a leg that's holding a bunch of water or sometimes it's in the uh abdominal area where we just start holding water and It's not natural. There's something wrong. Your body's not supposed to be doing that. This person was ill with this and Christ healed them. And Jesus goes on to give them this parable to teach them And he put forth this parable unto them which were bidden. You notice there, verse number seven, he says, In which forbidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms. Saying unto them, You see, he noticed, he marked them, how they chose the chief spots. They were watching him, but he was watching them. Can I remind you this morning that Jesus is watching? We might be observing other people. We might look and think, oh boy, look at uh Shamar here In church today. Isn't he spiritual? Oh man, I mean we might be watching Shamar, but Jesus is watching you. And sometimes we want to look around and point fingers or or see what other people are doing, but let me just remind you, Christ sees your heart. And he knows what's going on in your heart. As he did with these. He marked how they chose the chief spots. Isn't that something? Isn't that human nature? To choose the chief spots? Listen, kids, it's an exercise in humility when we have an event here at the church For you to put yourself second, third, or fourth. I know everybody has seen that dessert that is just like, oh my goodness, and there's only four pieces of it. Boys, there's no way there's still going to be one left by the time I get in there. And so we say, you know what? I'm going to go to the front of the line because I want to get one of those That's what Christ is saying. He saw the heart of these men. Wasn't worried about everybody else, but worried about themselves. We see the obvious jostling for position here moved Jesus to teach this parable to them. The occasion was a wedding feast, of course, a time of celebration, one in which many different types of guests would be invited. You have those guests who are the closest to the family, right? Those valued, those uh honored guests. And then you have guests who are maybe distant friends. You have all everybody in between. But he's saying, hey In a in a wedding, you know, a lot of times up front they'll have reserve for the family, right? Reserve for the family. And uh ushers will come, they'll bring somebody in, they'll say, which size is groom, which size you know uh bride and And we kind of assign those seatings and people kind of get a seat. Um but what if you came up and you said, Oh, this is where the Bride and Grim are gonna sit? I'm gonna sit right here. You're just choosing that that front place, the most important place. Boy, this is the way we are today. You have the bidden, those that have come as guest. Those early arrivers. Lots of seats available. They could choose and sit wherever they want. But we've got to keep in mind that there's somebody else coming, and quite possibly somebody more honorable than you. But see, that doesn't enter the heart of a proud man. There's not anybody more honorable than me coming. I mean when we say it, it seems foolish, right? But that's the heart and mind of that person. No, I am the most honorable person here. I should get this seat. Then you have the more honorable man that comes. And he's held in higher regard, and you are asked to move down. So what is the truth of the parable? This is one of those parables that there's not too many of them, but there's a few, where Christ gives the interpretation, and you you really you can't state it any clearer. You can't really give any better definition. So the truth of the parable is stated very clearly in verse number eleven. He says, For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. That's pretty clear. It's pretty clear. And I'll tell you what, you can put that in your heart and mind and and you can feel, you know, if in a situation you're exulting yourself. Or if you're humbling yourself. You know, just a small example of this, many times when we're going places, maybe Pastor Derek and myself and a guest speaker and uh Pastor Gus, maybe we're all going to be going somewhere. And a lot of times, now it's changed some now because Pastor August is working for the government instead of here, so he's not here as often and is maybe not as part of things, but a lot of times I would ask Pastor August to drive. Because he's knows his way around the area and and I don't really like driving that much and uh that way I can talk. So Pastor Gus will drive. And you ask either of these men, as often as not, I would sit in the back seat. In my heart and mind, I do that on purpose Say, well you're the pastor. Here's a a guest speaker. I mean you should sit in the front seat. That's the place of honor, right? But in my mind I say, you know what? I'm not any better than any of these other men. We're all here together. We're just serving God. I appreciate Pastor Gus Driven. I put myself in the back seat. But can I tell you that sometimes I have to make myself do that? I have to sit back there and say this is where I should be. What I'm saying is it's something that is it doesn't just come natural to us because naturally we want to seek the high position. Naturally, we want the position of recognition. But when you humble yourself, God says He will exalt you in due time. The truth of this parable, if you've got your Bibles here, turn to Proverbs chapter 25. The truth of this parable can be seen in these couple of verses very clearly. In the wisdom of Solomon. In Proverbs chapter 25, verses 6 and 7, he says, put not forth thyself in the presence of the king. And stand not in the place of great men, for better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither. Then that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen. Isn't that just about the exact what we just read in the parable? But man's plan is to, oh, I want to be right there with the presence of the king. And you know, sometimes we're at a a Let's say a pastor's conference and and I'm just telling you from my standpoint, I these situations I deal with because I'm a pastor and these are situations that I face and You have to think about your life and the situations that you face and how they apply to you. But we might be at a pastor's conference. And usually down front, in the front area right here somewhere, you have the big wigs. You have the big dogs, the guys that everybody in that room knows. Every person in that room knows who that person is. And you've got a couple of those bigwigs down front. Maybe one of them is the guest speaker. Maybe one of them is the honored, you know, whatever. And then you've got everybody else. And then you have people that want to come up here and stand with the big wigs, right? They want to stand here and talk to them and be engaged. And meanwhile, everybody out here is looking. And they're like, who's that that's talking to uh Dr. Olette? Who's that that's speaking to like Here's somebody that's a nobody, nobody in the audience even knows who they are, and then here's this big wig, right? Now I know this is beyond you guys because you guys don't deal with this, but I deal with this. I'm a pastor And and I see that. And so in my mind, when I go to a conference like that, it's like, well, I would like to say hi to them, but who am I? I mean, I wanna, you know And there's there's that internal struggle, that jostling for position. Should I go up and introduce myself? I mean, he doesn't know me from Adam. You know, Pastor Ross. is nationally known, internationally known, Pastor Ross, Terry Ross. He speaks everywhere. Everybody knows him. And he's a very approachable guy and anybody can go up to him, you know. And uh so you'll see that sometimes And Pastor Ross is humble in his spirit, even though he's nationally recognized. But you have others that aren't. That jostling for position, that wanting that recognition. So we see this teaching of the parables here. First of all, I want to warn you with regards to the danger of pride. There's great danger in pride What this really has to deal with is a matter of the heart, an attitude. What is your attitude to the invitation of the Lord? There are those who are seeking the best spots, and it's pride that pushes them to do so. Proverbs 18. 27 says, For thou wilt save the afflicted people, but will bring down high looks. You see, the proud heart feels that they deserve it. The proud heart feels that they should have it, and therefore they get it and they do it without even any with any shame. But do you know that it's only in the face of pride that we're truly saved? It's only when there's pride that you can even feel and know shame. If you didn't have that pride, you wouldn't have the shame. You only feel the shame because pride puts you in a position that you shouldn't have had. Pride lifted you up. And then when you were put where you should have been, you were shamed. Pride is a dangerous thing. Proverbs 1812 says, before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honor is humility. Before destruction, the heart of man is haughty, lifted up. But before honor is humility. You know, this is contrary to our world's way of thinking. This is backwards, it's different. And we sometimes we might feel like the only way I'm going to get any recognition is if I get it myself. The only way I'm going to get any type of promotion is if I promote myself. But that's not what God says. That's what we say. That's what's in our heart because of the heart of man. But God says a man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble spirit. You know, uh somebody I mean I just like being around older men that have accomplished something in their life, but don't act like it. I don't know how many of you guys remember Ed Hampton, but Ed Hampton started Emmanuel Baptist Temple. Church run 67800. Up in Hagerstown, pastored there for forty-some years, and now he's Pastor Emeritus. He accomplished some stuff. He did a great work for God. But man, you just sit down and just talk to him and listen to the wisdom come out of him and let him share his heart. I mean I he's been here and spoke for us many times and anyways he uh I said, where do you want to go to lunch? He's like, uh, how about Arby's? I like Arby's. Let's go to Arby's. You know, he's not all puffed up. I just enjoy those guys, just down to earth. Honor shall uphold the humble spirit. The real danger in pride, beloved, is not that we would be shamed, but that we would bring shame on God. Because God hates pride. The fear of the Lord is to hate evil. Pride and arrogancy and the evil way and the forward mouth do I hate, he said. You know a proud look, that proud heart, you know that's part of this world. It's part of this world system It's how it functions. Those of you that are working out in the workforce and dealing with people that are it's about climbing the ladder and about accomplishing the next thing and about getting yourself promoted John chapter 2, 1 John 2, verses 15 through 17, where we're talking about the love of God. He says, Love not the world, neither the thing that is in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, is not of the Father, but of this world. And the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. You see, it's the exact opposite of our heart that we should have for God. This world system promotes that. But what should our response be to the grace of God? I mean you think about being bidden, brought into a wedding. I mean, if if you were On the street today. And on his way to church today is something Clay would do. He would stop and pick you up. You were on the street and he saw you and he stopped and picked you up and bought you a nice meal and said, Hey, let's stop over here and get you a change of clothes and you can go to church with me and he brought you to church today and He brought you here. If he took all that time and energy and did all of that for you, would you feel like you came in today and feel like, man, I should have the place of honor? Look at what he did for me. No, the response to that should be, wow, look what he did for me. I don't deserve any of this. And the grace of God that brought us into the kingdom, that brought us into the family of God, our response should not be one of pride. Look at what I deserve because look what Jesus did for me. It should humble us. We should have a humble response, and I want you to see the delight of humility, the delight of humility, the correct response to the grace of God. Is humility. Humility in our spirit. Seeking the least position. Accepting the blame instead of justifying our actions. Humility just accepts it. Humility says, I'm sorry. Forgive me. Humility allows others to receive praise. And they're joyful about it. You see, beloved, God will exalt you in due time. Let him move you into that place of honor if he sees fit to do so God will do it in his time. Matthew 18, verse number 4 says, Whosoever there shall humble himself as this little child, the same is great in the kingdom of heaven. Matthew 23, 12 says, And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. 1 Peter 5, 6 says, humble yourself therefore unto the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. We see this all through the scriptures. Maybe we were reminded of this truth over and over and over again because God knows that the heart of man is to lift himself up. The heart of man is to become proudful. What hast thou that thou hast not received, friend? Nothing. Everything we have, everything we are, every possession we own. Every ability we've got, every capacity to think and to ponder and to do the things that we can do are all gifts from God. And we cannot expect to think that we can do this. God gave us everything. Why would we be proud and puffed up about it? God did this. Beloved, it is a display of wisdom according to Proverbs 11, verse number 2 Contrary to culture, humility is not weakness, but wisdom. I know in our culture people look at humility as weakness. They look at humility as somebody that can't assert themselves But God says it's a display of wisdom when you have humility. What is the delight of true humility? The delight is that God will dwell with you. God will dwell with you. Isaiah 57, verse number 55. 15 says, For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place. With him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit. He dwells with the humble. What a privilege to have him dwell with you. you but a proud heart a haughty heart a lofty heart God's not going to dwell with them I'd rather be humble and have God dwelling with me than be lifted up, full of pride, and have the lofty position. Have the place of honor and be sitting there by myself. The sad thing is there are many that value that place of honor more than anything else. And they would be happy to sit there by themselves if they could have that spot. But beloved, God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Pride is a destructive force that destroys your joy, while humility is a healing force that brings peace and contentment. And it's something that we have to work at. It's not a natural thing for humility to be part of our lives. We have to work at it. You know, the the the minute we feel like we we've figured it out, you get proud about the fact that you figured it out And then you've got to work at it again. You wanna I've used this as a gauge for how I'm doing with my pride. And here's the thing. Wanna know how you're doing with your pride? How do you react when somebody treats you like a servant? How do you react when somebody treats you like a servant? If you're humble it won't bother you. If you're proud, it will. And you should let that be a warning, like, whoa. This bothers me, there's a problem. There's a problem in here that I need to deal with. You see, humility is willing to submit to one another. Submitting yourselves, therefore, to one another. Pride doesn't want to submit. One of the biggest problems we have in our society today is people don't want to submit. Even to recognize and established authority. Let alone to each other. But humility will submit. And humility will serve. Hudson Taylor, that pioneering missionary to China, wrote, All God's giants have been but weak men who did great things because they reckoned God was with them. All God's giants were but weak men who did great things because they reckoned one thing. God was there. God did it. They were just a willing vessel. What a powerful truth this is. And these very short and few verses, but something we must be reminded of continually. I had that old song by Isaac Watts at the Cross, The Last and Did my Savior bleed, and did my sovereign die, would he devote that sacred head to me? For such a worm as I. That song, an expression of humility. Realizing it's all about him, not about us. And if we just humble ourselves God says he will exalt you in due time. Maybe you sit down in the back. Maybe you sit down where somebody's not recognizing you. But God says, hey, it's time for you, that humble servant, to be lifted up. It's time for you to come here because I need to use you to accomplish this. I need to use you you to do this. And if you just let God do it, you'll be shocked at what God will do. This parable, choosing the least at the wedding feast.