Bring your Bibles this morning to Joshua chapter 24. Joshua chant chapter 24. This is Baby Dedication Sunday, and uh I try and think about the idea of uh you know what do we want to do, uh how to challenge parents that are Making that decision to dedicate their children to the Lord, a passage of Scripture that's applicable to them, but at the same time challenging to all of us. In Joshua chapter 24, those of you that have been in church for a while, when I said that, you have no doubt in your mind where we're going, would you look down in Joshua 24 and verse number 15? And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell, but as for me, And my house, we will serve the Lord. When we understand baby dedication correctly, we realize that it really is a matter of uh mom and dad committing, dedicating themselves to raise that child up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The fact of the matter is is the babies that are on the stage this morning here in a few minutes uh they're not going to remember uh that at all. Uh uh I just looking through the audience here, there are many young people that were dedicated and by you know in past years and Uh I wonder, Nehemiah, do you remember when you were on the stage here in Daddy's arms uh being dedicated? Yeah, see he doesn't he don't remember he's like, nope, I don't remember that. He's like, what are you talking about No, so it's not really something the kids aren't making any promises to God. They're not making any covenants concerning their relationships. And by the way, let me just tell you that there there is no security offered. This this dedication is not salvation for the child This is not infant baptism. This is not an extolling of grace on the child. Listen, the children are safe until the day of accountability. a child that does not know or understand that he is in sin or that he is a sinner is not held accountable before God and they will, if they pass away before that age of accountability, they will go on to heaven That age of accountability is different for every child. There are some children who are very smart and mature for their age, and they might reach that age of accountability at a very young age. There are others that tend to move a little bit slower through that path of learning and knowledge and understanding, and it might be a while until they reach that age of accountability. Your hope and prayer is that when they come to that place where they can realize that they're a sinner, that they stand as a sinner before God, that they would be willing to repent of that sin and put their faith and trust in Christ. That's how salvation is secured for them at such a time as when they are knowledgeable of that. One little tidbit of wisdom you can use as a sign for when a child reaches the age of accountability is when they begin to recognize their own nakedness. Okay, you take a little baby here, it wouldn't bother him a bit to run down this aisle in his birthday suit. He don't care. He has no comprehension of that. A child, an infant like that, he just doesn't doesn't make any difference to him. But they reach a certain age where they start to say, wait a minute, this is supposed to be covered. Okay, now that is a picture, you go back to the book of Genesis and you see when Adam and Eve sinned, what did they do? They wanted to cover themselves. Why? Because now they had a knowledge of sin and they realized that that was wrong. So that's just a small thing that you can kind of look at and say, wait a minute He's starting to realize how important this is. He's starting to see that nakedness is supposed to be covered. He's approaching that age of accountability. And so you as a parent can use that to start praying more fervently and working with them to help them understand their need of a savior and that Jesus Christ is the Savior that will forgive all sin. Now that's not what we're talking about today specifically. We're challenging these parents that are coming in a few minutes, as well as all of us, to choose this day whom you will serve. Right. Choose this day. I want you to know that a long time ago I decided to follow Jesus. I made up my mind. We were there at graduation with Tim and he was talking to some of his friends and on the way home in the car towards the airport and at the airport, you know, Tim was talking about some of his friends that are graduating from college or or still in school and they were they're at the point in their life where they're deciding Where they're making up their mind. Like, is this real? Is this personal? Is this something that I believe? Or is this just something that I've always done because I grew up in a home that, you know, drug me to church? And everybody has to reach that place. Choose ye this day whom ye will serve. And you know, it's a sad thing, but the reality is you have to continue to choose that. I wish it was one time and done. I wish you could say, oh, I made the decision today to serve God, and that's going to be settled for the rest of my life. But the fact of the matter is, is we're prone to wander We get weary in battle. We get tired and the struggle gets hard. And so we have to continue to choose this day. that we're gonna serve God, that we're gonna follow after the Lord, and especially with regards to parents and raising their children and having a home that's uh focused on God and things that are right. As for me and my house We will serve the Lord. That's the commitment that the parents are making tonight and raising their children up and the nurture and admonition of God. But each and every one of us need to make that commitment. Even if some of these young men here that are, you know, Timothy and Andrew and Levi, these guys at the age where they are technically adults in and of themselves and They would, if they could, or the time will come where they have their own home or domicile, the place that they live, regardless of whether they're still in our home or their parents' home, they are establishing their way of life and they have to choose. They have to choose who they're going to serve. They're going to choose the gods of the world, they're going to choose their flesh, or are they going to choose the God of heaven? Can I tell you the reason that I have chosen to serve the Lord, and I'll give you four of them this morning, first of all, is because I have a debt that I remember. I have a debt that I remember. Would you look back in chapter 24 and verses 5 and 6? Joshua 24 and verse 5 and 6, he says, I sent Moses also, and Aaron. And I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did among them, and afterward I brought you out, and I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and ye came unto the sea, and the Egyptians pursued after you. Fathers with with chariots and horsemen unto the Red Sea. And I tell you that he saved them from bondage. They were delivered from Egypt, and then the enemy was coming and attacking. He saved them from bondage. He shielded them from the enemy. That enemy that was coming, that was attacking, that was coming up to the Red Sea, and their back was against the Red Sea. And then God said, Oh, wait a minute. I've got you I'm going to deliver you, we see in verse number 7. And when they cried unto the Lord, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians. And he brought the sea upon them and covered them, and your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt, and ye dwelt in the wilderness a long season. He says, Don't you remember that I delivered you? Don't you remember that when you were fleeing from Egypt that the enemy was coming and they were going to attack? and but I put darkness between them and you and I opened the Red Sea, allowed you to cross on dry ground, and then as the enemy entered that Red Sea, we uh closed it and covered them over with the water. You were delivered from your enemy. And he showered them with blessings. Look at verse number 13. Joshua 24, verse number 13. He says, And I have given you a land for which ye did not labor. And cities which ye built not, and ye dwelled in them of the vineyards and the olive yards which ye planted Which he planted not, do ye eat. He says, I have provided all these things. What I'm saying this morning to you and I is that sounds an awful lot like what he's done for us. He has delivered us from the bondage of sin. He has shielded us, protected us from the attacks of the enemy. He has blessed us with blessings beyond measure. And if we would pause and think about and remember what it is that God has done for us, we would remember we have a debt that we owe. We have a debt that needs to be paid, not that we would ever in this life be able to pay that debt, but we need to remember that it's there. Consciously thinking about what he has done for us, how he has saved our soul and given us a home in heaven. How he has provided for us day after day after day here on earth, meeting our needs and answering our prayers. Do you remember this morning what he's done for you? I wonder, beloved, is the continual display of God's love enough to move you to action? Enough to move you, to motivate you to do what he asks of you to do? To make the decision that I'm going to serve the Lord because of his love. Paul said, the love of Christ constraineth me It is quite literally the love that Paul experienced from his heavenly father that motivated him, that moved him to action. The love of Christ constrains me, it motivates me, it pushes me, it forces me to go and do all I can for God while I have strength and the ability to do so. Does the love of God move you? Are you ready to do for God as God asks of you? I wonder, are you showing your love to Him, or is it just lip service? There was a letter I read about that a young man was writing to his love of his life. And he was working to wax eloquent. And in this letter, he was describing his love for her. And he said, boy, there's nothing that could keep me from you. I would march through the coldest of hailstorms to reach you. Just to be in your presence, I would swim across the freezing ocean. Just to be at your side, I would endure the Sahara Desert. He closed his letter and said, P. S. we'll see you on Wednesday if it's not raining. I wonder how much of us our love for God is that way. My Jesus, I love thee. Yeah, I'll do what you want if it's convenient I'll do what you what you ask if if it's not too difficult, if I can fit it into my everyday schedule If it doesn't disrupt my other plans, what I'm saying is that love for God, we need to realize we have a debt that's owed And that it ought to move us, it ought to motivate us to make that decision, to choose to serve the Lord with all of our hearts and all of our minds. Beloved, when I look back over my life, I'm Sadden that countless times I have failed my Lord. But I can look back and say, He has never failed me. You're in Joshua 24. Would you look back at chapter 23 and verse number 14? Look what he says there, verse number fourteen, and he's just describing what God has done for them. He says, And behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth. And ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the Lord your God spake concerning you. All are come to pass unto you, and not one thing has failed thereof. See, God's not going to fail us. You may have family fail you, you may have friends forsake you But he will always be there. And that love should motivate you to make that decision. Yes, on a daily basis, I choose today to serve you, Lord. That my life would exemplify the love of Christ and people would see Jesus in me. I choose the Lord because I realize I have a duty. It's a duty that I receive. It's a responsibility. It is a requirement. Like the soldier who goes and enlists He's signed up. He knows that he has a duty to do. He doesn't just get to go AWOL. He he has a job to do. He has a duty. He realized he signed on the dotted line. He enlisted in the fight. And now when the time comes that they call upon you as a soldier, you've got to do what is required of you. Why? Because it is commanded. He says in Joshua 24, verse 14, Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. And serve ye the Lord. He is commanding them, he's saying, This is what's expected of you. There's a responsibility that you have. Romans 6. 13 tells us, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield your members. Yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. It's a command, brother. We have a responsibility, we have a duty to do this. And yes, I understand at times we shirk our duty. At times we fall short of what God expects of us, what God quite literally commanded and demanded that we do. But not only do I have a debt that weighs upon my heart, I have a duty, I have a responsibility to choose to serve God. Pick up my s my sword and pick up my shield and enter into the battle for the Lord on a daily basis. Could I remind you this morning that the commandments of God are not grievous? Yes, it's a command, but the commandments of God are there for us, for our good, for his glory, to accomplish his purpose in our lives and in this world. 1 John 5. 3 says, For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous. Many times people begrudge the commands of God. Oh, God demands so much Not really. Not when you consider what he's done for us. It's not that great of a command. They're not grievous. We make a choice about what we're going to do. And your choice displays the depth of your own character You know, beloved, many times people want the results. The results of following God. without following God. I'm saying they're Christians and they want that peace of God that passes all understanding. They want that strength when they're weak. They desire to have kids that grow up and Rise up and call them blessed, that stay in the faith, that follow after God and pursue the Lord with their life They want to have power in prayer. They desire the results without fulfilling the requirements. It doesn't work that way. How many how many uh you don't have to answer? I don't know if you've ever seen the little YouTube channel called Just Rolled In. There's it's a mechanics horror stories. And uh people will bring their car into the shop, a brand new BMW. It's got thirty-six thousand miles on it and the engine's blown. They pull it into the shop, they open it up, and the oil in the oil pan is literally like jello, like solid. They pull the oil pan off and the oil is like the shape of the pan Because they drove 35,000 miles and never changed their oil. And they wonder why their engine blew. You see, beloved, you don't get the results. without following the manual. It doesn't just happen because there's a manual in the glove box. There's some guidance in there. There's some rules of maintenance that are supposed to be followed. You know, you don't become an accomplished violinist or CELIST just because you have a songbook at home. Just because you have a cello sitting in your in your living room, it doesn't happen. You have to put in the effort and the time. And beloved, what I'm saying is God has given us a manual, He's given us some commands, He's given us some directions, and we will not Reap the blessings and the benefits of those that follow it unless you're willing to follow it. You can't expect the results if you ignore the responsibility. We have a duty to do what God has commanded us to do. This all starts with a desire. He said, I have a desire that I retain. In the verse, in our text verse today, 2415, and if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose ye this day, whom ye will serve. He's putting forth the question. He says, What do you want to do? You want to serve God? You want to serve the gods and the Amorites and the lands in which ye dwell? The God that your father served on the other side of the flood, he said, but as for me and my house, we're going to serve God. It's a desire. He had a desire to serve God. Not that we're always going to get it right, not that we're always going to do it perfectly, but the desire is there to pursue after God. God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with the direction you're headed. What direction are you headed? Is there a desire in your heart that is pushing you the right way? Oh, I know we all find ourselves at times in places that we don't want to be, and we say, How did I get here? I was much stronger than this. I was doing much better than this. But beloved, you got one of two choices. You can get discouraged and quit and let Satan win. Or you can say, I need to turn and get up and head towards God. Just go and do. Why? Because that desire is in my heart to be all that God wanted me to be, desire to fulfill and do the will of God. Abraham was willing to do the will of God, even if it meant sacrificing his son. Beloved, God wants more than just Sunday going meeting Christians. Wants Christians that it's real. To do the will of God, to be involved in the work of God, to make a difference in somebody else's life The greatest difference we make is in the lives of those that are nearest to us. I know on occasion we have the privilege of touching somebody else's life. But you know the greatest difference we make is in the lives that are nearest to us. My wife deserves to have a husband who is following God. She deserves to have a husband who loves her with a pure love. To have a husband who is a spiritual leader in the home. To have a husband who is loyal to her and to the Lord. You remember Lot? You see Lot chose the well-watered plains. His choice was not to serve and do what would be what the Lord would want. His choice was for the well-watered plains. His choice was for what was going to best benefit his pocketbook. What looked best best on the bank statements What looked the most profitable in the long-term retirement plan instead of what would be best for God? What would God want? And beloved, who did it affect the most? In the end, his family. His own wife turned back, longingly, looking at the city, was turned into a pillar of soul. He lost his family. And I tell you, beloved, you're going to have the greatest impact on those that are closest to you, your wife and your children. Ma'am, you'll have the greatest impact on those closest to you, your husband and your children. Are you choosing daily to honor and follow the Lord? We live as an example before our children. Understanding that they're just loaned to us by God. We call them our children, but they are really God's children. That we have been instructed to raise and nurture and admonition of the Lord and point them to Christ. Your children are going to follow your example of how you live. How you respond to hardship. How you lead. How you love. How you worship. How you give. How you serve, how you submit. I'm saying every part of our lives is an example. That children nine times out of ten end up following. It's actually a little disturbing to much like my dad I am You know, young men, they're like, I'm not going to be like my dad. Like, oh, bless God, I'm going to do everything I can not to be like my dad. And I am so much like my dad, it is not funny It's terrible. You know I uh out of all the kids I even I have these little brown spots on my face. You can't see 'em because you're further away, but I have these little brown spots on my face that come from being in the sun too much. And uh my dad gets those in and Well I'm not gonna tell you all of that, but anyways, I'm the only one out of all of us kids that gets the brown spots on my face. I'm in the sun too much. I mean it's just one thing after the next. I'm like, man, I'm like a spitting image of him. I'm just this walking uh example of him. And I praise the Lord if I could be like him. You know, a year ago when my dad had a heart attack, and thank you, church, for praying for him. Dad was on his way into the hospital, he's his his blood pressure was like thirty-six over nineteen. When he went in. In less than twenty minutes they had put two stints in. The doctor saved his life, there's no question. And Dad's very conscious of the fact that could have been the end for him. But he told me just on Thursday when I was sitting there at the house, he said, you know, on the way into the hospital, he said, I prayed two things. I said, God, if there's anything in my heart. That's not right with you, show it to me. I'll confess it and I'll forsake it. If you're ready to call me home, I'm ready to go home. And then he said, I prayed, God, if you'll let me live in the hospital long enough I'll try and win one person to Jesus for you before I go. They witnessed about seven people in the hospital, but one of his nurses bowed their head and put their faith and trust He said, God, if you let me live long enough, I'll try and win one more before I go off into eternity. I wonder if that's our passion, if that's our desire, to make difference in somebody else's life. Or are are we too consumed with our own wants? with our own desires. During a visit to a children's Bible class Pastor was kind of making his rounds in the Sunday school and he went into one Sunday school class and a group of young kids were there and he said, Oh kids, how are you doing today? And they exchanged the present pleasant leaves and They spent a little time chatting and he said, Hey, why don't you kids tell me why you love Jesus? And these kids are just looking at him with a blank stare on their face. Then after a little bit of time, kind of that uncomfortable silence, one kid in the back says, well, I guess it just runs in the family What an amazing thing to say it runs in the family. The dad and mom have made such an impact on me that I'm just trying to follow in their footsteps. Parents, how would your kids be doing spiritually if they were what you are? Choose you this day whom you will serve. Lastly this morning, and I'm going to bring this to a close, I want you to know that there's a dependency that I recognize. I realize that no matter how much I want to, no matter how committed in my heart I am, I can't do this on my own. It's not something any of us can do. We have to do so in and through the power of Jesus Christ. We have to be dependent upon him It's not just motivation. You're not just going to get up in the morning and say, I am determined. I made up my mind. I'll serve the Lord. I hope you're determined. But if your determination is not going to be enough, you're going to have to have the power of the Holy Spirit. You're going to have to have dependency. on him and let him strengthen you to do that work. And it starts with a desire. You've got to have that and I hope you are determined. But realize that the power to do so is through a dependency upon Him, not something we can't accomplish on our own. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?