Well it's good to see you all. Um turn if you turn your Bibles to Jeremiah chapter seven. Jeremiah chapter seven, um we're gonna look at verses twenty-one through twenty-eight tonight. I was uh On Sunday, I was um I had kind of thought the d last week I've kind of thought in the direction I wanted to preach tonight And Sunday morning, uh Pastor pretty much was preached the direction I was gonna go. Um so I'm glad he did that. And then Sunday afternoon I was thinking, okay, now where could I go from here? Like what um Lord, what do you want me to preach from here? And then Pastor basically preached on Sunday night where I was gonna go Sunday afternoon. So um I'm glad he covered uh those things though um the Lord the Lord knew what we needed for sure. So tonight we're going to keep kind of keep going in that direction in a little more practical sense though, and I think we'll see how the Lord uses his word here in our lives. Okay, I looked this statistic up earlier this week. Did you know that 92% of people that set goals did not accomplish them? I was shocked by that. I was thinking more like sixty to seventy percent maybe, but ninety-two percent of of people Uh that set goals did not accomplish them. And 90% of people, out of those 90%, they uh they lose track of their goals after two weeks. Isn't that hard to believe? And the direction I want to go to tonight, we'll see here in uh verse 24. Um we'll read verses 21 through 28 though. Um is the title I have for the message is Choosing Your Path, the Battle Between Backward and Forward. Choosing Your Path, the Battle Between Backward and Forward. Verse 21 of Jeremiah chapter 7 says, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, put your burnt offerings unto your sacrifices and eat flesh. For I spake not unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people. And walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the counsels and the imagination of their evil heart, and went backward and not forward. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt, unto this day, I have sent unto you all my servants, the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them Yet they hearken not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their neck. They did worse than their fathers. Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them, but they will not hearken to thee. Thou shalt also call unto them, but they will not answer thee. But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth not the voice of the Lord their God, nor receiveth correction, truth is perished, and is cut off from their mouth So the title is Choosing Your Path, The Battle Between Backward and Forward. And which way are gonna are you gonna go this year? Let's open with a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, uh, thank you for the opportunity to preach. Um and uh Lord, this is um you've laid this on my heart and Lord, I know there's something for each of us in this message to take away as we begin this new year. And Lord, we've heard two messages on Sunday that have really helped us point in the right direction. But Lord, I pray that more this more practical message will help us, Lord, to get even more specific in our Christian life and to get even more direction as we uh go into this new year and especially spiritually Lord. We can set many physical goals and financial goals and all of these things. But Lord spiritually we need to get specific and um Oh Lord, in choosing our path and fighting the battle to move forward for you. And I pray that that would be the case in each of our lives tonight as we look at your word Lord help us. I pray that each of our hearts will be open to your word and open to what you want to change in our lives this year. In Jesus' name. Amen. So Israel had a choice to move forward for God. If you look in these verses, um Um they had um very many choices that they could have made to move forward for God. Tonight I am going to give you um some choices that they had and some choices that we have to move to either move forward or move backward. Now I think all of us know um There's no in-between. You either are going forward for God or you're going backward. If you if you just say, oh well, I don't I don't really need to set any spiritual goals this year. I have no um I think I'm good where I'm at. You're going backward. Um and I'll show you that towards the end of the message. You're going backward. Um so the It's your choice tonight, forward or backward, which way are you gonna go? And Israel um and in the choices they make in the choices they made and maybe they didn't even know. They didn't even realized the direction they were going. But in the choices that they made, they went backward. The first one is very simple. Choose God's way over your way. Choose God's way over your way. Look in verse twenty-four. And uh verse twenty-four here, sorry. But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart. They didn't incline their ear to the Lord. And to begin moving forward for God, I know this sounds cliche and we hear it a lot, but it's simple. You have to, but to even start moving forward for God, you have to determine in your mind, um, choose his way over my way. Um As I was reading through this passage and um uh determining where to go with this point, uh the Lord gave me uh comparison of different people in the Bible. There's a group of people that that chose God's way, and there's a group of people that chose their own way. Now I'm going to read off two two lists of people and you tell me at the end which list uh you you would want your name in. And I think it's a pretty telling list of, wow, man, these people chose their own way, and these people, they chose God's way, and their lives turned out much differently. So here's the first list. Adam and Eve, Cain, the people during the time of the flood, Israel and the ten spies. Israel during the time of the judges, remember every man did that which was right in his own eyes. David and Bathsheba, Rehoboam. the evil kings of the northern kingdom, Israel, all the all those evil kings which did um um That which was right in their own eyes, Jonah, Judas Iscariot, the rich young ruler, the rich man, and Lazarus. And the rich obviously the rich man um ending ending up in hell and begging for a drop of water from Lazarus. Now listen to the second list. Enoch, Noah, Job, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua, Ruth. Esther, the major minor prophets, the twelve disciples, Paul. Which list would you rather be in? I think there's a good example as found in the Bible. Choose God's way over our own way. And We're starting out very broad, and we're going to end the message very narrow, very specific. So just stick with me. But choosing God's way over our own way. You may say, okay, that's not I mean, I'm following the word. I read the Bible. You know, I'm I'm a good Christian. I'm in church. I read the Bible. I do what I'm supposed to do. But And and many of you know and have maybe have faced this this past year. What ha what happens when it gets hard? What happens when uh there's a decision to make that affects your family, affects um your children, affects everything in your life? What happens then? So that's the first point. Choose God's way over your way. So I challenge you, before we get any further in the message, predetermine in your heart and mind that you're going to choose God's way over your way, no matter what. No matter how difficult the situation, no matter what the decision is, you say I'm going to take God's way over mine this year Um so and you can start to begin to think this way now. Here's the question. Is there an area of your life that you are choosing your way over God's way? That's the question uh that we can take away from from Israel here, because they began to choose their own way over God's way. And so you you know the area. You know the area that um God God would have you to change. Um if if you if there's one of those areas um that that needs to be fixed tonight. So Israel chose their own way over God's way. Obviously, we have to choose differently. Secondly, they chose sacrifice over obedience And we must do the opposite. We must choose obedience over sacrifice. So number two, choose obedience over sacrifice. And we find this in verses uh twenty-one through twenty-three. Says here. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, put your burnt offerings unto your sacrifices and eat flesh For I spake not unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices. But this king commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people, and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you. So I say here, I didn't. I brought them out of the land I did not command them concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices. He's saying He's saying here, I did I didn't I commanded them to obey rather than to give me burnt offerings and sacrifices. That's what he wanted. And Israel uh focused on the wrong thing there. Another example that we see of obedience over sacrifice, if you turn your Bibles over to 1 Samuel chapter 15. 1 Samuel chapter 15, I think we know this one pretty well. How many of you ever uh Um were given a list of things to do by your parents. And uh you got working so hard on your list, but you forgot one thing. And your parents come home and why didn't you do this? Why didn't you get the one thing on the list done that you were supposed to do? But I did like 95% of the list. Isn't that good enough? I think that's how we feel sometimes with the Lord, but He He wants us to focus on the thing that's at the top of the list, and that's obeying Him. So we see here in 1 Samuel 15, verse 22, and Samuel said, Hath the Lord, this talking to Saul. Remember Saul after the great victory, he disobeyed the Lord in a few areas. And Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. To obey is better than sacrifice. Boy, we choose we choose sacrifice a lot, don't we? We can say, oh, I'm I'm serving in this area, in this area, in this area, in this area, and this area, and then God says, Well, I want you to obey me over here. And we say, eh no, how about wait, remember Lord, I'm serving here, here, and here, and here, and here. Remember, Lord? Remember what I'm doing for you? But the Lord says, no, I want you to obey me in this area, in this area of your life. I want you to obey me. Now I don't know what I mean I could list off a whole bunch of areas here, but We'll kind of get to that as we um get towards the end of the message. But Israel chose um they chose sacrifice over obedience. Now, if we choose obedience first, the sacrifice will come. The sacrifice will come naturally. We'll want to serve the Lord. We'll want to give up things for the Lord. We'll want to give uh to church. We'll want to do these things. But This the obedience has to come first. The obedience must come first. Another example we see in the New Testament is that of Ananias and Sapphira. They were so focused on giving to the l you know, giving giving so that they could look good that they lied and disobeyed the Lord and that cost them their lives. So we see these examples of um people that show sacrifice over obedience. Now how This is take remember um we have to get back to where the message is going. Um these things are um specific in their own ways, but choosing your path, the battle between backward or forward. If you're so focused on sacrifice this year that you lose sight of obedience, that's going backward. You're going backward. And that's what Israel is doing. And the same same thing with the first point. If we lose if we lose sight of God's way, well And 90% of the time we know God's way. We know what it says in his word, what we're supposed to do. But sometimes, oh I really want I really want to do this. And i I think it might be wrong. I don't know when it's clearly wrong in his word. And so those two ways, choosing God's way over our own way and then choosing sa uh obe choosing obedience over sacrifice, Israel did not do those two things. things in the in this passage here. They did not choose these two areas of obedience. So Israel chose their own way over God's way. Then they chose sacrifice over obedience. And this is this last point is where I want to spend the rest of the time tonight. And I think where the Lord will really help us to As pastor preach Sunday morning, we have to live life on purpose. This year we've got to live life on purpose. And I think this last point here will help us Okay, how we can say, oh good, I'm gonna live life on purpose this year. Uh how are we gonna do that? Um What is a very specific way that we can live life on purpose this year. And that's what we're going to get to here in the last point. So they chose, secondly, they chose obedience over sacrifice. Lastly, They ch they chose no step over the next step. We have to choose the next step over no step. Let me say that one more time. They chose no step over the next step. We have to choose the next step over no step. Look at verses uh twenty-five through twenty-eight here. Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt unto this day, I have even sent you all my servants, the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them. Yet they hearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their neck. They did worse than their fathers. Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them, but they will not hearken to thee Thou shalt call unto them, but they will not answer thee. But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth not the voice of the Lord their God, nor receiveth correction. Truth is perished and is cut from their mouth. What I really want us to see tonight is that And what the Lord's been dealing with me this year is we don't have to set 20 spiritual goals and try to fulfill them all this year. And sometimes I get in the in in the mode of, oh I I've got to do I've got to do better in souling, I've got to do better in devotions, I've got to do better in prayer, I I've got to do better in this and this and this and this and this and No growth happens because there's too much to focus on. We get our eyes over here and over here and over here and by the end of the year we're just we look back and ah I did nothing for God this year. And that was kind of me last year. I had all these goals in place. I'm gonna, you know, I'm gonna this, this, this, this, and this. And I look back and boy, I don't really accomplish much. How does that how does that change? It's called taking the next step. Not oh I'm gonna try to take you know, step one, two, three, four, five this month. I'm gonna take one step. And so that's what I I want us um um to really look at tonight. And you kind of uh you ever see I think of I think of James when I think of this. You know, or a little I just think of a a uh a a little infant trying to learn how to walk. You know, they want to go like right away. They wanna, you know, I'm I'm I'm on the move. And you see them start running and then pfft right on their face, right? And how often is that is that us in our Christian lives? And we skip so many steps and we, uh oh, I'm I'm I messed up over here, I messed up over here. And really the Lord just wants to wants us to take one. Take one. Take one. Take one. And all all the while we're moving closer to Christ. That's our goal. We're moving more to become more like Christ. taking one step at a time. And so that's what I really want us to see tonight. If you look at uh I'll just give you some areas and uh um So how how do we take this next step? How do we take this next step? This is the practical part. This is where the rubber meets the road. So I hope you're paying attention. Number one, or I guess letter A if you're taking notes. Letter A, determine your next step. First of all, you've got to know what the next step is. Eli Lucas, can I get your help now? So if you have a pen, they're going to hand out just a little piece of paper. And if you need a pen, Lucas, or they both have some pens, but each person is going to get a piece of paper. Determining your next step. So I want I want each I want you all to take just a minute or two. I'm just going to list off some areas here and they may be the ones that you feel the Lord needs you to grow in this year. Spiritually. This needs to be a spiritual, okay. So here's some areas. Personal devotions. Okay? So you're going to write the area at the top, and then underneath you're going to write three specific ways you can grow in that area. So I'll give you an example here. Here's an example for soul winning. Okay, I the Lord wants me to get better at soul winning. How am I going to do that? I'm going to go once a month to visitation on Saturday. I can go once a month to visitation on Saturday. Here's the second way I'm going to get better. I'm going to hand out one tract a week. Just one. Here's the third way. I'm going to share the full plan of salvation with one person this year. Now, that doesn't seem like very much. That's like, okay, that's pretty that's pretty attainable. You know, if you hand out one tract a week, you're probably gonna want to hand out more. If you share the f full plan of salvation with one person this year, you're probably going to want to share the plan more than once. And all of a sudden you find yourself, wow, I am really invested into this soul winning thing. And so maybe it's a whole different area. I don't even know. Um So prayer. How can I get better at prayer? Here's a list of three ways. Set a place, set a time, make a prayer list. That's how I'm going to get better at prayer. Those three ways. So this is living on purpose right here. You decide an area, pick an area in your life, and then three simple, specific ways that you're going to get better in that area. And so the focus is on one area. What area am I going to get better at this year? What area is it going to be? And maybe it's getting involved in a ministry at church, serving more in the church. Well, how do I do that? Set a time to talk with pastor. Get a list of all the ministries in the church. Um all these things. Maybe it's um relationship goals, maybe it's uh coming to all the services, maybe it's Um, I don't know what I don't know what the area is in your life, but as you sit there and think about it, um I think we all have an area that we can get better in in our Christian lives. I think that's I mean, I think if we're all honest, we have areas that we can improve in. So what's that area and what are those three ways? that you're gonna uh determine to get those areas um um accomplished. So this is this is choosing the next step over no step. So I can help we can figure out the area tonight in the three ways, but if you don't if you don't if it's not If you're not making it happen, that's still no step. No step has taken place. And so no step um Uh Steven and Caleb, can you guys help me a second? No step Alright, uh Stephen, you're gonna be God. Caleb, you're gonna be Satan. Sorry. Uh so Caleb, I'm gonna have you stand back here. Stephen, you're here. I want you just to keep my arms taut. Just hold on to them. Okay. This is this is where we're at right now. Satan's pulling this way this year. God's pulling this way. And you're taking a step. Now. Now, they're both they're both kind of pulling. And you choose Satan's way. Several steps the wrong direction. Normally what happens? You choose God's way probably several steps the right way. And that's where we're all at. We have the opportunity to take steps in the right direction. Thank you guys. we have the the opportunity to take several steps in the right direction or the wrong direction. But we can't just we can't just sit and say, okay, I'm I think I'm good where I'm at. You know, I'm Uh it's just another year we're gonna keep plugging along. No, no, no, no, no. That's choosing the no step. Choosing no step. We're not gonna get anywhere that way. And so how are we deliberately so we're determining that next step. Let her be develop a plan. That's what we just did. Develop a plan. So we have that area written down on our piece of paper. Develop a plan, the three ways specifically that we're going to do that. And don't make them don't make them unattainable goals. You know, soul winning. I'm gonna go I'm gonna share the full plan of salvation to two people every day. That might be a little hard right off the bat. You know, I'm gonna hand out twenty tracks a day. Well that might be a little hard right off the bat. Um you grow grow into it. Um So determine your next step, develop a plan, and then deliberately follow the plan. Like I said, we can come up with the area, we can come up with the three ways. That's up to you. It's all up to you. And and like I just showed us, we're kind of hanging in the balance. Satan's pulling one way, God's pulling the other way. And God has the power. He could just drag us along if he wanted to. But he doesn't. He gives us the choice. But we have the opportunity to go towards Satan's side or towards God's side. And usually it ends up being more than one step. But you just have to deliberately follow that plan. It's up to you. It takes discipline And that's why it's a battle, right? That's why it's a battle. That's why the Christian life is a battle. So I hope you've seen three ways tonight Uh choose I mean to start it all off we ha we we obviously know we have to choose God's way over our own way. Um Israel did not do that. Um Second, we have to choose obedience over sacrifice. And then lastly, we have to choose the next step over no step And I think that's uh the real focus of the message tonight that I want us that I want us to take away. All we have to do, one step. Just one step um toward the Lord. And that's that's it that's what he wants, and that's what Israel lost sight of and Obviously you see here later in Jeremiah just the destruction that Israel faces and all the horrible things because somewhere along the line they stop taking steps. They stopped taking steps of obedience to God. They lost sight of that. And if we if we're not taking steps of obedience, we're going to be in the same boat. Because again, no step is a step backwards. If you're not focused on taking the next step for God, it's a step backwards. So as we close tonight, we um realize that that Israel made some wrong choices. They they chose all the wrong things. And it's a good lesson for us to learn from. And hopefully we don't have to learn it the hard way. We can determine right now, this year, 2025. You got your area written down, your three ways. I'm going to improve spiritually in my life this year in this area. And I'm going to do it these three ways. Very specifically, but it's all up to you individually, each and every one of you. Um or else it's no step, as we said. Um are you choosing the path that goes forward? You know how you know if you're choosing the path that goes forward? It's gonna be hard. It's gonna be a battle, because Satan's pulling the other direction. Are you choosing the path that goes forward? It takes deliberation. It takes living on purpose, as Pastor preached on Sunday. Uh it takes the help with God's power as Pastor Preach Sunday night. We need the Lord's power to help us. And it can all start tonight in one area that you know, that you know you need to grow in. I don't know what it is, whatever you wrote down on that piece of paper. It's time to get specific. It's time to get specific in our growth. So I challenge you tonight. Choose the path forward. Choose the path that's oh it's gonna it might be slow. It's gonna be one step at a time. But it's forward. It's going toward the Lord. And we go back we go back to verse twenty-four of Jeremiah chapter seven. They hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the councils in the imagination of their evil heart, and went backward and not forward. Such a sad verse. Hopefully that's not said of us this year. So I challenge you, choose the path forward and be willing to fight the battle. It's going to be one step at a time, Satan's going to be pulling this way, the Lord's pulling the other way, but it's all the ball falls in your court, it's your choice. Every head bound, every eye closed, uh the uh pianists come forward.