Is for everyone. Christmas is for everyone. In the classic Charles Dickens play, A Christmas Carol That was written in eighteen forty-three. That play is so well known. That it could have been a best seller last year. It's actually hard to think about that it was written in 1843 And yet so much of the world can talk about and tell the story of the Christmas Carol for it very clearly Teaches principles that are found and rooted in this Christmas season. That bitter protagonist known as Ebenezer Scrooge, the miserly old man. who lives his life for himself, consumed with his own only his own needs and no thinking of of other people's to the point where the term Scrooge is synonymous with that type of person. Somebody who has and knows no joy and does not love or care or have compassion for anyone else. Yet in this story, there is a young boy who brings a ray of hope to all who know him. Even though his own personal circumstances are anything but hopeful. This young boy named Tiny Tim, Tiny Tim, he Suffering from a debilitating and ultimately life-threatening, if untreated, disease As Scrooge stands there with Christmas presents looking upon the scene He looks down as tiny Tim before his family, leaning upon one crutch, says that most famous line, God bless us. everyone. Regardless of where you're at in life, what circumstances have brought into your life, I want you to understand that Christmas is for everyone. There is that spirit that Tiny Tim had there in the Christmas carol. where it didn't matter who who was rich or poor or high and mighty or down and out. He wanted everyone to know the joy and the blessing of Christmas And Christmas is for everyone. And as we look at this Christmas story in Luke chapter 2, I'm just going to quickly run down some Through some people that were impacted by this Christmas story. You know, it's amazing when you ponder and think about the fact that the birth of this child Is the greatest event in all of history. It has had the biggest impact on the world of any event in all of history, of all of mankind. We hear about it so much and we celebrate it every year that many times I think the significance of it and the magnitude of it maybe isn't driven home to our hearts. But just the very fact that we as a church are stuck pausing to think about the birth of Jesus so many thousands of years later. Should be evidence to the power and the magnitude of this very important event. As we begin reading in Luke chapter 2, first of all, we see that Caesar Augustus was somebody involved in the story of Christmas. Here was the leader of the greatest nation in the world, the world power of that time, Rome. For all roads led to Rome, they they built the infrastructure that connected the known world at that time. This was the the most powerful man in all of the world at that time. And God said to him, I want you to make a decree that all the world should be taxed. I mean that's one way to raise taxes, huh? Tax the whole world. I mean you think about that, that that's what it says The whole world should be taxed. The known world was under his control, and the world was to be taxed. And they were to come to their own places. And God was doing this so that prophecy would be fulfilled. Caesar Augustus didn't even know that he was playing such an important role in this story of Christmas. But you see, God needed for Mary and Joseph to get out of the city of Nazareth unto Judea, the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. Because that's where Jesus was supposed to be born. So first you have Caesar Augustus, you have the most powerful man in the whole world that Christmas is for them. Then you see that the shepherds are involved. The shepherds, just a humble shepherd, but God sent the angels to them. Isn't it amazing you think about the fact that God sent angels to the humble shepherd? You know God's not so impressed by our status today. God's not so impressed by what kind of position we have or how important we think we are or what area in the world that we that we live in. God is for everyone. He sent angels to tell the shepherds. At that time, probably the lowest Position or job or situation in society would be a shepherd keeper. Somebody that spent their days and nights in the field sleeping with the sheep. A lowly shepherd, but God sent angels unto them with the message of his son. So you go from the most powerful man in the world to the most humble of situations in the world, and God is for both. Amen Christmas is for both. Christmas is for you. Whether you're high and lifted up and you've attained some level of status in this world, Christ is for you. Or whether you have not been able to, because of life, circumstances, or situations, you would look at yourself as more a lowly estate. Maybe you don't have some big position You're just a humble old old farmer or simple guy? Somebody in the church told me a couple weeks ago, they said, Pastor, the reason I like you is because you're just like me. And I said, really? He he said, Yeah, we just simple folks. I said, Amen. Well, I I like keeping it down simple. Uh just keeping it down home. That's what we are. We're just simple. But God's for us, amen. God's for the for the for the most powerful, but he's also for the humble. Then you see the wise men. The wise men were from the East. You see? It doesn't matter what you call home. It doesn't matter where you come from. I love it that our church is very multicultural and we've got uh people from all over the world. People that wouldn't call It's Maryland home. Nah, they might do it might call Maryland home now because they've been here long enough, but uh you know they they their their first Home was another country. You know, it doesn't matter where you're from in the world, God and Christmas is for you. No nation, no group, no no set uh sect of people have a corner on Jesus Christ. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Christ's Christmas is for the whole world. It doesn't matter if you live in the King's Palace or you sleep in the field, Christmas is for you. And it doesn't matter if you're from America or from another country or from America from Maryland or from another state, Christmas is for you These wise men were educated. They were smart people. They probably wouldn't be called down home folks. They much of what they said might actually be above our comprehension. Might be talking about things that we didn't understand. They were educated. They they had all that in a bag of chips. But Christ was for them too. Sometimes people are so smart they're too smart for their own good. They're so educated they've Become so puffed up in their own knowledge that they've left no room for Jesus Christ. But Christ is for them We have people in the story already that are from the East and the West, from the rich and the poor, from the powerful to the humble. Christmas is for everyone. Then we see that Mary and Joseph were involved in the story of Christmas, both male and female. Christmas is for everyone. God doesn't love men more than he loves women. And God doesn't love women more than he loves men. He loves us all. He loves us all, men and women. Then you see the angels are involved. In the story of Christmas. You have those from the heights of heaven that are involved in the story of Christmas. The angels come and declaring the magnificent birth of Jesus Christ. Down to the humble shepherd here on earth. All are involved in Christmas I think of Simon. Simon was so old that the Holy Ghost had to come to him and say, Don't worry, Simon. You're not going to die until Jesus is born. He was so he was ready to pass off the scene. The Holy Ghost said, hey, you're going to live to see Jesus, just letting you know. And then you go to the manger and you see the baby Jesus. What I'm saying is that it doesn't matter how old you are or how young you are, Christmas is For you. Jesus Christ came and he came for everyone, the young and the old alike From the babe in the manger to those that maybe are ready to pass off this old earth on to glory. Christmas is for you. He said, glory to God in the highest and on earth peace and goodwill toward men, toward all men. Christmas is for all men. Now think of the owner of the inn. We don't know his name, but we know that he didn't have room for Jesus. You know, you think about that, and sometimes our lives get so full of other things that we don't have room for Jesus. I hope this Christmas time that you don't let the excitement of the day Cause you to go through the day and not pause and think about Jesus. For it is his birth We as Christians we say he's the reason for the season. You ought to get up in the morning and listen. There's not I don't have a problem with jingle bells and and you know Batman smells and rabbit lady negative I mean you want to sing whatever kind of funny songs you want to sing, that's okay. But hey, on Christmas Day you ought to get some some some of the Christmas songs and talk about Jesus and his birth And how the angels proclaimed glory to God and glory in the highest. Take a few minutes and listen to those songs and think about Jesus and how He came to the earth and He came for you So that you could know him as your Lord and Savior. And he came knowing that one day he was going to die on a cross. Give his life for you and I. Don't let Christmas come and pass without pausing and taking and having a little room in your day for Jesus Christ. Boy, we don't know who the innkeeper was, but whatever it was, his his life was so full that he didn't have room. You know what? Jesus came for him too. He came for the one that's I think about Simon. Simon was looking for Jesus. He wanted to see Jesus so bad that the that he was just anticipating the coming of Jesus and wanted to see Jesus so much that God said, I've I've answered your prayer. You're going to live to see Jesus all the way to this innkeeper who didn't have any room was not given any thought about Jesus. You know this world, a lot of them aren't going to give one thought about Jesus this Christmas Even though much of the world observes Christmas in one way or another, they will give zero thought to what it's about. They take his name out of Christmas and call it Exmus. And it's almost criminal to say Merry Christmas to somebody. All these businesses They want to say happy holidays. Happy holidays. I turn back and say Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Don't take Christ out of Christmas. What are we doing this for? What's what's this whole thing about? I know for much of the world they they they aren't going to think anything about Christ. But you know what? Christ came for them. Christ came for them. Even though they didn't have room. I think about the owner of the manger. I know typically in our mind we we we connect all the story, we put it all in one place that the in keeper said, oh well I don't have any room inside, but you can stick them in the manger. You know, maybe it was part of the inn, I don't know, but somebody had a manger. And I think about that, they said, you know what? I don't have much. But what I have, Jesus, you can have it. I'm not rich, I'm not lofty, I don't have a lot of things, but I have this, and you can have it, Jesus. No gift is too small, no sacrifice is insignificant, nothing given to Christ is ever wasted And Jesus used that major. Christmas is for everyone. For all of us who know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior We get to celebrate Christmas with the joy of knowing Christ as our Lord. But think about the majority of the world who does not know Jesus. They might know about Jesus. They maybe even play Christmas songs and don't even understand the message of the songs they're listening to. But my, how important it is for us to fulfill the task we've been given by Christ, to go tell the world about Jesus. Joy to the world, the Lord has come. Let the earth receive her king. Let every heart prepare him room, heaven and nature. Sing. Hey, Jesus has come. And he's for everyone. Let heaven and earth sing. Anybody that knows Jesus should be singing out and proclaiming the love of Jesus Christ and that He came for all people. The angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be too. All people. Jesus, Christmas is for all people, for everyone. We know it's about the birth of the Savior, but do you understand what that means? Just to know about it is not enough. We talked about it in Sunday school how The chief priests and the wise men that Herod called. He called him in and he says, Hey, what is this supposed to be, this this king of the Jews? What are we talking about? What they said unto him When Herod heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and the scribes and the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, For thus it is written by the prophet. You see, they knew that Jesus, this Messiah, was supposed to be born in Bethlehem. They had a head knowledge. And listen. Our stores, our communities, our neighborhoods are full of people who have a head knowledge about Jesus Christ. They know. They see the manger scenes. They know that this is about Christmas is about Christ and his birth, and that's what we're celebrating But they don't know what it means. They don't understand the message of Christmas that Jesus came for the entire world. To seek and to save that which was lost, to give his life a ransom, that you and I, and the whole world, might be saved. Saved. They missed the fact that Christmas was for them. They knew the location, but they didn't know the Lord. They knew the scriptures and what the scriptures said, but they didn't know the Savior. And could I ask you this morning if you're here, maybe you know all about the manger, but have you really met the Messiah Do you know Jesus personally? I want you to know that Jesus came for you. Rich, poor, educated, uneducated, American, some other nationality, man, woman, young, old. Jesus is for everyone. They'll stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed Knowledge of the Scripture is never going to save you. You've got to know Jesus Christ This morning, if you're saved by the blood of the Lamb, you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. You can praise the fact that you can have that knowledge and you know beyond a shadow of a doubt when you die, you're going to be in heaven because Jesus came for you. You can be thrilled about that. But not everyone has that knowledge. If you have not believed on Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, I want you to know He came for you. Don't put it off