Turn your Bibles to Mark chapter number 10 is where we're going to be this morning, and you should have picked up the new notes out there, just a couple of pages this morning, but 52 And 53, I think, page number 52 and 53, Christ's final days of ministry. We're we're wrapping this up and I just couldn't decide where to break the line. I might should have broken a little bit earlier. as we come into Christ's last week, you know, but uh that's where we're heading. We're gonna get to his last week. Uh that's next Sunday we'll look at that. But right now this just kind of closing up his uh last days of ministry, uh what he does among the people. Um and so we will be in Mark chapter number 10 uh this morning and Beginning in verse number 32. Make sure I'm in the right place. Last week I jumped up and started teaching and uh was reading in the wrong uh chapter. uh the wrong book because you know these stories that we we're looking at here you know they appear in Matthew, they appear in Mark, they appear in Luke. the same stories but the how the story is told is a little bit different in each one and so I just choose where w what's book to look at and and to draw the thoughts from. But we see here in Mark chapter 10, verses 32 through 34 that Christ tells the disciples that Scripture is going to be fulfilled in Jerusalem. He says, hey, we're heading to Jerusalem and Scripture is going to be fulfilled. We see in verse number 32. And they were in the way, going up to Jerusalem. And Jesus went before them, and they were amazed, and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve and began to tell them what things should happen to him. So he took again the twelve and began to tell them, This is the third time that Christ has pulled the disciples aside and said, Hey, I needs must go up to Jerusalem. I have a job. I have a responsibility. and God has called me, God the Father has called me, and and I'm going to go to Jerusalem and this is what's going to happen. So he's explained that to them. The disciples of course know that his life is under threat that they've been told they're gonna kill him and last week we saw that, you know, Thomas was like, hey, he's gonna go up to Jerusalem and get killed, let's just go with them and get killed too. Let's let's just go with we'll all go with them. We're all just gonna die with them. So they were afraid. They're like, you know, this is This is not going to be good. And so Jesus tells them here, he says, Hey, these this is what's going to happen, saying, verse number 33, saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priest. and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles, and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and they shall kill him And the third day he shall rise again. So we see several things here. He says, hey, there's going to be some prophecy fulfilled. This is What the Old Testament has said was going to happen, this is what was described. You guys should know this. But hey, he's going to be betrayed. He says that he's going to be betrayed. He's going to be condemned to death. Unjust men are going to cry for his own death and he is going to be killed and he would be delivered up to the Gentiles for that crucifixion. He was going to be mocked. And he would be treated shamefully. These are fulfillments of Old Testament prophecies regarding him, and he tells them that this is going to happen. Well, in the midst of this, Jesus describing this cruel and uh brutal treatment that he's going to go through, and there is a question raised. A couple of the disciples are concerned about themselves in this in verses 35 through 45. Jesus receives a request from James and John. So he says, verse number 35, and James and John, the son of Zebedee, come unto him saying, Master, We would that thou shouldest do for us what we shall desire. And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? They said unto him, grant unto us that we may sit one on thy right hand and the other on thy left hand in thy glory. Well, they made this request, a request for honor, to be able to sit at their right hand and the left hand. In the midst of Christ talking about, hey, I'm going to go and be killed, I'm going to be treated in shamefully, I'm going to be beaten, I'm going to be unjustly accused, I'm going to uh be scourged and and the Gentiles are going to have their way and and they say, well Jesus, when you get to glory, when you get to your throne, when you set up your kingdom, can we be one sit on the right hand and one sit on the left hand? He informs them that they don't really understand what they're asking. He says there, but Jesus saith unto them, ye know not what ye ask. Can ye drink of the cup that I drink of and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? Yeah. They they they did not quite understand what they were asking. They did not realize what was going to be taking place here. You know, sometimes we ask things that are of God that are really not for the edification of the saints or for the furtherance of the gospel. They are kind of more on a personal level, even a selfish level, kind of like James and uh John's here, the sons of Zebedee, uh just personal interests that that We're asking for and Jesus looks at the disciples and says, You guys don't understand what you're even asking. You don't even realize what it is that you're asking of me. Can could you possibly partake of the cup of suffering that I'm going to partake of? And uh they have an amazing reply. They foolishly say, yes, we can. In verse number 39, and they said unto him, We can. They say, yeah, we can we can do that. We can take of that. We're ready, Lord. We're ready to go and suffer with you, to be with you. We can partake of that cup And he says, No, you don't you don't realize how brutal this is going to get. You don't realize what it is that you're asking. And I think there may have been some perspective there from their standpoint where they really um You know the Jews were expecting Jesus to set up a kingdom here on earth at that time. And although Jesus had told the disciples numerous times, maybe in their mind they were still viewing or perceiving some type of earthly kingdom that he was going to set up. And Jesus again is telling them, you don't understand even the the glory that you're asking for, the ramifications of that to sit on my right or left hand in glory is not i i it's not something you can even understand. You can understand what you're gonna have to go through to get there and you don't know what it means once you g once you get there There's so much that they did not understand about this, but Jesus was gracious with them and kind, and he tells them that you're going to endure some. But not to the level. He says there in verse number 39 where he said, And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of. And with the baptism that I am baptized with shall ye be baptized. But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give. It shall be given to them for whom it is prepared. So Jesus here tells them, Listen, uh you are going to receive, you're going to partake of that cup in some measure in a little bit, and we know that uh You know, James was beheaded. Uh John, according to the book of Revelation, was exiled to the Isle of Patmos. They they Partook of the cup that Jesus partook of in that they endured some suffering here on earth, not to the level that Jesus endured, having going all the way through the crucifixion, but he was saying, listen, you will partake of it And the Bible tells us, yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution. We should not be shocked if we have to undergo or endure some hardship. We should not be that's one of the biggest problems with the Word of Faith movement and the whole desire and ambition of this this group that wants to portray that if you're living right, you're going to be prosperous. That if you're uh have enough faith, you're gonna have all the wealth that this world has to offer. That's the word of faith movement, that's prosperity gospel. And one of the big problems is it sets people up. They think, well, if I'm doing everything I think I should. How come I'm not living prosperous? But yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution. There is going to be hardship. There is going to be uh challenges And uh you know it is a problem when you set people up for failure like that, when you tell them uh falsehood and then they think, well, I must not have faith, I must not be right with God, I must not I must have sin in my life. But that is not necessarily true. Sometimes you're going to endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ just because that's part of what God wants It's part of your path. It's part of the journey that God would be glorified, that his work would move forward, that you would be tried in a furnace of fire and come forth as gold. These are all things for our good and for God's glory. And uh Jesus, of course, is warning the disciples, and he warns us that they things are going to come, and this certainly is a possibility. Now There was a uh let me just see here I thought I had another point here, but we're going to move on. Christ turns this worldly ambition for greatness into an opportunity to teach them what true greatness really is. So he he of course informs them, listen, this is not mine to give away. This is going to be given to whom it was prepared for. But uh he takes this and he turns it and he says, wait a minute, uh he that is greatest among you shall be your minister. And Jesus called them, verse number two, but Jesus called them to him, and he saith unto them, Ye know that they which uh are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, and their great ones exercise authority upon them. He's saying, these men that have position here on earth, these they get lifted up and they're exalted, and these people exercise all this authority, and you're looking at this position on my right hand. as a position of glory, but what you need to really understand, verse number 43, but so it shall but so shall it not be among you. But whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister, which we know minister really means servant. He's saying that the one that's going to be the greatest among you, among children of God, among the family of God, is the one who is most willing to serve. He goes on and says that Jesus came not to be ministered unto, but to be a minister, to minister to others. Even the greatest among us should view themselves As ministers, as servants. The Son of Man came, verse number uh forty forty five, for even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom. for many. So Jesus himself says, I came to minister, to give my life a ransom, to serve this world. And what a privilege it is that we have to serve the Lord. And he immediately takes this opportunity where he's teaching. He says, listen, I came to serve, and he immediately takes that. and performs a miracle. He does service to others. In verse number forty-six And they came to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highwayside begging So the healing of blind Bartimaeus here, this is the last recorded miracle in the book of Mark So there are no more miracles that Christ performs in the book of Mark. We're closing in on the end of Christ's ministry, his time of ministry. We're going into his last week. Uh you know the what has been called the Passion Week, the week before the crucifixion. We're closing in on that in Christ's life, but this is the last recorded miracle in the book of Mark. Christ, here it says, is on his way out of Jericho in verse number 46. Now there's a little bit of a of uh among Bible scholars and uh you guys know what higher critics are. Higher critics are are those that are looking for problems in the scriptures. people that are critical of the text and uh they want to find a problem. And so you've heard people say there's contradictions in the Bible all over the place. You know, how can you believe that? And uh they go to the Word of God and try and find anything that doesn't line up perfectly, and they're like, uh, see, there it is It it it's not true. There's there's a it says one thing here and it says something different here. Well this passage of scripture right here has been something that some higher critics have looked at and want to point out that see the Bible is not is not true. Uh So I want you to look at the contradicting, it's not contradicting, but from a higher critic standpoint, passage of scripture in the book of Luke. Look at Luke chapter 18, where this where this story takes place again, but in Luke chapter 18 Verse number um thirty-five. So in Luke eighteen, verse number thirty-five, he says And it came to pass that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. Okay, so now here he says that they came nigh unto Jericho, but in the text that we just read, and they came to Jericho as he went out of Jericho with his disciples So in Mark it says he was leaving Jericho, but in Luke it says he was coming nigh unto Jericho, the idea of him coming into Jericho. Aha! There's a problem. They don't agree. Listen, we accept the Word of God by faith, and we believe that it is an inspired Word of God. And so if there's something that we do not understand Then there's something we need to dig into it and figure out why, do some further learning, get educated, but we're not looking for contradictions. If there is a contradiction on the surface, You just need to put a little bit of thought into it. Okay, so there's several things that can explain that difference. First of all, uh There was an old and a new Jericho. There was two cities. And depending upon, they may have been describing there in Mark that they were leaving old Jericho. And Mark says, hey, as we were exiting Jericho, but at the same time they were entering New Jericho, and Luke could be saying As we were entering Jericho, they were in the same location. They were departing old Jericho, moving into newer Jericho, the the two cities, and you know, just like we have old York Road. and New York Road, you know, you have these these different things and so you have that is one explanation. Another very, very simple explanation, and some believe this, that this is two different two different people There's an unnamed blind man that was given to us here in Luke, and then there's blind Bartimaeus that was given to us in Mark Very easily could just be two different people. Actually, Harold Wilmington in his guide to the Bible, he believes that it's two different people. We're going to partake uh we're going to address it like it's the same miracle uh and and look at it that way because That's just what I want to do. It doesn't really matter to me. It could be another miracle. We could just say, you know, another blind man. I mean obviously how many blind men have we seen healed as we've been walking through the the the life of Christ here. There's been many of them that he's healed, so for him to heal another one is not that big of a challenge. Um then obviously it also could be the aspect of them coming in and out of the city, uh if they happen to have stayed outside the city for uh a Um period like if they went and slept out somewhere outside the city and they were going out in the evening, coming back in the evening, whatever, traveling just as they were in proximity to the city. So that idea of nigh unto the city could be representation of near to, nearby, that they were nigh, not necessarily implying a direction Not saying we were coming into the city, but that we were nigh. We were close by Jericho when this took place. So there's several very basic, easy explanations, but higher critics look at it and they want to say, oh look, there it contradicts and and They want to try and throw scripture out because they see something that is not 100% the exact same. But you know when you have two eyewitnesses of any situation, the perception is going to be a little different. their explanation of how, oh the car was coming this way and and they turned into that car and just rammed it, you know, and and then the next person says, well the car was was backing up and he backed right into them. They might both be true That car might have been backing up and this one was coming and turning. And so both stories are exactly the same. It just depends on how you were looking at it and what you saw from your perspective. And so we want to be careful that we don't allow higher critics to cause us to doubt the word the word of God uh as we see this. So the healing of Brian Blind Barnamaeus here, we see that He was uh as he was told that Christ was passing by, that he was coming up into the city, Barnamaeus was determined to get to Jesus. In verse number 48, that we're back in Mark now in verse number 48. And many charged him that he should hold his peace, and he cried the more a great deal, thou son of David, have mercy on me. So he cried out, he wanted to get to Jesus How determined are you and I to get an answer from Jesus? How determined are we to hear from heaven, to hear what God has for us? Are you determined? He was determined. They said, hey, hold your peace. Be quiet. There's a lot of other people here that are more important than you, Bartimaeus. You're just a blind beggar on the side of the street. Would you be quiet And he didn't have somebody to take him to Jesus, but he wasn't going to be quiet. He cried out the more. And the louder they said be quiet, the louder he got. Why? Because he wanted to get to Jesus. He recognized Jesus as the promised son and asked of him mercy. He recognized him. He said, Thou son of David That is the Old Testament prophecy that the Messiah was going to come through the line of David with him acknowledging and recognizing that Jesus was the son of David. If somebody would be just casually looking at the situation and didn't understand the prophecy and looking at the Old Testament, they would have said, Thou son of Joseph. Right? He was Joseph and Mary's son from a human standpoint. But Lion Bartimaeus recognized and said, He's not the son of Joseph. No, he is the Messiah. He is the promised one, the son of David. The one that was going to come and deliver men. And so he cries out for that, and we see that Jesus made him whole, and he becomes a follower of Jesus in the way. I I love seeing that. Let's see it so where were we at? Let's say um fifty one Now let's read verse number 52. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight, and he followed Jesus in the way. And uh I've been, some of my scripture memory recently has had that phrase in like three verses that I'm working on memorizing, uh the phrase of the way. uh in it and it just keeps coming to my mind and there's the way of the wicked, there's the way of the righteous, uh and I just thought, man, I need to do a study in the Bible about the way and just go through that and see the way. And uh it just Just keeps coming up in my own study, and so I want to dig into that some more. But he followed Jesus in the way. And uh, you know, Christians were called uh followers or people of the way. And they were followers of Christ, and they became known as Christians. And uh so just interesting how those things tie together. But we see that he was made whole because of his faith that he had. Then we're coming here to the to the closing here of the ministry that Christ had here on before he enters this last week, and that is Zacchaeus comes to Jesus. Luke chapter 19. So turn over to Luke. Chapter number 19, and we're going to see the story of Zacchaeus Coming to Jesus here. Luke was obviously disdained. People did not like him. He had a position of power Luke 19, beginning in verse number one. And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho, and behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans. And he was rich. He he had a position. People hated him. He was notoriously, uh, the the publicans, the they were notoriously dishonest. They notoriously basically robbed from the people and patted their own pockets. To make matters worse, they had kind of partnered up with the Romans to do so. And so these publicans were looked at as traitors. They were people that were against the people. They were turncoats. And so man people did not like the publicans at all. And the publicans were okay with that because hey they got to have a lot of money. They didn't have a lot of friends, but they had a lot of money. They had wealth and and uh they had position and so he had uh he wasn't just a publican, but he was chief among the publicans. And so he had a position and he had uh prosperity because of that. Lots of wealth in his life. Now, he had a proper name, Zacchaeus, means righteous one. Righteous one. But do you know what? Just because you have a name doesn't mean you're living up to it We're looking at Thursday nights on the names of Christians, and there's lots of things that we're called as Christians, and we're just gonna See there the you know it says they were called Christian and so they were called many different things, but I wonder how are we living up to the names that Christ has given us that the Word of God describes us as as soldiers of Christ. And they're saints. Are you living up to the God-given position of a saint? You've been given sainthood as a Christian. We are all saints. But are we living up to that name? He had the name of Righteous One, but he wasn't living up to that. And you want to be sure as a Christian we're living up to the names that that we have that God God has given us. But he had a desire in verse number three, and he sought to see Jesus, who he was, and could not for the press because he was litter little of statue. He had a desire. He wanted to see Jesus. Do you know after all this world had to offer, he was still empty Everything that he had from this world, he had all of this position, and he had power, and he had prosperity and all of that, and he was still empty I was talking to Brother and Sister Ives there in Dover, and you know they're lifelong friends of ours, the music. Um and they we're sitting there talking and they're they're clumbing in on the closing years of their life, you know, and they're just like, I don't know how many more years we're gonna be able to travel and and do what we do and he was describing how his voice has changed. He's had to rewrite all of his music because he can't sing in the higher tones he used to, so he rewrote it all so that's lower and uh you know they have to adjust even some days he's like I adjusted today's song just because right now I can't sing and and he's talking about that and they they said but you know what, we wouldn't trade our life of service for God for anything And and Mrs. Ives says, you know, in all the years that I've been singing and traveling and been all over the country, she said, I can't tell you the number of people that have been towards the end of their life. And maybe they sought power, they sought position, they maybe they had a lot of wealth, but I I can't tell you how many of them have had the testimony, I wish I could have gone back and done it differently. I went after all these things the world has, and now my life is over, and and I regret, I regret, I regret. And she says, But you know, in all these years I have never, never, not one saint of God that got to the end of their life have said, boy, I'm sad that I serve the Lord I wish I could go back and pursue money. I wish I could go back and and go after the things of this life and and and you know have a boat and a bigger house and and and nice cars Not one of them have said, Boy, I wish I would go back and do that. And you know that's a reality. That's the reality The devil sells us a a bill of goods and makes the young people think that uh what they want to be happy, they that they need to go after the things of this world, and so they pursue that, and then they'll gonna live with regret Because the time will come when they want to serve God. And this is what the Ives are really talking about, is that they are so limited now in what they can do They're they're going to be coming here later this year and they said, you know, we got to get there a day early because we need a day to recover from travel. Used to be we would drive all night, get there on Sunday, we would show up Sunday morning right driving all night and get up and set the instruments up and play all day and and we were okay. But now we travel ten hours. We gotta we need some sleep. We need to We need to rest and and relax and and take some time. She says we just can't keep the pace we used to. And so we're limited on what we can do now. And she says, We're so glad that we gave our youth and our energy and our vitality to God. And praise the Lord for that. I wish there was more young people today that had that desire, that passion. Oh, but I'm saying here is Zacchaeus, he had everything the world offers, but he was still empty. He still didn't Have what he knew he needed. He was still had a hollow spot in his heart and he began looking for Jesus. You know, it was the crowd that drew him to Jesus. The crowd limited him from being able to see Jesus. He had a difficulty there in verse number three. He was small of stature. And so he couldn't see Jesus. What's keeping you from seeing Jesus? What difficulty is keeping you from church? What difficulty is keeping you from reading your Bible What difficulty is keeping you from having to walk with God? You say, oh, I just, you know, work is long or I'm tired in the mornings or Whatever difficulty it is, this is hard for me to do. Zacchaeus said, I want to see Jesus, and he is smaller stature. And he says, well, you know what? There's a tree. I'm going to climb that tree. Now Zacchaeus was the chief of the publicans. I mean he was the top dog He was probably in the most fashionable clothes of the day, probably very expensive garments, very sharply pressed and so on. He was the chief of the publicans, but you know what? None of that mattered. He wanted to see Jesus and he went and he climbed a tree. It's not very dignified You see Brother Don Wilson climbing a tree, you know, he's dignified and sharp looking and you know we've got to climb a tree to to get you know to be able to see the fireworks on Thursday. Gonna climb no, it's not very dignified to climb a tree and and he wasn't worried about his clothes or other things. He wanted to see Jesus He was willing to work to get it. He was determined in verse number four. And he ran before and he climbed into a sycamore sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass That way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and he saw him and he said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for today I must abide at thy house. Yeah, Zacchaeus didn't care what others thought. He made a discovery here. He got to see Jesus. His determination was rewarded. And Jesus saw him and his desire. And Jesus went to his house. You know, it doesn't matter how far you are from Jesus. If you want to come to him, he says, draw nigh unto me and I will draw nigh unto you. Jesus will see the heart, the desire that's there. Of all of those people that were around Jesus, many were just looking with with you know curiosity. Some were like, okay, I mean I'm not. I don't do good in foreign countries sometimes because in foreign countries you you have to be rude. It's just the way it is. It's culturally. It's it's not they don't think anything of it. I mean we're getting on a train in India. Brother Pratt's like, you just have to shove. Or else when this train shows up, it's going to pull away and you'll still be here on the dock. And we're all going to be gone. He says, so when the train shows up, you just shove your way in. And I'm I'm not that I'm like, I'll just stand back until there's a spot. He says, you will be here till tomorrow. Literally you will not get on this train unless you shove your way in. And I mean it I'm uncomfortable with that. But you've got to shove your way in and Lady with a baby, don't matter. Just push her out of the way. I mean, it doesn't matter. You gotta shove your way in, or else you're you're gonna get left there. And I'm uncomfortable with that. But hey, Zacchaeus said, man, I'm getting to Jesus And God saw that it wasn't just curiosity, it wasn't just idle like, oh, I want to see this famous person. No, Jesus Zacchaeus had a need in his heart and he was motivated to get to Jesus and he was going to do what was necessary. God saw that heart desire. And when you and I have a desire to get to God, You open this page as a scripture and you look down in it and you say, God, I need something from you. God sees that And God will answer that prayer. God will answer that cry of your heart to be in his presence, to know him and to be fed by him His curiosity brought him to the crowd, but it was his conviction of heart that brought him to Christ. We see that he was delivered, verses 8 through 10. And Jesus said, This day is salvation, verse number nine, there come to thy house, for as much as he is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Zacchaeus was saved by the grace of God because Jesus showed up. His life was changed. There's no question. He heard these things. He changed his life. He began to return and repay that which he had stolen. You know, when you get saved, your life changes. Things are not the same. They're not the way they used to be. He acknowledged him as Lord. He said, behold the Lord. I wonder how many of us need to see him as Lord in our lives. Jesus comes and tells him, hey, several things in that passage. He says, make haste. He says, come down. It's like I I gotta go to your house today. The implication of hurry, beloved, the delays when we're dealing with the Lord are not good. That's one of the reasons we have an invitation at the close of every service. Because we want people to make that decision now. Don't delay. Don't think, boy, God really stirred my heart and someday I'm going to do that. You know, someday never comes. You need to make the decision now. Jesus says, make haste. Come down from going to your house today. He says, You've got to make this decision now. And we we want to make a decision for the Lord and follow the Lord and make haste to do so. Let's not delay. We know the story of Lot. Lot lingered. Lot lingered. He continued to linger the longer he lingered and ended up costing him more and more and more. We we don't want to linger. We want don't want to delay. So we see Christ's final days of ministry here. Next week we will be turning and looking into his closing week. As we get into his closing week, we will have a lot more of these prophecies concerning the Messiah. So make sure you have this sheet next week because we will be filling in a bunch of these blanks as we get into this closing week uh because that's really although there were many more there are many more prophecies I just put some of the key ones down on this piece of paper and so As I was going through the study, there's so many that we could have put, but as we get into the closing week, you're going to see many more of them. All right, let's uh pray and we'll be closed uh for some week