Be against Christ and they're working hard to move uh everybody to a point where they would demand for Christ's crucifixion and death. They of course have been for a long time desiring this. They have for a long time been seeking after it and wanting to do this. Uh we see that last week we see there were he char he was charged with heresy because he claimed to be uh equal with God, that one day he was going to be sitting on the right hand of God and And they said, Well, you can't do that and ask him, Are you the Christ? And he says, I am. And uh so they began to spit on him and buffet him Let's turn to Luke chapter 22 as a place to start this morning, Luke chapter 22, and we're going to see That they close this trial, number two, we open with trial number three, and this is before what is called the whole council. In Mark chapter 15 and verse 1. We're going to be in Luke 22 in a second, but in Mark 15, 1 he says, And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and the scribes and the whole council. and bound Jesus and carried him. And that is the synopsis of what happened. This in Mark 15 is just one verse. But Luke gives us a little bit more detail. as to their gathering together here. So in Luke chapter 22, beginning in verse number 66, we see the same story taking place. He says, and as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priest and the scribes came together and led him into their council, saying Art thou the Christ? Tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, you will not believe So the Sanhedrin asked of Christ the same question the Caiaphas did, trying to tell us, are you the Christ? But he responds to them and says, if I tell you, even though it is the truth, You're not going to believe it. And I wonder how many times for us God wants to reveal truth to us, but we Are not going to believe it. That God is ready and willing and and and through the Holy Spirit of God or through the Word of God is ready to come to you and reveal truth to you, show you this is. What is right. This is what you should do. This is where you should be. And he's ready to say that to you, but he knows that we're not going to believe it. Jesus said, even if I said it to you, you're not going to believe it. But he gives them the same answer that he gives to Caiaphas in verse number 666 he says 68 there and if I'll if I also ask you, you will not answer me, nor let me go. He says, you've got an agenda, you've got a plan. Your mind is made up. It doesn't matter what I say or what questions I ask or what I tell you, you're gonna do what you're gonna do. In sixty-nine says hereafter Shall the Son of Man sit on the right hand of the power of God? So he gives him the same answer that he had given to Caiaphas, saying, Listen, it's going to come. Doesn't matter what I say, you're going to see. The time's going to come when you'll see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of God. Then said they all, Art thou the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. And they said, What need we any further witnesses, for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth So they gathered together, and this really was a goal that they might get a presented uh that they might present a unified front before Pilate, before the Roman uh authorities. They got everybody together and and you know remember in the night they started out with somebody who wasn't even the high priest. They just started out with the beginning, like let's let's let's find a way to establish some fault. And then they took him to the high priest. And then they gathered some more, and they're building a coalition of people against Christ so that they could present a unified front to deliver him unto Pilate. Now, I listened to a preacher this week standing up in front of his church. And he declared to his people that Jesus was not God. He said he was a good man. And he had some good teachings that we can follow. But when I pray, I pray to God. This man is so uh Weak or anemic in his faith or understanding of of basic Bible doctrine of theology, he shouldn't be pastoring, shouldn't be leading people. The Bible says, be not many masters, for uh they have a greater condemnation. When you're a leader, you're responsible for what you teach and instruct. And the Bible is very clear, there is no question That Jesus was God in the flesh. It is said over and over and over again on the pages of Scripture It's not up for debate. It's not one of those things in in Scripture that's like, oh we we're not really sure we understand that qu quite correctly. Maybe it's this, maybe it's that. You know, people line up on either sides, but ultimately it's not going to make a difference. Listen, if you don't believe Jesus is God, you have no faith. You have nothing to believe in. Because either everything he said is true or everything he said is a lie. And I just it this was the question here. They said, art thou God? And he, of course, says, You're going to see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of the Father. You see, these people had determined Christ's guilt long before he ever came in that place to be challenged. It was not about what he said or didn't say, where they were trying to find cause to present him to be put to death. So I need to correct one thing that I said uh last week And that is I put Judas's going out and hanging himself at the end of trial number two, um, and I jumped the gun on that. I was kind of going for memory and and in Judas, if you read in Matthew chapter twenty-seven, I think it is um Yeah, Matthew chapter twenty-seven, verse number two, it's immediately following this that Judas goes and hangs himself. So you can adjust your notes from last week if you mark that down and move it move it to this point. Because I had put that at the end of last week's notes and uh According I I jumped that I was talking to somebody yesterday, I said somebody that talks as much as a preacher is bound to say some wrong things occasionally. And uh I said, that's that's okay, it's understandable, but when you misspeak you gotta uh fix it, especially when you're teaching people. uh they need to know at least as accurately as bestly as you can. So I wanted you to know that it is here. Um I want to uh just read it to you. Uh uh you don't have to turn there. We'll be in Matthew in a little bit, but I'm gonna Read that to you so we can see it. So in chapter number 20 says that when the morning was come, all the chief priests and the elders and the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. So we have this whole council coming together, the trial which we just read. And when they had bound him, led him away and delivered him unto Pontus Pilate. So this is the trial we just finished. They're just about to deliver him to Pilate. And then verse number three says, Then Judas When he had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented uh himself and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders. And of course he goes out and hangs himself after that. So I jumped the gun on that is after this point it's in the morning and it's when he sees that Jesus is going to be delivered to be put to death, that he's going on to Pilate, that he says, Wow, look what I did the realization of his actions hits him and he goes out and c and hangs himself. So Apologize for that mix up uh on last week's notes there. Then we see we jump into trial number four, which of course is before pilot. I did not give you all the references for where this takes place, but if you would like them, it's Matthew chapter 27. We just referenced that. Matthew chapter 27 is where this is found. Mark 15, 1 through 5. Luke chapter 23, verses 1 through 6, and then in John 18. 28 to 38, John 18, 28 to 38. If you want the references there for where this takes place, it's in all four Gospels. But uh we see here that Roman approval is necessary to put someone to death Caesar had appointed Pilate to be the governor of Judea and Samaria. This Pontus Pilate was in charge of that region. He had the power. Uh the Jewish leaders, the Sanhedrin, they had some political power. They could condemn a man to death, but they didn't have the authority to put somebody to death without Roman approval. So Rome, the governing agency of that area, had to decide, okay, yeah, you're right, this person deserves to die, and Rome had to come on board with it. And so they had to have means or a way of convincing Rome that the person was worthy of death. And uh so Pontius Pilate would not even normally be in Jerusalem, but he came to Jerusalem because it was the feast of the Passover. Anytime there were big, large gatherings of people, much like today, politicians like being around present. They like being around. They like to show up. And uh they like to, you know, get their face uh out in front of the public. And so this would be a cause or a reason for Pontius Pilate to come 'cause it was a feast of the Passover and there were many, many people coming into Jerusalem for that time. And so He was kind of there making a showing, and because he was there, they were able to take Jesus directly to him and demand that Jesus Jesus is put to death. Now they gather before him and they are um I'm gonna We're going to jump between Mark and Luke several times, but I want to go back to Mark in chapter number fifteen and to see this in uh Verse number two, and Pilate asked him, Art thou the king of the Jews? And he answered, and he said unto him, Thou sayest. And the chief priest accusing him of many things But he answered nothing. And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerst thou nothing? Behold, how many things they witness against thee You see the Jewish people came and they're saying, he's guilty of this, and look at that, he did this, and he did this, and these witnesses were declaring Christ guilt, and Jesus wasn't defending himself. Jesus was standing silent before. Pontus Pilate there. And uh I have here another if you have your prophecy fulfillment sheet there. Um In Isaiah 53, verse number 7, it tells us that he will be silent when he's accused. And so the fulfillment of that is Mark chapter 15 and verse number 5. He was silent when he was accused. Mark 15, 5. He answered not. And there's many passages that that reflect that. He was silent when he was accused. He didn't answer a word. The Jews claimed several things. I want to give these to you. They claimed that Jesus said that he would be the Messiah. And this is what we were just talking about. Jesus did say that he was the Messiah. You don't have to turn there, but in John chapter, he says it many places, but in John chapter 4, verse number 26, you may want to note that in your notes there. In John 4 26 he says, well let me back up to verse number 25. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things. Jesus saith unto her, I that speaketh unto thee am He. Jesus said, I know that there's going to be a Messiah. I know the Messiah's coming. And Jesus said, I that speak to you am He. I am the Messiah. So their claim that Jesus said he was the Messiah is true. He did say that. He did not debate that. He he made that clear and stated that unto them. But they also claimed that he did not give tribute to Caesar. that he's taught don't give tribute to Caesar, which you know is false. When that question came up before the Sanhedrin, they Jesus said, hey, uh whose inscription's on this coin? Okay, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar and the things to unto God the things that are God's. And so he that that was a completely false statement. They said that he perverted the nation of Israel, which is a completely false statement. You know, most of their accusations were 100% false. They were untrue. And the fact of the matter is, is Pontius Pilate saw straight through these accusations. He knew that Jesus was not guilty. But he asked him, he says, you got any Anything to say? You got any defense? I mean, you hear all the stuff they're accusing you of. And Jesus answered not a word Pilate knows Jesus is guilty of nothing, and he ultimately finds no fault in him. In John 18, 38, he says, Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, saith unto them, I find no fault in him. So the Jews were accusing him He looks at Jesus and says you got any any answers? You got any what is truth? He says, What what what tell me the truth? What happened? Did you say these things? Is this the and Jesus answered not a word. He did not defend himself or try and uh turn the tide of his uh ultimate crucifixion. He just stood silently and so uh even with Jesus not defending himself, Pontius Pilate could see the truth and he turned around, he went out and told the Jews, he says, I find no fault in him. I can't there's nothing here that I can put him to death for. Pilate not wanting this responsibility for this political nightmare. Finds out that Jesus is from Galilee. Now let's look in Luke chapter number 23 This discussion doesn't take place in Mark, which is why I want you to see it here in Luke 23, but it's the same continuing of the story. But in Luke chapter 23 and verses 6 and 7. He says, when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilean. So somewhere in the conversation, somebody said, Yeah, well, he's from Galilee, and they were going on, and Pilate was like, Well, wait a minute. He's a Galilean? And they're like, well yeah, he's a Galilean. Pilate thinks, oh, that's easy. Herod is in charge of that region. I'm going to send this over to Herod, then I don't have to deal with it. So he wanted to send him over to Herod. So we see trial number five, where he is before Herod. This we're going to continue on in Luke here 23 verses 7 through 12. We see this trial before Herod. And as soon as he knew that he belongeth unto him, Herod's jurisdiction, unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod. who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad, for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him, and he hoped to see him, to see some miracle done by him Then he questioned with him in many words, but he answered him nothing. And the chief priest and the scribes stood and vehemently accused him. And Herod with his men of war set him at naught and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again unto Pilate. So we see Herod here. This is Herod Antipas, the same one who ultimately will have John the Baptist killed. This is Herod who lived. from twenty BC to thirty-nine A. D. and reigned in Galilean that Galilean region for thirty-three years. Herod wanted to meet Christ. He was desirous to meet him. He had heard lots of stories about him, kind of like meeting one of your heroes or meeting one of these famous people, you know, like, oh, I want to I want to meet him. His whole desire is to meet him because he wanted him to perform some miracles. You know, like, make this lame man walk, or or would you uh how about you turn this water into wine? Boy, we would love to have some wine and you turn this water into wine. Or how about you I mean they they probably were asking a number of things with him. Jesus answered not a word and Jesus wasn't going to perform for him like a circus act. And so Herod and his men begin to mock him and make fun of him, probably trying to provoke him to do something, to perform this miracle. They begin to make fun of him. Not really getting any satisfaction out of that, not really seeing any results from his questions, they say, well, we don't really see anything wrong with him. I mean, he didn't do what we wanted, but I'm not ready to kill him So they sent him back to Pilate. Herod wanted Jesus to perform miracles for his entertainment, and Christ would not. Um he didn't answer them. So they mocked and made fun. So they we get to trial number six, and this is a trial before Pilate. Now Pilate and Herod, who had long time been enemies, who had great consternation between them, ultimately became friends because of this one event. We see here in verse, I think it's verse number 12, and the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together, for before they were at enity between themselves. Before they were basically enemies, had nothing to do with each other. But now that they have a common enemy, they became friends. They're like, oh hey, they got together on this uh one event and they they became friends because of it. And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests, verse number 13 of Luke 23, and Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me as one that perverteth the people, and behold, I have examined him. before you and have found no fault in this man, touching those things whereof ye have accused him. So Pilate and Herod find no fault in him. They can't find any fault. Between the both of them, they don't. Pilate, ever the politician, He wants to let Jesus go. He wants to avoid this political nightmare, but this being the feast of the Passover. They have a practice in honor of the feast of the Passover where they will basically free or drop the charges on somebody who has been charged against crimes against society, and so in honor of Passover it was the practice that they would let one person go. And so Pontius Pilate, he thinks, well, I will let Jesus go. I don't really think he's guilty anyway, but what I'll do is I will punish him. I'm gonna scourge him real good, which by no means was nothing anything small to be punished by the Roman authorities was A bad thing. I mean it wasn't just a slap on the hand, but we'll we'll scourge him, we'll punish him, and then I'll let Jesus go. And he thinks that that is what's going to appease the people But that is not what's going to appease the people. We see verse number 15 we see Herod as well. Nor No, nor yet Herod, for I sent you unto him, and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. So neither Pontus Pilate or Herod found anything wrong with him And he says, I will therefore, 16, I will therefore chasten him and release him, for of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast. And they cried out all at once, saying, away with this man, release unto us Barabbas. So they knew of this other man who was on trial, a man named Barabbas. Jesus was sent and charged falsely, and yet the people cried out for Barabbas to be released. Instead of Christ. Now, Barabbas was a leader of a zealot group who opposed Roman rule. They were so zealous in their opposition to the Roman government That he was guilty of murder. He was a murderer. And the people would rather release onto the streets a murderer than Christ. Because their emotions had been stirred and they had been moved to anger against Jesus, and they demanded his crucifixion. Now you guys know crucifixion was the most terrible form of punishment which the Roman government used, and uh they used it specifically for the worst and the most vile of all criminals. We see here in this passage in Luke and also in Mark, which we didn't turn back to, but a fulfillment of two more pieces of prophecy on your book here, on your sheet. In Isaiah 53, 3 it says that he will be rejected by the Jews. He came to his own and his own received him not. He's going to be rejected by the Jews. So you could put in that uh you could put down Luke uh chapter twenty-three here and verse basically eighteen through twenty-two I think. So Luke twenty-three, eighteen through twenty-two, or you could put Mark fifteen, nine And in the same uh the same references can go with the next one. Psalm 69, 4 tells us that he's going to be hated without a cause. And in both those passages, in Mark chapter 15, verses 9 through 15, and in Luke 23, 18 through 22, we see that he is rejected by the Jews, and that the crowd they hated him. They cried out vehemently against him for no cause at all, no reason at all, but he was attacked and rejected and accused. Then Pilate urged them to let him go. Pilate kind of Between a rock and a hard place here, between knowing that Jesus is not guilty, but not wanting to make the crowd mad and trying to decide, well, what should I do here? He he he pleads with them. He says in verse number 20, Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them He just said, Hey, come on. Jesus is not, he doesn't do anything wrong. I mean, he you know, he's an he's a nice guy. Why don't we let him go? They wouldn't have nothing of it. But they cried saying, Crucify him, crucify him And in verse number twenty two, and he said unto them a third time, Why? What evil hath he done I have found no cause of death in him. I will therefore chasten him and let him go. He's saying, listen, listen, he's not guilty. Why do you guys want him to die so bad? Come on, let's let's whip him. Let's give him a good beating. And let him go. Three times he pleads with them to do this, and they cry the more, verse number 23, and they were insistent with loud voices requiring that he might be crucified And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed, and Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required. And he released unto them him for sedition and murderer was cast into prison whom they had desired, but he delivered Jesus to their will. So they released Barabbas, guilty of sedition, guilty of murder. They knew that, and they Submitted Jesus to be crucified. Now, we want to turn to Matthew chapter 27. Matthew chapter 27. This is where we see that Jesus is taken and prepared or beaten, scourged, uh, and ultimately sentenced to death by the cross. In Matthew chapter 27, verses 27 through 31. Uh the soldiers gathered against Jesus. We see in verse number twenty-seven, Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, and they gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers. So a group of soldiers gathered unto him, and they stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe. So the soldiers gathered unto Jesus, they humiliated him by removing his clothes This is very humiliating. Today, because culturally Uh people think it's acceptable to expose the large portions of their body out in public and Uh I had to go to the Apple store the other day down in the Towson Mall to get my computer worked on, which they were unable to fix it. They had to order the parts. uh so you know due the lightning strike a couple weeks ago so they're gonna fix it but it's gotta take three weeks for them to get the parts so I've got to go back. But anyways, I was in the mall. I I came back, I told Mary, I said, I cannot believe These teenage girls in the mall like literally in their underwear. I just l I mean my mind I'm like I know they may not call it underwear. I know under armor or uh Victoria's Secrets or whoever else might call it something else, but it's basically underwear and they're walking around in public like that. And I'm just floored. I'm thinking, where are these girls' parents? How is it a father could let his daughter go out like that in this wicked world that we live in? It's mind-boggling to me. But understand it has always been a thing of shame to be publicly exposed like that And they humiliated Jesus by stripping him of his clothes in a public place, and they they were all there making fun of him, and then they threw a robe on him and said, Oh, hey, look, we gonna put a robe on you. You're supposed to be a king, right? And they hung this scarlet robe on him. They mocked him with a crown of thorns, putting this upon him The soldiers there, verse number 29, and when they had plated a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head. And a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! It's amazing that they would take a crown of thorns and put it on the head of the Savior. That which is a curse of sin. The thorn. There was no thorns in the garden. But when sin was introduced into the world, Christ says, and we can turn back to Genesis and look at that, but the thorn was birthed. That because a cause of sin, a curse, they took that and placed it on his head. He who had never known sin. And made this as he is king and they put this reed in his hand like he had a royal scepter. And began to kneel before him in a mock way of making fun of him. Oh, you're a king. Wow, look at you. Yet they made mockery of him with their vocal jeers as they laughed and made fun. They spat on him, they buffeted him And ultimately they led him away to be crucified. Verse number 30, and they spat upon him and took the reed and smote him in the head. And after that they had mocked him and they took the robe off of him and put his own raiment on him, they led him away to be crucified. We didn't read all the passages that have to do with that, but ultimately they are going to now take him. To put a cross on his soldiers, on his shoulder, and force him to walk to Calvary and be crucified. So in two weeks we will pick up with the gospel dealing with Christ's death, the burial, and resurrection, and that next passage of the notes or section of the notes as we look at the conclusion there. So we're going, I know we're a few minutes early today, but I thought it would be a good fitting point to end here and pick up because we've got a little bit of a break, so I don't want to jump in the middle of the thought.