Here of the synopsis of the gospels, the story of Christ's life, and then we will continue on through uh the New Testament as we, you know, I don't know how far we'll get. The plan is to do this in about a year, but we'll just see where we end up. Uh we of course are looking at the you know the the life of Christ and we just last week looked at the uh death of Christ and so Continuing on with this, looking to just the gospel, the idea of the gospel, the death, burial, and resurrection, we see Christ's burial. That would be the beginning of the notes on page number 70, there where we start this morning. And we are going to be in John chapter 19, verses 31 to 37. As we consider this, the Jews uh in their piety uh desired that the Passover not be defiled. They desired that, you know, they they didn't want to be a very good idea. to disrupt the Passover feast with the handling of the dead. They couldn't do that and remain clean with any activity. Uh and so they requested, which was very common uh after people felt those people that had been crucified had suffered enough, it was very common for them. to go through and break their legs. And so the Jews requested this. John chapter 19, beginning in verse number 31, we see that he says here The the Jews, therefore, because it was the preparation that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day For the Sabbath day was an high day, he sought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers and broke the legs of the first, and the other, which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, they saw that he was dead already They break knock his legs. So it was a common custom for them to go through and break the legs. They wanted to expedite the death of those on the cross when those were those people were dying on the cross, uh a lot of times they would end up dying very slowly via suffocation because as they were hanging on the cross, their diaphragm, their Uh upper body here would would stretch to a point where they couldn't get a breath, but they could stand up just a little bit and take a breath And then because of weakness they would just hang again and as they're hanging there they couldn't hardly breathe. But if they had strength still they could stand up and get a breath and this would prolong their their life for for could be hours and hours and hours. And so they would come through and they would break their legs. So they couldn't get a breath and then via suffocation they would end up suffocating and passing away relatively quickly. And so the Jews, not wanting to disrupt their Sabbath, said, Hey, let's get this over with, you know, this has gone long enough. And so the pr The soldiers went through and they broke the legs of the thieves, came to Christ, but found he was already dead. So they decided not to break his legs. The thing is that's very notable because that is a fulfillment of Psalms 34, verse number 20, a fulfillment of a prophecy in the Old Testament. That is, that he keepeth all his bones, not one of them is broken. We know that his body was broken for us, but his bones were not broken. In fulfillment of that, Christ had already passed. And so they didn't break his legs. And fulfill just a over and over and over again as we've walked through this, we've seen one fulfillment after another, and I haven't even given you all of them. We've given you just a very small smattering of those uh fulfillment. I think it's in excess of three hundred prophecies concerning Christ that came through came uh to realization in every detail uh without any failure uh in the prophecies of Christ with his death, burial, and resurrection. So if you have your prophecies concerning the Messiah Um you're we we're going to fill in a couple more of those this morning, but I wanted to mention this one as being because it's it's very notable that They didn't break his legs. But secondly here we see that a soldier pierced his side. In verses 34 uh he says, But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water. And he that saw it bear record, and his record is true, and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. For these things were done that the scriptures should be fulfilled, a bone of him shall not be broken. And again the other scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced. So the scripture that they looked on him who is fierce. So it's amazing that they would uh you know, he was already dead. Why would this soldier take the time to pierce his side? Why would they do that? Again, fulfilling prophecy to the detail. that his side was pierced. He was already dead. They knew he was dead. That's why they didn't break his legs. And then yet they pierced his side up through um The cavity here towards his heart and blood and water came out, and it is in Zechariah twelve, verse number ten If you want to make a note of that in your notes, but he says, And I will pour upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplications, and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced So in fulfillment of that prophecy from Zechariah that they pierced his side. And uh so they did this now He had already died, so Joseph of Arimathea asked Pilate for the body of Jesus. And verse number 38 there He says, and after this, Joseph of Arimathea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, so he was a disciple, but not publicly. Didn't want everybody to know he was a disciple or a follower, that he was a righteous man. He besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore and took the body of Jesus And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes about a hundred pound weight. So uh Joseph of Arimathea, this follower of Christ, had some means, some ability. He had a tomb that was available, and so he asked for the body of Christ. Joseph was a wealthy man. He had the means or capacity to care for somebody. And so he says, Let me take the body of Christ. He was a follower of Christ. He was a member of the Sanhedrin. Which is one of the reasons why he probably didn't want them to know that he was a follower of Christ as a member of the Sanhedrin. They would have you know, kicked him out at the very least and maybe even worse, they they just crucified Christ. And as a member of the Sanhedrin, you know, he was kind of keeping it on the down low that he was a follower of Christ, but he was a righteous man But again, in fulfillment of prophecy, he's laid in a borrowed tomb. We'll see that in a second. But Joseph and Nicodemus, they prepared the body of Jesus for burial. And verses 38 through 40 there. They take time to show respect unto Christ. They prepare his body. They wrap his body in linen. Nicodemus, as we read there, brought myrrh and aloes, uh these ointments that were used to prepare the bodies uh for burial. Uh we obviously have very uh different methods today in preparing the bodies for for burial, but this is what they did. They'd wrap it in in myrrh and aloe to minimize the overall smell and things like that that would come. And uh he brought a hundred pound worth. Now a hundred pounds of Roman under Roman weights is equivalent to about 75 pounds. of modern weight that uh as far as taking their calculations, how they calculated a pound during that time, and uh for current. So it's about 75 pounds. So Uh according to Harold Wilmington, uh he says that it was a practice typically in the preparation of a body, that they would use about half the body weight to in in ointments and oils and stuff like that to prepare the body for burial. So if that's the case uh he brought what is equivalent to about 75 pounds today, then that means the Christ's body would have been about 150 pounds at this point. That's obviously conjecture. The Bible doesn't specifically say that, but as far as Jewish practice was to use about half the body weight of ointment and oils to prepare the body, and they brought 75 pounds worth in order to do that. So Jesus was laid in a borrowed tomb, the tomb of a rich man, buried with the rich. Isaiah in your prophecies concerning the Messiahs, Isaiah 53, 9, is fulfilled. I'm going to give you the reference in Mark, although it's referenced here in John, but the reference in Mark chapter 15, verses 43 to 46. I've given you the one in Mark because that's where the rest of them I've given you is all in Mark, so that's fulfilled. You can see those fulfillments one after the other in those prophecies there. So Isaiah 53. 9 was fulfilled. in Mark chapter 15 verses 43 to 46. Now the Jews, those members of the Sanhedrin, the Pharisees, they didn't want Anything to go wrong. They had heard the prophecies. They had heard people talk about the fact that Jesus said he was going to rise again And so they asked, they said, Hey, uh, we want some guards to make sure the body of Christ does not get stolen away. Now we're going to turn to Matthew to see this. If you want to turn back to Matthew chapter number 27. In Matthew chapter twenty-seven, we see verses sixty-two to sixty-six. He says, Now the next day they followed the day of the preparation. The chief priests and the Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember That that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. Command, therefore, that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day Lest his disciples come by night and steal him away and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead. So lest the error shall be worse, the last, sorry, the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch, go your way, make it sure as you can. So they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone and setting a watch. So they made the tomb secure, secure as they could From man's perspective, they sealed it with an official seal. They set a watch, a group of guards uh around the tomb. Uh I've always, in my mind, I've just, you know, pictured a couple of guards Um but there are some studies that say it could have been as many as eighteen guards uh based on the typical assignments of guards on duties during that time and period we don't know for sure exactly, but there was a number of guards that were given the task of protecting the tomb, making sure that Jesus' body is not stolen. Now we're going to take just a moment and talk about something uh here uh that is a little bit of a question. Uh people have different beliefs uh with what happens here because we know of course that Jesus' body, physical body, his human body, was laid in the tomb. But we know that Jesus the person who Jesus was, just like for you and I, uh, that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. When our physical body is laid in a tomb, we as believers Go immediately to heaven. And so there is some discussion as to what Christ did, where was Christ during these three days? And I'm just curious. Not saying that you believe this or you believe that, but I'm just curious among those that are present here, how many of you have heard that Jesus went to hell and bore the sins of man or the punishment for all the world in hell for those three days and then conquered hell in the grave. Who how many of you by show of hands, how many of you I've heard that? Okay? Then the second belief, we're going to talk about both these just a little bit, the second prominent belief is that Jesus went directly to heaven And uh so we're going to mention these and talk about them just a little bit, give you some insight uh in into this, but we know for us that uh at the moment of death Your body goes somewhere. You're either going to go to heaven or you're going to go to hell. The rich man lifted up his eyes being in torment. Immediately he was in the in hell. We, to be absent from the body, is to be present with the Lord. So for for us It's one or the other, right? Um But there's a prevailing thought that Jesus went to hell for the sins of the whole world. Uh this has long been held. Uh For probably three hundred years or so, maybe four hundred years, uh this has been been taught and and been believed. Uh and Can't I can't say definitively one way or the other. Uh and so ultimately I don't believe this is something that we should separate over. This is something that oh well Bob believes that, so I'm not gonna talk to him, you know. I mean I'm not gonna have anything to do with him. There the I can't say definitively one way or the other there are good men who would fall on each side of this argument. I just want to kind of present them to you and uh just so you have a working knowledge or understanding of the reasoning behind uh a little bit It would take a bunch more study for me to really dig down into historical teachings and things like this. But this philosophy or idea seems to have come from the Apostles' Creed. Which originated in the Catholic Church. There are a lot of churches out there today, uh Protestant churches, that read the pat the Apostles' Creed on a regular basis Sometimes once a month, or maybe even every Sunday, they read the Apostles' Creed. And in the Apostles' Creed, it says that he descended into hell. And the philosophy or idea that he descended into hell to bear the sins of the world, to endure the punishment for the whole world during that time. I can tell you that I've heard that many times through my life and in my mind That is probably what I had uh understanding of until I really started digging into this. Um and I'll tell you uh how and why my mind changed a little bit on it. But uh there's a couple of reasons for this that they say this. First of all, in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 9 and 10, uh the Bible says, now he that ascended What is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? So the he's saying he that ascended first went down into the lower parts of the earth, so that he descended first. Verse number ten says, He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things. So in Acts chapter 2, we're not going to read all these references, but in Acts chapter 2, verses 22 to 32, there's a description there of the same thing that he descended that God uh wasn't going to leave him there, but that God delivered him out of that. And uh so these passages working together uh kind of teach that idea or they would seem to lean towards that God went or Jesus went down. to the middle of the earth or to what is called in the word of God Hades. And so he went to that place. Um he in Ephesians there talks about he led captivity captive. Uh there the idea that he went down and he took the Old Testament saints. He went to to Hades, uh a place where Old Testament saints were held captive. And during or or held in Abraham's bosom until Christ rose from the dead And then he took those Old Testament saints with him into heaven. So there's a lot of teaching that goes into this and a lot deeper study. Maybe I'm just pricking your brain a little bit with it. But What we have is this philosophy or idea that he went into hell and endured pain and suffering. He descended to proclaim victory. 1 Peter 3, verses 18 and 19 says, For Christ also has suffered for sins. Okay, they would use that and say the suffering that he suffered for sins. the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. So taking that verse saying, okay, Jesus went down into hell and he preached and proclaimed victory over hell, death in the grave uh that he had to suffer for us and so they would say that that suffering was endured for all mankind in a place called hell. Again, I'm not going to separate over this with anybody and there's more debate and we we can discuss it. if anybody wants to dig down into it a little bit. But the second belief is that Jesus went directly to heaven or paradise. And Mm the f th this is what I have come to believe specifically because of these two things right here. Um The Bible says that he told the thief on the cross, he said, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. So he said that on the cross there, he said, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. And so the Christ's own words very clearly communicated that he expected to be in paradise or in heaven right then and that this thief on the cross was going to be with him. And secondly, uh that he declared on the cross, it is finished. We know the declaration of the work that God gave him to do, the work of the redemption of mankind, is finished. That work was done And so there's nothing else in the Word of God. There's nothing else in all of the Old Testament. If you look at all of the sacrifices that were supposed to be they they were typology, they were pictures of the coming lamb, the lamb that was slain for the sins of the world, and all of those things, there's nothing about any further suffering. And we know that For Christ to redeem mankind, we know that it's without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sins, right? So it's the blood of Christ that purchased our redemption. It's his death on the cross that purchased our salvation. And so there's nothing in the Bible that in any way implicates that man would need to, uh, or that Jesus would need to suffer more. To purchase our salvation. There was nothing there that states that. We spurred some thought for sure, huh? Some some thought, some discussion with regards to that. Again, there's There's some debate on this. There's some people uh that, you know, would be good men that would believe one way or the other on that specifically. Again, I don't think this definitively changes your belief Obviously, we know that Jesus died, that he shed his blood for us, that he gave himself a sacrifice for us, and then also we know that he rose again. So exactly what happened during that time, 100%. you know, we'll know when we're in heaven. Until then we can get some a little bit of picture from the scriptures. We can try and get an understanding as best we can. Uh you know, but It's not gonna ultimately change our salvation or what we believe. Uh, you know, if you if if you have a problem with the blood, if you're gonna deny the blood, well then there's a problem. Because it's without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sins. If you if you want to change that, you're changing a fundamental doctrine And so that's something that is very important that we we can't bend on, but this here, one way or the other, ultimately uh is not going to change it. It's just an interesting study And uh Pastor Gus and I and Steven sat down, we're talking about it, uh kicking it around on Friday for a little while, uh, trying to well what about this? So what about that? And we were uh going back and forth and just discussing the different scriptures and what people say and how this falls. But but very interesting to consider these these things and what Christ was doing during this time. Well let's move on to what is very, very important. That is Christ's resurrection. We know that he rose from the dead here. Jesus came out of a secured tomb. In Matthew 28, we should be, I think in Matthew there, you should be in 27. We're just going to move right to Matthew 28, verses 1 through 8. And the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, King Mary Magdalene and the other married to see the sepulcher and behold There was a great earthquake, for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. And his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment was white as snow For the fear of him, the keepers did shake and became as dead men. So we see that Jesus came out of this secure tomb. There was an earthquake. The angel came, rolled the stone away, his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment was white as snow, the Bible tells us there, this angel that was present, and the guards were scared to death. They literally fainted uh because of fear. And uh so we see the discovery of an empty tomb. A group of ladies came to the tomb to show love for the Lord. They were going to anoint his body with spices. And uh they came and Let me just read, don't turn there, but in Mark 16, 1. And when the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Salome, had brought sweet spices that they might come and anoint him. Now, beloved, they were expecting to find the body of Christ. They were not expecting to find an empty tomb. They they they believed that the body was going to be there, and they were coming to show love and respect and concern. But they arrive and he's not there. The angel tells them that, hey, he is risen. And so they they are introduced to this. Now This is a fulfillment if you have your piece of paper here, your fulfillment of doctrine, Psalm 1610 tells us that uh he said he was going to rise and that he did rise again and that's fulfilled in Mark 166. Mark 166. You can note that down so you have those uh prophecies and fulfillment. Now, beloved, the empty tomb declares to us that Christ is who he said he was. Christ said he was going to rise again, and he did. You know, there is, I'm sure some of you have seen it, there's a new uh belief right now that Christ is coming back, I think it's September 9th. that uh that's the the announced date, the date that they for whatever and I could be wrong on that date. I just saw it just recently that, you know Christ is coming and here's the reason and they have their list of reasons why they believe they know that Christ is coming on on that date. And uh, you know, we certainly are getting close to the end times We certainly, you know, it's time for the Lord to come back. And we say, even so, come Lord quickly. Amen. We're looking forward to that, to his return. But we don't we don't know when it was gonna when it when it would be. But these people continue to be wrong and people continue to listen to them, which is mind-boggling to me. But Christ said that he was gonna rise again and he did He fulfilled what he said he what he was going to do. He he wasn't wrong. And so his raising from the dead is A fulfillment, a truth of what he said he was going to do, it declares to us that he is who he said he was. Now the Jews crucified him because he claimed to be the Messiah. But by him raising from the dead, he proved that he was the Messiah. In Romans 1, verse number 4, the Bible says this. and declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of Holiness by the resurrection from the dead. He was declared to be the Son of God. Why? Because he rose from the dead. Because he rose from the dead. He is the only one that has. He he won the victory over death in the grave and gave up his life, but he took his life again. Now we see that Peter and John come to the tomb. I'm going to jump over to John. We're going to be back in Matthew in just a second, but I just want to read this to you, John chapter 20. Again, you'll see we're right at the end of all these Gospels. We're right there closing in on the last pages of the Gospels as we get to this point. But in John chapter 20, verses 2 through 10. Then she runneth and cometh to Simon Peter and to the other disciples whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple and came to the sepulcher. So they ran both together, and the other disciple did outrun Peter and came first to the sepulcher. And he stooping down and looked in, and saw the linen clothes lying, yet went he not in. Then cometh Simoth Peter, following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie And the napkin that was about his head, not lined with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw and believed. So beloved, they're here. They do not have an angel telling them what happened, but what they saw in the tomb They saw the linen clothes lying there. They saw the head wrapped wrapped and folded nicely and set aside. And what they saw and their memory, knowing what Christ said was going to happen, they believed. they believed. They were able to behold and see enough that they believed. The tombkeepers were asked to lie about what they saw. Now we're back in Matthew chapter 28, which is where you are in verse number 11 We see them trying to lie. Now, when they were going, behold, some of the watchmen came into the city and showed unto the chief priest all the things that were done. And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, saying, Say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. So they they paid these soldiers off. They came in with their story that an angel that looked like lightning, who is was as white as snow, came and rolled the stone away And Jesus rose from the dead. This is what they saw with their own eyes, and yet they paid them a large sum of money and said, We want you to lie and tell everybody that you slept and the disciples stole Jesus. And uh, you know, they they were s do you understand that under Roman law when a soldier was derelict in his duty, they were killed? They they they they could not be asleep on the job and be like, oh, it wasn't like modern military. Well, oh okay, well, maybe you'll do better next time, no worries Uh no, this was a serious thing, and yet somehow they were supposed to convince other people that they fell asleep on the job. And not only that, they fell asleep and so a group of men came in and rolled this large stone out of the way while they slept and stole away the body of Jesus while they slept and none of these uh you know highly trained s extremely Acute soldiers woke up. You know, when you're on the job you're a little sensitive to to things. Uh I knew this morning I had to get up early And you know when you gotta get up early like that, you don't hardly sleep because you you've gotta get you know, you you gotta catch a plane and you gotta get on the road and and you you're you're just sleeping really light because you know and these guards would have woke up There's no way they would have slept through all that, but that's what they were supposed to do is lie to everybody and tell them there. So these the tomb keepers were told to lie about what they saw. Christ's payment for sin was sufficient for the Father. The payment was done. Showed and declared by God the Father raising him, God the Son, from the dead. That Christ rose again. Do you know if Levi here Now he would never do this, but let's say Levi broke the law. And uh let's say it was really bad. You robbed a bank. You just you needed some money and you just You used your truck and pulled an ATM out of the front of the bank over here on Chihuahuan Road, okay? And you're dragging your this this this ATM down Shawan Road and you get caught And uh the judge says, okay, Levi, you get five years in jail. Now that is his punishment. That's what he has to pay. For the sin of robbing the bank, right? Now, if two years in he decides he's done and he breaks out of jail, what happens? Yeah, more m another another punishment. But see, he didn't fulfill the punishment, so he would be on the run, he would be on the lamb, right? He would have to try and evade the police if anybody saw him. he would get caught and put back in. Why? Because the payment wasn't complete. But if in five years he served his time And they stamp his paper and say, okay, time served, and he gets out, his time is done. He doesn't have to try and avoid the police. The payment was sufficient. He served and did the time, and now he has been released. What I'm saying is, when God the Father raised Jesus from the dead, he was declaring to the world the payment was sufficient. The payment for sin has been completed. Nothing else is necessary. We don't have to fear that punishment because Jesus took it for us. Because we have been freed, because his payment was sufficient to cover our sin. And that's the glorious truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now, we have some appearances of the resurrected Lord. We're going to talk about those different appearances next week and then get into whatever might be next, but we've got to bring it to a close this morning. The section on the gospel of Jesus Christ, the death, burial, and resurrection of our Lord and Savior, the really the conclusion of uh the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, as we r kind of get right down to the end of each of these, we have looked at Christ's death. We look at his burial. We began last week looking at his resurrection, the middle of page number 71 in your notes there. So I'm trying to see where we want to get to. I'm going to begin in Matthew chapter 28 this morning. That's where we're going to pick up. We're going to jump around a bunch between these gospels as uh we bring these stories to conclusion. But we are here in Matthew chapter 28. This morning as we actually we looked at this last week, the idea that the Jesus came out uh of the tomb, the secured tomb. It's amazing that you have here just real life example of The followers of Christ didn't really believe, but apparently the lost world did. Uh they went and they they wanted to secure the tomb, they wanted to set a watch, they wanted to make sure, you know uh that his body wasn't taken and uh yet continually as you'll see even after Christ's resurrection the followers of Christ continued to doubt uh even when they saw him often So Christ comes out of that secure tomb. Then we walk we looked last week at the discovery of the empty tomb by several different people that came and observed and ultimately that the keepers of the tomb were told to lie. uh again wanting to cover up the truth in any way they can. You understand that the powers that be during that time, the Sanhedrin, all of the Jewish leaders, uh all of the uh Roman leaders during that time, they would have all loved to have produced the body of Jesus. That would have been awesome for them. They would have done anything they could to discredit the resurrection. They were working as hard as they could, ultimately telling these soldiers, okay, you guys are gonna lie, say the body was stolen, and that's why we don't have it anymore. uh because we don't want anybody to think that Jesus actually did arise, even though they came with the story telling them that they did. So as Jesus arose, then he is seen by several. Now I know you turned to Matthew already, but I was jumping too early there. We're going to go all the way to John chapter number 20. That's where we're going to look first, John chapter number 20. And uh we're going to see that he is seen here by uh Mary Magdalene. Um We know that the Bible tells us that this is the person that appeared that he appeared to or revealed himself to first. It tells us that In Mark 16,9 he says, now we're going to look at John here in a second, but in Mark 16, 9 he says, Now when Jesus was risen early, the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils So he appeared first to Mary Magdalene in John chapter number 20, verse number 11 through verse 18. We see the same thing taking place here, but it's a little bit more detail. But Mary stood without uh at the sepulchre weeping, and as she wept she stooped down and looked into the sepulchre, and saith and seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have played him. And when she had thus said, she turned herself back and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, If thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself and saith unto him, Rabbi, which is saying, Master. So it wasn't until she called his name. It's amazing she's looking at him and conversing with him and still doesn't realize who who it is she's talking to. She thinks he's and she thinks, well, tell me what you did with the body of Jesus. And she's talking to Jesus. Now I don't know if the resurrected body of Jesus uh had a measure of glorification, if there was something physically different about him in some aspect, obviously after a period of time, uh over and over again, as you see we'll see here over and over again, people that saw him didn't recognize him. Have you ever seen somebody out of context and didn't realize who they were? What I'm saying is like maybe you walk into your bank and you know your banker and you talk to them, but if you happen to see them at the fair Like you would not remember, you're like, wait a minute, who who is that? Like because they're out of context, they're not where you thought they would be, like, you know, you y you walk into the bank and you never have a question, like, oh yeah, that's and you call their name But it out of context, you know, you look and you're like, I think I might know that person, but I'm not sure where from or you can't put 'em or place them or anything. Well that happens to me. You guys are all looking me like I'm nuts, but that happens to me a lot. If uh if they're out of context, I don't I I can't put it together. I'm like, wait, I know that person from somewhere and trying to think and did they visit the church or, you know, whatever. I I don't know, but uh we That happens to me. So I think just from the idea then the heart and mind of Christ's followers, he was dead. He was supposed to be in the grave. And so now they're talking to somebody standing and even though it looks like Jesus, you know, it's his doppelganger. It's just the one the one person in the world that looks like him, but it can't be Jesus because Jesus is dead, right? And so we'll see that over and over again that they don't believe, but when uh Jesus calls her name, then she recognizes and calls him master. And uh he Christ reveals himself unto her uh in verse number fifteen there, but then he tells her, Go, uh tell the disciples uh what you have seen. Let the others know uh that It's time that that you've seen the risen Savior. And she goes to do so, uh, but they do not believe. Now Jesus is seen by the others that came to the garden to anoint his body. There's other ladies that came and they were there. to anoint the body of Christ, but uh they were told by the angels, of course, He's not here, He is risen. And so they turn and they go to communicate that message to the disciples, but while they were en route, Jesus appears to them. And uh you don't have to turn there, but in Matthew chapter twenty-eight and verse number nine, and as they went to tell his disciples, behold Jesus met them, saying, All hail, and they came and held him by his feet and worshipped him. So they were on their way to tell the disciples that Jesus isn't in the tomb, that he's risen, the angels said he had risen, he's no longer there, and they're on their way, and while they're on their way Jesus appears unto them and they recognize him, they fall at his feet, and they worship him. Uh listen, when you meet Jesus, when you see Jesus, you have something to share. You have something to tell others about. Jesus has changed your life and you have something to communicate and to share with others And it is sad, but many times you'll be in the same place as these ladies were. They went to communicate what God did, that Jesus was risen, and the people they told didn't believe. They didn't believe what they said. They wouldn't believe them. And you know, many times you might tell people what Jesus has done for you and they're not going to want to believe. They're going to doubt it. Sometimes, and I'm sure it's happened to many of you here, uh maybe God has done a miracle in your life. Uh He has healed somebody, He has answered a direct prayer request, and you share that with somebody, and in their mind uh you know, th they wanna somehow discredit it. They wanna somehow find another solution. Well, uh you know You prayed for a nice day and God gave you the perfect day for your birthday party outside or whatever and then they're gonna say, Well, it just that's what the weather was. It's just well they were calling for rain for eight days in a row and then the day of the party there's no rain. And to me that's a direct answer to prayer. And they're like, nah, the weather just changed, the weatherman was wrong, whatever. They don't want to give any credit to God. They don't they don't want to believe that God actually did it. But when you see God, you have something to share. And we should still share, even though people don't believe. Jesus is seen by the two men on the road to Emmaus. And In Mark chapter 16, don't turn there because it's just two verses. It happens really quick. So let's look at Luke chapter 24, a little bit longer story. So turn back to Luke chapter twenty-four, and uh the story takes place here, verses thirteen through thirty-five. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs. Now three-score furlongs is about seven miles. If you uh write in your Bible at all, it might be good to just note in the margin right there so you'll have it forever uh that that's seven miles. uh you'll be able to remember that. Um that's how I know that seven miles because I have written in the margin of my Bible seven miles. Okay. So I don't know when, sometime in the past. I learned that and wrote it down right there, and so you would have that with you. But they went about seven miles and they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together and reasoned Ah Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden, that they should not know him, and he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another as ye walk and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopus, answered and said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and have crucified him. But we trusted. That he had been he who should have redeemed Israel. And besides all this, today is the third day since these things were done. yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished when they were early at the sepulchre. And when they found not his body, they came, saying that he had also seen a vision of angels which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre and found it, even so, as the women had said But him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to be entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets He expounded unto them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went and made as Though he would have gone further, but they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent And he went in to tarry with them. And it came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he took bread and blessed it and broke, and gave to them, and their eyes were opened. And they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight. And they said unto unto another, Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened unto us the scriptures. So Jesus had this Extended interaction here with these two on the road to Emmaus and expounding the scriptures unto them and teaching them exactly what the prophets It said beginning at Moses all the way to the New Testament where this is what was supposed to happen. Jesus was supposed to die. He was going to bury, and that he was going to raise again. He says, Oh, thou fool, you're you're slow of heart, slow to believe I wonder how often we're slow to believe. Slow to believe what the Lord has taught us. He said you should have believed the prophets. Should have believed what the Bible said. Beloved, we need to believe what the Bible says When the Bible tells us that God is all powerful, that things are possible with God, and that call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not. When the Bible communicates these things to us, we need to be people of belief. And we need to believe what God teaches, what God tells us. These men, they God condemns their unbelief, but He speaks to them, and then they say those faithful words, man, did not our heart burn within us. It is a privilege to spend time with God, and when God does a work in your life, it is like your heart burning within you. It is God doing something real and powerful inside your heart. And that is a privilege that we have Now you are not there, but very briefly in Luke in Luke 24, 34, it happens really fast. He says, saying the Lord is risen, indeed, he hath appeared Appeared unto Simon. So he's seen by Simon Peter briefly. And then Jesus is seen by eleven disciples. Let's turn to Mark chapter 16. In Mark chapter 16, you've seen by the eleven disciples here, beginning of verse number fourteen. This is the story where Christ comes on the scene and he appears unto them. He walks through this door. Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat and uprated them with their unbelief and hardness of hearts, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen. So they didn't believe those that came and communicated the truth. And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned and these signs shall follow them that believe in my name. And he speaks to them about the power that they're going to have here in the spreading and the building of the church. But Christ appears to them through, this is where he comes through the closed door, that he appears in their midst. If you read this story over in the book of John, you'll see that it describes how the door was closed, and yet he came and he appeared unto them. The Bible says the door was closed because they had fear of the Jews. They didn't want people to come in and take them or hurt them. And so Uh they were afraid of the Jews, but Jesus appears unto them and then he shows them his hands and his feet. He reveals this unto them. So it's an amazing thing about the glorified body of Christ uh that uh he was not just a spirit. They didn't just see a uh uh uh an image or a visage of Christ, they saw the risen body of Christ. And that is made very real and true because he sits down and he eats with them. Uh so he consumes a meal with them. Uh and so showing us that he is not just a spirit. Um In John chapter 20, verse number 19, we see that Jesus communicates a message to them. He says, Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, When the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. We have here a colliding of the supernatural and the natural. This happens a lot with Jesus Christ. From the very beginning when his birth was announced, the supernatural collides with the natural and his uh he's introduced and born of a virgin. But the message from the very beginning, uh, when these things obviously are very shocking, the disciples like, whoa, wait a minute, like the door was closed, Jesus came and he appeared unto them. Uh he is the risen Savior and so he says, Hey, peace be unto you. And from the very beginning when Jesus' birth was announced, the message was peace unto you. When the supernatural and the natural collide, it it is It shocks mankind, but the message that always Jesus brings during those times is a message of peace that he shares. Then we see Doubting Thomas, the story of doubting Thomas. You've got to turn to John chapter number 20 for that. In John chapter 20, we see Dowling Thomas comes on the scene here, and uh we know of course he was he missed the meeting. The meeting we just read about just concludes here uh in the preceding verses But in John chapter 20, beginning of verse number 24, but Thomas, one of the twelve called Amos, was uh not with them when Jesus came, so he missed the meeting. You know, you never know what you're gonna miss when you miss the meeting. Exactly what God wants to do, the miracle God wants to perform, the message that God has for you, all those things, you never know what you'll miss when you miss the meeting And let me just encourage you, don't miss. Don't miss. Just plan. Make it a consistent part of your life to be present when the church doors are open. Hey, he missed the meeting, and so he missed uh Jesus appearing and showing himself unto them. Verse number 25, the other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord, but he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. And after eight days again his disciples were with him, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, the door being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless, but believing And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. So he believed. Thomas believes and calls him my Lord. and my God, acknowledging and recognizing that. And I don't know what God has to do in your life. Sometimes we uh have been like doubting Thomas, sometimes you'll meet people in the world that They they don't want to believe God. They don't want to believe He exists. They don't want to they want to do everything to deny that. Uh but many times things certain things have to happen in their life and God sometimes brings them to the place Where they have to believe in God. Where they have gone through something and they have no other place to do but look up. And it brings them to that point of decision where they say, okay. And the and they will believe. And this is where Thomas was, just appears to him and says, hey, here you go. Put your finger, go ahead, put your hand in my side, reach forth thy hand. Understanding and knowing exactly what his doubt was and convincing him of the truth of the matter. And then Thomas believes. Jesus is seen by Peter again and six other disciples in John 21 here. We can just continue on. But it's all of chapter number 21. We see this great story unfold before us. Jesus comes uh and he finds Peter fishing. He finds uh you know the disciples, some of those that go with him. Peter said, I go fishing, and the other said, we're going to go with you. And they go fishing, and Jesus comes to them. They had fished again, they had fished all night, and they caught nothing. And Christ tells them to cast their net on the other side. Uh they they obeyed, they did what he said, and then they caught a large uh catch so that the nets would break. A few verses down it tells us that it was a hundred and fifty three great fish. Um Verse, I think we'll see, verse let's start in verse number 11, John 21, verse number 11. Simon Peter went up and drew the net to land full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty and three. And for all there was so many, yet was not the net broken. Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine And uh none of his disciples uh durst ask him, Who art thou, knowing that it was the Lord. So they knowing and understanding, they had seen this miracle before. They had gone through this situation in the past where Jesus said, Cast the nets on the other side. And they did, and they brought forth a great catch. And so they knowing exactly who it was, so they're out there in a boat, and if you read earlier in the story, they're catching these they cast their net on the other side and they they catch immediately this great catch, and the disciples say, It's the Lord, it's Jesus And Peter doesn't wait for the boat to get to the shore. He jumps out of the boat and he runs to shore or swims to shore. I don't know how far out they were, but he he runs to the shore to get to be with Jesus. He's like, I'm not waiting. You guys can come in a little bit. By the time they get there, Pete Peter and Jesus have a fire going. They're ready to cook dinner, and Jesus says, Hey, bring bring some of the fish you guys caught. Let's uh let's cook up some dinner and they they have a good meal uh together So Christ has this discussion with Peter about his love for him. And he tells him, ask him three times, do you love me? And he says, Yes, Lord, thou knowest all things. Thou knowest that I love thee. And uh they loves him and then he says, Okay, feed my sheep. And he tells them what things he's gonna suffer for the name of Christ. He says, You're gonna you're gonna suffer some things and ultimately you're going to die. So Jesus meets them. Then we see that Jesus is seen by above five hundred in Matthew chapter twenty-eight. We're gonna turn there to Matthew twenty seen by above five hundred people. I was in the prison uh and talking to them about the resurrection on Easter, Friday before Easter. And I'm talking to them about the resurrection and uh talking to him about the disciples and w what I don't remember exactly what I was saying or whatever, but one of the prisoners raised his hand and And uh says, well, obviously the disciples are going to say they saw Jesus. I mean they wanted him to, they were his followers. That's not a very credible witness. It would be like me going to the the judge and saying, you know, having my brother tell me, say, tell the judge like, no, he didn't do it. Like they aren't going to believe my brother. I mean he's he's obviously going to be on my side. And so I said, oh, okay, well let's turn. And so I turned, I said, hey, let's turn, let's look at this in uh Matthew chapter 28 And uh so I we looked over there in the Bible and I said, look here uh at let's see, I think we are Verse number sixteen. Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into the mountain where Jesus had appointed them, and when uh they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me. And he gives them the thing here, where's the reference to the five hundred? Okay. Um First Corinthians fifteen fifty-six. Let's look at that. I'm sorry, First Corinthians what? Fifteen verse six. Alright, so he says here, and uh he was seen of Caiaphas, then of the twelve, and after that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remaineth unto this present, but some are falling asleep. So I read for them that passage and he's like, Oh okay. Wow. Um I said, yeah, and in this group of five hundred, there were representative of both men that believed and men that didn't believe. You're gonna have people like that in every group. There's gonna be both people that believe and people that don't believe in every group, which is what I read there in uh Mark, and when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted. Verse number 17. They were but some doubted. So some believed and some didn't. And there's going to be those type of people in every group. And Christ gives to them there the Great Commission. And uh so I need you to move uh Just put a little arrow vers number nine and number ten need to switch places. Um I'm not sure how I ended up putting number nine there that they were saying of James. Um but We have James should be moved down because nine and ten take Jesus is seen above five hundred and Jesus is seen by the eleven at Mount Tabor. This is in the same place and the same passage. And so Jesus is seen by them on Matthew chapter 28, verses 16 through 20. Those take place in then jay in then James. So Mount Tabor is right there and Christ gives them this message. The disciples joined them. He's seen above 500. The disciples come, join them, and Jesus communicates unto them and those that were listening. the Great Commission and he leaves them with three powerful truths. The truths are that all power is given unto me, the power that God had given unto Jesus, uh, and that he would use it to reach the world. And he tells them, Now you need to go and preach the gospel. You need to go ye therefore. And then he tells them, and lo, I am with you always. Three truths. That Jesus was going to be with them and going to help them to do this work. Then we see that Jesus is seen of James in 1 Corinthians 15 and verse number 7. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. We just read verse number 7 there. We just read verse number six, where he was seen of the five hundred, and then immediately after we see after that he was seen of James. Then Jesus was seen by a number at his ascension. This is found in Mark and in Luke and also in Acts, but we haven't been in Acts yet, so why don't we just turn to Acts and we'll conclude there. Acts chapter 1. So we see at his ascension they're they're gathered together again at Jerusalem. Jesus leads a small party of men, those that were with them, over to Bethany. Bethany is just a small walk away on the eastern slope of the Mount of Olives, just about two miles from Jerusalem, not that long of a walk, but they head over. There and Christ appears unto them on the Mount of Olives. And there Christ ascends back into heaven as he promised he would. In Acts chapter 1, beginning at verse number 9, there. And when he had spoken these things, well they beheld he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly towards the heavens, and he went up, and behold, two men stood by them in white apparel. Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven So we see his ascension. Now if you have your prophecies concerning the Messiah, we will conclude these. Last week we gave you Isaiah 53. 9. If you weren't here, Isaiah 53. 9 was fulfilled in Mark chapter 15. verses 43 to 46. And then Psalm 1610, that he would rise again, uh, is fulfilled in Mark 16. 6 Mark 16, 6. And then today, the final one that we're going to look at here is Psalm 68. 18. That is the passage of scripture where he says, and he led captivity captive. uh and uh that he rose again so that that he was going to ascend back into heaven. That that passage there in Psalm 6818 was fulfilled in Acts 1 and verse number 9. uh the fulfillment of what was prophesied in the book of Psalms. So we have completed this chart. You have all of those direct prophecies concerning the Messiah that were fulfilled. Now God told John, if you just turn back one page in the book of John there, the very concluding verses in John chapter one twenty-one, sorry, verse number twenty-five. And there are also many other things which Jesus did, and which they should be written every one. I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written So John acknowledged the fact that they could never record it all, they could never write it all down, but that God would have them The things that would be used to reach the world. The first time that Jesus came to earth, his work, his mission was to uh bring salvation to mankind. His mission was to provide redemption through his death, burial, and resurrection. That work was completed. And when he was sended up into heaven, when he was speaking with the Pharisees and the Sadducees, he says, The time's going to come will I when I will come again. And you guys are going to see me for who I am. You will see me for the Messiah, for God. They're going to acknowledge him. But when he comes again, he's not coming as a savior, he's coming as a judge. And he's going to judge mankind. And we need to be ready for that time when he comes again. That's what's communicated to us clearly in his word. So this concludes really the synopsis of the Gospels that we looked at, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John brings us to the end there. We are moving into the church age I didn't want to try and start another section of notes today, I knew we would be a few minutes just finishing this up. And so although we're done a couple minutes early That brings this section of notes to conclusion, and we will start next week looking at the church and digging into that as we continue on through the book of Acts and the work that God's doing there.