All right, we are looking at the New Testament and this morning by and large uh we're going We're going to be first in Mark. Turn to Mark if you would. We're going to be just a couple of passages in Mark. And then we're going to move to John and we're going to spend a balance of this morning uh in the book of John. Let me get turned there myself. Um so we'll begin in in Mark chapter So we of course are entering the beginning of Christ's ministry here. We just had the privilege of looking at Uh his baptism where he comes to John the Baptist and uh is baptized by him and of course John is able to witness that uh Jesus is recognized by the Father. This is my son in whom I'm well pleased, and Jesus is empowered by the Holy Spirit. The dove comes down and rests upon him, signifying and uh solidifying uh the uh testimonies of the prophets that this would happen and that this indeed was Jesus Christ in the flesh, the Messiah. And uh he moves on to begin his ministry and immediately Satan attacks And Satan uh comes and tries to tempt the So Jesus moves on. Jesus begins his ministry. It feels like it's a little bit weak. I'm I'm having to talk real loud, so you can give me a little bit more volume, that would help. Um Alright, so Jesus begins his ministry, and uh that's where we want to pick up today. Uh we of course know that Jesus was about 30 years old uh when he began his ministry. And this is not a random number that got picked out of the sky or somebody just extrapolated from looking at dates. Sometimes that's what we have to do in the Bible you've gotta like look at certain things that you know happened and you know that this particular event happened between these times and so you can kinda get pretty close. But the fact of the matter is is in Luke Uh chapter three, uh I know you're in Mark. Say in Mark, I'm just gonna read this to you. Twenty two and twenty-three says, and the Holy Ghost ascended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven which said, Thou art my beloved son, and thee am I well pleased. So we know This was the basically the launching, the initiation, Christ's baptism there where he moves into the ministry. Verse 23 says, And Jesus himself begin to be about thirty years of age. So Jesus was thirty years a old when he began his ministry there. We know that to be a fact. Jesus, like John the Baptist preaches again uh repentance. And you'll see that in Mark chapter 1. Uh you look down in verse number 15, and he says, and saying The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent ye and believe the gospel. So he continues that message of repentance that uh John the Baptist was preaching. And let me tell you that any presentation of the gospel that leaves out the penalty of sin is weak and anemic. It it people need to understand and uh there is a mindset and quite frankly I was very guilty of this for many years uh of trying to win people to heaven. Because ultimately that is the reward of salvation is you do get to go to heaven. But people need to understand the reason that they can't go to heaven is because they're sinners. And unless the sin problem is dealt with, then they're still not on their way to heaven, because sin cannot get into heaven. just to desire and want to be in that marvelous, magnificent place and to be free from all pain and to have a new body and to be restored with our loved ones. Oh, these are awesome. Wouldn't you want to go to heaven? And of course everybody says, Yeah, I w I want that, but in order to go they need to know what the problem of sin is and they have to deal with that. We need to have the same message that Jesus had and it includes repentance That means they understand they're a sinner. They repent of that sin. They realize that the reason Jesus came and died on the cross was so that men could be forgiven of their Sin. That's what they needed. And so Jesus preached that message in our gospel presentations. We need to be careful that we uh include that So that people know that the reason Jesus died was for the forgiveness of sin. That they've got to repent of that. Everywhere Jesus went, people recognize him as the Messiah. Not just as a prophet, not just as a man, not just as a good guy, but everywhere he went, people recognized him as the Messiah over and over again as you're reading through the Gospels you'll see people acknowledge him as the Messiah. Now of course he had his detractors. He had people that didn't want to believe, people that rejected, but over and over again you'll see that people recognized him as the Messiah. And that is very, very important. Jesus taught, the Bible says, with authority. In Mark chapter 1, verses 21 and 22, he says, and they went To Capernaum, and straightway on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authority. and not as the scribes. So would not somebody that just had studied and evaluated and looked at something and said, okay, this is what I think this is meaning. No, Jesus taught with authority. He taught with complete understanding of the scriptures and uh what it was and they they were astonished at his authority and h his way of presenting the truth that uh they of course many of the Pharisees, uh scribes, they did not like. They did not care for his authority. They did not care for the way in which he taught because they were trusting in themselves. They were trusting in what they could do by their adherence and following the law, then what Jesus was offering. which ultimately would be himself and they didn't want to put their faith and trust in him. They actually came uh and the s you you'll remember the scribes and the Pharisees, they uh accused Jesus of performing the miracles that he performed through the power of Satan. They said it's through Beelzebub. Uh the Messiah, Jesus, is doing these miracles by the power of Satan. You know Satan does have power. And he can oftentimes uh perform miracles that d do the same thing as far as impacting people, and people are drawn to that, and many times uh It's not as much here in America because we don't have such a prevalent uh uh presence of the occult and uh beliefs in, you know, witch doctors and and you know, the black arts and these types of things, but definitely in foreign countries where this has been part of their society for a long time, can I tell you those those Satan gives power to those men And uh the the stories that I've read and stories I've heard about missionaries battling these witch doctors that are have control of whole communities. uh because of the power that Satan has and for Jesus Christ to come in and break that power is a is an amazing victory for the gospel. Uh but it's something that The the Pharisees said, man, Jesus is doing this through Satan, not through God the Father. Now Jesus calls five men to come and be his disciples in John chapter one verse thirty five. Now we're done in Mark there. We're going to move to uh the book of John. And uh So if you would get there in John, we're gonna begin in John one now, looking at some of this. Now if you have We have provided you this the life of Christ is shown in the four gospels. If you have this little chart here, um I gave Alicia a very hard task. Um So in this book, one of the books I'm referencing for my study here, uh this is Jensen's survey of the New Testament He does a book-by-book survey and in here he has a chart which looks like this. And this chart is just for uh this one happens to be I can't even see it's one of them, John or Matthew or something, but it is this chart which just shows the portions of the Christ of life that are in this book. And then there's another chart for each one of the gospels. I told Alicia I want all four of these charts put together into one chart. So she had to come up with this. And so what this shows you here is the life of Christ. This timeline is the life of Christ as portrayed in the four gospels. And you'll see the what do they call this here? Like up on the top left, a schedule or a key. So that tells you the color code there, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We're in John right now, so let's use John for a reference. the portions of life's Christ's life that are covered in the book of John are in red. So you can see. Now if you move up, you can see they overlap. Like if you go below uh the popularity, the first section there on the early of the second year. Uh I know there's a lot of information there, but you see all four Gospels have the very beginning of that second year of the ministry. You have John at the bottom And then you have Luke begins there, and then you have Mark and also Matthew. So they are all, you see where they overlap each other. All the Gospels cover that. But then there's certain portions that only one of the gospels or two of the gospels cover. So I hope that it makes sense to you kind of what is happening here that you can look and see, oh, so this is the reason why we're moving to John and we're going to be in John for a little bit, because this beginning part uh of this first year here really is only covered by John. That's he's the only one that has any of that information. It's not covered in the other gospels. So I was hoping that would visualize it for you and help you to be able to kind of see uh where that stuff is at. I also include like references in the notes um so that you can know what you're looking at as well. But I thought it was a very good way to be able to visualize what's happening there. So Jesus calls five men to be his disciples in John chapter 1, 35 through 45, really. But we see here again the next day after John stood and two of his disciples. So John the Baptist, he stood up, and two of his disciples. So this is followers of John the Baptist. They're men that he reached and they were following him and being discipled by him and they were growing. So two of his disciples there. And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God. So John the Baptist points to Jesus and says, Behold the Lamb of God. And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. Then Jesus turned and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, which is to say, being interpreted master, where dwellest thou? He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. One of the two Which heard John speak and followed him was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. So here is the first one. You have one of the two, and then you have the other of the two. The first was Andrew. We see that Jesus calls Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, to follow him. He was the one of the two. The other of the two is John Who is the beloved disciple? He is the author of the book. He is the follower of Christ. It's notable that in the book of John, John never refers to himself by name. He always refers to himself as the other disciple, uh, or some form of that, basically referring to himself that way, uh, opposed to recognizing his name Now then he calls Simon Peter after Andrew brings him to Christ. In verses forty-one and forty-two there, of course Uh Christ meets him, changes his name to uh Cephas, which means stone. We know Peter means rock. Uh Uh in another passage, Jesus talking to Peter and tells him, Upon this rock I will build my church. The rock that has been referenced there, upon this rock I will build my church, is in reference to Jesus Christ. If you study it out, you'll know that it's not referring to Peter. Peter is the rock, small rock, stone. Jesus Christ is the rock, and the church is built upon Christ, not upon Peter. Uh that's just notable because uh there obviously is churches that teach that that the church was built on Peter and it was not. It's on Jesus Christ. uh he gave himself for the church. Okay. Then uh he calls Philip to follow him in verse number forty three. He says, In the day following, Jesus would go forth unto Galilee and find Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me So he calls Philip and Philip does follow him. Not only that, he goes and he reaches Nathaniel in verses 45 to 50. It's notable here that Philip reaches him, but listen to what he says here Philip findeth Nathaniel and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law and the prophets did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph Okay. Nathaniel did not understand about the deity of Christ in uh the fact of his virgin birth. He says he was the son of Joseph. Of course, when we in hindsight look and we say, well, we know he was the adopted son of Joseph, but his father was God the Father, amen, because he was uh virgin born. But Daniel didn't understand all of the doctrine. He didn't understand all of the teaching here. He had just begun to be a follower of Christ. But immediately he goes and he reaches somebody else. The reason I'm telling you this is that you and I don't have to understand every doctrine in the Bible and be able to articulate these things in order to be used of God to reach somebody else. You can take the knowledge that you have and the understanding that you have and reach somebody else. Look at the question that was asked. And Nathaniel said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? And Philip said unto him, Come and see. So basically he's saying you know, he didn't challenge them or say definitely yes or whatever. Uh he just said I uh I I can't answer all the questions, but why don't you just come and check it out? And many times when you are presenting something somebody, you know, don't worry about it, don't get stressed if well what if they ask me a question I can't answer Uh welcome to the club. Happens to me very often. Uh I just have to tell people I'll get back to you. I just need to I need to study it. I need to look it up. Uh we need to you know the truths are there. Uh I certainly don't know everything and if I did know it at one point I for I probably forgot it. And so I still have to look it up. And so that's don't feel bad about it. Just say, hey, let me study that and get back to you. And then call Bob and let him tell you what it is and you can you can get back to him. Okay. So uh I'm just encouraging you that you don't have to know it all. You can still go and reach people and you can be a witness. Um Jesus reveals unto him his omniscience, and Nathanael believes in verses 48 and 49. And Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? You see, Jesus calls him. Jesus answered and said unto him, before that Philip called thee when thou wast under the fig tree. I saw thee. Nathanael answered and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the King of Israel. You see, God revealed his omniscience, his understanding, his knowledge. He says, I saw you sitting under that tree Uh and uh Nathaniel came and talked to you. He revealed his knowledge, his and and he didn't have any means or capacity to know that, except that he was God in the flesh. And so Nathaniel sees that and believes on him. So this is kind of an introduction to how God uses Jesus Christ in the God in the flesh, uses uh miraculous things to win people to him. And uh that's where we have Christ displays his power through miracles. over and over again. In John chapter 2, verse number 11 tells us that this is the beginning of his miracles. He says in verse number 11, this beginning of miracles did Jesus in Canaan of Galilee. Now the beginning of his miracles, we've got to back up to the beginning of John chapter 2 there to see this very first miracle that is recorded for us on the pages of Scripture where Jesus turns water into wine. This is the first of about thirty-five major miracles uh that are recorded for us in the pages of Scripture. Certainly not all the miracles he performed. I'm sure that Jesus Christ healed thousands of more people than are recorded for us in the scriptures because there's times where it communicates to us that Jesus healed everybody there. And every story is not recorded. But Jesus used these miracles to win people. So he performed these miracles to bring people to believe. uh in John two eleven tells us that, to believe on him, uh that they would believe. So i he the beginning of these miracles did Jesus and Canaan of Galilee and the manifested forth his glory and his disciples believed on him. So people saw what God did, the miraculous things Jesus performed, and they believed on him. And they all he also did it to prove his deity. Now, I've given you a couple of references there. Let me just read Acts 2. 22 for you. He says, Ye men of Israel, hear these words. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God. among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you. And ye yourselves know. So he says, listen, you've seen this, these are miraculous things he's done, you understand that it is God among you, that Jesus of Nazareth is approved of God. because of these miracles. So it it is these miracles proved his deity. It proved uh that and then God used that to draw men to himself. Jesus here in John chapter 2 verses 1 through 11 turned water into wine. This is the first miracle that he performed on the pages of Scripture. It was three days after his temptation that Jesus, Mary, and the disciples, they attended a wedding. Uh and he says, and the third day, so it tells us there exactly, the third day there was a marriage in Canaan of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there, and both Jesus uh was called and his disciples to the marriage. So they attended this marriage. Um they were called to the marriage. Let me just say it's a good thing to invite Jesus to be part of your life events. Whatever they are, it is a good thing And there there really should be no place in the Christian's life where you are not wanting Jesus to be present. He ought to be invited to all things. Amen? You know, I I I love holding events at the church. But this is this is a marriage. But you know how many times over the years I've had people tell me, well, no, I uh I don't think I'm gonna have my marriage at the church. Because well, I think it's gonna be better if we do it somewhere else. Okay, you know what they're saying? I wanna have alcohol. I wanna have worldly music, I wanna have dancing. I I I want to have I I I want to have so what they're saying is this most important advent in this person's life where they're going to get married and begin their family, they're asking Jesus to stay out And if that isn't a an omen, a sign, of how their marriage is gonna go, uh I don't know what is. It's one thing for somebody that doesn't know Jesus Christ, who doesn't know the Lord, who wants to live their life and they're just living by the standards that they know or understand they've never met Jesus. And for them to have that kind of a wedding, but beloved uh in all things were to honor and glorify God. That includes our weddings. And that is every aspect of it. Now Miss Leanne is our wedding uh coordinator here at the church and she helps get things coordinated and and She has a big responsibility because I tell her uh when we meet and talk about it, listen, this needs to be right, this uh the ladies clothes have to be modest and appropriate. You know how many weddings uh most men really shouldn't be at? Because the the the women are so dressed provocatively and so much of their flesh is hanging out, that's not God honoring. Um why in the world boy I'm chasing a big long rabbit here. Why in the world would a man want his wife to be oogled by all the men at the wedding. That to me is crazy. That that that unity of marriage is it it you are committing and giving yourself to one another, why in the world would you want everybody else to be seeing her That that's crazy. We need to get back to this though. God want we need to have God as part of our life. That needs to be the priority. We should have no place in our life. Graduations, you know, everything. Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. Uh honor the Lord in all that we do, and he should be invited to everything. So it was a great shame uh not to have sufficient supplies for the guest. If it it was a really a great embarrassment to the family. They they held these marriage uh feasts and it could be anywhere from uh uh uh up to a week to ten days long this long feast and and it was a terrible thing to not have sufficient to feed the guests and to, you know, uh it was expected of you to provide for them. And so when they ran out of wine, it was a terrible problem. But Mary expected Jesus to solve the situation miraculously. Understanding, beloved, that Mary knew who she was talking to. Again, it's an understanding that she had. She understood who this was. Look in verse number five. She says, and his mother saith unto the servants, whatsoever he saith unto you Do it. Now that's pretty good advice as well. Uh whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. So she comes to him with this problem. We've run we've run out of wine and we need to we need to fix this. And Jesus is like, What W what do I have to do with thee? Like how am I supposed to solve this? And Jesus and and like a typical mother, she doesn't even worry about it. She just said, Listen, you guys Whatever he says, you get it done. See you later. She she leaves and and so there Jesus is with these guys to to try and solve this problem And what it is is she recognized who she was talking to and the power that he had. Uh the result of this miraculous uh miracle we know from verse number eleven is that the disciples believed, they believed in in his power and what he could do. I just want to note that the wine was unfermented grape juice. There are many who love to use this passage of scripture and say, Jesus turned water into wine. It's okay for us to drink wine. Listen, the scriptures People that say that are just ignorant of the scriptures. They they i what they're showing is their ignorance. 'Cause all through the New Testament the word wine is used uh any time that is referring to juice made of the fruit of the vine. So it could be fermented or unfermented. It doesn't matter that term wine is used. Now the reason that we know that it is not fermented wine is because there are numerous passages in the Word of God that condemn The consumption of alcohol. Jesus would not endorse something that in another passage of Scripture he condemns. The Bible does not contradict itself. God does not contradict itself. And if on one hand Jesus is going to condemn the consumption of alcohol, he would not, on the other hand, uh Make it and provide it to everybody at the wedding. Okay, so we know that it was unfermented grape juice. The fruit of the vine was turned into grape juice. That's just what Jesus made and it was referred to or called wine. In the context of the passages, it's most of the time relatively easy to see uh what he was talking about. Now Jesus goes and visits Capernaum, uh which ultimately one day will become his home. We see that in verse number twelve at the conclusion of this miracle. After this he went down to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brethren and his disciples. They continued there not many days. So it's just a quick visit. They just stopped, checked in, and then hit the road. And so now we move on to Christ's early Judean ministry. And this is where we get into Christ's cleansing of the temple in John 2, verses 13 through 25, his cleansing of the temple. Um listen, Christ's ministry had just begun. He had just come on the scene, has been, you know, endued with power and ready to go do the work and uh he travels to the temple to observe the Passover. Um The Passover was to be observed in the spring of every year in remembrance of the children of Israel's deliverance from Egypt, how God uh had them put blood over the lintels, the doorpost, and the uh death angel passed over. And so their deliverance from Egypt it was a time of remembrance. It was a required thing for everybody to be there. And so it was a great time for Christ to uh be able to share his message with many. And uh so he goes here in a in observance of the Passover. Um And all Jewish males were required to be there. According to Deuteronomy sixteen sixteen. Deuteronomy sixteen sixteen says, three times a year shall all the males appear before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose. In the feast of unleavened bread, the feast of weeks, and in the feast of the tabernacles, and they shall not appear before the Lord empty, saying they've got to bring a sacrifice. That they've got to bring a tribute to unto the temple. This is what God required of them. These three things here, the feast of unleavened bread, is tied to the Passover. I included that because in this Deuteronomy 16, 16, it doesn't say Passover, and so people are like, What are you what are you talking about? The feast on the leather bread was uh part of that. And now all Jewish males were expected to be present. Um listen uh these males would come from all over. It was an exciting time uh in Jerusalem. Everybody coming to the temple, there was an influx of thousands and thousands of people coming into Jerusalem for the observance. of the Passover. Uh and it was necessary for them to have a money changer. Uh we would call them a currency exchange today. They're found in the airports in foreign countries. Uh and some international airports here in the States, as people come into the country, or if you fly and go to another country, you get off the plane and you have US dollars There's a lot of countries that will take them, but you want to get some uh of the currency of the local people well What was required for tribute in the temple was a half a shekel, and they could not use Greek or Roman coinage. at the temple. So they may have some Greek or Roman coinage, but they couldn't use that for their tribute. So they had to exchange that somewhere. It was typically found in the gates of the city. This is where these things happened. However, there was some entrepreneurial people who decided that, you know what, this is required. Every single one of these guys need this And not only that, they're going to need uh animals for sacrifice. They're gonna need animals, not just an any animal, it has to be an animal that is approved. By the priest, because it has to be an animal without spot and without blemish. They couldn't just go grab one from a field. They had to have these approved animals. And so they had set up this currency exchange, this place through which they could get their animals, and uh they had set it up right there at the temple. And Jesus was furious. He was very upset. They had to Set this up here, they set this up in the temple. They turned what God had required for holiness into a scheme to get rich. Now Jesus' wrath is kindled against these money changers. He fashions a whip, he drives them out, he pours out the money that they had accumulated there in their little cash box, and he overthrows the the tables. Now, let me say a couple things about this. The issue was not that money was changing hands. So there are some that hold very strongly to this idea or aspect of turning the house of God into a you know den of thieves and and You can't exchange money in God's house. You can't uh you know do anything. Uh we have been criticized as a church for having a bookstore. Because you're exchanging money. You're selling something at God's house. And that is wrong. Jesus overthrew the money changers. You should not have that in God's house. Now I work very hard to be careful, but what you need to understand is the spirit of what he's dealing with here. It is not that there was money changing hands. This is something that was required. Had they done so in a equitable fashion, had they decided, listen, you need a half a shekel. give me a half a shekel's worth of Roman coin, let me give you a shekel and that would be okay. The problem is, according to one commentator I read, that they needed to buy a bird for sacrifice. A bird would be an equivalent of about fifteen cents. of our monies uh today for them to buy and in the city gate they could buy that for fifteen cents. But to buy an approved bird At the temple would cost as much as $15. So they were taking what God was requiring for holiness and making money on it. Something that the people had to do. It wasn't optional. This wasn't a a gift that they were giving to the church or to the temple. They were required to do it. Here would be an equivalent comparison. If at Hunt Valley Baptist Church we charged you to take the Lord's Supper, that to me would be an equivalent comparison. This is what God would be irate about. Something that he required his people to do, this do in remembrance of me, and then the church is going to charge for it? You see, God wouldn't be pleased with that. So what what I'm just I just want to clarify, because you might have heard or or you hear people talking about it and uh I was giving Joe a hard time in the foyer here as we we came in today because his little exchange you know, his side business he's got going. uh uh selling selling uh eggs. Um listen, there's nothing wrong with that. Um you know, here's a church member that has extra eggs And he wants to provide them to the church family, the church family. It's not anything that you're required to do. You don't have to buy eggs from Joe. Okay, you can buy eggs anywhere you want, but probably getting them cheaper from Joe. And and so th what I'm saying is there's nothing wrong with that. I was giving Joe a hard time. I said, Boy, I'm preaching on you today, buddy And uh uh but no, there's nothing wrong with that happening. There's nothing wrong with having a bookstore. Now I am very careful, now see you guys don't know these conversations that I've had, but there has been some men that ha I've given the pulpit to That they use 25 minutes of their time in the pulpit to promote their books. I want you to know that irritates the fire out of me. And I've told them after the fact that you you will not do that again here. You the the pulpit is not for your sales. It's one thing to mention, hey I've got a couple resources. If they can be a blessing to you, great. But to take twenty minutes of the time where we're supposed to hear the Word of God to promote his own material bothers me. And I have had several conversations with people and said, don't do that again. Just so you guys know, that is not something if you hear somebody doing that, you'll know Pastor's not happy right now. And I have not got up and stopped somebody yet Uh but I have communicated with him later and said that is not what the pulpit's for and I don't want you to do that here. Uh I want you to preach the word of God. That's what you're here for. You can let people know there's got some stuff back there, but not more, because that that's not what this is for. It's okay if we've got materials to try and be a blessing or a help. We we all need materials to grow and be spiritually encouraged and challenged, but I hope that makes sense on on why Jesus did this. and how important it is. Now there also is a conflict here or what people would call a conflict because John is the only one that records this particular time of Jesus coming into the temple and overturning these tables. And the other three gospels record this is right at the beginning of his ministry. You know, in our timeline, the chart we showed, this is right at the beginning of his ministry, and the other gospels don't say anything about it. And yet they record uh him doing this, but they record it at the very end of his ministry, right at the conclusion And so they say, wait a minute, there's a there's a problem here. The Gospels don't agree. John says it happened at the beginning, and all the other gospels say it happened at the end. The reason I'm telling you this is because if you read after somebody or you read somebody and they say, boy, there's a problem here No, there's just two different times. And if you study them out, you'll see that there's different circumstances and there was different results. from the two different times. Now the other three Gospels agree in the concluding time that happened that uh what what the results were and what took place there, those three are in uh agreement. But as John is covering the beginning of the ministry, this is a second time or would be the first time that it happened right here, and there is no conflict, it just happened twice. Just so you're aware of that. Now the Jews demanded a sign. Where does the time go? I gotta stop chasing rabbits. The Jews demanded a sign in John 2. 18. They wanted a sign to see that he was indeed the Messiah. The fact is, is that what Jesus had done here was the sign. Jesus coming in and turning over these tables and doing this was the sign, but they missed it. In Psalm 69, verse number 9, it says, For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up, and the reproach of them that reproach thee are fallen upon me. That zeal and passion Jesus Christ showed here was the sign that they missed completely. The disciples saw it in in John two seventeen. He says, and the disciples remembered that it was written. The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. Okay, do you see that? That's almost a tri I noticed that actually. When I when I put my hand in my pocket, uh my arm blocks the signal right here and it shuts off sometimes. Uh I gotta move my arm. So uh almost a direct quote from Psalm sixty-nine nine, that uh the disciples remembered it had been was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. And uh so if you're in your Bible there and you want to mark John 69, 9 close to that, uh it might be useful for you. It's not one of the prophecies that are on our list. So you don't need to Christ predicts his own death and resurrection in verses nineteen through twenty two. You guys are familiar with this that he says, Hey, the temple be destroyed, I'll raise it up again. The dec the Pharisees are like, What? This thing took uh how many years is it? is forty six years, right? Forty six years for this temple to be built. And they didn't realize what he was talking about. It's notable that the disciples were going to remember this conversation later. Uh it tells us that Jesus tells them that. Um It was it in verse number twenty two, is that it? Uh when therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples so he's telling us here, when he was risen from the dead, the disciples remembered That he had said this unto them. And they believed the scriptures that this word was Jesus as Jesus had said. So they get when Jesus after he's risen, they come back and they're like, oh yeah, I remember And Jesus told us that he was going to do that. Yeah, that that that that reminds me for sure. So they remember it. Now Nicodemus meets with Christ. You guys know the story of Nicodemus. Nicodemus was a Pharisee. Well Wilmington's guide to the Bible said he was quite possibly one of the most well-known, if not the most well-known Pharisees, somebody high up. He comes to Jesus at night But he recognizes that Jesus was sent from God. Again, an acknowledgement that this was the Messiah. You can read these verses. We're in John chapter 3 and he met with him at night. The fear, possibly the fear of being seen by others, motivated him to come at night. Uh Wilmington's guide to the Bible gives it a little bit further. What time is it? It's terrible. I'm gonna have to get a bigger clock back there because it's blurry. Uh I uh I gotta shut it down. I was trying to get to the end of this. Very frustrating. And there's no I I'm not going to be able to just throw this out. We'll just pick it up here next week with Nicodemus Meets Christ uh and uh we know that he was a Pharisee, so we'll pick up there uh next Sunday. It is conjecture that that is why he came by night. We don't know that he came by night because he was afraid. It just makes sense. uh because the Pharisees at times, many times, wanted to kill Jesus and so to be seen with Jesus could be bad for your health. Uh and so that makes sense. It's practical application. Nothing wrong with that. Well Lemington's guide of the Bible he says, well it's very possible that he just had a very busy day and by the time he was free it was dark and he couldn't get to Jesus before that time and Jesus was always willing and and able to meet with anybody when they were coming to him. And so that might just have been the time of day that they were available. Uh, and that's certainly a possibility, uh, but we don't know for sure what it was, but it certainly fits. that it's because he was ashamed or because he was afraid of what would happen uh to him having met with Jesus. And we see as he comes to Jesus, he knows that Jesus was sent from God. And verse number two, he recognizes this. The same came to Jesus by night, and he said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God. Recognition, again, continually through these pages, you're going to see people that come to Jesus and they recognize him not just as a teacher, not just as a good man. or a prophet, but they recognize him as from God. They recognize him for who he is, the Messiah. And Christ shows his concern here in verse number three. Jesus answered and he said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto you, except a man be born again He cannot see the kingdom of God. Christ gives his concern, and Christ is always concerned about the loss. Nicodemus is confused. And of course you guys know the story. Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb? I mean, how can this happen? I mean that doesn't make sense. Now I'm not gonna teach on the second birth this morning. I'm gonna take for granted that the large majority of you understand that principle, the truth that man is born physically one time, and we are born physically uh and the illustration or example given here by Christ by water is the the water that's in the womb that holds the baby uh and but we're born dead in our trespasses and sin And so man has to be born spiritually, because we're born dead spiritually. So we have to be born spiritually. And that's what Christ is talking about, being born again, being born a second time. And uh that illustration is given here. Christ gives him clarity by giving giving him, and we're not going to teach through all of these, but uh he gives him four illustrations. Uh to try and give clarity to Nicodemus here and to show that it's a spiritual birth that he needs, that men are dead in their trespasses in sin, but they need to be born again, made alive unto Christ, given new life in Christ. These terms that we hear and we un we know but maybe didn't understand, but he gives the illustration of a natural birth. He gives the illustration of the uh serpent on the pole, uh that even as the serpent was lifted up so so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Uh Moses in the Old Testament he gives the example of wind, and that we don't know where the wind comes from or where it goes, but We know that it's there. Gives the examples of light and darkness, just giving clarity to Nicodemus and of course to us. Now, I just want us say here that John chapter three and verse number five does not teach baptismal regeneration. In verse number five there Jesus says, Jesus answered, Verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. So there are those that use that passage of Scripture and a couple of others that they can look to and and say, boy, see, salvation is dependent upon both of these things. baptized by water and by God. You need both to have salvation. I want you to understand that if you find a contradiction in the scripture, then your knowledge is lacking. There's something that you don't understand. And the problem to try and say that this verse teaches baptism or regeneration It cannot teach that because it directly contradicts other passages of Scripture that teach that baptism has nothing to do with salvation. It is not, for by grace are you saved through faith. Uh we we we are not baptism is no part of it. Baptism is just a picture of what had already happened, and we understand that to be true. So when you see a verse like this and or you hear somebody say, Well, you need both, you know, uh that that baptismal waters wash away your sin and and remove that sin from you. It does not do that. Jesus Christ shed blood that died on the cross is what washes away your sin, what what uh does that for you. That's already been done. This is just a picture. And so just wanted to put it out there because this is a verse that many people will use to try and show that baptism is necessary for salvation. We believe that this water is symbolic of the Word of God. The water in this text is just symbolic of the Word of God. 1 Peter 1. 23 says, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the Word of God. Which liveth and abideth forever. We know the word of God is quick and powerful. We know that for by grace are you saved through what? Faith. We know that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And so we believe that this is just a picture of the Word of God. There are a couple of other explanations that people have had. They say it's maybe talking about the physical birth and the water that's wrapped around the baby when he's born and, you know, the the uh uh uh uh the ladies water breaks and it's time for the baby to be born, you know, that that type of water there. You know, so there's a couple of other ex explanations that people might have or you might read, uh, but it does not the the the Important thing is you know that does not teach baptismal regeneration, that it is not salvation doesn't come through baptism, it comes through Jesus Christ. So we see that John's testimony is given in John chapter 3, verses 22 to 36. It's a testimony of John here And in verse number twenty two he says, After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judea, and there he tarried with them and baptized. Which John is this? Is this John the Baptist or is this John the disciple that is talking about? Is John the Baptist because you you that's what you sometimes we just need to pay attention to the terminology or to what's being said or sometimes you have to back up and read again to see who is talking to clarify that. Um but look at verse number twenty-eight. Ye yourselves bear me witness that I said, I am not the Christ, but I am sent before him. So who is it that was sent before Christ? John the Baptist. John the Baptist. So we know that that's who we're talking about here is John John the Baptist. And uh so reading through the context of it, seeing what's being said there, um we know who it is that's communicating And so we hear hit just as John the Baptist's testimony. We see that he wanted to honor and glorify God. In verse number 30, he says, He must increase, but I must decrease. I almost preached on that text this morning in the morning service. I was very working on a message for that and almost went that direction. We're going another way this morning, but uh that's what I was looking at. Very powerful uh Testimony and word that we need to have and it needs to be applicable in our lives for sure, understanding that He must increase and I must decrease Uh but he had that testimony and continued to preach the gospel everywhere he went. This of course, John chapter 3, uh very well known, very popular, uh, and very powerful passage for the gospel of Jesus Christ. The most well-known verse in all of the Bible probably, for God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. John three sixteen is is in this text. And uh so we see that. Then Jesus departs Judea for Samaria, and uh John the Baptist is imprisoned. So John the Baptist imprisoned and his imprisonment is recorded in all of the uh gospels there And uh he's imprisoned because Herod Antipas took a portion of his father's kingdom, his father being Herod the Great, and Herod Antipas divorced his wife and married his I'm not a hundred percent sure on this relationship, Haphneys, Herodias, uh, but they certainly were related. We see in you don't have to turn there, but in Mark chapter six, verse seventeen to eighty eighteen he says, for Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife For he had married her. For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife. So his brother and his brother's wife got a divorce and Herod Antipas got a divorce because they wanted to get together and John the Baptist said, This is sin, this is wrong. It's not lawful to you ha for you to have your brother's wife. And he preached that and Herodantibus didn't like it, so he threw him in prison. And uh that was his fate. Ultimately we know uh that he loses his life. And so Jesus uh Heads out and he wins the Samaritan woman. John chapter 4, verses 4 through 42, quite a passage of scripture, lengthy passage there on him winning the Samaritan woman. Uh you remember Samaritans were the descendants of the settlers of Assyria. Uh after the Assyrian victories they left settlers there and they occupied the land and they intermingled and So the Assyrians and you know the settlements there of the Jewish people that were still around, uh they intermingled, intermarried, and ultimately uh the Samaritans were considered half-breeds. They were despised and rejected by everybody. They they were not looked upon favorably. And many would avoid the Samaritans at all costs, but Jesus did not. Jesus went to her in uh John 4, verse number 4. For an angel went down at a certain um that's John five, sorry, one passage too far. John four four says Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sacharod, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. He went through there. Trying to find here is uh I didn't hear you, what did you say? Oh, the verse I was looking for was four. I read five. Thank you. Uh verse four. And he must he said he must needs go through Samaria. John uh John. Um Gus, can you give me the map uh that I sent you earlier in the week? So I'm not sure how, again we try and blow these things up, but I'm not sure how visible this is for you. But you have down here Jerusalem. Remember Bethlehem's down up underneath Jerusalem, just a little ways. And then you have up here Nazareth and Canaan, where miracles were performed. Right here you have Capernaum. Okay, so this is Samaria right here. Traditionally, men that were traveling would not want to travel directly through Samaria because they didn't like Samaritans And the the normal path of travel would be go down to the the coastline and go along the coastline. For one, it is more level It's easier travel. There's pl plentiful of water and other things necessary for you. They would normally travel along the coastline to go up and then come back in instead of passing through this desert region, plus it was Samaria. Yet Jesus went through Samaria. I must needs go through Samaria. He was heading that way, but he was going to go through Samaria and on purpose because there was somebody he wanted to reach. Yes, Jesus preached to the multitudes, but uh more than that He went after the individuals. This is the second time here even this early in Jesus' ministry that he went and spoke to one person to reach one person with his message of salvation. So God is con Jesus was concerned about the individual as well. We s also get a picture of Christ's humanity here in verse number six. And uh he says to him there now Jacob was there, Jesus therefore being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well And it was about the sixth hour. Uh now this was there's a lot of teaching that we could do here, but uh it was not normal for somebody to come at the well at this hour of the day. It was during the hot part of the day. We normally the work involved in getting water from the well and so on would either be done in the morning or the evenings. But the Samaritan woman came at this part of this time of the day because she didn't want to see people. because of the uh mindset and how people viewed her and she just wanted to avoid all of that. So she went at a time when there would be nobody else there. She could just Do what she needed to do and leave and not have to deal with that. But Jesus was there on purpose because he wanted to give her the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So he preaches the gospel unto her and uh proclaims himself to be the Messiah And uh she of course acknowledges that and trusts him. So that brings us to the end of Christ's ministry is launched, kind of the beginning of it. And depending upon who you're reading and uh individual circumstances we might you know some people would say Jesus Christ was launched at his bapt his ministry was launched at his baptism right then and so These first couple of events that I've given you here, somebody else might put after the beginning of it. Uh it depends on how you want to divide it up. Some people teaching the life of Christ would divide it up between just the Passovers, like the first Passover, the second Passover, second Passover, the third Passover, and other people divide it up by actual time of year. So it just depends on how you look at it there. But uh this is what what I have done.