Matthew 6 and verse 33. The Bible says, But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Now, what is the most important word in that verse? The word first. If you leave that word out, well, about everybody seeks God in some way. The drunkard certainly wants to overcome his drinking right after his next binge The thief wants to be honest and may call out to God or seek God in some way, but not until he has enough money and things. We know that Jesus is preeminent in all things. We learned that in Sunday school. This morning I want you to examine your life as I preach And see if Christ is really first in your life. Or have you made him second? I don't think anybody would put him last, but he wants to be first. Let's bow for prayer first. And then we'll get into it. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus, thank you for these dear saints. Thank you for this church. Thank you for what you're accomplishing through this the pastors and this church And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you continue to work by your Spirit. Save souls at this place. So excited to hear about the discipling. going on. God, bless that greatly. I pray you'll bless their missionary effort. I pray that you'll bless their visitation and soul winning effort. I pray, oh God, that you'll have your way their bus ministry Help them to reach more as as uh uh the COVID starts to decrease some help us to see more people come on the buses. Now, Father, your blessing upon this preaching I pray that you'll help us to take it to heart. I pray that you'll help us to examine ourselves to see if you're really first. Or maybe you're second. In Jesus' name. Amen. Consider several things with me this morning. There's glory in first things. There's a glory in them. It's so fresh and it's so sweet that first love. The first love surely was and is my first love after Christ of call. Of course. We were friends in sixth grade. We marched in the band together through high school and sat together every lunch period in our junior and senior years. We fought and we made up. And we fought and we made up. It was fun. I like the making up. Education and training was important to both of us, so I went to Bowling Green State University to be a math teacher And she went to Toledo Hospital School of Nursing at and Toledo University to be an RN. And we wrote to each other while we were in college. And occasionally I'd drive up there and pick her up, take her up To our hometown, see our parents. Love that is meant by God won't die. And ours didn't. On New Year's Day, 1972, I proposed to her. New Year's Day. And she accepted. And we were married later that year. There's the first love. That's special. There's the glory in first things There's the first apartment that we have. That's where we found the cockroaches under the the uh the sink. And that's where Shirley toasted a whole loaf of bread at one time in the oven, forgot she stored it there. And I turned on the oven we we roasted a whole Pretty soon I smelled toast. I thought toast? I'm not making toast. It was in the first apartment. And uh it was in the first apartment that we had a bed And it was just a double bed, wasn't even a queen, and it was bordered three sides by a wall, and we had a foot and a half at the bottom And we walk in and jump into the bed because that's that's what we had. And uh we paid ninety dollars a month for that apartment. Boy, those were the days, my friend And uh the wall was paper thin, so in the wintertime the north wind would hit that wall, and it was like you were in a tent And uh, oh, the glory of first things, the first apartment. There's the first car. Ours was a burnt gold 1963. Shivie Impala. We got married in 72, so we bought a nine-year-old car, and that was our first car. There's the first vacation we We went to Chattanooga, uh, Tennessee, and we went to Lookout Mountain and some of the sites around there, Ruby Falls. There's the first time that I preached. I preached on Galatians 6. 7 the first time. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. And I thought I was really going to impress everybody. in the church. I had it all worked out. I thought, man, they're not going to have enough time for everything I'm going to say here. I'm probably going to be about forty minutes on a Wednesday night and I didn't have a clue how to preach I read a verse, made a couple of comments, and I sat down embarrassed, and probably about ten minutes I was up there total. And I said to myself, I thought to myself, I'll never do that again. This is my 3757th sermon. And many Sunday school lessons also. When I'm preparing to preach. Sometimes I think back to the first time and remember that I'm totally reliant on God. We can't do things in our own strength and the power of the flesh We need God. And first things are precious. There's the first ministry that we did. I did a uh radio broadcast. In front of the microphone, you know, nobody there, just me. Boy, that was strange. Uh the first soul that you win to Christ You remember. There's the first Sunday in Brogue when I had everybody stand up and okay, uh, I want you to take time, shake hands while the pianist plays. And they all looked at each other and they they just started laughing. The whole congregation started laughing. My first Sunday. And I said, oh, you don't you're not you Well let me show you how you do it. You say hello, my name is Randy Starr, but you don't say Randy Starr, you say your name. I went through the whole rig of morrow and they went around there laughing And they're shaking hands and people from the back shook hands with people in the front and they said, Yeah, we want to welcome you to our church. So they said, Well, we've been here for six years That'll tell you where it was. And they've shaken hands every service ever since. every Sunday morning service. And um one time I forgot. And uh we went to something else and they somebody raised their hand and said, Pastor, we We didn't shake hands. Okay. And of course during the pandemic we weren't shaking hands either. But um first things are precious. There's a glory about first things and God wants to be first. He wants to be first in our lives. You don't forget first things. He doesn't want to be forgotten in our lives. Turn to Exodus 22. Secondly, the first fruits belong to God. The first fruits belong to God. Exodus 22, 29. Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of the ripe fruits and of thy liquores. And it's not talking about liquor like we're used to in our day what that means. It's talking about juices. The the firstborn of thy sons Shalt thou give unto me. Firstborn, first fruits. In Exodus 22 and verse 30, the next verse. Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen and with thy sheep. Seven days it shall be with his dam, and on the eighth day thou shalt give it me. God demanded first fruits. When you go to a fruit farm, they sell seconds. You ever hear of seconds? Okay, they sell seconds for a discount. They aren't the best, and they aren't the freshest. And God doesn't want our seconds He wants our first. He wants the first fruits. He doesn't want our leftovers. He wants us to give him our first fruits. If you want power with God and want to be used by God, and I I think that you would, then you need to count the cost and put first things first, and put God first in your life. Howard Gross wrote the song that we've heard and we've sung, give of your best to the master, give him first place in your heart Give him first place in your service. Consecrate every part. Give, and to you will be given, God his beloved son gave. Gratefully seeking to serve him, give him the best that you have, and on the chorus, give of your best to the master, give of the strength of your youth. Clad in salvation's full armor, join in the battle for truth. Oh, I like that. God says he'll bless us when we give him the first. Proverbs chapter three, go over there with me. Proverbs chapter three and verse nine. Amen. Proverbs 3:9. Honor the Lord with thy substance and with the first fruits of all thine increase. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. All of the wit- the widow had left was a handful of meal and a little oil. You remember that. And Elijah said, uh, I want you to make me a cake first. She said, I'm gonna, we're just gonna uh you know, eat this and die. He said, make me a cake first. Was that hard? And when I read that When I first read it, I thought, boy, that was kind of a rough saying for him to give her. But no, because when she put God first, you know what happened? God blessed her and she had plenty left and it just kept flowing. Today many barrels have gone dry in Christians' lives because God's part was left out. I mean, we we chart our lives day in and day out without God at the top. Now, when we sacrifice and we give God to God first, he will rebuke the devourer for our sakes, Malachi 4 says. The temptation is not to put God last. No one would think to do that. Not going to put God last. The temptation is to put him after something. After our business. To put him after our family. After our ambitions. After our recreation. God demands and God deserves first. He deserves best. Do you recall the Ten Commandments? That God is a jealous God. He wants to be number one, and he won't be second. I mean, that's the command. And God wants to be first in your life. Right now. Whatever is going on in your life, maybe you've been distracted. Maybe you haven't been putting him first in your life lately. He wants to get back on the throne. Thirdly, there's a glory in first things. First fruits belong to God, but thirdly, we need to pay tithe first. You draw up a budget. You don't have tithe as one of the things down here. You tithe 10% to the Lord, to the local church And then the rest of it is your budget. So Malachi chapter 3 and verse 8 talks about it. It says, Will a man rob God? Yet ye said, ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings, God says, ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now Herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. The tithe. The tithe is 10% of everything that comes into your hand, and the tithe is God's. Don't you touch it. If you take it and spend it on something heavy, heavy hang on your head. The curse is coming from Malachi. We dare not touch the tide. You are giving it, giving it at your church, local church, every Sunday, not to the TV evangelist And not to any evangelist, not to the missionary, not to the building fund. It's to come into the storehouse, the general fund of the church Here's why some hurt financially in their lives. They tithe, but not all the time. They like to tithe once in a while so they can say they tithe. But if you tithe once in a while, you're not tithing. They give, but not the full tithe. And not first. Some believers say, well, I I tithe after I pay my other bills. After I buy my groceries, then I'll tithe. Preacher, I only get this small amount. I only get unemployment or disability or retirement check. I don't I can't work. I'd like to, but I can't. None of that matters in a matter of time. All that matters is that God has entrusted each of us with something However much or less, and ten percent of it is his. That's what he said. You know what that means? Ninety percent of it's yours. And it's not really yours anyway. It's all his, isn't it? Now, when you give it, you acknowledge him as your provider and your master When you give, you were saying, I believe your word that you are Lord of my life. And you can meet my needs. When you don't give, you don't acknowledge that He's provided for you or that He will. Our giving shows our attitude for His current provision and our faith in him to continue to provide for us. If you are going to please God, then you need to give 10% to your local church And the New Testament says, bring it in, 1 Corinthians 16, 2, bring it in on the first day of the week. And so we may feel that we owe certain people and that we owe companies a lot, but we don't owe anybody as much as we owe God And we need to be faithful in giving to God. Number four, the firstborn are the Lord's. Exodus 13. Go over there with me. Exodus 13. First things. First in your life, or is he second? Exodus 13, verse 1. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Sanctify unto me all the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb. Among the children of Israel, both of man and a beast, it is mine. God owns our children. We hold on for dear life like we own them, but it's not true. He gave them, he owns them, and he has committed them into our care. It's a blessing for him to do that. And so, dear friend, everything that we have is God's, including our children. He has only loaned them to us to manage them the way that he's prescribed in the Bible to manage them. You say, well I I know God said that, but I think I'm going to raise my kids this way. Wrong Christ is not first in your life. God's not first. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. That means go to the Bible, find out how it ought to be done. Do it And so we need to put him first. Notice that God doesn't say, You ought to give it to me, the first the children. Rather, he says they are mine. They are mine. It's holy. It's you dedicate it to me. It's mine. I wonder if you're training your children in the Bible on spiritual things like the Bible told you you're supposed to. If not, you need to get back to that. If Christ is going to be first in your life, you've got to train those dear ones that God has committed to your care. You need to train them like the Bible says. You need to discipline them like the Bible says. You need to oversee them like the Bible says. A lot of times About once a year, twice a year, our pastor gets up, and I had to do it when I was pastoring, and remind everybody, look, don't just let the kids run after church. They run out in the parking lot and run between cars and they might get hit. We have supervision responsibilities with our children. Amen. That's good preaching right there. Do you uh do they hear and see you pray, Mama? Papa, do they hear you or or see you reading the Bible? They get an opinion of what's important to you by what you spend your time on. You need to spend your time on things that point them to God. And so, something else. God wants to be first every week. He wants to be first every week. Is he first or second? Under the Old Testament Sabbath, they worked six days and they earned a day of rest. God created six days, and on the seventh day he rested as an example to us. Not that he needed it, but he did it as an example. In the New Testament, we rest on the first day. Before we deserve it by grace. Amen. Again, 1 Corinthians 16, 2. It's a picture of our unmerited salvation in Christ that we cannot earn it. We don't get salvation by works. We get salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone. I rest in God and I honor Him on the first day of the week. Some put family before the Lord on the first day, on the Lord's day. Some put recreation before the Lord on the Lord's day I mean some will stay home from church on Super Bowl night, if you can believe it. Do all that you have to do on other days. Give the first day to the Lord. Set aside that first day of the week. The truth is that all days belong to God, don't they? But you're honoring the Lord's Day as evidence of you putting him first. The beginning of the week goes to the Lord. No Christian ought to be begrudgingly attend church on Sunday morning or Sunday night. You ought to be thrilled. You ought to be thrilled that you're saved. Listen, you're not going to hell anymore. You got saved. He saved your soul. He made a way for you to know God and be in right relationship with God. Now at the end of this life, you have heaven promised to you. Why, to get together with other believers in Jesus Christ, that ought to be a privilege. It is a privilege. It ought to be something we look forward to. Not dread. This is the first day of the week, the freshest, the best. And if he's first, we ought to be honoring the first day of the week. As we give God the first fruits, our first money, our tithe, our firstborn, the first week, the first day, we should do it by making him first in our heart. There's more. There's that God wants to be first every day. He wants to be first every day. Jesus arose, the Bible says, a great while before day. Are we putting Christ first in our day? Whenever our day begins, are we putting him first? He ought to be the first in our thoughts. When we wake up, we ought to greet the Lord every morning. I trained myself 20 years ago that when I wake up, I'm going to think about God first. I wake up and God thank you for that night's sleep. Before I'm out of bed, I'm on the edge of the bed, getting ready to get up. God thank you for giving me sleep last night Sometimes I sleep three hours. Sometimes I sleep eight hours. But whatever it is, God, I'm thankful for the sleep. And I'm greeting God and giving him praise. And then I'm starting to pray for my family immediately. Listen, you're the priest of your family, gentlemen. Mothers, you ought to care for your family like that, that every day you pray for every one of them by name. And you're going to God and you're trusting God for them. Whatever their needs are, you probably know what they are. You're the Priest for the family, and you're going to God, giving God the first of your day, praising God, and taking your family request to God. And then you have another prayer time where you're Making intercession for others and other needs. He ought to be first. We ought to start the day with him on our mind. We ought to have daily time of prayer and Bible study But we ought to start the day by waking up and greeting the Lord. We think that if I sometimes, if I skip prayer, I'll have a little more time. Today. I'm going to have to skip my prayer time because I've really got a busy day. Or uh we think that we'll skip our tithe because I really need a little more money this week Or we think that well, I'll skip the services because I need to rest for the rest of the work week. Faulty reasoning. We need to make him first in all these areas. God didn't set life up to work that way We need to give God the first and the best. The bottom line is we need God. And when we don't put him first, we're not acknowledging that we need him. We need to trust God to stretch our time and our money and give us the rest for our bodies that we need. Put in first, not second. Put him first. Make him preeminent in everything in your life. Alright, go to Revelation chapter 2. Revelation chapter 2. Finally God demands our first love. First love. Revelation two, four. Says, nevertheless, I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. This is the whole church that did that. But it's also true that individuals can do this. They let leave their first love. What God likes about your loving him is that you love him first. That's what's special. It's not enough to love your wife the same after twenty years if you love some other woman more. That's not right. What makes your love for each other special is that she's first far above all other women. And you are first far above all other men to her. Listen, God knows that you love him. The question today is, do you love him first? Sunday school teachers may get to where they think it's a burden to visit and to call and to study for their classes. But it wouldn't be now this is if you don't have a health problem or something. But it wouldn't be a burden if you would give back to who is first in your life, who you love first. Something else has gotten in. Something else is squeezed in. You aren't carrying the burden for your ministry like you used to. That's a first issue Something's wrong there and we need to make him first again. Children and teamworkers sometimes get to where it's too much work to go on the activities to help out on Wednesday night to carry the burden for the classes. Bus workers get to where they're visit visiting and the riding the bus to and fro is too much, too much. But it wouldn't be like that if Christ was number one in your life Number one. It'll work for the sound room. It'll work for the ushers. It'll work for a deacon. or the music, those involved in music. It'll work for visitation or whatever other ministry that you're involved in. If you are feeling too burdened down, check your heart this morning to see if he's still on the throne of your heart. If he's not on the throne, of course things are getting too burdened. because you're not letting him share that burden. You're not sharing it with him. He's not first, you see. Brethren, your factory or your company did not die for you Thank God for our jobs. But they didn't die for you. Your local union shop, they didn't die for you. Your favorite store or garage sale didn't die for you. Your hobby didn't die for you. Someone must hold first place in every area of our life. And it's true in our soul. When we put Christ first, he said that he would take care of us and add whatever we need. Now go with me to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6, and we'll finish up. Matthew 6, 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. But look at what happens when we do that. We're all worried about how we can't get it all done, or we're not going to have enough, or to spread around, or we don't have enough time, whatever it is, but look at what it says And all these things shall be added unto you. When? When you put him first. What things do we need? And what is it that he said he would add to us? Well, look at the context. It's the necessities of life he speaks of in the preceding verses. In verse 31. Therefore, take no thought, saying, what shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? Verse 32. For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. And then the capstone is verse 33, where Christ said, All these things shall be added unto you. Don't sweat it. Don't worry about it. Don't take thought. Don't be anxious about it. Don't stress out. No. There's an antidote for all of it. What is it? Put him first. All these things will be added. In your life, is Jesus really first? I mean, right now if you had to stand before God, could you honestly say that you have him first enshrined in your heart, in your activities, in everything you do? Or do you just act like he is? Do you just talk like he is? And if he isn't, who or what is first You've got to identify what's what's squeezed him out, what's elbowed him out of first place. What is that? Self? Fear? Fear can do that. It's powerful. Keeping up with the Joneses Is that it? Is it recreation and fun? The accumulation of things. You're just given so much you've got to have more and more and more. Or sports. Or entertainment or popularity or social media and you're just you're going to town, you do this, this is what you love to do. And God gets push pushed in the background. Or, and by the way, I'm on social media. I'm not downing that, but when we make it first in our lives, there's a problem. And business making money. Any of these can squeeze Jesus out of the first place, and they still only lead to a spirit of discontent because your cup is never full. It's not those things that satisfy, is it? Only God can satisfy the soul. You never get enough. Remember this When Christ is on the throne, he's first, self is on the cross. But when self is on the throne Christ is on the cross of your life. In your life, as you consider Christ, is he first Or has he been second lately