So by way of introduction, this previous lesson last week finished up this morning, but uh we've taken a look at the condition of the world during the 400 silent years. One is made aware, evidently, uh abundantly aware of the culture and the cruelty. that was prevalent in society uh preceding the announcement of Christ's birth during this time frame. Oppressed by the Romans Influenced by the Greeks, the Jewish people lived in a challenging time, and things were ripe for the coming of the Messiah, ready for the world to know him. And that is fulfillment of God's promise that was given to us in the book of Galatians says when the fullness of time had come. The fullness of time had come. God had prepared the world. It was fully time. Everything was ready and God would be made flesh and dwell among us. So that fullness of time had arrived, God was going to be made flesh and dwell among us. Harold Wilmington in his Wilmington's Guide to the Bible says this. The Old Testament began with a man made in the image of God. But the New Testament begins with God made in the image of man. In the Old Testament, sheep would die for the shepherd. But in the New Testament, the shepherd would die for the sheep, giving us a picture and an image of what is to come. The New Testament introduces to us Jesus through the pen of the Gospels. These men that wrote these first four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They recorded for us many of them the very same stories from different perspectives, but also individually some unique stories. Thus, a complete picture of Christ's birth, life, death, and resurrection can only be acquired or attained when we look at all four Gospels together. In a type of composition when they're assembled together. It has been said the Gospels are the new covenant instituted. Acts, which we will get to, is the new covenant proclaimed. The Epistles is the new covenant explained And Revelation is the new covenant fulfilled. So this new covenant, the New Testament. We're going to begin this morning with the gospel account as we look at this. The gospel account. The gospel account is the good news. We know that the good news is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. But obviously, the good news began with the announcement of Christ's birth, with the coming of the Messiah. This is given to us in the Four Gospels, the life, story, and history of Christ. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Now these books were not necessarily the first ones written. Although they appear first in the New Testament, and for us in our logic systematic mind, we think, well, this happened first, this was probably written first. But it actually was not written until much later. And we'll get some charts and show you the dates and timing on this. I was telling Mary last night that uh don't stress and labor too much over over the dates and the timing. We know that they appear first because chronologically it is what happened first. Although they weren't already written. They believe James is probably the first New Testament book that was pinned. that was actually written. But chronologically this is what happened first, and that's why we're looking at. Now, due to their similarity, Matthew, Mark, and Luke are called the Synoptic Gospels. How many of you are familiar with that term? The Synoptic Gospels? Okay. A little over half of us. So Here's the thought. If I told you if I the synoptic, you you hear that term and you're like, what does that mean? But if I said synopsis Okay, you understand what that means. It is a accumulating of the whole. It is putting everything together and getting a synopsis. A quick picture today with the advent of AI. I see online all the time now a little icon will pop up in my browser and say get a synopsis of this article. Like you don't want to read the whole article. AI will summarize it and give you a synopsis in a paragraph. Okay? Well basically the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, are very, very similar. And so it is an accumulation of those three books looked at as a whole to get an understanding how they differ and how they are similar. While some raise questions, one way or the other, about the similarities and the differences here, we know that for the Bible believer, that this is not a problem. Some people are really concerned about, wait, they don't match up perfectly here. You know, Luke tells this story like this, and and Matthew tells it like this. They don't line up. There must be a contradiction. There must be a problem here Well, you know what? If you take my five kids that all grew up in my house and they lived there through all of their years, and you sat down with them and you said, Hey, tell me some stories about when you grew up Do you know there are some stories that they would all have? They would all have the same story because they're the things that really impacted their life Maybe particular family vacation or something that happened. And usually those stories are the stories that got repeated several times. And so everybody kind of knows them. But they also would have their individual takes on it. Right? They would have each one would remember it slightly different. I mean Caleb, who was probably three at the time, is going to have a different take than Elisa, who was ten. You know, so there's a big difference there. Well, that's what you have with the Gospels. These individual men whom we understand that the Bible comes from one source. It was all from God. But God used these men and their personalities and their character traits and what they personally experienced. to share the truth of the word of God with the world. And so their personality comes through And who they are and what they remember came through. So there might be some varying, you know, if they were talking about the feeding of the 5,000. And Luke was standing right next to God and Jesus, God in the flesh, and he was right there working with Jesus, and then Matthew was carrying the Baskets out through the crowd, Matthew's going to have a little bit different perspective. He was out there doing that, and Luke was right here with God And so there's a slight difference that you're going to see. They're not contradictions. It is just the eyewitnesses or what they knew or had been told about these events. Does that make sense Now it's believed that Mark was written first of the Gospels. The reason they say that is they say very possibly Matthew and Luke just quote Mark a lot. There's actually only 55 verses in the book of Mark that are not repeated in Matthew and Luke. Of all of Mark. You're going to get the same stories, the same verses, the same things, all except for 55 verses, is repeated in the other two books, Matthew and Luke. And so they think maybe that some of the similarity comes from that. If Mark was written first and so they would just say, oh, here this is what Mark said happened, and they would repeat it, uh, you know Don't know 100% about that, but we also we know for sure that God is the one that wrote it and these men following God's plan here. Now each of the Gospels has its own unique charis characteristic. And we're going to look at this chart here and then conclude for today. So this chart is taken directly from Wilmington's Guide to the Bible by and large. I modified a couple things because of space and and so on, but by and large is taken for a moment to guide to the Bible. Irving's Irving's uh New Testament survey Another book that I'm using has a very similar chart. So the idea and the idea of the chart is prevalent. It's out there. There's a lot of people that have noted this. But here's what you want to see. Each of these have their own individual characteristics, their own way of looking at the same stories. Okay, so for instance, their personality comes through who they were. You take Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John Matthew was a teacher. So he's going to present material from the perspective of a teacher where Mark was a preacher And he he kind of presents things from the aspect of preaching. Luke was a historian. And he's going to present things from a historical perspective. uh systematic and and logical uh going through that. And John was a theologian. So John presenting things from a theological standpoint and strong uh theology that he's sharing. Okay, then Matthew presents Christ as a king. See, this is notable because as they're teaching, there's several things that are going to come through in the stories that they're telling. Matthew is telling it from the perspective of here's the king. And he's going to tell it from that perspective, where Mark presents him as a servant. Same person, different characteristic, different personality. So Mark presents Christ as a servant. Luke presents Christ as the perfect man. We know he was all God, but he was all man. So he was the perfect man. John presents Christ as the mighty God Then we see that they uh Matthew use the implementation of sermons Or focused on sermons. Mark focused on miracles. Luke focused on parables. And John focused on doctrine. Now this is in your notes, right? You don't have a bunch of blanks, right? I mean it's actually in your notes Okay, I just see a lot of looking. I want to make sure I wasn't moving too fast. If it's down there, then you don't have to try and fill in blanks. So Matthew tells us what Jesus said. Mark tells us what Jesus did. Luke tells us what Jesus thought. And John tells us what Jesus was. So can you understand these books, although they're sharing the same stories, there are different emphasis, different focuses. There's a reason why he would narrow in or focus in on a particular aspect of Christ's life. Why? Because He is presenting him as a servant, or he is presenting him as a king, or he is telling us what he said, or telling us what he uh what he was. Now another very notable thing is that who was the original audience? Who was the first person that was supposed to be reading the book? Who was it written to? Okay? Matthew was writing to Jews. The Jews needed to understand who the Messiah was. It's why he gives the lineage, and we're going to talk about that in a second, but they needed to know that, where Mark was speaking to the Romans. And Luke was speaking to the Greeks. And then John was speaking to the world, to everybody And so it was for everybody across the board. So, you know, it's very important, the audience that you're speaking to. I've had the privilege of going to several different countries. And do you know, Brother Armando, when I'm in Mexico, it's very hard for me even to preach because culturally I can't present things. I could give them a story or illustration, but they do not understand that because that is not their culture. They don't it's not presented from their aspect, their field of view. They're saying what he's saying doesn't make any sense. I give them an example, and they have never heard of that before in their life And so sometimes I'll ask the missionary, I'll pull my notes out and I'll say, here's what I'm speaking on. I said, I'm going to use this illustration. Is this something the people would be aware of? Like this is they would know, and he'll be like, no, they've never heard of that in their life. And I'm like, okay, I'll scratch that illustration. What about this? And and he'll be like, oh, they know what that is. Now, because of the advent of the internet and society is you know the world's getting smaller and smaller, so that's less and less. But what I'm saying, and it should make sense to us that when they were writing to a specific group of people, it had to be presented in such a way that it would impact that group. Does that make sense? Okay, so lastly here we we want to note the genealogies, why they have a genealogy and why they don't. So in Matthew, obviously there's a genealogy, we're introduced to Jesus Christ, and he's speaking to the Jews. And he presents him as king. Well, beloved, a king needs to have a genealogy You need to establish his lineage. You need to know where he's from. However, Mark, who's presenting Christ as a servant, A servant doesn't need a genealogy. Nobody cares where you're from. You're a servant. And so that's why he does not include any genealogies. In in uh Mark there, then Luke. Luke is presenting a perfect man. You know, I don't I'm not a big dog guy and I need to wrap it up, but you know these guys there that that have b special breeds. They gotta have their paperwork, right? They gotta be able to show this dog was bred by this dog or this dog. This dog came from here. He is a purebred Padoodle or whatever. I'm not a dog person. I have to have Bob take over and explain some of this maybe. But uh I do not but you know that idea and so talking about the perfect man You need to be able to establish that. And when you look at it, the genealogies, we're going to dig into this in another chapter, but Matthew only takes the genealogies back so far. But Luke takes them all the way back to Adam. Why? Because he's describing Jesus as the perfect man. He is the second Adam. And so he takes the genealogies all the way back to Adam, showing us that. So we're going to see that in a little more detail as we get into it. But then obviously as we get to John, who is a theologian and presenting uh Christ as a mighty God, well let me ask you, does God have any genealogies? No, God always was. And he always will be. So there is no genealogy for God. So that's why in his gospel there's no genealogies So I hope this helped kind of to put a picture in your mind of the direction that we're headed. And we're going to have to pick up here next week, right in the middle of this Christ announcements. So this morning, with regards to your notes there, we are at point number two, the great announcement. The great announcement. First of all, that the forerunner of Christ was announced. The forerunner of Christ was announced. As we break into the pages of the New Testament, there are many announcements that come on the scene. There's many very very first and exciting things that are that are brought to the forefront. And uh so the first of all is the forerunner of Christ is announced, it's given to us. And we see that this Announcement about Christ. If you have your Bibles, look first of all at Luke chapter 1 and verse number 17. Look in Luke chapter 1 and verse number 17. Now I want you to write in the margin of your Bible, somewhere close by there. Uh, two references. Um now we have these just by way of announcement in the bookstore. This is uh Micron Pin. These are available in the bookstore for you. I use these when I'm writing in the Bible. This is a pen that it will not bleed through from page to page. The ink will not fade over time. And uh it's very fine point. This is a very, very fine pointed pen. There are different depending upon what kind of pen you like to write with, you can go all the way up to a really fat one, but there's different colors available and so on. It's just a very good pen. If you write with just any pen in your Bible, over time you might find out that that ink had faded away or that you weren't paying attention. It bled through to the other page and now you're reading it on both sides of the page So I would just recommend those. They're available to you. Use those to mark in your Bible, but especially as we're going through this New Testament survey, I'm going to be giving you a lot of places to reference or mark so that you'll have it in your Bible. And I would encourage you to do that. But mark down there in the margin of your Bible in Luke chapter 17, Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 1. Malachi 3, 1, and Isaiah chapter 40 and verse number 3. So this verse here in Luke is a fulfillment of prophecy that was given in Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 1. I'm just going to turn back here and read for you. Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 1. And if I would if I were you, I would turn back to Malachi 3. 1 and in the margin of your Bible in Malachi 3. 1, write Luke 1. 17. So when you're in Malachi, you know that verse was fulfilled in Luke 1. 17. But in Malachi chapter 3, verse number 1, the Bible says, Behold, I will send my messenger, and I shall prepare the way before me. And the Lord, whom ye sh seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant whom ye delight in So he was given a promise. He said, there's a prophet going to come at the close of this book, Malachi, which is the close of the Old Testament canon. We know there was 400 silent years. For 400 years, the people of God, the believers, Jewish believers, were looking for an announcement or for a prophet who was going to come and prepare the way of the Lord. They had this written down. They knew that this was coming. And so those that were believers were looking with anticipation. They were longing for the day when the Messiah was going to come, and they knew before the Messiah came there was going to be a prophet. And the prophet was going to prepare the way of the Lord. So that was given to us there in uh Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 1. Well it's fulfilled in Luke chapter 1 and verse number 17. He says, and he shall go before him in the spirit. and the power of Elias to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. So the the fulfillment of the prophecy, that was what his call was. He was, of course, Zechariah and Elizabeth were addressed here by the angel, and they knew that This forerunner of Jesus Christ, the prophet that was going to prepare the people for the coming of the Lord, would be announced. Then Believing Jews were looking and longing for that. God told Zechariah and Elizabeth that they were going to have a son. So we back up to verse number in Luke chapter 1, there, verse number 5. Therefore I'm sorry, there was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of his wife. Was one of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. And they had no children, because that Elizabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. So there's several things here. Son, but the Bible tells us there in verse number five that he Zacharias was a faithful man. You know, God, when God's looking for somebody to do a work, he's going to be looking for a faithful man. God calls people that are doing to do. He's not going to go out here and find somebody that's doing absolutely nothing and say, oh well he's not doing nothing. Let's let's get him to do it. Well he's not doing nothing because he's lazy. He's not doing nothing. He I mean he's doing nothing because uh that's the kind of character that he has. When God's looking for somebody to do something, he's gonna find somebody that's already busy. He's gonna find somebody that's doing the job. He's gonna find somebody that's already being faithful. And uh man, it's a counter of a steward that a man be found faithful. And and a faithful person, I mean, the value of that cannot be overstated. Uh somebody that would just do the job that they're supposed to do or that they're called to do and just being faithful, faithful, faithful, faithful year in and year out. And uh the testimony that is uh to the faithfulness of God to us as well as our ability to be faithful to Him, and I would encourage you uh to be faithful, and you'll find that God will use you in great and mighty ways, things that you didn't even realize. Just because you're being faithful. Zacharias and Elizabeth were faithful, and God called them to this great blessing to bring forth John, the forerunner of Jesus Christ. They were righteous before God. Uh but of course the Bible told us there that they were well beyond childbearing in years. They had no children because they were they were stricken in years, verse number seven says. They hadn't had children and they hadn't had children for a long time. The time for them to have children was was was long past. But the angel brings them a message that they're going to have a son And their son is going to prepare the way for the Lord. In Luke 1. 17 there. Now back in Isaiah chapter 40. Is where we see this again mentioned, and I gave you that reference already. Hopefully you wrote that wrote that down to Isaiah chapter 40 and verse number three. The Bible says, the voice of him That crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God, a prophecy concerning John who is going to come. He's going to be a voice that cries in the wilderness. And he's going to be saying, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. This is a prophecy concerning him. So in Isaiah chapter 40 and verse number three there, write down Luke 1. 17 So you have that marked as far as the fulfillment of that. So you know when you're reading in Isaiah, you'll have it, oh, that's fulfilled in Luke. And when you're reading in Luke, you'll see it and you'll be a remember, oh, that's a fulfillment of Isaiah 40, verse 3. You'll have those quick references in your mind because I know most of you are are much smarter than me, but your memories are probably not much better than mine and so you're not gonna remember. You know you you know, but if you have it right there, then when you're reading it And that's what we talk about with regards to having a relationship with your Bible. Having a relationship with your Bible. The longer you have it and the more you use it. there should be a knowledge of the Word of God that starts to come forth. And as you make notes in your Bibles, these pieces start to stick together. and you have that, and the longer it goes, the more valuable your Bible is to you. When I begin to study or prepare for a sermon, the first thing I do is I go into my Bible and look at that passage of scripture because it's very likely that I have some notes. that I have something written down that I have gleaned from somebody else years years ago. And sometimes there's key thoughts that are there that the Lord's able to use again in my life or use to share with somebody else because of those. So I would encourage you to use the Word of God and to make notes in your Bible so that you can make those connections not just today, but a year from now, two years from now, three years from now. Uh somebody was just uh speaking to us recently and says, you know, I've been saved for many years, but I still don't understand the Word of God. And when you look at a at the whole book like this, it it it gets to be overwhelming. It gets to be too much. And you're like, man, where do I even begin? But if you'll start putting pieces together, the pieces will start making sense. And the more you do that, the easier it'll be. So that's what we want to get you, especially with regards to this coming into the New Testament. and how important these things are. So Elizabeth is expecting the forerunner of Christ. It's by God's plan, by God's design. In verse number 24 and 25 here. And it came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house. And after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived and hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me. So she had conceived she was bringing forth a son in fulfillment of the promise of what God had said she was going to have a son. And uh there's several things that The angel told her about this boy that she was going to have several notable important things. First of all, his name was going to be what? You guys remember what's his name, the forerunner of Christ? John. So his name was going to be John. That's given to us in verse number 13. He says there. That uh but the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias, for thy prayer is heard, and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. So she they they were told not just that they were going to have a son, but that his name was going to be John. They were told in verse number 15 that he would be a Nazarite. that he was to maintain these Nazarite vows, that he was supposed to be holy and separated unto God. That uh they were told that he was going to be great. in the sight of the Lord. In verse number fifteen there, that for he shall be great in the sight of the Lord. And the Nazarite vows there neither drink wine nor strong drink, and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. even from his mother's womb. So description of this forerunner of Jesus Christ, that he was going to be a Nazarite, that he was going to uh be filled with the Spirit of God, that he was going to be great in the sight of God. And uh so this the description of this, the forerunner of Jesus Christ. Then Jesus' conception was announced. We of course know there are great great announcements that are going to be coming concerning the birth of Christ. Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy. Amen. Before that, there's an announcement of his conception that he is going to be born. So not only did Elizabeth get word that she was going to have a son, and his name was going to be John, but Mary gets word that she's going to have a son. And so verses 26 through 38, God chooses this young lady named Mary to be the mother of the Savior in verse 26 and 27. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto the city of Galilee, named Nazareth, to a virgin, a spouse. to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came unto her, and he said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee, blessed art thou among women. Now it's important, beloved, to note there that what the angel said about Mary is that she was blessed. Among women. Now we want to value and appreciate what Mary did, how God found this righteous and holy young lady. and uh honored her by allowing her to bring forth the Messiah. But the angel noted that she was blessed among women, not above women. And what I'm saying is we have to be careful because there are churches that want to venerate, lift up Mary into almost the Godhead. to make her more favorable than Jesus himself. And they would encourage and exhort you to even to pray to Mary. That's blasphemous. Mary has no power She does not have a special position. She was not lifted up above any other women. She was blessed among women But there have been many ladies down through the years who have been blessed among women to do different things in fulfillment of God's plan And so we want to be careful that we don't buy into or, you know, of course the Catholic Church would say, well, she has a very special position as a mother of Jesus. She can talk to Jesus about things. And so we pray to her so that she'll go to Jesus for us. But that's not found in the Word of God anywhere. There's only one mediator between man and God. That's the man Christ Jesus. So we pray to Jesus. Jesus is our mediator. He intercedes for us with the Father But we are to go boldly and to go directly to God and uh not to be praying to Mary. And so understanding that Mary even realized Look at verse 46 and 47. Luke chapter 1 here. Look at verses 46 and 47. And in verse 46, and Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. So even Mary understood that she needed a savior. She understood who it was that she was blessed to be able to bring into the world. And her soul was rejoicing, but she was not above that. She wasn't in a position where she didn't need a savior or since she was not a sinner like you and I And so she understood that and we need to remember and understand that as well. She was highly favored. She was blessed. Among the women that were alive that day, but not above all other women. She was blessed and given this great blessing to be able to bring the Messiah into the world. We praise the Lord for that. Now she was called to bring Jesus into the world. His name was to be Jesus, we see in verse number 31, Luke chapter 1, verse number 31. The Bible says, I'm gonna find my spot here, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name. Jesus. So not only did the angel tell Elizabeth, hey, your son is to be named John, he's to be a forerunner of Jesus Christ, but she told Mary, you're going to have a son, and his name is to be Jesus. Now he was a son to her, but he was the son of the highest. In verse number 32, there And he shall be great, and he shall be called the Son of the Highest. The Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. Now, if you have your prophecies concerning uh the Messiah, here is the first one. That you want to mark down in that. And I would encourage you to do more than that. Mark it in your Bible. But this verse number 32 and 33 is a fulfillment of Isaiah 9. 7 Isaiah 9:7, that that she is going to bring a son and he's going to be a descendant of David. It also is a familiar verse. Let me back up and look at this here to give you With all of these having very similar verses. So we see in Matthew 1. 1, this is the book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David. uh the son of Abraham and the idea that he is going to be a descendant of David, so fulfilled also in Matthew 1, 1 there. But in Luke chapter 1, verses 32 and 33 of fulfillment of Isaiah 9. 7. So let me turn back there to Isaiah for you. In chapter 9 and verse number 7, the Bible says of the increase of his government. and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon the kingdom, to order it and to establish it with judgment and justice, and henceforth ever for ever. So a fulfillment there. So in Isaiah chapter 9 and verse number 7, I would write in the margin, Luke 1, 32, and 33, the fulfillment, Luke 1, 32. and 33 is the fulfillment of that verse from Isaiah 9. 7 so that you have those connections between the two. Now, it is notable here this morning. I'm going to be the second name of God that I'm going to be dealing with in the morning service this morning is El Elion, and this is God of the Most High. And I'm not going to be speaking about these verses in this morning's service, but you'll see that Jesus here is recognized That name is given to him as the Most High, that uh he is going to be the son of the highest. That is what uh uh Elion means. the highest, the most high. And uh anytime the uh angels or devils uh uh demons came in contact with Jesus, they always referred to him as the Son of the Most High. They always referred to him as having that position of being the God of I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not. Recognizing him as son of the Most High, and that's a a name given to uh Jesus here a recognition of who that is and we're going to talk more about that name of of God in the future. But that uh David would come from, I'm sorry, that Jesus would come from the line of David is a fulfillment there. And the angel explains that his conception was going to be a miraculous conception. in verses thirty-four and thirty-five. Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee And the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son. of God. It was going to be a miraculous conception, something done miraculously in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. Not something that uh they um you know she had never known a man because she did not know a man she was not given the sinful nature of man that was not passed down uh to the seed. Uh and so Jesus Christ being born of a virgin was able to be born uh a sinless man, uh all God, but all man. Why? Because of the Immaculate Conception Of this uh willing servant Mary. This holy child would be called the Son of God. Matthew 14, 33, Mark 1, John 1, 34, an acknowledgement, a recognition of the fact that he was going to I know that you guys are a lot of you guys are dealing with this this stuff too, this cough that just will not quit, right? So I have a cough drop, but um you still get that itch in the throat and it just won't go away. So God provides assurance to her by telling her that Elizabeth is new with child as well in verses 36 and 37. And behold, thou cousin Elizabeth Sh she also conceived a son, and in her old age, and this is the sixth month with her, who was called Baron. For with God nothing shall be impossible. So God assuring her, this isn't a miraculous thing. You're going to have a son, and it's going to be done in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. And of course Anybody would be like, well, this is impossible. I've never known a man. How is that going to happen? And so God assuring her, saying, Well, wait, let me let me give you a little bit of confidence. Elizabeth Who everybody knows has been barren, who everybody knows can't have children, and Elizabeth, who is well beyond her years of childbearing, If she was going to have kids, would have happened a long time ago, well Elizabeth's going to have a son. And so that too is a miracle. And what I want you to understand is this was giving Mary confidence to understand that, okay, yes, God was doing this. and with with God nothing shall be impossible. And so for her to have a son and be uh fulfillment of these prophecies and be bringing the Messiah into the world, it was possible, even though she had never known a man, because it was done through God and through his miraculous means. Now, Mary surrendered to the will of God and was willing to do what God wanted. In verse number number 38, there. And Mary said, Behold, thy handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. Now, what a spirit to have. Well, we should all have that spirit in our lives, to be willing to whatever it is you want of me, Lord. You know, the Malu family is going to be going and uh starting a church. They just said, okay, whatever it is you want of me. This is what you desire. This is what we're going to do. We're going to go and give ourselves and work and labor to establish a church to minister to the people of Newcastle, Pennsylvania. because it's a fulfillment of what God has called us to do. Well, all of us shouldn't shouldn't be any less committed or less willing to do what God wants us to do. Maybe God hasn't called you to go plant a church somewhere, but God has called or commanded you to be a witness. at your place of work, to uh be involved in the ministries at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and serve in some capacity, whether that's helping with the bus ministry or serving and going into the prisons, uh the prison ministry or in summertime's coming right around the corner. Uh I know we don't feel like it with all that's been going on in this cold weather, but you know, then we have the Backyard Bible Club. for ten weeks through the summer and vacation bible school and i different opportunities for you to be involved to to serve. Well we should be no less commanded than them or any other servant of God that when God says, hey, I want you to do this And we should be just like Mary. How did she say there in verse number 38? It says, And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word. Be it unto me according to thy word. Whatever you want for me, Lord, that's what I want to do. I'm willing to do it. I'm willing to serve. I'm willing to help. Be it unto me according to thy will, O Lord. And if that's helping in a Sunday school class or uh singing in the choir or participating in the special music in church or uh being part of the security team or serving as an usher or helping in the sound booth or working in the nursery. God bless the nursery workers. Uh you know, helping in the nursery, working uh in you know, all these all different areas where we can be involved and serve and minister to others. And ultimately, it's so that we can fulfill God's will for us to do the will of God in our lives and be like Mary, where she said, Be it unto me as thy will, O Lord. Now, Mary's purity was assured unto Joseph. Mary's purity was assured unto Joseph. You see, Joseph loved her, and he wanted to protect her. Uh he he cared for her, he didn't want to uh see her made fun of or see her belittled. He he desired to protect her. In in Matthew, we read how he says, hey, uh he thought he would put her away privately for a little while just to protect her. to try and protect her, but the angel came and assured him the of her of her purity and that uh she was indeed pure. And uh then The angel tells Joseph that his name is to be or that he is indeed Emmanuel. Turn to back to the book of Matthew. And uh I just want to point out those couple verses that I just mentioned, but in Matthew uh chapter number one We see in verse number 19 that uh where Joseph says in Joseph uh her husband being a just man and not willing to make her a public example of his mind to put her away privately, basically just wanting to protect her from But while he thought on these things, behold the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is So he says, Hey, she's still a virgin. She has not known a man. She is still pure. What she is carrying is indeed the Son of God that was conceived in her of the Holy Ghost. And verse number 21, and she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the word of the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin sh shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name. Emmanuel, which is being interpreted, God with us. Now, you want to write down next to verse number 23 right there, Isaiah 7. 14. Isaiah 7. 14. That is a fulfillment of Isaiah 7. 14. And in your prophecies concerning the Messiah, this book here, this is the second uh fulfillment that I have for you. And I didn't put all of them that are in the Bible. There are many prophecies concerning Christ. I just gave you kind of some of the key ones. But you want to write down there Matthew 123. as a fulfillment of Isaiah 7. 14 that she would be born of a virgin, right? Let me read that for you. In Isaiah chapter seven, verse number fourteen, the Bible says, Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign, Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. So both those things, that she was going to be a virgin, she was going to bring forth a son, that his name would be Emmanuel. This was prophesied in the book of Isaiah. uh many, many years uh before the close of the Old Testament, 400 years before the break of the New Testament. And uh then that is fulfilled right there in the beginning where the the angel tells Matthew or tells in Matthew tells Joseph, that they're going to have a son, his name's going to be Jesus, and that uh his name was going to be Emmanuel, which is being interpreted God with us. Now, just by way of review, a couple of questions here. What work was given to John to do as he came into the world? What was his calling? We only got a couple of minutes and I gotta be done. So he was called to Proflaim Christ's coming, yeah. He was the forerunner of Christ. So he was to prepare the way. For Christ. That was his job. He was called to prepare the way for that was he was the forerunner and he was called to prepare the way of Christ, so that was what he was supposed to do. Whom did God choose to be the mother of the deliverer? That's a trick question by using the word deliverer. Let me ask you this. What does Jesus mean? What does the name Jesus mean? mean? It means deliverer. For he shall deliver his people from their sins. That's what he is coming. Jesus was the deliverer. So who was the mother of Jesus? That's not a trick question, okay? It's Mary. All right. We we've got to close this down. I had several other uh questions to give you by way of review, but uh just to help you