So the life of Christ takes a jump, uh kind of like just we skip over a lot of years, but last we saw him uh at twelve years old in the temple. and being about his father's business, of course Jesus grew up like any other boy. He matured, he grew in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man, and we looked at that but then there's a a jump in time. We kind of just skip over and jump into the f his uh ministry where he's find him now at thirty years of age, uh basically on the brink of beginning his earthly ministry, which you know lasts for about three years. But he before his ministry starts, a couple of key things have to happen. First of all, the work of John the Baptist. John the Baptist comes and fulfills uh God's plan for him. We of course saw John the Baptist at his birth, uh, you know, his announcement uh along with Jesus Christ, where Jesus was announced to Mary and Uh the birth of John was announced to Zechariah and Elizabeth, and they knew that he was coming, and they knew what his name was to be, and they knew that he was going to be the forerunner of Christ. And so born about six months before Jesus, uh, you know, we don't know much about him until we get to the point where he's fulfilling. uh what God wanted him to do. So first of all, we're going to see him in fulfilling this role of what he's supposed to do. I wanted to point out in your notes there right underneath the work of John the Baptist, I have listed for you the passages of scripture where what we're talking about here is found. So it's it's in all four gospels. You have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. They're all all four those passages cover the same material in very similar fashion. Now I want you to know that this John the Baptist is not John, the author of the book of John. He's not the beloved disciple of Jesus Christ, uh the brother of James, the one who wrote John and 1, 2nd, 3rd John and Revelation. That's I just want to make sure that you understand that or know that. But this John, John the Baptist, he fulfilled prophecy. This was a fulfillment of Malachi chapter 3 and Isaiah chapter 40, verse number 3. Isaiah 43 says this, the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. He this foretelling of this man that was going to be a forerunner of Christ Uh John the Baptist, not just that he was coming, but what his message was going to be was given all the way back in Isaiah. All the way back in uh Malachi. So they they knew exactly what he who he was, what he was going to be doing, and he fulfills that prophecy. We're introduced to him at Christ's birth that he was John, the forerunner of Christ. He was preaching, prepare ye the way of the Lord in uh John chapter 1, 22. And we we saw that in a previous week. Now He believed in God uh and followed him. He understood, John understood that he had a call. And he had a job to do. He knew what the Lord wanted him to do. And he was doing that job. Now a couple things about this man. He was a Nazarite, Luke chapter 1 and verse number 15. And you read that who has Luke for me? Luke one and verse number fifteen. Go ahead. So these are the Nazarite vows uh that uh not in completion, but we know he was to be a Nazirite set aside specifically for Work of the ministry by uh God from the very beginning, from his from his mother's womb. This was his plan. He was uh to be this way. We know that he was he was humble, John chapter one and verse number twenty-seven. Go ahead. John, not Luke. John one twenty seven. Good job. So we know he was humble, John saying, listen Jesus who's coming uh after me, I prefer him before me. I would rather he be first, because he is the important one. I'm not even worthy to loose his shoelatchet. I'm not worthy to even uh untie this man's shoes, but he understood who he was in the scope of things. And he had a humble spirit about his job or responsibility, even though certainly it was an honor to be the forerunner of Jesus Christ. He ate locust and wild honey. In Matthew chapter three and verse number four, the Bible tells us that. And the same John, and his raiment of camel's hair, and a leather girdle about his loins, and his meat was locust and wild honey. He had a very uh simple basic diet. This is food that would be eaten by uh poor people, people without the means or capacity to really have a more nourishing diet. They they just uh live off the substance. I I was talking to Brother Gordon uh about you know the things they eat in uh in Africa and uh I had the privilege If you want to call it that, of eating a caterpillar at one of our uh dinners here, the the what do you call 'em? And an international dinner, yes. Uh so uh you know that was very interesting to be honest. It just tasted like charcoal. Uh it was just it's pretty dried out and crunchy. He's like, Yeah, he said, that's not bad. The worst is when they don't get 'em done and you bite in 'em and it all the gooey stuff from the inside squeezes out. He said, That's you're like, Oh, they didn't get it done He said more than once he had that in his mouth and he was just like had all he could do to force it down, you know. Very bad, uh, the way that is. But he ate locust and wild honey. This was a normal diet for him. I doubt they were dipped in chocolate Uh so not not that appetizing of a diet. Now he lived in the wilderness in the southern part of uh Judea uh and uh He as a man was compared to Elijah in John 121. No. John 121. They asked him, What then art thou Elijah? So the the question was asked, are you Elias? They compared him to Elias because of several reasons. Uh but Elias is the Greek uh writing of Elijah, the Hebrew name Elijah, so the Greek would be written Elias, and so he's compared to Elijah uh several times due to his appearance If you compare uh 2 Kings 1. 8 with his appearance, how he dressed, he was very similar to Elijah. And then also Because of his message of repentance. They carried the same message and they said, Man, this must be that prophet. And he says, nope, I'm not that prophet. And so we want to see his message here. It was a uh he was a simple man, but he used the picturesque language of the Old Testament often. In Luke chapter three and verse number seventeen. Can you read that, Luke three, seventeen? So he's preaching here and he's describing and he's telling them what what's gonna happen, how God is going to do this great work But he's not using his own words. He's using the words of the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 66 24. Very similar verbiage that he uses uh drawing from the wisdom and knowledge of the Old Testament and sharing that with those that are hearing him. Now he called people to be baptized. Baptism is an outward picture of an inward change and he called people to come and and be baptized. Um he called people to prepare. You need to prepare. Why did they need to prepare? Because the kingdom of heaven was at hand. Because one mightier than I cometh. These are the messages that he shared and preached. Can you read Mark chapter 1 and verse number 7? So you see a very similar phrase there that we read in another passage uh in another book. uh about the shoulatchet, but he describes uh the the contrast between himself and Jesus And again illustrating his humility, but the fact that he says, listen, you need to prepare because the one mightier than I is coming, and he is here. Because the deliverer will send the Holy Spirit Because the Holy Spirit is coming in Matthew chapter three and verse number eleven. He says, I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear. He shall baptize you with the Holy ghost and with fire. He's saying, listen, uh, you need to be ready because the baptism of the Holy Spirit, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit is coming. You need to be ready to have the Holy Spirit because he would separate the grain from the chaff. In Matthew chapter three and verse number twelve. Let me read this to you. He says, Whose fan is in his hand. Now the fan, a fan was a long wooden tool that was used to toss the the wheat and chaff into the air and to allow uh kind of a sifting of that where the wind would blow away the lightweight chaff and the the heavier chaff would fall down through into the ground and uh Then they would they would the the wind the really light stuff that blew away was gone, but the heavier stuff that fell down through uh that stuff was swept up and then burned. It just burned away real quick. There wasn't any substance there. And it and it burned up. So he tells him here, who the fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor and gather his wheat into a garner, and he will burn up the chaff. with unquenchable fire. So he says this is this is what's going to happen. He's going to separate the the wheat from the chaff. He's going to separate this out and so you need to prepare. You want to be sure that you are part of the family of God, so that you are ready. So he preached this to them, his message, but also his ministry. Herbert Lockyer uh in his book All the Men of the Bible talking about John says this and it was just such a uh picturesque and uh powerful way. I I couldn't improve upon it, so I'm just gonna read you what what he said. He said, when we when the appearance uh with the appearance of John the Baptist, we have the burial of the old dispensation And the emergence of the new. We see his rugged figure standing with arms outstretched. In one hand, he takes hold of the Old Testament, and in the other, he takes hold of the new It is through his ministry where we make a transition from law to grace. John the Baptist stands there at the brink of that transition, grabbing hold of the Old Testament, grabbing hold of the New Testament, and is the transition between that which people lived under the law and that which Christ was bringing Grace. He says he was as much the forecloser of the Old Testament As he is the forerunner of the new. So John the Baptist standing there at that brink, being the forerunner of Christ, but also the foreclosure of The Old Testament. You know, I read I read guys like that and I think, why do I even bother? picture that he draws for us and being able to visualize and see uh what is happening right here at this time frame in the life of Christ and in the message that God has for us. John the Baptist is believed to have started his ministry at age 30, uh giving him just about six months of of time there somewhere. Obviously, as the forerunner of Christ, he went out, he began to preach, he began to uh tell people to prepare and to repent. Why? Because uh one mightier than I is coming And he's coming quick. We need to be ready. And so he was preaching this. Many repented and were baptized in Matthew chapter three, verses five and six. He says, then went out to him Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region round about Jordan and were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and the Sadducees, he he he preached this truth, and the Pharisees and Sadducees rejected it. We're going to see that in a minute. But uh many were many came to the saving knowledge of Christ. They put their faith and trust in Jesus, and they publicly were baptized in a public statement of their belief in him. Then John's out there, he's baptizing all these people, and Jesus comes to him to be baptized. So we see the baptism of Christ. Again, the list there of where these take place in the passages of Scripture. First of all, the region. He was baptized, Jesus was baptized in Bethbara, in the Jordan River. John 128 tells us that, uh gives us that location. John is the only one of the gospels that give us an actual location, but because that description is there They believe they know pretty much where he was baptized. I had the privilege of going to Israel and I actually took pictures. I was planning to get this for for Gus. uh out of my files and I forgot to do it so I text him this morning says, Hey, can you just grab a picture from online? So I asked him to get a picture of this. They believe they know where Jesus was baptized and they have set this up uh as a tourist site and you can see it's very commercialized. They have concrete steps that go right down into there and you can go around and then go back up and you can just get baptized and it is a full on production Like they they have a rooms where you can change right there into white robes and you can get changed and you can go down into the water and get baptized and come out of the water and And uh, you know, our guide uh that took us there was very shocked that none of us wanted to get into the water. I mean he's like man so many people are are this is like one of the most powerful sites in all of Israel. I mean everybody is overwhelmed and people come out of the water just crying and and and it's like you guys aren't even moved And it's because we have a correct understanding of what baptism is, and we realize that although this may be the place where Jesus was baptized, maybe There is no special power getting in the water right there where Jesus happened to have got in the water. There is no special endowment of God's grace or blessing because you got in that dirty water uh and you know we're gonna get back on a bus and we've got like ten more sites we're supposed to see who wants to go do that all wet, you know? None of us got in the water and he was very shocked. But you know it comes from a correct understanding. I was listening to a preacher this week And he was talking about uh baptism and he's like, Man, when I got baptized, I'll tell you what, I went down, but I came out of the water. I didn't come out Out of the closet, brother, I came out of the water. Amen. And I came out of the water. And when I came out of the water, I left all my sins in the water. And I left my Cast in the water and I left. Now he said something there that is unbiblical I don't know if you heard it, but he said, I left my sins in the water. That water did nothing for his sin. It is the shed blood of Jesus Christ. If water could wash away your sin, why did Jesus die? Jesus died to forgive us of sin. And there are preachers that preach things like that, and whether that was a slip of the tongue for him or an accident or a truth that he believes because there are many that believe in what's called baptismal regeneration. That is, you are given You're not fully saved until you get baptized and that is the washing away. This and it's just a picture. And uh so although it was neat to be there in that site and to think that, hey Jesus walked down in the water right here possibly, although I was telling Gus, you know, because he was looking up and he's like he found several sites that said they were Jesus baptized. And I said it's because different people can't agree and the reason is because they're in control of certain sites. So the Jordanians, they have a site that they believe Jesus was baptized. This is where Jesus was baptized. And of course the Israelis have a site they believe Jesus was baptized right here. And and uh you know there's there's at least three that they they're not 100% sure. And so, I mean, how how can we know 100% exactly where it was? But in that area, we know Jesus walked those those roads and streets. And so we know he was baptized there. uh in Bethbara, uh in the Jordan River. We know that. But the water Jesus is baptized in is long gone. It's not it's not there anymore. It's a river. It's flowing. Uh and as Gus said, that's a pretty dirty river. Now you know how Naaman felt, right? Uh so he was baptized, Jesus was baptized in the water. I put that there in Mark chapter one and verse number ten. What does it say there? Who who's reading Mark for me? Okay, Mark ten. He says, and straightway coming up out of the water. Okay, Jesus is our example. We're going to see that in a moment. We follow that pattern that Jesus was baptized by immersion. in the water. And we followed that same pattern. And we believe it's important that to be sprinkled with water is not following the biblical pattern And uh although it's a matter of convenience, uh you certainly don't have to get wet. Don't have to get your hair redone You know, you don't have people to see you that way. But we we follow the biblical pattern. Jesus was baptized down in the water. So the reason, beloved, it was not because he was a sinner and that he had repented of his sin. He was not getting baptized to show everybody that he had chosen a new path, that he was forgiven of his sin And so if that's that's why we do it, it's a public testimony of uh, you know, an outward testimony of an inward change. That's why we do it. But if that's not why Christ did it, because he was without sin So why did he do it? Well, he did it to be an example to you and me. Jesus was tempted in all points like we are, as we're going to see in a minute. But not only that, he is the example. He sets the example, the pattern. So we follow Christ's example and do what he did. He is the example to you and me. He did it to show his support for John. John chapter one verses Uh I'm trying to see here what we should look at here. Um I have thirty-one to thirty-nine, but uh would you read uh Let's let's look at Luke. Who's reading Luke? 7, 29, and 30. John Luke 7, 29, and 30. Who's let's do Luke, yeah. So you have both examples there. You have all those that believed and followed God, and they said, okay. That public testimony, I'm going to declare to the world that I'm leaving behind what I did believe and I'm a follower of Christ now. They were baptized But the the Pharisees and uh the the the lawyers, the Sadducees, they they did not want to follow Christ, and so they publicly would not take that step, declaring their rejection. of that. So Jesus came and he says, I want you to understand that what John is doing is right I'm going to have him baptize me and uh show you this is the example, this is what you need to do, what you want to do, but giving authority and uh uh recognition of John's ministry, supporting John, he was supporting John, to show that through obedience man is empowered to do the work of God. We see in this point where Jesus was baptized that the Holy Spirit descended like a dove fell upon him at this time. Although Jesus was God in the flesh, while he was here on earth, he was man, he was empowered by the Holy Spirit to do the work that he had to do to uh fulfill the call of God on his life. And the Spirit descended upon him like a dove and was empowered there, showing us that obedience is how we're empowered to do the work. So what was the result? Uh the result is that uh he was acknowledged by John. That is that John recognized him, John knew him, and John knew who he was. John also knew that man needed a deliverer. Man needed a deliverer. From the beginning, from Adam, when Adam fell into sin, uh all the way through the pages of the Old Testament, uh the practice of bringing a sacrifice so that your sins could be covered had to take place over and over again throughout the Old Testament, all the way to the Passover, uh, when the Israelites had to take uh the blood and put it over the doorposts uh so that the death angel would pass over uh the house and not kill the firstborn. Again, the blood just covered the sin. It could not take away or remove sin. But Jesus came as the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. He is that final sacrifice. And uh he is the deliverer, and John understood it to be so, and John proclaimed it to be so uh there at his baptism John knew that the Spirit of God was going to descend upon the deliverer like a dove. They understood this. They knew this from prophecy and from beforehand. The result was that he was anointed by the Spirit. So I want you to see that here in this result, it's just noteworthy that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit were all present here at this beginning of Christ's ministry. Uh of course Jesus, God's Son, was there. He's the one getting baptized. The Spirit descended like a dove. And then we see in Matthew chapter 3 and verse number 17 that he was approved by the Father. I'm going to read uh Verse 16 and 17, so you can see both taking place. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water, and lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him, and lo, a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Now, what I want you to understand here is that this is Jesus, the Father, approved Jesus here at this time. Can I tell you that this is before Jesus ever performed a miracle? This is before Jesus ever healed the sick, before he ever fed the hungry, before he ever made the blind to see. What I'm saying is Jesus was recognized and approved of the Father not because of what he did. But because of who he was. He said, this is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Sometimes Christians, we get things out of the way and we're looking for our value. We're looking for our identity in what we do instead of who we are. And if you're saved today, you are a child of God. God looks down and he sees a beloved son, a beloved daughter. Recognize that and realize how important that is. It is the love of Christ that constraineth us. But it's not about what you do that gives you worth before the Father. It's about who you are that gives you worth before the Father. If you don't get anything else from this Sunday school hour, that right there was worth it. It's who you are. So we see the temptation of Christ. And this, of course, you'll notice is not found in all of the Gospels. Um but we have a little bit here. We want to see the region. First of all, the first temptation, he was tempted three times, and these three temptations take place. He takes him to different locations to tempt him. The first was in the wilderness. In Matthew chapter 4, and uh verse number 3, he says, let me turn over here And when the tempter come to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and he said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. This temptation took place in the wilderness. I want you to notice it was after Jesus had fasted for forty days. He had gone for 40 days without food, and Satan comes and tempts him with food because he knew that Jesus was hungry. Jesus was like you and I. He felt hunger pains. He was certainly in need of sustenance. The second temptation took place in Jerusalem. In Matthew chapter 4 and verse number 5, he says, And the devil taking him up into a holy city. That holy city is Jerusalem, took him into that holy city. and set him on a pinnacle of the temple. So we see there this this tempt the temptation there took place in the Holy City and the temptation, the third temptation in Matthew chapter 4 and verse number 8. uh is on a high mountain. And again the devil taketh him into an exceeding high mountain and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world. And so he takes him to this high mountain. So we see the regions where these things take place. And the reason why is because Satan is the enemy of God. Satan wanted him to fail. Satan knew and understood who he was. I read it already, but Matthew chapter 4, verse number 3. He says, If thou be the Son of God, that is a a rhetorical question that is kind of like a mocking question like a little kid might look at another kid and say, well, uh if you can jump it, then go ahead. You know, if you think you can do it, I mean kind of like that where j so Satan knew who he was talking to. He understood he was addressing Jesus, God in the flesh, who had become a man uh for you and I, he recognized that. And this is just a continuation continuation and ongoing of the rebellion of Satan against God uh doing all he can to try and disrupt God's plan and he was hoping to cause uh Jesus to falter or fail in his mission He attacks God's son, and I want you to understand that we see Jesus baptized, ready to go and do what God wants him to do, but immediately Satan tempts him. That pattern is going to be the same in your or my life. We need to understand when you make a decision for Christ When you decide to start tithing, when you decide to, I'm going to be faithful to church, I'm not going to miss a Sunday. I'm going to be there every Sunday. What happens? Next week you get sick. Next week the car breaks down. Next week, the first time you make that commitment, and then in your mind you're like, well, I already missed one week, what's two Well, what's three or whatever? Whatever you want to do, you start you take a step for God, and as soon as you start doing that, Satan's going to be there. Well, he did the same thing to Jesus. Jesus was entering his ministry to fulfill the plan of God on his life to be the redeemer, the deliverer of man, to take away the sins of the world. And as soon as he does, Satan attacks. Satan tries to disrupt that plan. Christ was tempted in all points, as you and I, as all men are. You know, Hebrews 4. 15 tells us that. He was he uh his first temptation seen there in Matthew 4. 4 uh was a temptation to satisfy the flesh. That that was food to satisfy the flesh. You know, there's a lot of temptations that have to do with our flesh They uh satisfy the flesh. Uh that can be food, can be a temptation. You know, uh the consumption of things uh that aren't aren't good for you are a temptation, this things that the flesh wants, and we need to learn to tell our old flesh no. And it's a good habit to get into sometimes just to tell your flesh, no, you can't have it. Beloved, the body needs food to remain healthy. Well, how much more do we need spiritual food to remain healthy? We need sustenance, and you need spiritual sustenance as well. This temptation, this first temptation was an attack on his position as a prophet. You see, this is a miracle. He was saying, do a miracle like a prophet would do. You know, change this stones into bread and have some food. And uh this this temptation is attacking his position as a prophet We know that of course that Christ fulfilled all three positions, prophet, priest, and king. And uh we see these temptations attack all three of these positions. Secondly, the second temptation in Matthew chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. Um Satan uses scripture to tempt Christ. He, of course, he twists it, he turns it around, but I want you to understand that Satan knows the scripture. And he knows how to use it. This has been a tool since the beginning of time that Satan has used. This is one of the reasons why we believe the Bible version issue is such an important issue. Because if there's anybody that wants to disrupt God's word, it's Satan. That is his plan from the beginning. He he says said to Adam, or he said to Eve, Hath God said From the very beginning, drawing questions upon what God said and and diminishing the power or the uh what would be the the validity or uh the the clarity of what Christ had communicated and drawing questions on that from the very beginning. And he uses scripture continually to try and tempt Christ and he does that still today. Satan knows knows Scripture. Okay. This temptation here in Matthew 4, 5, and 6 is uh he wants Jesus to presume upon the goodness of God, that he he wants Jesus to act independently of God's will. And and he says here, you know, this is where he tells them, hey, uh, but Then the devil, verse number five, then the devil taketh him into a holy city and setteth him on the pinnacle of the temple, and he saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast down, for it is written. See, so he's going to use scripture here. He says, For it is written He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. So he's taking scripture and he's saying, Hey, uh The angels are going to take care of you. Just cast yourself off of here. But you see, this was not God's plan. This is not what God wanted him to do. This would have been Jesus acting presumptuously upon the goodness of God. Yes, you and I are uh in the care of God and we know that ultimately not one hair from our head falls unless God knows about it, that God uh you know is going to take care of you. and nothing's gonna happen to you. You're safer in the middle of God's will out in the jungles of Africa than you are uh in a car driving down eighty three. You're pretty much safer anywhere than you are in a car on eighty three, right? But but you're you're safer d following God, doing God's will, because we know that He's in control. But at the same time, if you throw yourself off the top of a building Don't know who would do something like that, but if you do that, then uh listen, God is not obligated to protect you from your stupidity. Okay? He and this is what he's saying, the angels have begun charge over thee Just cast yourself down. And Jesus says, I'm not going to act independent of God. I'm not going to do my own will here and and test God. And uh so this attacks his position as a priest as he took him up over the temple And tells him to cast himself down over this, over the temple there. And Christ answers him with Scripture, giving him Deuteronomy 6. 16. Then the third temptation, Matthew 4, 8 and 9. Uh this, of course, attacks his position as a king. Attacks his position as a king. As he looks out at the kingdoms of all the world and he says, hey Uh just bow yourself down to me and you I will give you all these kingdoms of the world. We know that Satan is the prince in the power of the air, that God had given him dominion of this place, and uh he did have the authority to offer that But uh ultimately we know that God is in control. And Christ again answers him with Scripture, using Scripture, Deuteronomy 6. 13. Then I've given you uh a little chart here that kind of lays out the three aspects where men are tempted. where Jesus was tempted and where Eve was tempted and the similarities that are there. And uh ultimately you and I are all tempted in that same way. That's just there's no blanks there. It's just a chart for you to review and and to understand So you can look at that. So now let's look at the results here as we bring this to a conclusion. First of all, Christ proved who he was. By Christ going and standing against these temptations of Satan and not failing, he proved who he was. This was not to prove. That Jesus wouldn't sin, but it proved that he couldn't sin. In Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, he gives this illustration. He said that uh there was a bridge, a large bridge that was for the time very big, and people that saw it said that bridge is unsafe. Nobody wanted to ride the train across the bridge because everybody's perception was there's no way that bridge is going to hold a train. And Excuse me. And the uh engineers said it will hold a train and people wouldn't get on the train. They couldn't sell any tickets. Nobody would get on it. They're like that there's no way that bridge is gonna hold. So the engineers took a train and filled it up with wood and coal or whatever. They made this train way heavier than it would ever need to be, two, three, four times the weight of a normal train. And all day they drove it back and forth across the bridge. This was not to see if the bridge would fall down. This was to prove the bridge wouldn't. And that's the difference with the temptation of Christ. It was not to see if Jesus was gonna fall. It was to prove that he wouldn't fall. Because he was God in the flesh. It proved who he was. The Spirit gave him victory, and I want you to know the Spirit is there for you and I, uh that you are not tempted above that which you are able, and with the temptation he maketh a way to escape, and the Spirit will give you that if you rely on the Spirit. We learn some valuable lessons concerning temptation through this here. First of all, to be tempted is not sin. We know that Jesus was without sin, but he obviously was tempted. So to be tempted is not the sin. To follow through and do the action is the sin. Satan's going to come and he's going to tempt you, and he may tempt you a lot, but That is not a sin. We know that. Amen? Alright. Also, we know that it takes continual faithfulness to stand like Christ. Who has Luke? Luke 4. 13. Would you read that for me? Sorry, you put your Bible away already. Alright, so when the devil had ended all of the temptation, he departed from him for a season. Here's the thing. Just because the temptation has passed, doesn't mean it's not going to come again. Satan departed for a season. So we understand there's some things. There are some times in our life that are very strong spiritual battles. And if you can be victorious through that time, you will have a break. Satan will get busy bothering Brother Bob, and he'll leave you alone for a little while. Then he's gonna leave Bob alone and he's gonna go get Brother Crane or Miss Steffi or Miss Lisa. He's gonna Satan's not like God. He's not omnipresent. He can't be everywhere at once. And of course he has all of his little, you know, demons and d dominions and he has But what I'm saying is if you'll be victorious, the temptation will pass and Satan will depart for a season. But no Sometimes we think, man, I made it through. I was victorious. Hallelujah. But him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest what? He fall. Because why? Because Satan's coming back around. He only left for a season, and he's going to make his way back around to you and I and tempt us again just like he did to Christ. So we learn that about temptation From here. Christ used the Word of God. You and I must use the Word of God. It is quick and powerful. The Word of God has power. We need to know the Word of God and use the Word of God to help us get victory in our life. over temptation. And Jesus returned in power. Luke chapter 4 and verse 14, I'll read it for you. And Jesus returned in power of the Spirit unto Galilee. And there went out a fame of him through all the region roundabout. So Jesus returned in power, ready to do the work of the ministry. So this brings us to a conclusion here for this Christ's beginning or launch of his ministry. And we want to close in prayer and we'll be dismissed.