Gentile. Uh he marveled at their faith. And uh the only thing he says that he marveled at with regards to the Jews was he marveled at their unbelief. And uh I believe that's in Mark, but it's in uh Mark chapter six and verse six that he marveled at their unbelief. And uh I wonder Does is does is God marveling at our faith or at our unbelief? So what kind of faith do you have? What kind of faith are you exercising? You guys know personally, I believe my faith is actually a little bit weak, like I some area that I need to grow, that I need to be strengthened in. in in my faith and really just just trusting God and and being able to say, Okay, this is what God wants and take that step and go do it. I I like to I like to be able to see the whole thing. I like to be able to you know you know, put put the whole thing together and and see the beginning from the end and and uh tend to be more hesitant to take that step or to move. And so I need to have some more faith and just trust God when He leads to do something, to step out and and to do it. But Jesus marveled at the dis their display of great faith that they had at the centurion's faith here. Uh a centurion would have been a a gentile obviously as a Roman soldier. Um a centurion was responsible for one hundred other men, which is is where the title or the name comes from, Centurion. And I apologize, we obviously Pastor August is not here, so we don't have the notes on the screens for you, so you're gonna have to pay closer attention and make sure that you're getting those because I know when they're on the screen makes it very easy. Uh now you guys know what Bob and Carol feel like. They don't uh they don't they don't get the s benefit of the screens through the lessons. They gotta really pay attention to where I'm at and what what's going on there. But we see that uh it's a hundred men. Um this uh gentile, this centurion soldier had compassion for his servant And we should have compassion for all men. This was not compassion for his son. We would say, oh, certainly somebody would have compassion and look and long to see their son healed, but he wanted his servant to be healed. He wanted to show that kind of care and concern for his servant. And sometimes we we don't have the kind of compassion on others that we should or on those that in you know You know, society would want to look down on or that aren't necessarily part of your immediate family or your immediate circle of friends Uh but just showing that we ought to have compassion on all men in all places. So we see Christ's tenth miracle healing the healing of a centurion son. Then we see Christ's eleventh miracle And uh Luke chapter 7, uh verses eleven through 17, we have the raising of the widow's son. He says here And it came to pass that day after that he went into the city called Nine, and m many of the disciples went with him and much people. Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold there was a dead man carried out the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and much people of the city was with her, and when the Lord saw her he had compassion on her, and he said unto her, Weep not. And he came and he touched the beer, and there the bare him stood still, and he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. So Jesus here comes into this city of nine, which was about twenty, twenty-five miles away from Capernaum. And he comes into this city, and on his way into the city, he sees this funeral procession And he sees this uh lady who he knows she's widowed and he knows uh her it's her only son and uh we he sees the compassion that the community has and there's so many people gathered to try and provide her with some comfort had obviously widowed all alone and then her only son is passed away here and Jesus comes and he touches the the coffin and and he pauses the men pause and he says, hey Commands the son to arise, to stand up. You know, Weirsby said, This woman's only son met the only son of God. Her son was dead, but he was destined to live. The only son of God was alive, but he was destined to be killed On that road that day. He had that compassion, Christ did, and he touched the coffin and he commanded the boy to arise. The boy, he presented the boy to his mother. News of this great uh prophet that was uh sent from God. The power of God was evident on his life, uh raising someone from the dead. Uh and His uh story began to be told abroad and so many things happening. Now we're gonna turn to the book of Mark. Mark chapter four, if you would, where where we're going to go to. This story takes place in Luke as well, but we're going to move to Mark And Mark chapter four, so turn back to that if you would, where we're gonna see the calming of the stormy sea. The calming of the stormy sea. So in Mark chapter 4, beginning in verse number 35, we see that in that same day, when the evening was come, he saith unto him, Let us pass over to the other side. Jesus told the disciples, hey, we're gonna get in this boat. We're gonna pass over to the other side Jesus being weary from the press, from all the people, from the ministering. You know the story? He goes down into the bottom of the boat and he begins to I just put a crop drop in. Maybe it'll help here in a second. Um apologize. But Jesus tells the disciples here, we're going to go to the other side. You know, beloved, that sometimes God's direction in your life is going to lead you right into the path of a storm. I know some we look at that sometimes, we think about the storm, we think, boy, what happened? How did God not know? Did did I do something wrong? Why am I going through this storm? Why am I faced with this challenge? Why am I dealing with this? Lord, I I thought I was doing right. Sometimes God's very direction, he says, let's get into the boat and go to the other side, and he knew full well that there would be a storm He knew the disciples were going to be heading into the storm. He was testing their faith. He had told them they were going to go to the other side. They had that promise from him It was part of his plan. The storm was but a bump in the road, a blip on the map, if you were, and he says, let's go to the other side. Jesus was right there with them. And yet we see the fear that they had, we see the concern that they had, and they allowed the distortion, they allowed Jesus' weak weariness They mistake that for a lack of concern. Jesus went down into the ship and he was resting, we see in verse number 38, and he was in the hinder part of the ship asleep on a pillow, and they awake him and say unto him, Master, Carest thou not that we perish. They thought he didn't care because he was resting, because he was weary. He knew where they were at. He knew what they were going through. And he he did care. Don't mistake sometimes when you have a There's some w there's some water in here. Uh when you have a problem in your life, when you have a uh a storm come up in your life, don't think Jesus doesn't care. Don't let the devil convince you of that, man, the Lord doesn't know, or the Lord doesn't care about me. Look at what I'm going through, look at what I have to endure. He does care. Every situation he knows where you're at and he can uh carry you through it. We see he gets up and he calms the storm. Verse number thirty-nine, he arose and he rebuked the wind, and he said unto the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Notice the change in what they feared. They had feared the storm. They had feared the winds and the waves. But then we see here in verse number 40, and they said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have Have no faith, and they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this that even the wind and the sea Obey him. Their faith was questioned, and their fear was changed. They said, wait a minute, we we were concerned about the wrong thing here We were concerned about these waves, but Jesus has power over the waves. What an amazing thing. What kind of a man is this that can tell the waves and the wind to be calm? And they do So we see the 13th miracle that he heals a helpless man possessed of a demon. In Mark chapter 5, uh verses 1 through 20, we see that that uh this the maniac of Gadaria, uh Gederia was uh small town or region um right outside or southwest of the Red Sea and uh this maniac could not be bound Could not be held by chains. We see it, I think it's in verse number three. This maniac said, Who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no not with chains. It's amazing that this man that could not be bound with chains, that could not be held, uh, there's nobody, they could not tame him. This these demons that possessed him gave him a supernatural power. They uh caused him to harm himself and to harm others and they couldn't bind him, but he was uh in had to be in submission to Jesus. And he knew that. He understood it. Even the demons understood it as they came into the presence of Jesus. We see Because he that had been, verse number four, had often bound with fetters and chains, and chains had been plucked asunder by him, had the fetters broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always night and day he was in the mountains and in the tombs crying and cutting himself with stones. When they saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him And he cried with a loud voice, and he said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion, for we are many. A legion of soldiers was around six thousand. Was around six thousand soldiers, and a a legion of six thousand soldiers would have in their company probably uh you know, another the five hundred to a thousand people that would be support, uh that would handle equipment and traveling and feeding and whatever else, I don't know, but uh a legion is a is a big number. And he says, We are legion, for we are many. We know that when Jesus commanded these demons to come out of him, that he commanded them to go into the swine, and there were two thousand swine. that they went into. And don't know exactly how many uh there were, but we know 2,000 swine ran off into the sea and and died. So These uh the disturbed, we see the disturbed wanted Jesus to leave. Uh this is the people here. They they uh They were upset in verses sixteen through eighteen. And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that who that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. And they began to pray to depart out of their coast. And when he was come unto the ship, and that had been possessed with the devil, prayed him that they might be with him. So we see a contrast here because those that were disturbed, they they lost their swine, they lost their livelihood, they lost the the benefit of that. They said, Man, uh you're costing us too much, Jesus. They weren't as concerned about the man that was freed from the demons. They were concerned about the swine that they lost. They said, Hey, would you would you just leave? Would you get in your boat and go? You're you're costing us too much. So they they were disturbed, they wanted him out of his presence. But the man that was delivered, he wanted to be with Jesus. He asked, he says, Hey, can I can I go with you? Can I be with you? And he he desired to be in his presence in verse number 18. And when he was coming to the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him. that he might be with him. You know, when Jesus delivers you, you long to be in his presence. When Jesus has done something miraculous in your life and changed you and freed you from the penalty of sin, when he's blessed you beyond measure. You look for opportunities to be in his presence. You're not looking for opportunities to get away from him. You're looking for opportunities to be with him. To be fed by him, to be nourished by him, to be strengthened by him, to see, just to be in his presence. That's where we should long to be. So we see here two miracles that kind of overlap each other. Um beginning Really, in verse number 22, right away we see that he's on his way to hear hear heal Jerry's daughter He says, And behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jarius by name, and when he saw him he fell at his feet, and he besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death, I pray thee come and lay So we have the healing of Jarius' daughter, but before that, kind of because he's on his way to heal Jarius' daughter On the way, another miracle takes place. So the 14th miracle actually takes place first. Here is the healing of the woman with the issue of blood. So we see that in verse number 24 and Jesus went with him and much people followed him and thronged him and a certain woman which had an issue of blood twelve years, and had suffered many things, of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, But rather grew worse. When she heard of Jesus, she came in the press behind and touched his garment. For he saith, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole. So we see this woman's faith, and she comes, she had for twelve years suffered beyond hope. She reaches out in faith just to touch his hip of his garment, and it is that faith There were many people. The press was great. He says here, there was people all the throng was all around him. There were many people, even the disciples asked, like, why why do you ask who touched me? Everybody here touched you. I mean there's so many people around and many people sought to try and you know get in your presence. But but Jesus says, no, I felt the virtue go from me He felt this. He felt that because of her faith, she knew that if she could but touch the hymn of his garment, she would be healed. And Jesus felt that and knew immediately what had happened. And she was healed. She reached out and touched him, verse number 30, and Jesus immediately knew in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him in the press and said, Who touched my clothes? And the disciples said unto him, Seest thou the multitude throng me, and sayest, Who touch me? And he looked about to see her that hath done this thing But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him and told him all the truth. She, realizing she was healed and the completion of what she had dreamed and visioned for for twelve years. She had sought healing in s every other way possible. You know, that's one of the challenges in this world. People look for hope. They look for something in the world and they're searching for it in every way possible. They're out there, they're they're going anywhere and everywhere trying to find something of meaning and of value, and they're searching for it in all the wrong places until they're introduced to Jesus. They get in Jesus' name. His presence and Jesus can heal them, can forgive them of their sin, and they can experience the life-changing faith that comes by knowing Jesus Christ. And this is what happened for her, and she comes and falls at his feet and worships Again, so Jesus is still on his way, really, to heal Jarius' daughter. So we see the 15th miracle, the healing of Jarius' daughter. We just read how Jarius had left his daughter basically on her deathbed. He she's about to die, and he thought, the only hope I have is to get Jesus. I want to go find Jesus. I'm going to bring Jesus to to my daughter, so he leaves her on her deathbed. He goes to find Jesus But on their way back, a messenger comes and reports, hey, your daughter's dead. You don't need to bother Jesus anymore. Don't worry about it. It's already done. We see here's gonna see We gotta jump down to verse number thirty five, uh, to pick up the story. Am I in the right No, I'm not in the right one. I'm in I'm London region. So while he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue, why troublest thou the master any further Basically saying hope is gone. Your daughter's dead now. We had a good idea. Boy it would have been nice if it worked out, uh, but you don't need to trouble Jesus anymore, it's already too late. But Jesus knew this. You know, sometimes it looks like there's no hope. Sometimes it looks like everything is settled. There's no solution. This is just the way it is. And we tend to lose faith. We tend to lose hope. We tend to get discouraged. And uh can I just encourage you that with Jesus there's always hope. Because nothing isn't possible with God. He says A, be not afraid. Verse number forty-one, and he took the damsel by the hand, and he said unto her, Telathkunum, which is being interpreted, damsel, I say unto thee, arise. So he raises the widow's uh sorry Jarius's daughter here from the dead and performs this miracle uh in a display of great power and strength, and the people are blessed and challenged because of it. So we see his 16th, we don't have to turn there, but his 16th miracle takes place in the book of Matthew, 16th 16th miracle is the healing of two blind, uh, these two blind men, and that is recorded for us in Matthew, and then his seventeenth miracle, the healing. A dumb possessed man. I was trying to figure out how to write that. A possessed man who was dumb. Or a dumb possessed man. I was trying to figure out a way to write it that didn't sound you know the dumb is not we're speaking to stupid, it's speaking to he can't speak. that he can't talk. But instead of me just calling him stupid. Uh that's not what it is. I didn't come up with a good way to write it, but uh that's what it is. His man could not heal and uh I mean, could not speak, and God heals him of uh his demon possession there in Matthew chapter nine. So we see here your you're in Mark we're still there. Turn to Mark chapter 6 verses 30 through 44 and we see the feeding of the 5,000. The feeding of the 5,000. This is a familiar story, a familiar miracle. We are now approaching the end of Christ's uh m second year of ministry here. Um actually in the course of events, uh John the Baptist has passed away. We're going to hear in one of the messages that we look at shortly where he is talking about John the Baptist. And so this is where I'm saying, like you say, hey, you just said John the Baptist passed away and now Jesus is talking about him. That's because I didn't put All of these things in perfect chronological order, they just took place in the second year. And uh so when we get to the messages that Christ is giving, and Christ uh you know, it begins talking about John the Baptist, realize that it's because because I don't necessarily have these all in exact chronological order, they're more recorded by the events. So with the feeding of the 5,000, John the Baptist's death has taken place. The people are confused. They're functioning or living almost as it were, Christ says, like a sheep without a shepherd. In uh 634 he he sees them, he sees who who they are, and Jesus, when he had come out, saw much people and was moved with compassion towards them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd, and he began to teach them. So Jesus teaching them the throngs of people with him. The priority was to be with Jesus. The priority was to hear what Jesus had to say. They even to the point where they needed to go get food, they needed to get sustenance, the day was getting long and people hadn't eaten yet. And the disciples' answer was, well, the day is coming to a close, you know, it's getting nigh unto dinner time. Why don't we just send them all away and let them all go eat? And uh that wasn't Jesus' answer No, Jesus said, What have ye? We're gonna feed them. And you guys know this the the story that uh one boy came, one boy had five loaves and two fish. They gave to Jesus what uh what they had. And you know when you'll take what you have and put it in the hands of Jesus, it'll be multiplied beyond measure. It will accomplish things that you can't. cannot even comprehend. Your skill, your talent, your ability, your means, your capacity in this life, you say, oh, it's such a limited capacity. I don't have that much strength. I don't have that much ability. But if you'll put it in the hands of Jesus, he'll take it and multiply it many times over. We see here that this five loaves and two fishes, not only did it feed the five thousand, but you know there were twelve baskets left over. The the excess. God will take you, your skill, your talent, your ability, whatever means or capacity you have in this world, if you'll put it in the hands of Jesus He can multiply it beyond your wildest dreams and accomplish things that are just beyond what we would even think possible. The challenge is to remember that it's him that did it. And not you, uh not to be puffed up with pride and think, boy, look what I did. I don't think that boy who was on his way home to his house with Yeah, I don't know if they had twelve baskets so that each of the disciples could carry one and this boy got to go home with the disciples and they carried in these baskets. Here you go, mom, this is my five loaves and two fish. I don't think he was saying, look what I did today. No, he was saying, look what Jesus did. I gave him my five loaves and two fish, and he fed 5,000 people, and then here's everything that's left over. And we need to remember Jesus is the one that does it. He's the one that has multiplied it. He's the one that has brought this miraculous thing. So we see Christ's 19th miracle. Jesus walks on the water And uh this is recorded for us in several places, but in Mark chapter 6, verses 45 to 52, Christ sends uh the disciples to Capernaum in a boat He sends them over. It is the fourth watch, that is around 3 to 6 a. m. And uh Jesus is still on land, he's still ministering, and he sees them toiling on the sea. We see in verse number sixteen he says but when and I'm forty-five. I'm looking at the wrong verse here. Forty-five. Bethesda, while he sent away the people. And when he had sent them away, he departed into the mountain to pray, and when evening was come the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on land. So this, I've been on the Sea of Galilee and you can see all the way across the Sea of Galilee. It actually When I was on the Sea of Galilee, I kind of I looked at it and wondered how is it the disciples could be so afraid when you can see both sides of the shore? It's certainly not I mean unless you're an Olympic swimmer or something, you ain't swimming to shore. I mean that's not uh you're not gonna swim to shore. It's the it's big enough for that, but It's not like you're out in the middle of the ocean and there's no land anywhere. You actually can see all four sides. If you're on the Sea of Galilee, you can see all four sides of of land, because the land is higher. The sea obviously is at a low point. So you could see the mountain rising on that side, you can see the land on that side. And Jesus looks out onto the water and sees them and sees them toiling in the storm. Now the Sea of Galilee there, because it's uh in a valley Uh storms erupt very quickly. The the thermal change that takes place with the uh air, with the hot and cold air coming into that valley, it causes air to rush down through the valleys. and churns up that water and it can turn into a great storm very quickly. Just naturally it just happens uh on occasion there because of exactly where it's fitted in the landscape. Landscape affects the traveling of storms greatly. Uh I know in Indiana where we were at, what one of the guys I worked for, a contractor that I worked for, Obviously now that we have satellite view and we can see so many things, uh he could see the terrain of land and in his area there in Valfrazia where he lived. the there there was kind of a huge you don't notice it when you're out driving around, but just like we're up on a hill, there was a huge uh hill that was kind of like a a half moon shape that was about a mile and a half from his house. And many times storms, snowstorms would come, and it would come up to that hill, and it would travel around that hill and go around the other side of Alpo, and he would have no snow at his house. A lot of times he said I can I can watch it happen again and again because that terrain in the ground caused that to just travel around that way. And that's what happened on the Sea of Galilee. Storms would erupt out of nowhere and these men were out on the boat And uh Jesus beholding them, he sees them out there on the boat, and the men cried out in fear. Uh Jesus went and began to walk out to them, and they saw him on the water, and they're wait, they they cried out in fear, and Jesus assures them, hey Fear not, it it is me. And so I want you to see here where do we leave off? And we were And he saw them toiling, verse forty-eight, and rowing, uh for the wind was contrary unto them, and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them walking on the sea. and would have passed by them, but when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and they cried out, for they all saw him and were troubled, and immediately he took he talked with them. And when he went up unto them and into the ship And the wind ceased, and they were sore amazed, and in themselves uh beyond measure and wonder. Now you have to turn over to one of the other uh accounts And uh Peter gets out of the boat and he walks on the water. And uh the faith of Peter, now we know that Peter gets his eyes on the storm, gets his eyes on the problems that are around him, takes his eyes off Jesus, and immediately begins to sink his faith is is questioned. Now he had a pretty large amount of faith to get out of the boat in the first place to take that step. None of the other disciples did. They probably all looked at him and said, You're nuts, man. Uh why would you do that? And he's like, Hey Jesus is out there, he's walking on the water. I wanna I wanna do that, you know, and so he jumps out, that's that's Peter's uh personality. He's gonna be the first to jump into anything. But of course he begins to fall and he has the shortest prayer that's recorded in the Word of God. And he just cries out and says, Save me. Save me. You know, when you talk to God, you don't need to have huge, eloquent, theologically correct prayers. I think sometimes people get a little concerned, like they hear people pray, God Thou majestic, magnificent Lord and Savior, who created the heavens and the earth, we bow in humble adoration to your magnificence. And and people think, man, I gotta go to God and pray like that. I I I can't I can't pray like that. You don't have to pray like that. You just talk to him like he's your friend. Lord, it's me. Bible says you're a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Here's what's going on in my life, Lord. Just talk to them like what do you Really, I think the Lord appreciates those prayers more than some of those that that people try and get too too uh eloquent. And you begin to wonder, are they talking to God or are they talking to us? This is this is for the Lord. We we want to ask God to do something and speak to him and it and so don't let that maybe somebody uh that has ha has been praying for many years is comfortable in their manner of prayer and they they can get kind of uh you know their verbiage can be such that maybe it intimidates you but don't worry about that. Peter said, Save me. And God reached out and saved him. That's all that it takes is just being willing to cry out. And we know he rebuked the wind and uh it settled down and then he rebukes them for their little faith because they did not trust him again. So we see here point number five, Christ's powerful messages. He's going to give us some messages and then Christ teaches some parables. We're going to pick up there next week looking at Christ's powerful messages. And that is for your notes on the p top of page number thirty seven. So we'll pick up there next week. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school and the time to uh just remind ourselves of what you did while you were here on earth and the message that you had for the disciples and for those that were there that are applicable to our lives. Just reminding us of these truths and what they mean for us today. Today, and Lord, we'll thank you for it. Bless this Mother's Day as we gather in your house. May you bring uh your people to your house today. May we be encouraged and challenged by your word. And Lord, we'll thank you in Jesus' name. This morning. So we see here that uh John actually is dealing with some doubt. Now this is John the Baptist, not John the Apostle. John is dealing with some doubt here. In John chapter 11, and it came to pass when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities. Now when John had heard in prison, so we see here John's in prison. Okay, John's in prison. He's going through this, and he says he heard the works of Christ. He sent two of his disciples, and he said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Now this is pretty amazing that you think about John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, the one that said, Behold the Lamb that taketh away the sin of the world And yet now here John is saying, go ask Jesus if he is he, if he's the one, if he is he the one that I mean did I do right? Did I announce the right person? Or or is there somebody else that we're supposed to be looking for? And here's the thing, beloved, doubt is something that's a normal part of the Christian's life, especially when we're going through great trial or tribulation. Satan comes and he he causes us to doubt. Sometimes storms come and they cause us to doubt, like John the Baptist here in prison and he's like, wait, are art thou the one? Are are you really the one that I was supposed to be uh reaching, that I was supposed to be uh the forerunner for, that doing the job that I was supposed to do Now, Warren Wearsby said, doubt is not uncommon. It's normal. This is part of the Christian life. This is something that as Christians we're going to face. He said this, he said, doubt is a matter of the mind where unbelief is a matter of the heart So the challenge for us, beloved, is to uh when doubt begins to fill the mind, we go back to Christ, we go back to the Word of God, we get back on our knees So that it does move into unbelief. So that it doesn't come to the place where we have an unbelieving heart. Several times you'll see Christ reprov those that are in his midst because of their unbelief. Doubt is one thing to say, wait a minute, Lord, am I doing right? Wait a minute, is this where I'm supposed to be going? Is this something that I should do. I thought this was what you wanted. And sometimes we question or we might doubt, but we don't want that to move into a place of unbelief. But we see here that even John, John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, had some doubt. Now G Christ comes and he begins to share a message where he honors the man and the ministry of John. He declares himself to be the Messiah, and he just talks about it and says, hey, this is evidenced by the miracles that have been performed. He says And Jesus answered and he said unto them, Go and show John again those things which ye do hear and see. He says, Tell him, let him know. The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, and the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached unto them. Yes, I'm him. It's evident by what's happening It's very clear that I am the Messiah because of the miracles that have been performed. And they they tested attested of that fact, that they saw it, they realized that it was taking place. And he says, Go tell him this. And he declares John, again, preaching to that group that is there, those disciples that came to him with a question, but he declares uh the who John was and how good of a man John was. He says there in verse number seven that John was not He says, and as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, what? Went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken in the wind? He says, Do you think you were going to go out in the wilderness? You know, John the Baptist was in the wilderness. He said, You think you're going to go out there and see a reed shaken in the wind He's saying John was not a man that was tossed to and fro by every wind of doctrine. He was saying John was an upright a solid man, and yes, he had a question he He had a little bit of doubt here in the midst of this trial or in the midst of this struggle, but John was a solid man. He he begins to expound and talk about the uh how good of a man John was. He was not tossed to and fro. Beloved, we shouldn't be either. We shouldn't uh every wind of doctrine and every new thing that comes along should not move us as God's people. We ought to stand firm. on the Word of God. He says he's not a reed tossed to and fro in the wind. He declares that John is not soft. In verses 9 and 10 there he says, But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet, for this is he, of whom it is written, I think I skipped a verse here. In verse number eight, yeah. But what went ye out to see a man clothed in soft raiment? You know John wasn't a soft man. He wasn't a man that was clothed in soft raiment. He was a tough man. He was a solid man. He was a strong man. He says, boy, men that are soft, they're in the king's palaces. John was out in the wilderness. He was standing strong. He wasn't a soft man. He was a strong man. And this is Christ, the words of Christ, declaring this about John to those that came unto him. And he tells us that uh He was of of of men that were born of women, there wasn't one greater. In verse number 11 Let me just finish reading verse number 10. For it is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before the face which shall prepare the way before thee. Verily I say unto you, among them that are born of women, there hath not raised a greater than John the Baptist. Notwithstanding, he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than thee. He says, hey, among men that are born of women, John the Baptist is among the greatest. Declaring this is Jesus Christ talking about John, saying, John, among these women, men that were born of women, he is the greatest. What a commendation to have. And uh to be recognized this way by Christ. Then we see Christ's fifth sermon dealing with the authority of the Son of God. We're going to turn over to the book of John for that, if you would. Uh in John chapter number five, we see him talking about the authority of the Son of God because of his uh equalness with the Father. He kind of deals with this as he goes through this. Um he says here I don't want to read it all, but verse 19. I think it's in verse number 22 uh where we see the first statement. He says, For the father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the son. He's talking about that how the Father has given all judgment, all discernment, all judgment unto the Son. He says, hey Christ has the authority. This is God's Son. And judgment has been given to him. Both the Father and the Son are to be honored. And verse number 23. that all men should honor the Son even as they honor the Father. Putting them together. Obviously we know that God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are all three God, that they are one in three and three and one that that is what the Trinity is. But here uh he they obviously put on the same level. He that honoreth not the Son, honoreth not the Father, which hath sent the Son He says, you need to honor the Son, the Son of God who's here, he's preaching unto you, and uh extolling or expounding upon the authority that he has as God's son. He declares to us in verse number 24 that belief is necessary for everlasting life. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my words and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Now the reason that this is notable is because of what's not present here. What is the characteristic in which you are granted everlasting life according to this verse? There's only one thing: belief. And You are given eternal life, and you're not, what does he say there? Uh, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. The one thing necessary is belief. Now, there is not belief and baptism. You see, occasionally there are a couple of verses in the New Testament where Baptism is included in the verse speaking about uh having eternal life. And so people that believe in baptismal regeneration will grab a hold of those verses and they'll say, well, right here you see he said believe and baptism. Uh but you have to take the whole of Scripture together and understand that Scripture does not contradict itself and God would not in one point say that you need baptism and then somewhere else say no you don't need it And so you have to look at that and say, okay, well what is it he's saying here? And uh we could go to uh some of those passages and dig them out, but it's very clear here what's necessary to Not be under condemnation, to pass from death into life, to be given everlasting life is belief. Belief is what is necessary Um he says resurrection of life is available unto all in verse number twenty-nine and he gives witness of his deity. There's several things that give witness of his deity, verses 30 through 46. The first is John the Baptist that came in verse number 32. He says, There is another that bears witness of me. So witnessing of who of who this is. He's talking about the authority of Christ and that he is one with the Father. And so and I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true. So, and ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. John the Baptist bear witness of Christ and told people. They understood he was a prophet that was respected. But not only that, his works, the works that he did while he was here on earth, bear witness. In verse number 36 But I have a greater witness than that of John, for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do bear witness of me that the Father has sent me. So he says John the Baptist came first. John the Baptist told you that I was he, the Messiah, that came, but I have a greater witness than John the Baptist. I have the witness of the works that I have done, the works that the Father hath given me to do And I've performed these works before each and every one of you, and you've observed these. I have another witness too. Verse number 39. Search the scriptures, for in them ye uh think ye have eternal life, and they that are which they which testify of me. The scriptures The Father, the Word of God, testifies, is a witness of him. And then even verse number 46, we see the witness of Moses. He says, For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me Moses, all the way back there in what you know the Jewish people would have looked at, the the Pentateuch that the the law, this would have been the heartbeat of what they would be studying and reading in the synagogues and places of worship. They would have looked at that and he said, look, if you would have read Moses with an understanding heart, you would have seen that Moses spake of me. Moses talked about me. Even uh as the uh serpent was lifted up in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That great testimony of how the serpent, they see he said, Look, at the serpent. I believe it's in Numbers 21 is where that story is at. But they the the those that were bitten of the serpent there in the wilderness because of their disobedience. And Christ or God providing a way of escape for them, all they had to do was look to the serpent that was lifted up. And even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Man must look to Jesus to be healed. of that uh life-stealing um power of sin that that is pulling each and every one of us down. All you have to do is look to look to Jesus. So we see uh Christ's sixth sermon that he gives uh the disciples. And uh I think this one is in Mark. Turn to Mark. We want to look. It's in several of them there. I've given you the references, but we want to look at the passage in Mark chapter number six. So I had a professor in Bible college that uh would teach through Like we did the Old Testament survey and you know different classes. And uh he would just as he was teaching, he would say, Well, here's an outline for you, and he would he would throw an outline out as he was teaching. uh just kind of secondary to the study of the passage. Uh and so I'm going to give you an outline as we look at this passage this this morning here, this this message. But we see that Jesus is sending the disciples forth. He sends them out, beginning in Mark chapter 6 and verse number 7. And he called unto him the twelve and began to send them forth. By two and two, and gave them power over unclean spirits. So he sent them forth, so he gave them purpose. Can I tell you that your life in Jesus Christ has purpose? One of the best things that you can do in this life is find the purpose for which God has you here. We all have a purpose. Life has meaning. In Jesus Christ, it has meaning and you can have purpose in your life. There's something that He has for you to do. Some people have often thought they get to a certain stage in their life and they think, well I don't know why I'm still here. My family's all gone on before me. Uh there you know this has happened, that's happened, and uh physically I'm not able to do what I used to or whatever and And understanding that God still has a purpose for you. God has a plan for you. And let's find that purpose and you'll find fulfillment in your life. But not only did he send them forth uh with purpose, but he sent them forth with power He says, and he gave them power over unclean spirits. Beloved, God will empower you to do whatever he asks you to do, whatever he's called upon you to do, whatever command he's given you, whatever he's asked of you in your life. to fulfill whatever ministry you're to be involved in, God will give you power to fulfill it. Many times there's been situations that I've been in that I felt completely inadequate to fulfill that responsibility. to do that task. But when God calls, he enables. And God will give you the strength or the ability to do it even uh way beyond yourself because God has So we see that he sends them forth, gives them purpose in their life, he empowers them to do it And then he gives provision or he provides for them. We see in verse number eight. He says, and he commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only. No script, no bread, no money for their purses, but be shod with sandals and not put on two coats. There is some statements here, but basically the idea is that God was going to provide for them. That they should not be overly concerned. The idea of taking two coats is is uh planning or packing for a change of raiment, planning and carrying things along with them so that they would have secondary clothes or that they would be thinking ahead and and preparation for uh oh I've got to make sure I have enough of this or enough of that And uh, you know, you you're planning and and we tend to be planners, we tend to be packers, but I think the idea here is God's saying, listen, don't worry so much about this life. Don't worry so much about what you think you're going to need. I'll take care of you. And to apply it to us today, I think we need to be careful how tied up we get in this world. Because this world is not our home. We're just passing through. This is not where we should be focusing. We shouldn't be too overly concerned about the things of this life. He says, hey, he's going to provide for us. He's going to give us what's necessary, what our needs are. My God shall provide all your needs according to his riches and glory. And God will do that for you in this world. And sometimes We get too overly concerned with our needs right here, right now, instead of thinking and pondering about heaven and doing that which we've been called to do. You know, this really is a call for the disciples to live by faith. He's saying, just trust me. There's times in your life where God is going to call upon you to step out of the boat, where he's going to call upon you to live by faith. You can't see your way through, you don't know the answer, you don't know exactly what it all is going to work out to be, and he's saying, hey, just live by faith. Step out and do it. Those times are scary. But they're also very special. There are times that you get to see the miraculous hand of God do things In your life, specifically, in your life, as you trust God and do what you know God wants you to do The greatest times of victory in your life, the greatest times of seeing the hand of God in your life are those days when you step out of the boat, when you just say, okay, Lord, I'll trust you. I'm just gonna go. I'm just gonna do it. I know this is what you want. And you just step out and do it. And you see God work miraculously on your behalf, which is what he did for the disciples here. But he also warms them. He warns them. He says, hey, he's given them a message. They've got to go forth. They're going to preach repentance, repentance, repentance of God, like was preached unto Sodom and Gomorrah. They're to be wise as serpents, harmless as doves, they're to go forth in this world and do the work that God's called them to do, but he says, hey, you can expect some persecution. There was going to be persecution. Persecution was going to come. John the Baptist ultimately was killed. The disciples were killed. The the the there's going to be persecution, there's going to be opposition when you step out by faith, and really pretty much as soon as you begin to take a a a meaningful step towards what God would want you to do, there's going to be some things that get in the way. There's going to be some hindrance. We're going to discuss that or look at that a little bit this morning or tonight, I mean, as we talk about the graduation and People taking the next step in their life, but we see that persecution is going to come. But God would empower them to do great things. We see that he allows them to heal the sick, to cleanse the leper, to raise the dead, to cast out demons. They do miraculous things when they're submitted and yielded to God. Then in verses 14 through 29, Christ was informed about the murder of John the Baptist, that John the Baptist was killed. The forerunner, his his friend, he was informed of these things. We see as far as the outline, the last thing in verse number 30, that there comes a time of praise. If you follow the Lord and do what God wants you to do, in verse number 30, and the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus and told them all the things, both what they had done and what they had taught. They gathered with Jesus and they said, man, look at what all happened. When we stepped out and we did what you wanted us to do, it was a miraculous thing. We saw blind men given sight. We saw laymen walk. We saw these miraculous things and there's a time of praise. And if you'll go forth in faith and believe and do what God wants you to do, you'll have praise on your lips as well Because you get to experience the great blessings of God in your life as you move forward for Him. Then we see That Christ uses parables to teach the multitudes, your next main point there. Christ uses parables to teach the multitudes. Now as I said last week, I'm not going to teach through the parables. We could look at those individually. I also am not dividing them up into you know, as far as exactly time frames of when they which parable was taught when in the life of Christ, I've just put all of the parables together right here for you. And uh we've taught on those in Sunday school individually. Uh I think I've taught thirty-nine of the forty-one parables that I've given you in this list. And uh so we're not going to teach through those, but there's just a couple of things as we consider the idea of parables here. We know that at least a third of Christ's teaching was done through this use of parables. Through the use of sharing divine truth clothed in human garb, clothed in a practical illustration, a understandable story, something that God would take a human story and share it. but apply it or give it heavenly truth so that they could understand it, but they could see what it was that he was saying Parables all deal with different aspects of the kingdom. All the parables deal with the kingdom in some aspect or another. There's several different ways in which it may deal with the kingdom, either the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God, but first of all it deals with the character. of the king. So maybe it's talking about the king and what the king is like, the king of of the the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God. And then it maybe it deals with the character of the kingdom, talking about the kingdom and what it is like, and so discussing the kingdom as a whole. Or maybe it deals with the character of the king's subjects. How should the king's subjects that are living in the kingdom, what are they like or what should they be like? So all the parables deal with one aspect of that. Now the parables referring to the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God, one of those. Now, Pastor Derek and I have had several lengthy conversations over the years about this aspect of the kingdom of heaven and the kingdom of God. and in which ways do they differ. And uh because you need to understand the par in order to properly interpret the parable, you need to know if it's talking about the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God. And they are slightly different. And uh so I've just given you a couple of notes here just directly out of uh Wilmington's guide to the Bible to try and help with that. But the kingdom of heaven is unique to the book of Matthew. This is found there, and the first meaning of this, there's a couple of meanings here with regards to the kingdom of heaven. That is the Father's general rule. from heaven over the affairs of men spanning from creation to the millennium. So this kind of broad general rule over the kingdom of heaven is God's kingdom over all space and time, all all of that. But the second meaning is the Son's specific rule over Jerusalem and the affairs of men during the Millennium Kingdom. So that takes a very specific timeframe, a specific window. So you need to know when you're interpreting the parables if it's dealing with that or if it's dealing with the broad uh view of all of space and time. Then the kingdom of God, there's two meanings here. The first meaning, on rare occasion, the kingdom of God is used interchangeably with the kingdom of heaven, having the millennial meaning. And then the second meaning, the most common meaning, is in reference to the new birth, the kingdom of God. So there's lots of scriptures there that along with those things that you can look at. If you really want to dig into it, get into Wilmington's Guide to the Bible or others and do a little study on the kingdom of God versus the Kingdom of Heaven. And uh that'll help you understand the parables in and of themselves. You know, all the parables deal with the kingdom in some aspect, but to properly interpret them you need to know whether they deal with them with the kingdom of heaven or the kingdom of God. and specifically what area it is dealing with or talking about. Then I have listed for you the parables and giving you the passage of scripture where they appear. And again We're not going to go through and teach those, but I just wanted you to have it here in your notes. If you would like to, you can go to sermon audio and listen to those individual parables that we taught m m many years ago uh now.