All right, time to begin this morning. We're going to We we need to finish up last week's lesson, so I'm going to begin I'm gonna ask you guys up in the sound booth to record this first session by itself and then end it and start something new for the next lesson that'll help the guys that that are getting it it uploaded uh onto Sermon Audio because they need to cut these and put them together. Uh so we are to conclude last week's I think we'll just pick up a a around the bottom of page number twelve um in in the notes there we have uh letter E the wise men visit Christ and I know we kind of of uh touched on this, but just want to pick up right there that the wise men visit Christ. And so we are in Matthew chapter number two. And gonna be looking at that uh quite a lot today uh in the book of Matthew. Turn your Bibles there if you would. Going through this, but we know that the wise men come and visit Christ. We're gonna be digging into this a little bit more. Uh Mary and Joseph stayed in Bethlehem for a period of time. Uh maybe as long as Long as two years or relatively close to that. And uh we believe that to be so uh because uh when the king went in search of of the baby to kill the baby, you know, uh it wasn't the night Jesus was born. It wasn't an infant child. Uh he actually he says to them in Matthew, Chapter two in verse number eight he says and he sent them to Bethlehem and he said, Go and search diligently for the young child. And when you have found him, bring me where So he acknowledges the fact or uh says, Hey, there's a young child, I want you to go find him. Uh and let you know of course he's being deceitful, uh, and we're gonna dig into this as we move into the next lesson, but uh, you know, of course he wants to kill this young child. And then uh when Herod there was going to kill the babies, we of course know that he chose to kill all the babies that were two years old and younger. So again the implication or the idea that this infant child was not a newborn just a few hours old or even just a few days old, but could have been as much as close to two years old uh during this time. So they remained in Bethlehem for a period of time. Now these wise men come and Matthew 21 Tells us that they find Jesus in a house. In chapter two and verse number eleven, it says, And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary And so again the idea that we a lot of times and there's nothing wrong, you know, the story gets kind of condensed together and put into the manger scene. And everything stacked together into one night and and so people in their mind's eye in the picture that they have drawn, all of this happens in one night. So the wise men come and the shepherds come and the star is seen and and Herod says, Go kill the baby, you know. That that all happened in one night, but it was not just in one night, it was over quite a long period Period of of time, as much as two years. We don't know exactly how long. But the wise men come and they present Jesus with gifts. But I wanted to be able to uh talk about it. And first of all, they they present uh gold in recognition of his deity. That's the concept or idea of how uh a baby you know can be all God and and yet still at the same time be all man and how he can Be tempted in all points like we are, and yet still have the power of God to do miraculous things is something that's beyond our comprehension or understanding. But it's what The Bible teaches and we've got to be sure that we recognize and acknowledge it. There are many people out there, false teachers, that uh want to take away Christ's deity and say, well, he He did many great and wonderful things, but they don't want to recognize him as part of the Godhead. And listen, if he wasn't God in the He doesn't have the power to save or to forgive sins. And so we need to remember and acknowledge that he was God. We see his deity recognized Spirit in a miraculous way allowed a virgin to conceive and bear a child, and so he was born of a virgin that was not given the seed of man. Therefore, does not carry the sin of man, that nature that comes from Adam. And so he was born of a virgin. He exercised great power, the power of God. Jesus, we see throughout his life, not in his childhood years, we're going to talk about those in a few minutes, but in when his ministry began, we see him exercising And we know the story there in uh John eleven, forty-three, and forty-four. John eleven is where Jesus raises uh Lazarus from the dead. There are there There is no man that has the power to uh command somebody who is dead to come forth and call forth the dead and give back life to one that is already And so we see Jesus exercising that measure of deity, the power that he had in his Godhead. And so it's it's notable, but it's also very important that we as God's people recognize Jesus as God. We see him in his deity. Then he's given frankincense in recognition of his hum his humanity. man. And we recognize this in several things. First of all, in Galatians 4:4, uh it says that uh he was uh made of a woman. Uh the hu his humanity, that he was made of a woman. And so we know that God, although he was deity and he was virgin born, he also was brought forth from the womb of a woman And so his humanity is recognized there. Uh we know according to Luke two fifty two which we're gonna dig into when we begin to look at his childhood, but we see that he developed like a normal man. He he just grew as he didn't you know he wasn't a full grown man when he was born. He developed and grew like a normal child and went through the stages and the processes of life and uh grew up like a normal child. He felt normal human frailties like other men did. For instance in John 4, verse number 6, we know that That he felt fatigue, that he was tired, that he needed to rest. Oftentimes he looked for a way to get away and to go and to be alone And so he felt fatigue. We know Math according to Matthew chapter four, verse number two, I'm close to that, so let me go ahead and read it. It said, and when he had fasted forty days and forty nights He was afterward unhungered. I think I would be hungry after 40 days and 40 nights as well. But the idea there is, oh well Well Jesus fasted forty days and because he was God he didn't need food. No, he needed food. He was hungry. He felt that hunger, just like you do when you go without a meal or decide to uh Uh you know, Bob just went through surgery and they usually tell you like how many ever hours before surgery you're not supposed to eat. And uh you get hungry and and you're like, No, you can't eat anything and and you gotta wait Wait till after the surgery. And then after the surgery they're like, No, you can't wait. You can't eat until this time, you know. And so they kind of put you through it until you get well past it. Uh but you know, your body feels that hunger. Well Jesus He felt hunger. And then he felt thirst in John nineteen twenty-eight. He was thirsty. These just normal human frailties. Yes, he was God in the flesh, but he also was just Just like you and I in the aspects of our humanity, we see in Matthew 8 24 that he slept. And so he was given gold in recognition of his deity frequent Frankincense in recognition of his humanity, and then myrrh in recognition of his future suffering. An acknowledgment of the fact that he was the Messiah that he did come to be given as a sacrifice, with that understanding, with that knowledge, knowing that he was going to give his life a ransom for all. So at this point, we know that Christ is somewhere around two years old. And in our next lesson, we're going to dig into his boyhood, the boyhood of Christ. We want to bring this lesson to a conclusion this morning. So I was pausing so that the recording could be uh stopped and they have to reset. The audio guy's got to cut those things, put them together and upload it to the web so it can all be on one lesson uh for last week. Alright, I'm gonna open with And uh then Tim's gonna come and lead us in a song, and after the song we'll get into the notes for today. And uh got some announcement about those, but let's begin with a word of prayer. Prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and uh come to you right now. I ask that you would bless this Sunday school hour, that you would speak to our hearts, give us understanding of your word. Lord, I pray that you would be with those in in the church who uh are still dealing with this cold and flu and and uh just whatever it is that's going around it certainly uh is hanging on and and it's miserable and there There are so many in the church family that are dealing with it. And we pray that you would just lift them up today, that you'd give them strength, that you'd give them healing, Lord. I just ask that uh You'd bring them through that and get them uh back into good health as soon as possible. Or we just hold them up before you today and we'll thank you for it. Bless this time now in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, Tim, why don't you come and lead us in a song this morning? Amen. If you would turn to page three ninety-three is a familiar song. We just have one song this morning. Familiar song, but If you need the words, they'll be there. Page 393. There shall be showers of blessing. We'll just sing one verse because Dad said he has a lot of notes to get through this morning. So page 393. Ready? Mm, there shall be showers of blasting. This is a promise of love. There shall be seasons refresh Flashing sent from the Savior above showers of blessing, showers of blessing we need Mercy drops round us our falling, but for the showers we plead. Amen, good thing. Thank you. Alright. A couple of things we did get this genealogies of Christ printed for you. That was from last week's lesson that uh I had planned to put this actually in your notes uh on the page that we were looking at it um but I didn't have it done in time when we printed the notes this was not done yet and so we printed it separately. I apologize but uh I did not get on here the credit for who designed this. This is not this is not me. This is directly out of a New Testament survey book, Jensen's survey of the New Testament, one of the books I use for study Uh and this was directly out of there. So if you want to make a note on the bottom over there, Jensen's New Testament survey uh is where that came from. Um just I don't want to call credit for it 'cause I didn't design it. It sh just took it right out of his book. Uh then this morning we're looking at uh Christ boyhood and I apologize we're kind of in transition here and Alicia was in town and I said hey I need you to get these notes printed for me and uh sent her the file but I forgot to tell her that she needed to change the page numbers. So I write these notes as a new set of notes every time and then it's page one through four right but we have to change the page numbers to be in sync with the lessons and so What you need to do is in the top, you know, write right change it from a one, two, three, four, change it to fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, uh so that it it's the correct numbers. I apologize about that. that it was I just didn't communicate to her that we gotta change the starting number so that it it would be in line with our our notes and what page number that we're on. Uh so that's her This allows the reader to at least get a glimpse into the character of this young man whose name was Jesus. We have the privilege, uh, and this morning we'll have the privilege of reading the first recorded words of Jesus here on earth. And so we're going to begin here first of all with a warning of an angel. The warning of an angel. And so I I think we're s gonna be by and large still in Matthew chapter number two to begin with here. So uh King Herod is concerned for his own throne. King Herod is desirous of uh protecting his throne, and uh the you know he heard about this boy named Jesus, this Messiah who was promised, and uh the prophets come in, the wise men they come in and and And you know, he asked them about this star from the east and what are we talking about and the prophecies that were in the Old Testament, uh these wise men knew what they were. They understood that hey the star foretells about this baby that's going to be born and it he is the Messiah and it says that he will uh set his people free and he's going to lead Matthew chapter 2, verses 5 and 6. And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. And thou, Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, art not the least among the princes of Judah? For out of thee shall come a governor that shall rule my people, Israel And so Herod is told this, and he's like, wait a minute, there's somebody else that's going to rule? No, not on my watch. I uh I'm gonna do what I have to do to protect my kingdom. And so he asked the wise men, listen, when you get there, could you please report back? Tell me where the Jews are in verse number 8. He says, and he sent them to Bethlehem. And he said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. Very deceptive. Desire to worship this child, but he wanted to know where he was so he could kill him. And they were uh motivated by what they knew, and when they saw this star, and of course the shepherds heard the announcements, uh they were willing to travel across a barren desert. and many, many miles to go and find or to see Jesus. But you know the dead, pharisaic, religious crowd That were in Jerusalem, which is just six to eight miles away, they couldn't be bothered to go see. These wise men who came from afar, they were motivated by the desire to see The Messiah, but the religious crowd, the crowd that should have known, the crowd that should have wanted to go see, they couldn't be bothered to go six miles to go see if it actually was the Messiah They they came and they told the king about it. They said, oh yeah, the prophet said this. It's going to be born in Bethlehem. We know that. Just six miles away. But they didn't bother to go look. No desire or ambition there to see Jesus. So we see that the wise men uh were counseled by the angel to not tell Herod where Jesus Jesus could be found. Uh in verse number twelve, Matthew two, verse number twelve, he says, and being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way. So the angel came and said, Hey, don't go tell Herod where Jesus is, and and so they departed another way, went to their own country when it was time for them to go home, and uh protected Jesus from Herod. Herod did not learn exactly where the child was, so he thought, well, he would just kill all the babies. I'm just going to kill all the babies that are two years old and under. Matthew chapter two and verse number sixteen. Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceedingly wroth, and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem. in all the coast thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men. So he had inquired of them the time, like when When was this baby born? When did the star appear? What is the time frame we're looking at? And according to that time that he had learned, he said, well, it's got to be within the last two years. So babies two years old and younger, uh, we're gonna kill them. Now it is estimated that at this time, uh people a lot smarter than me, and I'm not sure how they come up with these these numbers, but it is estimated that That Bethlehem had around a thousand uh people. That was the population of Bethlehem during this time. And so with a thousand people, they believe there could have been as few as two, but probably closer to twenty uh children under the age of two that Herod would have been responsible for killing in And uh so Herod was a very wicked man. He towards the end of his life, uh from secondary sources they know that Herod basically lost his mind. He uh pretty much went inside He actually had two of his own kids killed because he thought they wanted the throne. And so he killed two of his own children. Well, obviously one of his children are going to have the throne at some point when he dies, and one of his children does, uh, but he has two of his own children killed. He also had forty-two Jews burned alive because they removed the golden eagle from the front of the temple. So the Roman golden eagle, they removed this from the front of the temple. And uh he just lost it and went and had forty-two of them burned alive. Uh upon his deathbed he left a commission And so that's known, it's part of history who he was. But what I want you to know is that God just like God protected Moses in uh Egypt. When Satan came on the scene and said, hey, uh, I'm gonna destroy this young young baby, and here's how we're gonna do it, but God protected Moses And in the same way God protected Jesus here. God protected Moses from Pharaoh, protected Jesus from Herod, and God will protect you. God has a plan for you. What he wants you to do, and God will protect you if we are following his plan and living inside of his will. So the angel commanded Joseph to take Jesus down to Egypt in uh verses thirteen through fifteen in Matthew chapter number two. He says, and when they were departed, behold the angel The angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt. And be thou there until I bring thee word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. When he arose, he took the young child, his mother, by night, and departed unto Egypt, and was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son. So, beloved, here we have the The attempt to try and take Jesus' life forced Joseph to go to Egypt. But it also fulfilled what the prophets had said that up out of Egypt was going to come So you had to go down into Egypt to fulfill this, and that is Hosea 11, verse number one, that uh shows us that. And in your prophecies concerning the Messiah on this second Secondary sheet here, you have Hosea 11:1 being brought up out of Egypt. And so you want to mark down there Matthew 2, 14, and 15. fifteen, a fulfillment of what of what happened there. Mark that down. And I would encourage you in your Bible, in the margins of your Bible there to mark down that as well so that you have it so as you're reading you You'll be able to quickly reference that in those two passages. Hosea eleven one and Matthew two fourteen and fifteen, a fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy that Jesus Jesus would come up out of Egypt. And uh circumstances and situations, you know, you look at it and as a young baby, they would say, Well, he has no reason to be in Egypt. Why would he come up out of Egypt? Why would he go why would he even be going to Egypt? Well, ultimately what happened forced him to do that, but it Sometimes in your life God has you go through some things or takes you down a road or a path that maybe you don't understand, but it is ultimately in the fulfillment of what God wants to accomplish in your life. And this is where we learn to trust, trust Him. After the death of Herod, God told them to return, and they returned to their own country. They went to Nazareth, uh his hometown. In verses 19 through 20, but when Herod was dead, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth unto in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Arise and take the young child. and his mother, and go into the land of Israel, for they are dead, which sought the young child's life. And so they knew that uh Herod was gone and that the threat was over, and so they headed back home and they went to Nazareth. Uh it is estimated they were in Egypt less than a year, uh, as Herod was close to death when uh the when he was losing his mind and when he went to have these kids uh you know killed. Uh so they believe that he was in Egypt probably less than a year and then he headed uh towards Nazareth. Now we want to see the work of a child. Mary and Joseph returned to Nazareth, Matthew 21 and 2023. So I want to show you a map here just so you can get these things in your in your mind of where these things are located. Um Gus has to switch all of the uh screens to get us to the map. You have a map for me, Gus. So I apologize. This is if we could turn the screens and then open Can't read it. I can't read it. Um glasses don't help. Uh so you have Jerusalem right in here, six miles below Jerusalem. This right here is Bethlehem. Okay? It's six miles from Jerusalem, just below. Is that make sense? Can you see it? Alright, now they went to Nazareth. Does anybody know what region Nazareth was found in? Jacob Galilee. It was found in Galilee, Nazareth of Galilee. Just like we're in Baltimore. of Maryland. They you know the region that Nazareth was in is in Galilee. So you have up top here the Sea of Galilee. This is the Sea of Galilee. Jordan River flows right down through here. So this purple region right here is Galilee and Nazareth. I can't read it, but. But I believe it's right right in here somewhere. Uh it's it's marked on there, but right in that region there is is Nazareth. Now Jerusalem was six miles from Bethlehem. They're just right below each other. But from Bethlehem or Jerusalem to Nazareth is about 80, 88 miles. Miles. Um and however, can you give me the next map? They fled to Egypt. Okay, so we have here the Dead Sea, and this map is Very small. All the way up here, the Sea of Galilee, right on the edge of this picture here, the Sea of Galilee. So you know can you read it does that say Jerusalem right there? I can't read it. That's Jerusalem right there. So we know Bethlehem's just under that, right? This is current. This is Google Earth. on Friday. Okay? Uh that's when I when I grab this picture from there. Um so you have Jerusalem and just below that is Bethlehem as of today, right now. And you know, here's the Sea of Galilee, so you know Nazareth is right up here, that's current today, right up next to the Sea of Galilee. But what they did is they fled to Egypt. Okay, currently right now this is uh can you see Cairo? It's right here along this edge right here. Is it right here or a little higher? I think it's right I think it's right around here is Cairo. That's the edge of Egypt. So you have uh well to the left, right here it is. on the edge this edge here so Cairo right here on the edge here and the Nile River If I zoomed out a long ways, you would see this green line goes all the way down down here through all this desert. There's desert on both sides. And the Nile River flows right down through all of that. And it flows right up along the edge of this green space right here. So this is the Nile, which you know marks the edge of Egypt. So this is Egypt, and uh they fled from here to there. Okay, so it is estimated between three to four hundred miles for their trip to go back to Nazareth. You need to remember that all of these trips are taken probably on foot, maybe with a donkey, but it's not like On Wednesday night, I got in a car and drove 900 miles. You know, it's not it's not like that. Uh traveling was quite an event uh during this time. And so they make this trip somewhere between three to four hundred miles, depending upon where they were at in Egypt, to get back home. Now Nazareth is estimated to be to be between five hundred and two hundred two thousand people as far as the size of their hometown. And Jesus grew and developed as a normal child. In uh Luke chapter two, in verse number forty. Let me read that for you. It describes uh his development and we're gonna look at this a couple of couple of times but this is why I put the scripture right in my notes because I I turn slow. Uh drives my wife nuts. Luke chapter 2 and verse number 40 uh says And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. and save my sp spa space there. Uh so we we see him growing. He would have been educated by Mary, you know, grew up in the home uh and was taught and mom would have been Teaching him on a day-to-day basis as far as education. Of course, his stepfather, adopted father Joseph, would have been teaching him the trade of carpentry. And And you know, giving him those skills and raising him and teaching those things. His ministry, of course, the ministry of Jesus didn't start until he was thirty, but during this boyhood years We get a picture of who he was. Proverbs chapter twenty and verse number eleven says, Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure or whether it be right. And so we get to know a little bit about Jesus and who he was as a child with a few of these glimpses we get into his boyhood, his childhood here. We see that he developed and he grew, that he was strong in spirit. He was strong in spirit. He had a good spirit about him. That he increased in wisdom continually. And that the grace of God was upon him. God's grace was on him. Even as a child, it was evident. People recognized and they saw that. Jesus was also the Son of God. Not only was the you know, the son of Mary and his adopted father Joseph, but he was the son of God, and that means that he had his father's nature, not Joseph's nature. The Bible says, and he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my father's business? And he was not talking about Joseph's business. Joseph's business was the uh art of craftsmanship, the work with his hands. the trade of carpentry. But his father, his heavenly father, uh is the business that he was supposed to be out. So he was the son of God as well. And uh you can see that again in John two. two sixteen. But Jesus goes to Jerusalem for the Passover at twelve years old in Luke chapter two verses forty one through fifty. Remembering, beloved, this is about an eighty mile or as much as eighty So about a eighty mile journey, uh very likely completed on foot. Joseph and Mary are there. Uh the trips during that time were taken with large groups of people because it was much safer to travel in a caravan, much safer to travel with a number of people uh to keep From being robbed or beaten on the road, uh highways, and so they had a large group of family and friends. They go down for the Passover, everything goes well, the big large group gathers together and they start home. Joseph and Mary started home without Jesus. In Luke 2, 43 and 45, he says, and when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother knew not of it. But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey And they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintances. They they they went a day's journey. They all loaded up and had started heading home. And they just assumed Joseph was in the group. Joseph's probably hanging out with his friends. He's running down by the river or whatever. We're all heading back home. And I imagine when it got to be late, when the end of that day came it's time to have supper or time to go to bed and they're probably like, Well, where's Joseph? And they start digging around and looking and find out, oh I'm sorry, you said Joseph, where's Jesus? Where's Jesus? And they're looking for him and they can't find him And they find out, oh no, he's not here. What's amazing is they go back to Jerusalem and it takes them two days to find him. That's what the Bible says. It took him two days to find him. Now, in Pastor Starr, this is Dr. Starr's book on the beginning of Christ's life and ministry, he asks this question. He says, Have you ever headed anywhere without Jesus? Joseph and Mary headed home without Jesus. They didn't realize that he wasn't there. But you know, beloved, as Christians, we know that Jesus lives in our heart and And in practicality, he is always with us. In reality, he's always with us. But beloved, have you l have you gone on a journey or uh pursued an endeavor or been involved in something in your life where you left Jesus out? Or you didn't really want him to be with you, or you didn't really want his input in that decision. We need to remember that as Christians, he's always with us, and we We need to yield and submit to His will in our lives. Now, after three days, they find Jesus in the temple, Luke 2, 46. So they they were a day's journey away, but then in Luke chapter two and verse number forty six says, And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors. both hearing them and asking them questions. Now I'm assuming that the three days would include the day's journey that they went away, and that's why I said it took them two days to find Jesus. Because I'm assuming that includes the day that they were traveling away, they turned around and came back. If it doesn't include the day, then it took them three days. Uh Jerusalem can't be that big at this time. I'm not sure. They they must have been running all over the uh area talking to everybody they thought Jesus might know, stopping at their friends' houses and and people that they knew and and just looking all over for him, but ultimately we know they find him in the temple doing the work of his father. And we read that verse already. Luke 2, 46 and 49. Those who hear him are astonished at his understanding. I've given you a list of references there continually through The New Testament, when Jesus spoke, people were astonished at His wisdom, astonished at His understanding. And He He even here at twelve years old, people were astonished. Astonished at his understanding. At twelve years old, we have the first recorded words of Jesus. We read these in Luke 2, verse number 49. If you have a Bible that's a red letter edition, these are the first words written in red in your Bible. These are the first recorded words of your letter And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wis ye not that I must be about my father's business? Beloved, even at twelve years old, he understood the purpose for his life. He understood that he had a mission given to him by his heavenly father. He had a job to do, a responsibility to do. And let me just encourage you that have parents to understand that children, even at a young age, can understand that God is and should be directing their life. that they can begin to, even at a young age, even as early as twelve or earlier, they can begin to understand that God has a plan for them and they need to submit their life to God's plan and allow that to work out in their life and fulfill God's will, not their own will. And I'll tell you, the sooner you begin to teach them that, and the sooner they begin to understand that, the easier it will be. You're not going to take an 18-year-old and tell them, hey, you need to stop living for yourself. You need to start living for God That's not going to happen. You got to start them out young with that pursuit and that understanding. Jesus understood he had a job to do even at twelve years old. Jesus, even though he knew he had a job to do for his father, that would be his heavenly father, and he was sensitive to his heavenly father's will, he also understood part of that was to be in subjection to his own parents here on earth. And so we see in Luke 2, 49, and he said unto them, well we read this already, but in verse 50, and he understood not the sayings which he spake unto them. And And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them. So he was subject unto them. You know, Joseph, I can imagine. He was not God in the flesh. He was not Jesus, okay? Uh and uh brother Brother Greg likes to say when he paints a car and people are like, that's not perfect. He's like Jesus Jesus didn't paint that car, I did. Uh only Jesus is the one that does it perfect, okay? Uh and the thing is, is I can imagine Joseph and Mary, after three days of looking for Jesus, when they found him in the temple, they were probably not happy campers. They were probably, you know, it's kind of like you're ready to kill him, but then he's doing the right thing, and you're almost like, well, I can't kill him for being in the tank That he was the Messiah, that he was going to save his people from their sins. They understood that they were caretakers of the child of God, but they said, Listen, I know you have a job to do But we were a day's journey home. We were on our way home and and we had to come all the way back just for you. I'm sure they were fit to be tied and and frustrated and they said, let's go. We have got to go back home. And Jesus Jesus submitted to that and said, okay, and followed them. Even though he knew he had something to do for his heavenly father, part of that was being in obedience. Obedience to and honoring his mother and father here on earth, and we see that Jesus did that because we know Jesus was without sin. So Jesus follows Mary and Joseph back home to Nazareth in subjection to his earthly parents. Jesus continues to grow. We see in Luke 2. 52 there. And Jesus in the Naz Increase in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. Now, in your uh prophecy fulfillment here, Sheet, this is the next like and we see in Luke 2. 52 uh a fulfillment of that. Those verses read very similar in their description of Jesus. So you want to write that down Luke 2. 52. And again, I would encourage you to mark in your Bible those passages so that you have them for future reference. Right when you're reading the Word of God. Now, a couple of things. Jesus continues to grow. He grows in wisdom. That is mental maturity. It is believed that Jesus spoke at least three languages. Uh he was found reading the Hebrew Bible. He communicated to and spoke with Greek leaders and people which obviously during this time communicated and spoke uh that Greek tongue and uh he also understood and communicated in Aramaic. So Talk about growing in wisdom, this mental maturity. Uh he spoke at least three languages. He grew in stature, that is physical maturity. So his physical maturity, we see he grew in stature. He didn't just stay a little kid and he wasn't born a full-grown man. He grew like a normal human being and and And he grew in physical maturity. He grew in favor with God. That is his spiritual maturity. You know, Christian, we're supposed to continually grow in spirit. Spiritual maturity. Grow in the knowledge of God. As Christians, we're supposed to be spiritually mature and continue to continuing in that path and Jesus being the example for us grew in favor with God, spiritual maturity, and he grew in favor with man, that is social maturity. You know, uh we've got to learn how to get along with other people. We've got to learn how to interact socially and uh be able to adapt. Sometimes you might not get your way. Sometimes you might find you need to adjust your spirit or your demeanor so that you can get along with other people. It's not a right spirit to just say, well, that's who I am. They can like it or lump it. Okay, well, you're gonna be a bitter, angry old man or woman, and you'll be all by yourself. And you're gonna hate the world for it and it's gonna be everybody else's fault that you're alone. But when the real fact of the matter is, is it's your own fault. Because you didn't learn how to get along with other people. You didn't learn Learn how to adjust and adapt. Jesus grew in favor with man. Are you growing in favor with man? Are you learning how to adapt and get along with other people as we see here with Jesus? So this is Christ's boyhood. Next week we will be looking at his baptism and the beginning of his ministry. And that, of course, takes us into the heart of the life of Christ. And uh the stories that take place again, remember we're looking at the gospels in a synoptic fashion. That is not just taking Matthew by itself or Luke by itself, but we're looking at, you know uh Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John in their whole as they communicate to us the life of Christ. And so we'll pick up with his baptism next week. Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school for this lesson and what we We can glean about the boyhood of Jesus, getting some glimpse of who this young man was, who was all God, but was all man and uh grew up and uh followed and did your will. And Lord I pray That we would do your will as well, what your will is for us. Be with the morning service in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.