People following him. The many people are gathered around. And anytime the people around Christ takes that opportunity to minister to them, to teach them. to try and instruct them, even though he understands their motive. We get to the seventh sermon uh where he teaches Christ is the bread of life. And uh he This seventh sermon has really kind of been well established, understood to be a dividing line or the markation line for where we transfer, move into the third year of Christ's ministry. Uh Christ's ministry we know is three years a little bit over, but about three years that he ministered. Uh and uh so this is kind of the point where we switch into the third year. Now you also remember that uh Christ's second year was the pinnacle of his uh popularity. During his second year everybody I mean it was like he he was could do no wrong. Everybody loved him. People came in throngs and and gathered around him and and that his popularity grew and grew and grew. But now as we move into the third year, we approach the point where this year has been titled or called the year of opposition Because his popularity begins to wane, he gets more and more uh opposition, more and more people against him, till ultimately he comes to the place where they're calling for his crucifixion. And uh he is crucified. And so we're entering that now, this third year, this year of opposition, and it opens up here with his seventh sermon on the bread of life in uh John chapter 6, beginning in verse number 26. So we see here that uh Jesus uh gives to the us first of all his motive, the motive of this crowd was made very clear in verse number 26. Jesus answering them and said, Verily, verily I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat the loaves and were filled. You see, they just had the feeding of the 5,000. He says, now you you all have kept following me. You're here and you're with me. Not because you seek the miracles, not because you want to be with me. as Jesus, but because uh you you were fed. And you know, we need to consider or think about our motives sometimes Uh why is it that we are followers of Christ? Is it because he is the great physician and we know he heals? And is it because he meets our needs? My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Or is it because he is the savior of your soul and that you love him and you desire and want to follow him? What is the motive? Christ knows the motive of These that are following him, and he says, hey, you you have an ulterior motive. Now this Christ still seizes the opportunity to instruct them. So he gives them a message that was made critical in verses 27 through 29. teaching them that there's a difference between meat that perishes and meat that persists. And so he says here in verse number 27, labor not for the meat which perisheth. But for that which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of Man shall give unto you, for he For him hath God the Father sealed. They had meat, of course, this meat we can eat here on earth and take physical food, but that's perished. It's going to pass away. We're going to be hungry again. But there is the bread of life, that meat that doesn't perish. And this is what he was instructing them, teaching them about. And the Jews of course seeking, longing, looking for a sign, they ask him about that and they compare him. They're talking to him about this and the miracles he's going to do and they say, you know, hey, will you do a miracle like Moses did? You know, there Moses gave them bread, manna in the wilderness. So it was compared unto Moses in verse number 30. He says, They said therefore unto him, What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? What doest Thou work. Our fathers did eat manna in the desert, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Now that he there eat there they're talking about Moses. They said, you know, hey, Moses did this. Of course, being Jews and readers of the uh La Law, they would have understood that. They would have realized that, but they they Missed it because it wasn't Moses who did it. And Jesus points that out to him that the manna came from God. The manna came from God, as did the bread of life. In verse number thirty-two, then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven, but my father giveth you the true bread. from heaven. Hey they didn't realize or they were attributing what was happening there to Moses. And you know sometimes that happens in a church. It really is a unique position that a pastor gets, and no pastor should take it lightly. I count it a great privilege to be able to instruct you, to impact you on a spiritual level. that God would change your heart, that God would do something miraculous in your life. What a privilege it is to to be able to do that. I mean, just the the the awesome uh responsibility of it is amazing. But a lot of times what happens is the people begin to attribute that transformation in their life, that working of God in their life to the pastor. And we've got to remember it's not the pastor. It's God. And we've got to keep our eyes on him. The reason that so many people uh get blown out spiritually or they they run from God when their man of God messes up is because they were looking at the man instead of looking at the the master. So we gotta be careful and realize that when God does something in our heart, remembering, hey, praise God, and and I will be the first to tell you, like you you expressed to me, man, that message really impacted me. Praise the Lord. I I'm thrilled And it's meaningful to me to know that he used it that way. But uh we need to remember it's not the pastor, it's God. And we need to look at him and don't don't uh attribute that they were saying, hey, Moses did this But it wasn't Moses, it was God that did it. Jesus is the bread of life in verse number thirty five. And Jesus saith unto them, I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall never hunger, and he that believeth on me shall Never thirst. Just like God gave the Israelites manna from heaven, water from the rock in the wilderness that saved them from perishing physically Jesus hears declaring to them, I am the bread of life. This is what is going to save you from perishing spiritually. Spiritually. You have to partake that. Just like the person who does not eat in a number of days at some point is going to die physically. You don't take in water, you're going to die. Those that have not taken of the bread of life, the Bible says they're dead already in their trespasses and sin. They have not been made alive in Jesus Christ. And we've taught on that because we're all born dead in our trespasses and sin, and that it's only when we have a new birth, we're born again in Jesus Christ, that we're made alive. There's a lot of doctrine right there, and I hope you have an understanding of that already. Because we've got to keep moving here. But we see here Christ's eighth sermon. You can turn to the book of Matthew for that one. We're going to turn to Matthew chapter number 15. So we have Christ's eighth sermon here, the eating with unwashed hands in Matthew chapter 18. The Pharisees were at it again. They were accusing Jesus. They were always trying to find a way to trip up Jesus Always trying to find a way to trick him, to uh catch him in in a way that they could say, oh look at that, you've done wrong. Uh they obviously failed over and over and over again, but that was their desire. So we see in Matthew chapter fifteen, beginning in verse number one, then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees were in Jerusalem saying Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. Okay, so they were coming to him and saying, oh, look, we found something that you're doing wrong. Your disciples are doing wrong. They were concerned about tradition. They were concerned not with cleanliness, not with doing good or doing right. They were overly concerned about tradition. Five times in the book of Mark, this story that takes place in the book of Mark, the word tradition is used. It only appears 13 times in the whole Bible And five of them are with this story in the book of Mark. There was an over-emphasis on tradition. They were very concerned about that, about tradition. instead of upholding truth. And we've got to be careful about that too, because we like our traditions, don't we? Boy, we enjoy our traditions. I've had people in the church here get mad at me because I changed something that they felt was tradition. You know, like we have to do this. And I can't believe you didn't do this on this day. My spirituality is not dictated on whether I observe that tradition or not. And and we've got to be careful, and I know sometimes traditions are special, and there's nothing wrong or sinful with traditions, but when we elevate them to the point of truth. That's wrong. There are some traditions that Christendom has adopted that aren't even rooted in truth. They come from the Catholic Church And a lot of people are holding to those traditions that aren't even found in the Bible. And yet those traditions are as important or more important than what the Word of God says. And Jesus here tells him, listen, you've got a problem when you're focusing on tradition instead of focusing on the truth. Look at verse number 9, chapter 15 and verse number 9. But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. They said, You are teaching for doctrine, saying this is what God said, the commandments of men. And there is nothing wrong with instruction, there is nothing wrong with giving guidance or even having a tradition. But when we elevate it to the point of truth or when we elevate it to the point of doctrine as it comes from God and saying this is what you have to do, then there is something wrong with that. Of the thirteen times that the word tradition is found in the Bible All but two of them are warning against traditions. That oughta put a warning in our head, something like, hey This is something that as God's people we've got to guard against because, you know, just like the Jews were always looking for a sign, they they wanted something visible. uh we tend to gravitate towards those things, those things that are visible, those things that are tangible, those things that we can we can do. And and sometimes religious ceremonies uh get elevated to that point. of tradition. It was started just because they were trying to have a special service and then all of a sudden now this is the way we do it and then all of a sudden that becomes like if it was Bible, like that's what you have to do. And uh that's certainly not what we want to hold up. We want to hold up the word of God and always we can only be dogmatic where the word of God is dogmatic. So Christ goes on to begin to teach them that the defilement is from the heart, not the hands. They were not concerned about defilement. They were concerned about upholding tradition But that's what they were im implying. And so he says, Hey, the defilement's from the heart, not the hands, in verse number nineteen. He says, For out of the heart proceedeth evil thoughts, murders, adulterous, fornication, thefts, false witness, blasphemies These are the things which defile a man. But to eat with unwashed hands defileth not a man. Well maybe I mean it's a good thing to wash your hands before you eat. That's it's probably a good thing, but it's not gonna defile you on a spiritual level, which is what they were implying. You know, you know, I wouldn't do it, but But you want to eat? You know, I I have seen uh there's some things that are just gross, right? Um but you you get used to it if that's what you do every day. And I have seen the guy that works on our septic tank, he pumps our pumps out our septic. I have seen working there on the septic, pumping it out and all that, and then go grab a sandwich out of his truck. N not washing his hands, nothing. You know, I'm like, oh my soul, I could not do that. Uh he might have got a little defiled by that sandwich. I don't I don't know Uh, but you know, I I've been digging a ditch before and like man God made dirt, dirt don't hurt, you know, it's just dirt, right? So you just eat a sandwich because you're out there working. I've done that. I'm not sure I would do it with a septic tank though Uh, that was I I couldn't believe it. He's like, ah, it's not a big deal, you know, you get used to it. I'm like, you you probably got a strong immune system, buddy. Uh yeah. So Christ teaches that true defilement comes from what's in in the heart, not just what people partake in of in their hands in that regard. So don't turn uh You guys are in Matthew, right? Okay, we're going to continue on. Stay in Matthew here. Verses 21 to 28, we see Christ's 20th miracle, the healing of a demon-possessed girl. We see in verse number 21 that Jesus goes to uh Tyra and Sidon. Then Jesus went thence and departed unto the coast of Tyra and Sidon. And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed. with a devil. So this Canaanite woman cried out for mercy, for her daughter was vexed. Her daughter was demon possessed and she was looking for some help. Jesus tests her with a challenging statement. And as you read this, some may be even taking back. We see this in verse number 26. Jesus says, but he answered and he said, It is not meat to take the children's bread and cast it to dogs. He looked at her and said, You know what? It's not meat to take the children's bread and cast it to dogs. Now, this is a test of her faith. And he is not expressing his feelings towards her. He is expressing the common uh uh perception in society in that day because she was a Canaanite woman. They were God was very clear to give that to us up front. And he was a Jew. And as a Jew, he was a child of God. He was God's chosen people. And so he's saying it's not it's not meat, it's not profitable for the bread that was meant for the children to be taken and given to the dog. You're not going to give it to the dog. And in society, the Jews looked at Gentiles as dogs. They were often called Gentile dogs And so Jesus was not expressing his sentiment, but he was expressing the sentiment of society as a whole. And he says, it's not meat for us to take that which was meant for the children and given it to the dogs. And you talk about a test of your faith. You know, we try and be very careful and in every way not to be offensive when we're giving the gospel to somebody. But Jesus challenged them to see what her true thoughts were. Most people today, you say anything a little bit offensive. I mean you call somebody a dog today. They would be like, well, you know, forget you. Who cares about you? Whatever. They would they would go off. But you see, this lady ha knew she had a need and she knew she had come to the right place to have the need met And what Jesus said did not faze her at all. She is unfazed by the comment which Jesus makes, but seeks to have even just a small blessing from the master's table in verse number 27. She says, and she said, truth, Lord, truth. I I agree with you. But yet the dogs eat the crumbs which fall from the master's table. She's saying, Lord, I I'm not asking for the bread, but uh just like the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the table, if there was just a little bit, if you could just Bless me even the smallest amount. I know that would heal my daughter. And I have a need. And Jesus sees and rewards her faith. And her daughter is healed in verse number twenty-eight. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith. Be it unto thee even as thou wilt. So Jesus rewards her faith up front, uh blesses her there. Then we see the 21st miracle. Now this I don't want you to turn to because we're not going to be there very long. You're going to stay in Matthew. We're going to come right back to that. We're going to be at the feet of the 4,000 in a second. But we jump over to Mark and we see the healing of a deaf man. And uh this this happens here quit but this deaf man he he's uh has a speech impediment and uh comes and he's seeking for uh healing and Jesus touches him. He's healed. He reaches out and he touches him. And uh I think of that song, oh he touched me. Have you been touched by the master? As he healed you, I hope spiritually, but That work that God does is not something you can manif manufacture up yourself. You can't just make it happen. You can't just turn over a new leaf. It takes the touch of the master. This blind man Needed, he he he had a speech impediment, you know, could not hardly communicate, yet he was healed when the master touched him. And uh oh, how we need to long for the Master's touch. Be willing to wait until he touches us. That touch of the Master is what uh brings about that internal change in in our lives and it's not something we can make happen on our own. We need to be touched by Him. In when all the people saw that, uh they were amazed at what Christ had done, the miracles that he had performed there in Mark. Now we're back in Matthew chapter 15, looking at verse number 32. We see his 22nd miracle, the feeding of the 4,000. uh with their families with uh this is four thousand men and then includes their wives and and children and you know how many other people uh may have been there, but the feeding of the four thousand men. After three days of miracles, uh many, many people were healed. The people are following him. Christ oftentimes can't get alone. The crowds just continue to press him. But they're there and Christ has moved with compassion. In chapter 15, verse number 30. And a great multitude came unto him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet, and he healed them. Insomuch that the multitude wondered when they saw the dumb to speak and the maimed to be whole and the lame to walk and the blind to see, and they glorified the God of Israel. Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and he said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat. Three days. I had somebody call me this week asking about making a decision in their life, a major, major decision, and what what should I do? And I said, well, when you're making a decision of that magnitude, of that much importance, you know, uh the Bible talks about praying and fasting. How committed are you to getting the mind of Jesus, to getting the mind of God? And these people stayed with him for three days. without food. He says, boy, they they're getting hungry. They've been three days without anything to eat, and we need to do something for them. Jesus desires to feed them lest they faint. Lest they faint The Bible tells us here that there are 4,000 men and their families. In verse number 38, he says, and they did eat were 4,000 men, besides women and children. So that gives us four thousand men. If you have wives, that's eight thousand uh children It's twelve thousand, you know, maybe maybe a few more, maybe a few less. Don't know that every man had a wife. Uh don't know that every couple had a child, but a lot of children a lot of families probably had more than one. Uh this certainly was a time when large families were were the norm. Um and you know a congregation grows pretty quick when when And families have seven, eight, nine, ten kids. Uh that makes you you know, we had a two families in Kansas uh that had ten children. in our church there. I mean that's that's twenty four people. When they showed up for church you got twenty four people already, you know just them. Uh and so what I'm saying we don't know exactly but you're talking about somewhere around twelve thousand people People that uh were were fed here and uh God did it in a miraculous way. Now I'm just making note 'cause there's been some question through the years, or this is the same thing and maybe a conflict of You know, before they said there was 5,000, now there's only 4,000, but these are completely different events. There's not a contradiction here. They are both very, very different events, and I've given you the contrast there. When Jesus fed the 5,000, it was mostly Jews, opposed to here, where it's mostly Gentiles. Uh the location was different. The 5,000 was near Galilee. Uh the 4,000 is near Decapolis. Uh this people were with him when he did the 5,000 with him for one day, and here the people have been with him for three days The five thousand was five loaves and two fish, opposed to seven loaves and a few fish. Uh and then the five thousand there was twelve baskets left over, and the four thousand there was only seven baskets. So it's definitely two separate, completely distinct events that are found in the Bible there. Then we see Christ's 23rd miracle, the healing, uh healing a blind man. Uh in Bethesda, this blind man is brought to him. And uh this we do need to turn to Mark for uh To see. Yeah, let's go ahead and do that. I think we're done in Matthew right there. You can turn to Mark chapter 8. Verses 22 to 26 is where the story takes place. He said, and he came to Bethesda, and they bring him a blind man unto him and besought him to touch him. And he took the blind man by the hand and led him out of the town, and when he had spit on his eyes and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw aught And he looked up and he said, I see men as trees walking. So he could see, but they were just Like these large gangly figures. They they they they weren't distinctive. They couldn't make it out. Uh we have some people in our church that are uh very uh their their eyesight has deteriorated substantially and uh you need to get pretty close to them and I don't want to call anybody out but you know sometimes when I start talking before I get up close They're not sure who I am and they're like, Oh, Pastor, good to see you. Uh takes just a minute because their their eyes and I think about that this boy this man could see a little bit and he probably was very pleased But Jesus said, you know, can you see? And he said, well, I see a little bit. And I often wonder because God has a reason for everything. I mean there's many people that God healed and he never even saw. He healed them from 15 miles away. And then there's people that he healed because he touched. And immediately they were healed, completely. So why is it that this man, Jesus, touched him and he was healed? And the man said, Well, I can see as trees walking. I can see, but not completely. And I wonder if it's not just to see if he would be persistent. If he would just be content with that, or if he would be like, I can see a little bit, but boy, sure would be nice to just go ahead and You know, get the cataracts done. Let's let's get it fixed all the way. But persistence, can coming back to him. And we are taught that throughout the Bible, that when we come to the Lord for for prayer and to to ask of him that we're to do so with importunity. That is to keep on coming. And so Jesus asked him, Can you see? And he says, well a little bit, and Jesus says, well let's fix that. So he touches him a second time. And it's only when Jesus touches him the second time that the man is completely healed. So a miraculous thing there, I don't know for exactly why. I just think it's interesting that, you know, sometimes Jesus healed people from a distance, never touched them at all. Sometimes Jesus touched them. Sometimes he made up a you know uh a little bit of mud or dirt and you know spit on it and other times he uh di did different things but you know here he touched him and didn't heal them all away at once but just chose to have him answer a question and then healed him the rest of the way. So we see some questions concerning Jesus that arise. We're going to turn to the book of John for this. You can turn to John chapter number seven. And uh uh John's kind of the outlier here. John uh this these questions that were arisen here came up in John, and then we'll see in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, there's there's somebody else that had some questions, and we're going to see some things in between that. But these questions arose in John chapter number seven. I'm in chapter 1. Let me move to 7 here. After these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for he would not walk uh Let me see here. Just want to see how far I want to get Let's start so let's just look here at verse number two. Now the Jews, uh the feast of the tabernacles was at hand. So we know that this is the time frame that the Feast of the Tabernacle was there and the Jews came to him. Now some were disputing who he was. Jump down to verse number 12. He says, and there was much murmuring among the people concerning him. For some said he is a good man, others said, nay, but he deceiveth the people. Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews, now about the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters having never learned. So there was some murmuring concerning Jesus. Some thought he was a good man. Some thought he was a deceiver. That he deceived the people. Some thought that he was a lawbreaker. Verses 19 through 25. Some thought he was a prophet. Down in verse number 40, we see they declare him to be a prophet. Some thought he was a Messiah in verse number 41. This is important because what you believe about Jesus Christ is foundational to Christianity. You can't believe Jesus was a prophet, just a prophet. And know him as Savior, and believe that he's going to take you to heaven when you die, he has to be God. He has to have been born of a virgin. He has to have lived a sinless life He has to have been the Messiah, not just a teacher, not just a good man And certainly not a deceiver. So what you believe about Jesus is really critical. And Jesus, of course, talking to these, instructing them on who he was And we'll see the other questions in the other ones in just a moment, but we see Christ's ninth sermon in John chapter number 8. You can move there, John chapter number 8. The Jews claim to be of Abraham and therefore not in bondage at all. Jesus here talking about the truth and how the truth will set you free. And uh the Jews have a problem with that. Look in verse 8, verse number 33. Then answered him, We be Abraham's seed. And we are never in bondage to any man. How sayest thou, ye shall be made free? They had a problem. Jesus said, Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. And they're like, hey, we're of Abraham. We've never been in bondage. We're free. We've been free. Why say you we will be set free? They had an issue with that. But Christ tells them that, listen, you're not of Abraham, you're of your father the devil, down in verse number 44. And I'm sure the Jews really like that. He says, And ye are of your father the devil, and the lust of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him And uh Jesus trying to get them to see it's not your earthly father, it's not your heritage or your lineage here on earth. And beloved The same thing is true in the church. It's not you're not Christian because your dad was a Christian or because you went to church every day. You only become a Christian because you put your faith and trust in Christ, because he saved your soul personally. There there are no second generation Christians in the regard of the fact that you're just born into the family of God. You're not, uh as far as physically. You have to have spiritually born into the family of God by putting your faith and trust in Christ. Jesus is trying to get them to understand that that you're of your father the devil in the aspect that we are all born with a sin nature. And so trying to get the Jews to see this truth And uh it was hard for them. They didn't like it at all. But he tells them that before Abraham was, I am, in verse number 58. The Jews didn't like it and they tried to stone him. But uh Jesus miraculously hid himself. Look in verse number 59. Then took they up stones to cast at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them. And so passed by. These guys picked up stones and were ready to stone them, and they're like, where'd he go? The Bible says Jesus passed out through the midst of them. They're they're looking where oh man he got out of here while I was getting a stone, you know, and they they had gone, but Jesus like a it's not time yet. The time will come, but it's not time yet. And so Jesus passes out through the midst of them. I don't we we move on now. We do need to look at chapter number nine where we see uh Christ's miracle of healing of man born blind. Uh Jesus heals a lot of blind people. Yeah, I don't think it's a coincidence that immediately after the Jews tried to stone him, uh, that he is healing a man that's born blind. Uh The Jews were willingly blind. They chose to not see the truth. And Jesus illustrating here and teaching them That spiritual blindness is of utmost importance, even beyond physical blindness. So we see the purpose why Jesus is doing this here in John chapter 9, verses 1. Just read, and Jesus passed by and saw a man which was blind from his birth. And and his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither hath this man. So Jesus teaching that This was not a result of sin, but the reason was a spiritual reason that the works of God would be manifest. Uh he teaches that all men are born spiritually blind. and that they need Jesus Christ. Listen, just like the physical, somebody who physically blind can't see the sun, S-U-N. Somebody spiritually blind can't see the sun. S O N. They can't see the sun because they're blinded to it. The absence of light for a man who is physically blind make puts him in a space of danger, always in that space of danger because he can't see the danger that's coming. It also Causes them to miss a lot of the delight that you and I get to behold on a beautiful day like today because they're physically blind, they can't see those things. And beloved, those that are spiritually blind that cannot see the SON, the sun, they are in danger and they have no idea. The ultimate cost of the sin that is pulling them down is going to send them to a place called hell, but they don't even see it because they're spiritually blind. The Bible says their eyes have been darkened. And they don't get to experience the delight of a new birth, the delight of all that we have in Jesus Christ, the new life in Christ, the abundant life that God gives us. And until their eyes are opened, until they're willing to allow the sun to heal them, they remain spiritually blind. The purpose here was that men would see their need and that the works of God would be manifest. You know, it is also the same thing, a miraculous thing, that the works of God are manifest in us. The spiritual work that's done inside of each one of us as he saves us. We see his provision in verses 6 and 7. The blind man's sight is restored, and the man's life is changed. The who is what's important here, not the what, and I mean the methodology, how Jesus goes about this. There was no heal, this is where Jesus made the spittle and put it together and put it on his eyes. There was no healing stab in the spittle that Jesus used It's just another method that Christ used, but who did the healing is what was most important. We see ultimately this man's persuasion in verse number 25. Look in verse number twenty-five. And he answered and he said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not One thing I know, whereas I was blind, now I see. And this this story, I love this story, it's a powerful story, and I don't have time to uh dig into it too far, but you know the debate they they came and they were talking about the sin and whose sin was it and whose fault was it and why did he get healed and And uh, you know, ultimately the blind man says, listen, I I don't know about all that, but what I do know is unquestionably I was blind and now I see. And you know, many times you might not know all the doctrine or the theology behind certain things. You might not be able to go to chapter and verse. And people ask you about your faith, and you might not be able to say, well, in in John chapter 7 or in Revelation chapter 9, you know, but what you can do is you can tell them, hey, what I know Is I was blind but now I see. What I know is that I was lost and now I'm on my way to heaven. I was I was I had a sin debt and now my debt has been paid. The burden of sin has been lifted off my shoulders. You can tell them your experience and what happened to you in a very powerful way because it's undeniable truth in your heart what God did. I need to uh close it. Let's let me just give you quickly here Christ's tenth sermon. And I want to throw this out because we're going to be talking about this a little bit this morning in the morning's message. We see the Good Shepherd in John chapter 10. We're not going to take time to read all this. But we see several things here. The Good Shepherd knows his sheep. He leads his sheep. He talks with his sheep. The Good Shepherd saves his sheep. The Good Shepherd ultimately we know that he died for his sheep, and the Good Shepherd unites his sheep. And we're going to be talking about the aspect of of The Good Shepherd here in the morning service. So I wanted to get to that before we uh close today, but we are out of time. So let me pray and we'll be done. Uh well this morning we are looking at uh of course the New Testament. We began last week with this current set of notes, which Which brings us into Christ's third year of ministry, the year of opposition. And we're just walking through the events which took place during this time. Now Last week we mentioned the idea about the questions and concerning the questions concerning Jesus and The questions uh began in the book of John. It feels a little bit loud, like I can't raise my voice. So we turn down just a little bit. That way I can have a little bit of room. I'm trying to get quiet so that I don't Get too loud. Alright, so that's probably better. Um the questions found in the book of John. Now we covered this last week, but it began with this idea of questioning concerning Jesus. Okay? And so We talked about some of the intermeeting things, but we also we pick up this morning about the questions that were not found in John, but they are found in the book of Matthew. So turn to Matthew chapter 16. And this is found in several of the Gospels. We're going to look in Matthew 16, Matthew 16, about the questions concerning Jesus. You know, this has been a question since the beginning of time, since Christ came, until today. It's still a debate. It's still a question what people think about Jesus. But do you understand that the very fact that this is still a question some two thousand years later ought to really lend some great credibility to the fact that Jesus was who he said he was, he is the Messiah, he is God in the flesh. I mean There for two thousand years plus people been debating uh this, that that argument has continued to plague the hearts and minds of men, and the very fact that it has continued this long lends credibility to the statements of Christ that he was who he said he is. But we see in Matthew chapter 16 the confusion that was there, the question over who Jesus is. Now, it's nice that in this passage of scripture, in this discussion over who Jesus is, that it they're not saying he was a deceiver. They're not saying that he was uh you know a a mocker. They're not saying that he was a liar. Th th there wasn't debates like that. These men tend to be pretty uh you know, they're like they know that something's special about Jesus. And so they actually, they believed that maybe he was John the Baptist. Now, we we begin in verse number 13, chapter 16 and verse number 13, we said, when Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, now Caesarea Philippi was about 120 miles north. of Jerusalem. Caesarea Philippi was a pagan city. It was a center of Baal worship. And Jesus comes into this area and uh he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I am? He says, you know, who who is what's the world saying? What are these this pagan who you've been around, people have been discussing, who is it that what are they saying that I am? And they said, some saying that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and other Jeremiah. and one of the prophets. So there's a they're saying, hey, everybody, you know, knows you're a pretty good guy. I mean they they think maybe you're John the Baptist. They think maybe you're Elias, Elijah, they think maybe you're Jeremiah, you're you're one of the prophets Certainly somebody special, but there was a debate really over who Jesus was. Christ looks at the disciples in verse number 15, he says, He saith unto them, But whom say ye? that I am. They should have come to the place where they understood who Jesus was. They knew who he was. And so he says, I understand there's some discussion and debate out there, people that haven't met me, people that haven't had the opportunity to believe on the Lord yet. But what whom do ye say that I am? And beloved, it's important who we Who we say Jesus is, who in your heart and mind that you think that Jesus is. This debate has continued and every individual needs to settle it in their own heart. Peter answered Christ. And Simon Peter answered, verse number 16, and Simon Peter answered, and he said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus was his name. That's who people knew him to be, but Christ was his title. He was Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God. This was the Messiah. This word Christ means Messiah. It was who was prophesied. It was He was acknowledging and recognizing that this was who the Old Testament prophets prophesied would come, that he was the Messiah, that he was Christ. He says, Thou art Christ, the Son of the Living God. Now, beloved, it's important that we note here who it is that convinced Peter that he was looking at Christ, the Son of the Living God. It's important that we realize and note this because he's well was it his friends that convinced him of this? Was it uh the church that convinced him that this was Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God? A preacher? Was it even the fact that he was with Jesus and he got to walk with Jesus and he got to talk with Jesus and he got to spend time with Jesus. And so he was fully convinced in his mind that Jesus Christ was the Son of the Living God. Is that how he came to that realization? No, it's not. Look in verse number 17. And Jesus answered, and he said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon, Bar Jonas. For flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father, which is in heaven. You see, the Father revealed this to Simon Peter. The reason this is important is some people think, well, surely If I was walking with Jesus in the pages of the New Testament, if I got to see his miracles in the flesh, then I would believe he was the Messiah. That's not true. Simon was there, but what convinced him in his heart was what the Holy Spirit, what God the Father revealed to him And you and I have access to that as well today, and that same father that revealed to Peter that Jesus was the Son of God, that he was the Messiah, that same father will reveal that to the heart of men today. And we can know that Jesus was the Messiah. We can know without question or hesitation in our heart of hearts that that to be the truth, even though we haven't walked on the streets of Jesus. Jerusalem. We didn't get to see Jesus feed the 5,000. We didn't get to see him heal the blind man. But we can still know he was the Messiah because the Father reveals it to us as well, just like he did to Peter. This is important. So Christ begins to do some teaching here With them acknowledging and realizing who he was, the Messiah that was coming, he foretells, he begins to introduce and tell them about the church. Verses 18 and 19. The thing is the church was a mystery. The church age was something that had not been revealed yet. You guys know the Jews uh wanted the Messiah to come and set up his kingdom then. They wanted somebody to come and free them from Roman rule. They wanted him to deliver them And and the entire church age was something that they had not perceived yet, that they hadn't understood was going to come. They didn't even realize that Jesus was going to have to die. And you know Peter, when Jesus was telling them about it, Peter gets mad. We're going to see that in a few minutes. But uh he begins to tell them about the church age. We see here in verses eighteen and nineteen, and I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed. Now there's several things that we need to address here as we read these uh as the we read these verses. Okay, the church age begins to reveal that Jesus is going to establish a church, he's going to set up his church And but he says some things here that have been taken out of context by different groups and taught false doctrine based off of them because of not a correct understanding or a correct interpretation of the word of God. And so he says here, and thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. So uh I'm sure you guys know that the Peter means uh Petras that is little rock or even a small piece of a rock, a pebble, but upon this rock, that rock word there is petra, which means great stone or great rock. And This has been misinterpreted to believe that Peter is the foundation of the church. That's not the truth. That's not the case. It would be like me saying, talking about this and say, boy Uh look at this platform we have here. Uh we're gonna ha we're gonna have this platform and uh let's say Brother Gunzenhauser was up here on the platform, and I'll say we've got this platform here, and this is uh Stephen Gunzenhauser. And on the platform, we're gonna put a pulpit. It's not it's not that Stephen he was introducing Peter, but not saying he was going to build the church on Peter. He introduces the church. And he said, this is Peter. And upon this rock I'm going to build my church. And the church, the rock is Jesus Christ. There's lots of scripture that is applicable to this. You can look in the Word of God at 1 Peter 2. I gave these two union notes there, but 1 Peter 2. 6, Isaiah 28. 16, you'll see that Jesus is the rock. And Jesus that Petra, the rock. And he is the rock that the church is going to be built upon. And so don't buy that idea or philosophy that Peter is the rock, that he's the foundation of the church. It's Jesus Christ is the foundation of the church. not Peter. Secondly, there's an idea that Peter was given the keys to the kingdom, and of course there's a lot of jokes that have come out of that because of the teaching of, you know You know, Peter's going to be standing there at the gate of heaven with the keys to heaven, and he's going to decide whether you get to get in or not. Well, he was not given the keys to heaven. Jesus Christ won the victory over death and the grave. Jesus Christ has the keys to death and the grave and uh him only Uh the key to the kingdom of heaven which he had given to Peter is the Word of God. The Word of God is what uh brings men's heart to repentance. The Word of God is what goes seeks into man's heart and brings them to a point of salvation. That is the key to heaven. Understanding this book, understanding what Christ said about how to get there and following the direction. The keys are here. And Christ gave that to Peter because you think just in a few books we're going to see Peter in the book of Acts preaching the words of God. And uh thousands and thousands of people were saved, baptized, and added to the church because he was preaching and using the key. Now we too still have keys. The key is understanding the Word of God and putting your faith and belief in Jesus Christ and in him alone. So the keys of the kingdom in verse number 19 are the very words of God that open the hearts of men. Peter was used to preach these words, and many believed. Then Christ foretells about his death and resurrection in verse 21 through 23. From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer Many things of the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and be raised the third day. And Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee. But he turned and he said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan, for thou art an offense unto me, for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. Beloved Peter did not see all of what God was doing in his ambitious way. He was wanting to defend Christ, and he was actually used of Satan. To try and discourage Christ from doing what God the Father wanted him to do. He says, get thee behind me, Satan, understanding that Christ was not calling Peter Satan. He was acknowledging the fact that Peter was voicing the desire of Satan. Satan is the enemy. Peter's being used of the enemy to try and discourage Christ from going and doing what he's supposed to do. The reason this is applicable, because sometimes Satan uses a brother or sister in Christ to do something to you. And you mistakenly Are mad at them. You're offended at them. You're unhappy with them. We need to remember they are not the enemy. They have been used of Satan to discourage you. They've been used of Satan to hurt you. But you need to remember Satan is the enemy. They have been used of Satan, and you can get mad at Satan. and uh ask God to, you know, get thee behind me, Satan, get victory over that, and don't let Satan ruin you and them in that whole case Do what Christ did and recognize what Satan is doing and don't destroy another brother or sister in Christ because of them being allowed. Now, secondly, don't you or I We ought not allow Satan to use us. Here's Peter walking with God, loving the You know, with God in the flesh, walking with Jesus Christ, uh going through all of this with him, and yet still uh I think just because of his nature, because of who he was, his ambition, he's always the first one to open his mouth and the first one to jump in and get involved and and uh because of that nature Satan was able to just kinda put that thought into his mind right away and Peter threw it out without thinking And Satan used him. What I'm saying is as close as Peter was to God, to Jesus Christ in the flesh, he was still used of Satan. And you and I can be used of Satan. And we've got to be careful. We've got to guard ourselves against that. And don't let Satan use us to attack or to hurt other people's. because it's certainly possible. He tells this now he was going to go to Jerusalem and he would suffer many things, including death. They didn't like that. Peter speaks out against this. And he's rebuked by Christ as Satan. Get thee behind me, Satan. Christ foretells about his return in verse number 27. And we know that one day he's going to come. return in the glory of the Father. He will return in the company of many angels. So those things are told. Then we move to chapter number 17 and we see in chapter 17 the transfiguration. The three, well, Peter, James, and John are called the sons of what? Thunder, the sons of thunder. So the three sons of thunder, Peter, James, and John, accompany Jesus up into the mountain to pray in seventeen one. After six days, Jesus take Peter, James, and John and his brother, and he bringeth them into the mountain. a high uh mountain apart. They were there, they were going to pray, and he was transfigured before them, and his face did shine as the sun And his remnant was white as the light. We have this transfiguration that takes place. Transfiguration means metamorphosis Metamorphosis is different than an external change. It is an internal change. It is a change that takes place from the inside out. We see that here in the description that this that he shined, his face shined, and his raiment was white as light. It shined from the inside out. Metamorphosis is is an internal transformation. The light came from within like a like a caterpillar that is transformed, that is through metamorphosis. He's changed, he's made anew, and beloved, true salvation brings about internal change. It's something that happens in the heart of a believer. It's something that happens when you confess your faith in Jesus Christ. You're forgiven of your sins, and you're promised a home in heaven as a result of your belief. on him but currently right now you're delivered from the power of sin over your life and transformation sh is and should take place um and it is not external corn uh Conformity, but internal transformation. The transfiguration of Christ does not, and I put a quote in here for you from uh Harold Wilmington From Wilmington's God to the Bible, but the transfiguration of Christ does not set forth his deity, but rather his humanity. Beloved, in the Old Testament, they built the tabernacle, and the tabernacle was clothed in skin. And uh inside there was a bright light. That tabernacle was a picture, an image of Christ that was going to come as Christ's body was clothed in human skin. But inside that was God. Inside that was the light of God. And in this point we see the transformation, the metamorphosis take place where the light that was inside shines through that human flesh, that garb that he was clothed in, so that those around him saw the glory of the Lord. That is what the this means the transfiguration of Christ and what took place here. Jesus is visited by two men from heaven at this point. They're there The sons of thunder are present. These two men from heaven come. Verse number three. And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with them. Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, is it good for us to be here? If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elias. Well, he wanted to raise up three tabernacles. Moses represented the law, Elias representing the prophets. You know, just the thought, these men, Moses and Elias, they had been in heaven for a long time at this point. And they were able to come and appear and were recognized for who they were by the thunder thunder. It's just notable they went back to heaven and they're still there. But beloved our loved ones that have gone on before, they're in heaven They're recognizable. We can see them. We know that they they uh we're going to, when we get to heaven, be able to, we're gonna see and be seen. We're gonna be known and recognized. And the promises of God are true and real. And these types of illustrations, these things that happened with Christ, give us a picture into that. That yeah, these men that died many hundreds of years earlier have reappeared here. They were brought back from heaven for the transfiguration of Christ. They spake with Jesus concerning his death and what was going to take place there. And, you know. God the Father comes out here and he begins to speak to him, and he speaks the Father speaks in a cloud. God's presence is often revealed in the pages of scripture in a cloud uh and I gave you some references there for places where that that happened. But Peter here he offers to build a tabernacle for all three of these men. And uh you know what I have a little bit of concern. I don't have the Bible on this, but I have this right here. The God the Father Tells Peter, listen, who's important right here is my son. Who's important? Yeah, Moses and Elias, they were great men. But who's important? See, Peter wanted to uh recognize and build a temple for Christ. He's putting Christ, Moses, and Elias all on the same level. He's saying, boy, let me build a temple for all three of you right here. And people, humans, we have a nature. We have a desire to wanna try and memorialize, exalt, you know, uh put up things to to uh remember and uh honor and you know men but christ said uh or the father says hey who's important here is jesus look in verse number five We were in 175. He says, Well he yet spake, behold a bright cloud overshadowing them, and behold a voice out of the cloud which said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. He is drawing a line in his sand and marking off clearly that who is important here is Jesus Christ. And so I kind of got a little sidetracked or a little ahead of myself, but the uh what I have a concern with is when we even as Baptists have men that we appreciate and there's nothing wrong with that. But when we want to memorialize them, we want to collect all of their writings and get all of their fixtures and we want to set up a temple for them and we want people to come and visit that temple and we wanna we're gonna lift up this man and he's a bygone man and he's done a lot of great things and we appreciate what he did. I just I'm very hesitant about that. I have a little bit, I resist that because Jesus Christ is who's important. We set up a temple, we bring honor and glory to Jesus Christ. That's who we look to. We don't look to men. There is no great men of God. There's only men of a great God. And God uses any man that's willing to submit himself And so I've just kind of given you just a little warning, a little bit of caution that we've got to be careful about how much we, let me use this word, venerate men. Now you know that term comes from the Catholic Church, and they take men and they venerate them, they bring them up to a position and they continue even thousands of years later. Even in Israel, it's a very sad thing, but the Catholic Church has taken over many, many of the historically biblical sites and uh people will come and they have people buried there they have their old old uh um you know, saints buried there and people come and they they by the thousands they'll they'll kiss the feet of that tomb. Uh to the point where there's rock that is literally worn out where people have been kissing the feet of this tomb. Listen, Jesus Christ isn't there. We don't worship at the feet of a man no matter how good he was. We praise God for the impact he had on our lives. There's men that have influenced us me and there's no question I wouldn't be here where I am today without them. But we need to remember it's God and we worship God. And we look to God. We can show appreciation. The Bible says give honor to whom honor is due. So again, I'm not Dogmatic, I don't have you know chapter and verse on the idea, but I'm very hesitant, I'm very cautious about venerating or lifting up and you know setting up mausoleums to bygone preachers uh of past days. We want to be very c So this is Christ's third year of ministry. We're going to continue uh next week. And just going through what takes place in this third year, which ultimately brings us to his crucifixion