Uh turn your Bibles to the book of Isaiah. We were there, that memory verse was a good that we're learning this month. What a good verse. A lot of truth in that It's going to be a little bit effort to learn because it kind of just keeps on going. But what a good verse. But we're not in Isaiah 40. You want to get to Isaiah chapter number 7 Uh Isaiah chapter number seven, that's where we're gonna be this this morning. As we are starting out here talking about the characters of Christmas. That's what we're going to be looking at for the month of December here. The characters of Christmas. people involved in the Christmas story. And, you know, there was a lot of different people involved in the Christmas story, and actually the entire world was impacted by the Christmas story. But it all started with Christ. Without Jesus' birth, it would have been just like any other starry night. There would have been no difference. But it was the fact that Jesus was born that made it so miraculous. That made it Christmas morning. And I'll tell you what, uh, you know, that's where we're gonna start. We're gonna start by talking about Christ. It starts with him and Then we'll culminate through the month. We'll talk about other individuals involved in the Christmas story, and then we're going to finish up on Christmas, the Sunday before Christmas, again talking about him. It starts with him and it ends with him You know, when you think about talking about us, I began to study this and thought, well, we'll start by talking about Christ That's a tall order. The subject of Christ, for that is the message of the Bible In its entirety. C. H. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, he would say, you get a text and you study it until you find Jesus. Because he is the message of the Bible. And you're thinking about an unexhaustible subject, uh the topic of Christ and Where do you go? I mean it's it's endless. I mean the the opportunities and the directions in which one could go. And so I spent some time studying and you know you think about the love of God, the the the songwriter in describing just one aspect, the love of God, said, could we with ink the oceans fill And were the skies of parchment made, Were every stock on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade. To write the love of God above Would drain the oceans dry Nor could the scrolls contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. Just one aspect of God, Jesus Christ, in the flesh. So I want to give you just a couple things. We have to narrow it down. We've only got a few minutes for Sunday school, and we want to give you just a couple things about Christ and his birth. It all started with the prophecies. Where they, where we are this morning in the book of Isaiah, the prophecies talking about his coming birth, talking about what was going to happen and God tell foretelling That Jesus was coming. One of the best known of all the prophecies in the scriptures is found in the seventh chapter of Isaiah in our text verse this morning, verse number 14. He says, Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. These words were spoken in the context of a conversation between Isaiah the prophet and the king. Isaiah, Ahaz, the King Ahaz. Ahaz was a ruler of Judah. And King Ahaz was concerned. He was afraid that these hostile armies were going to come in. And they were gonna attack his people and destroy the land and Jerusalem and God said it wasn't going to happen. He gave the prophet Isaiah a message. He says, Tell him it's not going to happen. He went and told him it wasn't going to happen, and the king was still fretting about it. The king was still worried about it and consuming. And so the prophet said to him, he says, hey, God said, ask thee a sign, in verse number 11 there, he says, ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God. And in verse number 12, Ahaz says, I can't ask a sign. I'm not going to tempt God. I'm not going to ask a sign of God. Even though God had told him to. He says, that's what's not. He says, No, I'm not going to tempt God. And Isaiah came back and basically said, well Even though you didn't ask for a sign, God out of his mercy, his grace, he's going to give you a sign. And he said, this is what it's going to be. In verse number 14, he says that there's going to be a virgin. And a virgin shall conceive and bear a son and shall call his name. Emmanuel. And almost 700 years later, Mary gave birth to her son. Jesus in a manger in Bethlehem in fulfillment of this and many other prophecies given by God. Matthew himself cites these words. There in chapter number one, in recognition of the prophecy and acknowledging the fulfillment of it in Jesus Christ on the day of his birth. If you believe the words of Isaiah the prophet, then you recognize that Jesus was not just like any other boy. You recognize that Jesus' birth was not like any other birth. If you believe the word of God and this prophecy given to us in Isaiah, then you believe that Jesus was more than just a good man. Amen? He was more than just a prophet, as some systems of belief would say that Jesus was a prophet. But you truly believe that he was God in the flesh. So this morning I want to give you three thoughts from this verse here about this birth of Jesus Christ and what it means to us. First of all, we see that he was born of a virgin. Behold, a virgin shall conceive. I think everyone here understands that that's physically impossible. And certainly is a means of of question by by many of uh the atheists and those in the world who look and say, well How is that possible? How could a virgin conceive and and that that that's it's not true and they even come up with explanations and say that Mary and Joseph were together ahead of time and and and all kinds of crazy theories that that they portray. But with God nothing is impossible. Or you can say it the other way, everything is possible. With God, it's all possible You know, it's amazing. Uh He created this whole world that we have out of nothing. Everything we see and know, God brought into existence by His voice. He spoke the world into existence. He walked on water. And he made it possible for Peter to walk on water. Rowley sent me a little video a couple weeks ago of a man walking on water. And you know, there's they're showing this man walk on water and then and then he drops he drops these coins or something and and they they fall through to show that there's nothing there and he keeps walking on water. I text him back, I says, You know he's walking on glass, right? Uh and uh he's like, but he dropped the coins. I said, but that's just the spot where the glass wasn't. If you actually watch the video you'll see him step over. The spot. I mean he drops it and then he steps over the spot, you know? Uh but they just put glass right underneath it. Man can walk on it with glass, but God walked on it. For real. Just walked on water. Defies gravity. Because he's the one who created it. And he put the laws of this earth in motion, and uh he can decide and determine when he wants to bend them or change them. He withholds that right. He fed over five thousand people with a few fish and some some bread, right? Uh you know, I mean that's impossible. With God all things are possible. The list of miracles that God did goes on and on and on, but one of the greatest miracles that I can testify about is that He saved my soul. He saved me. If you truly believe that with God all things are possible, then comes the question, why did God do this? Why did God have Jesus be born of a virgin. Was it just to fulfill the prophecy? Was it just so that what he said would happen did happen? I mean, is that the whole purpose? Or why did God say that it was going to be that way? You know, the Bible tells us about four ways in which man came into existence, human beings. First of all, God formed man out of the dust of the ground. And he breathed into him the breath of life. That was the first way that man came into existence. Then, woman he took from the rib of man. And God created her and made her life possible. And he established the laws which we now live by, which is procreation, what we would call natural childbirth. You understand what we call natural childbirth and we just take for granted as this is the way things are, that God's the one that put that in place? God created this whole thing called natural childbirth that men want to take God out of it, but you try and do it on your own. God is the one that put this in motion. And then we have the fourth way here with Jesus Christ, where God miraculously allowed a woman to conceive. Of the Son of Jesus Christ in her womb through miraculous conception. The four ways. But all of them were made possible by God. Every one of them. Even the one that this world will want to look at and say, well that's natural. That happens naturally. Because God said so, because God put it in place. That's why it happens. So God gave us all of this and all the ways were made possible by Him. So if He could do it any way that He wanted, why did God choose to do it in a way that a lady would conceive? of a virgin. It is vitally important. The virgin birth is a belief that you should understand and stand strong on. It is vitally important as a Christian that you don't let that go. Because it is a truth in which we have the purity of Jesus Christ. For as by one man sin entered into the world. By Adam, sin entered into the world. And so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. You see, if she would have conceived through natural childbirth, the child which she would have delivered. Would have had sin in him, because it would have been passed down by the seed of Adam And every single living human being that is a descendant ultimately of Adam is born a sinner. And only Jesus Christ, because of the virgin birth, was able to be born without that sin nature. What a miraculous thing. Don't let people steal the virgin birth from you. It's taught clearly in Scripture, and it's important. Without the virgin birth, you wouldn't have a sinless Savior. He is literally God's own Son, God in the flesh. Jesus' life began in Bethlehem. His life here on earth began in Bethlehem. But Jesus always was. You know what's amazing? We know that Jesus was at creation. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God. The word was with God and the word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made. Jesus was at creation. He always was. You know, Jesus is the only system of belief in all the world That declares that to be so. But I'm saying this, all of the other leaders of any group, of any religion, of any other circumstance, you can call it look at anybody you want, not one of them declares themselves to have been here since the beginning. They all had a beginning and they all died. But Jesus Always was. Because he was God. God's Son. He came to earth, and of course you know that He He died, but He defeated the grave And he rose again, and he always will be. The only one of all the systems of belief in the world that declares that. And the only one, and regardless of what somebody else declares, the only one that it is true of. It is significant that Jesus was born of a virgin because it reveals us that Jesus is more than just a man. He is God with us. He is born of a virgin, which shows us that he's God in the flesh, but then I want you to see that he was born all boy He says, Behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son. Have you ever said yourself or maybe heard somebody say you know you're looking at a child, somebody's kid, and you're like, boy, that that kid is all boy. That kid is all oh yeah, he's he's got it mad, you know. I mean he is all boy. I mean he he's making all the noises the boys make and acting like a boy, but you look at him and he's all boy. Well what I want you to see by this point is that Although he was all God, he also was human flesh. He was a boy, just like any other boy I mean I know that we look at him and sometimes we we in our mind's eye we elevate him up. Of course he was God in the flesh, and so therefore it's hard for us to understand how he could possibly be God and still be a boy and we don't want to take away his deity, so we give him deity and we remove his humanity. Do you understand Jesus as a boy when he got a splinter in his father's workshop? He cried He went to his mom and and said, can you get this out? I mean, he he he had pain like we have pain. He suffered it like we suffer. He was all boy. He was Mary's son. A son. Philippians 2, verses 6 through 8 says, Who be in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. And was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Even though he was God, he surrendered that and became man for us. You know, we talked about this in when we were studying the book of Colossians, the the Gnostics. And you remember how they believed that God was so holy, that God was so Righteous, so separated from earth that he couldn't actually touch earth. And they would teach that Jesus didn't come to earth because his footprints couldn't actually he couldn't actually touch the earth. And that we were separated by these levels of separation to get to God. And you remember how the Gnostics taught that, we went through all that? And they were teaching that. They would remove God's humanity and his presence from us. John answered that question In John chapter 4, verse 1 and 2, he says, Beloved, believe not every spirit But try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Now listen to what he says is the defining characteristic for the Spirit of God. He said, every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. Is of God. Wow. That's a defining characteristic to know whether they're saying the truth or not Do they believe that God Himself sent His Son Jesus Christ to be born of a virgin? And that Jesus born here Was actually God in the flesh. That is a defining principle of whether somebody is speaking truth or not. What an amazing statement. It was God in the flesh. Do you believe that? I hope so. God came here on earth, and his humanity should be precious to you. Many times we don't think of him as having endured what we endure. But he knew what it was to suffer He knew sorrow. He knew frustration. He knew pain. He knew temptation. Like you and I, endure temptation. When he was cut, he bled, and when he didn't eat, he was hungry. You see, he was human. Don't let them take his humanity. When Lazarus died, he wept. For sadness, because of the loss and the hurt that those he loved were enduring. Hey, he knows what you're going through. He understands the suffering that you have, the pain that you're feeling, the struggle that you're enduring. Jesus Christ, because of his humanity, knows what you're enduring. The Bible tells us that for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are. Yed without sin. Amen? Yed without sin. He was all God But he was all human too, and we we gotta that should be precious to us to understand that God gave up all that he was and came down to earth to be fashioned in the likeness of men So that he could know what we're going through. He could know the temptations that we feel. He could know the pain that we're enduring. He could know the struggle that we face. He could know what it's like to walk in our shoes. Jesus knows. And you know what's amazing? Is there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus The one that knows is the one is interceding for you on your behalf to the Father. He's saying, I know what they're going through, God. I know the pain they're feeling. Father, could you Could you answer this prayer? Father, could you meet this need? Could you lift this burden? I know the weight of that burden. Your Savior Jesus Christ is pleading to the Father for you because He knows what you're going through. That's awesome. That's awesome. Not only that, I want you to see that he was born among us. And she shall conceive, shall call his name Emmanuel. Now you know what Emmanuel means, right? God with us. Yes, God with us. Matthew 1, verse number 23, where Matthew uh reiterates this passage which we read. He says, Behold a virgin shall be with child. And shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted, is God with us. It's God with us. Christmas is the time every year where we are reminded that Jesus is still at work in the world. I know that Christmas time at sometimes is a struggle. It can get hectic. But I hope that you also feel and know the joy of the Lord. Because He is not some remote, distant figure ruling from some far-off distant place. But he is with us. He is with us. With you every day of your life. His presence here on earth has made the greatest impact on the world of anything in all of history. That's mind-modeling. When you think about the world I'm sure all of you have taken taken history of civilization at some point or another. You know, went into history of civilization in college and they dropped this like 600-page book on the desk and said, by the end of the semester you're going to read this whole thing. I thought, oh Lord, help me. And I was a history major. But history of the entire world's history, all the things that have happened, the the greats of the greats and the worst of the worst, all of the world and all of its history. Do you understand how much of it has been defined by the birth of Jesus Christ? This world is mind-boggling that they could even attempt to deny Jesus When the entirety of our civilization, not just America, but the world, has literally revolved around Jesus' birth. And I know there's been people in history that have used and used religion to do the most horrible and horrendous things. No justification for that. And God's not happy about it either. But you understand Christianity is what has shaped this world. Before Jesus' birth, all of those in time past looked towards his coming. When was Jesus going to be born? And after Jesus' death, we all look back to his coming and his death, burial, and resurrection Even our calendar. The world's been shaped by it. Nothing in this world in all of history has had even close to the impact that this has had. There's no denying it. His presence is with us. It was established at his birth, and it was assured at his ascension. One of the last things he said to the disciples, he said, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded thee, and lo, I am with thee. Always. God is with us. Emmanuel. Beloved, as you go through this Christmas season, I don't think that the people in this room are going to forget that Jesus is the reason. for the season. But let's also not forget that that means he's with us. He is with us everywhere we go, everything that we do. He's here when you feel lonely and afraid. He's here when you wrestle with temptation. He's here in every situation and he's promised to never leave you or forsake you. Think about this with me and I'll be done. All across the world. This month, there's gonna be manger scenes set up in front of churches On their front lawn, there in that beautiful scene of Bethlehem, there lies the baby Jesus. In the twilight of the day, as night begins to fall, There, Jesus in the beauty of Bethlehem is also lying in the shadow of the cross. Jesus came to earth. The beauty of Bethlehem for one purpose and all of his life was lived in the shadow of the cross. So that he could die to save your soul and mine. Let's remember that this Christmas. season. Lord, we love you. We thank you for sending your son. We thank you for the gift that is ours of salvation freely because of Jesus. Jesus. Lord, help us to remember these truths through this Christmas time and to share that love with others. We thank you for it. In Jesus' blessed name.