Chapter 2. We've been in Mark. We're just going to kind of continue on there for a lot of today. We're going to move over to Matthew. I'm going to jump to John and uh give you one of Christ's miracles there in John, but then we'll be back in Matthew or in Mark, so you probably just want to stay there. But in Mark chapter two, we're going to pick up Uh this morning with that you should be at the top of page number 29 in your notes. And we see Christ's seventh miracle. and uh the healing of the paralytic man. So in Mark chapter 2, uh really verses 1 through 12 describe this. This is found in also in Matthew and Luke, but we're in Mark, so we're just going to continue on with that. And uh he tells us here, and again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and he went uh it was noise that he was in the house. So Jesus came and he he showed up. And uh we you you know the story that there was a great press, the people came and they uh there were so many people that these men that wanted to get their friend to Jesus couldn't get 'em to Jesus. The the the the press was too much. There was no way to get him to the door. And so the story is that he they they took these four men took this paralytic man up on the roof And uh they cut a hole in the roof and lowered h this man down to Jesus. They found a way to get the paralytic man to Jesus. This these four men. You know, we see in verse number three, and they came unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. So four men carrying him. And when they could not Come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, and when they lay when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. And verse number five When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, son, Thy sins be forgiven thee This paralytic man was brought to Jesus. We need people that are motivated enough to work and do what's necessary to bring others to Jesus This is our great commission. This is our call. That's what we're here for. And uh there's far too many of us that take it very casually that uh pretty much anything that gets in the way would hinder us from bringing people to Jesus. And we let anything get in our way. These four wouldn't let the press get in the way. These four wouldn't let the crowd get in the way. These four wouldn't let the lack of access. They said, hey, we're going to get him to Jesus one way or another And they climbed up on the roof of the house and they cut a hole in the roof and I'm sure people outside the house were looking up there like what in the world and and the they cut a hole, they lowered this man down And Jesus knows what the real need is. Yes, this man was was uh uh paralyzed and these friends brought him to Jesus for that But seeing their faith, the faith that they knew that they could bring him to Jesus and Jesus could take care of this, he says, Thy sins be forgiven thee. Now, the Pharisees were very upset. They didn't like that. They accused him of blasphemy. And they said, hey, wait a minute. Who is this that can forgive sins? They accused him of blasphemy in verse number seven. Why doth this man thus speak blasphemous? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether it is easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise, take up thy bed and walk. He says, hey, is it easier to say thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise, take up thy bed and walk? And you know, him challenging these that are challenging him with regards to blasphemy. And so he tells this paralytic man, take up thy bed and walk. And a man gets up, takes up his bed, and walks away. Now it's notable here the reason that Jesus did this. The reason that Jesus said to this man, take up that bed and a walk, the reason that Jesus healed this man was not to show people that he had power to heal. But to show people he had power to forgive sins. Look at verse number ten. He says But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith to the sick of the palsy. I say unto thee, arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thy house. So Jesus, because he wanted them to understand that he had power to forgive sins, he says, Hey, take up your bed and walk. And of course, I wouldn't say he he silenced the mouth of the Pharisees and the Sadducees and those critics that he had there. They continued, uh, but they certainly were Taught something about Jesus that day. So in Mark chapter 2 here it moves right on to the calling of Matthew, who is called Levi, verses 13 and 14. We see that. He says, and he went forth again by the seaside, and all the multitude uh resorted unto him, and he taught them. And as he passed by he saw Levi, the son of Alphaus, sitting in the receipt of customs, and he said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. This man that many of the world, certainly the Jewish, would have loathed, Jesus loved. This is the nature of God. Other people whom we look at and and society looks at and say they're the loathsome, they're the lowest of society, they're the people that other that Jesus or nobody else wants, Jesus loves them. Jesus loves all men. And we see that testament here because Levi, who is called Matthew, that God calls for him to follow him, he was the tax collector. A publican. He was one who in that time was known to be dishonest. Typically, tax collectors were very dishonest in their uh in their dealings. They would pad their pockets. They would overcharge and, you know, there would be handling fees and processing fees and all kinds of things that they could tack on to the taxes that people u owed. And somehow, boy, there's a lot of rabbits I want to chase here Somehow these tax collectors lived in big houses and had all kinds of money, even though they were only paid a little bit of money. You know where I'm going? I'm not going. We gotta stay we gotta stick we gotta stick to this. But they were dishonest and people did not like him for it. They they were despised and rejected, uh but Jesus loved him. And God called them in Matthew He he got up and followed Christ, which is what we should do. We now um why don't you stay in Mark? I'm just gonna jump to John real quick. and tell you about a story that takes place kind of right in here uh with the healing of the man at the pool of Bethesda. In uh John chapter one, it's uh five chapter five, verses five through forty-seven. But It's recorded for us in John, not here in Mark. But this healing of this man at the Beth the pool of Bethesda, you know that uh Let me turn there, John chapter, what did I say, five. He says, after this there was a feast of the Jews. And Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Okay, that feast of the Jews is not stated specifically to be the Passover, but it is believed to be the Passover. And if you remember that the years of Christ's ministry are kind of divided up by the Passovers that he observed. because the Passover happens once a year. And so this being the second Passover that Christ observed, this would be the end of his first year. The beginning of a second year, this would have happened right then at that time period. And so we know with him observing the Passover that this concludes his first year brings that to a conclusion. Jesus goes there, and this man who had been lame for 38 years, the scripture says, laid there next to the pool of Bethesda. The pool of Bethesda means house of mercy. It means house of mercy. And you guys know the story where the pool of Bethesda on occasion uh as the Lord led, an angel would come down and stir the water, and the first person that was able to get to the water in that when the water was stirred, they would be miraculously healed. This man had lain next to the pool of Bethesda for thirty-eight years. trying to get to the water. But obviously being uh lame he could not get there on his own. No and he says, How can I get there if s somebody help me? And Other people are helping other people and I've never been able to be the first one. I mean you think about uh you know what people go through for just for a sale, you know. I saw a new Wawa opened up in Ohio or something like that, and there was people lined up outside Wawa. Were you there or something? She's laughing. Oh there's people uh laughing I mean there's people lining up all the way down around the back of Wawa to get in there first because If you were the first hundred people, you got a free Wawa t-shirt and a free coffee or something like that. Or a free coffee for thirty days. I don't remember exactly. But man, they were lined up for it. And can you imagine People watching for the pool of Bethesda to be I mean they could be healed if they were the first ones. And can you imagine the rush to try and get the first one? This man said I couldn't do it. And uh and Jesus says, well, you you you don't have to get into the water. He commands him to take up his bed and walk. When he responds in obedience to Jesus' uh command, he takes up his bed and walk. And the Jews that were present uh questioned him regarding his breaking of the law and carrying his bed on the Sabbath. Christ takes a little bit of time and explains that uh He his authority is is equal to that of God the Father He states that he is equal to the Father in verses 19 through 20 in John. And you can look at that. So he describes that to them and says, hey, I have the authority to tell you this. And this was a sticking point for the Jews. We're going to talk about more about it. But now you're going to turn in your notes there to page number 30. We're going to begin Christ's second year of ministry. At the conclusion, you know, the beginning. Depending upon where you're at there, but that if the Passover marks the conclusion of a year, the beginning of the next, we see the opening of his second year of ministry here. Uh Christ travels with his disciples. So you're there still in Mark chapter 2. We verse verse number 23 through 28. We see Christ here traveling with his disciples. They are very likely on their way to the synagogue. and wants to uh minister there as he had a tendency to do. And we see 23 here. He says, And it came to pass that he went through the cornfields on the Sabbath day, and his disciples beg began as they went to pluck the ears of corn. Now today that would be considered stealing. Uh if you were walking through somebody else's field and you thought, boy, I want some of this corn, you grabbed it and ate it. Uh I mean at least that the way I was raised, that would be stealing. You y you were not given that corn, you didn't have permission to do that. But actually, according to the book of Deuteronomy uh that was allowed. Uh that was the law. If somebody was now you couldn't take a basket and fill it and feed your whole family and feed your your animals or whatever, but if you were passing through a field and you were hungry, you could take an uricorn and eat it. That was everybody knew and understood that to be the case. According to Deuteronomy 23, 25. But Jesus is traveling here and a controversy with the Pharisees opens over him, over these disciples picking grain on the Sabbath. So they're traveling for the field. They've been ministering and ministering and ministering. They hadn't had time to stop and eat. They were going to the synagogue to minister some more. And on the way, the disciples grab a snack and they're eating it, and the Pharisees seize upon that opportunity to, oh, wait. You're working on the Sabbath. You have picked some grain, and uh you can't do that. You know The Pharisees, they continued to question Jesus over this matter of the Sabbath. This working on the Sabbath, breaking the Sabbath, doing what you shouldn't. This was a continual sticking point for them. And there are a lot of Christians today who don't know the difference between the Sabbath and why we worship on Sunday and why we don't observe the Sabbath as far as Saturday, why we don't keep that. And uh I taught an entire lesson on this in uh 2016. I think it was February-ish of twenty sixteen. And uh it's on Sermon Audio and the title is What Does the Bible Say About the Sabbath? And so it's an entire lesson you can go and listen to. But, you know, Jesus came and he fulfilled the law. We're no longer under the law. Jesus concluded that. Even Paul was questioning the Galatians. In Galatians chapter 4, he was questioning them about their salvation because they were still observing the feast. They were still observing the old law. And he says, Jesus came and fulfilled the law. You don't have to fulfill that anymore. Under the law, law was works. And in following the picture and the testimony, the works that they did, they worked for six days, and then they rested on the Sabbath. But under grace, Jesus did all the work. And so we rest on the first day of the week. And then we go to work. Because we rest in Jesus Christ and what He has done for us. And He fulfilled the law. So we do not observe the Sabbath uh as they did in the Old Testament, we're not required to, uh, because Jesus fulfilled the law. And I would encourage you to go listen to that and and if you have any questions about it or want to look maybe understand a little more. I give a lot more scripture and deal with that in the lesson that I taught on that uh back in twenty sixteen. Uh but Jesus says, hey, the Sabbath was made for man and not the other way around. And he tells them that he is the Lord of the Sabbath. In verse number 27 and verse number 28 he says, And he saith unto them, the Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath. Therefore the Son of Man is the Lord also of the Sabbath. He says, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. And you need to understand that what I say goes, and I told the disciples that they could pick this and eat this. You understand he he teaches them and instructs them and gives them some understanding of these truths. Okay. Then uh we see that Number 9, uh Christ's ninth miracle, we get into that, the healing of the withered hand. That's in chapter 3. We're just moving right along in Mark here, chapter 3. And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there which had a withered hand. And they watched him whether he would heal him on the Sabbath. Again, this sticking point for them, some way that they could try and attack Jesus. that they might accuse him. And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand forth, and he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath days, or to do evil, to save a life, or to kill it? But they held their peace Jesus says, hey, is it okay to do good on the Sabbath? Is it right to do good or to do evil? Should we do this on the Sabbath? And they did not have an answer for him. Christ teaches them that it is lawful and that it is right to do good on the Sabbath. The Pharisees here were consumed with anger. They were so mad that they spake of killing him. You know, they were so upset that they missed the miracle. This man was healed. And they were so upset about what they were looking at that they missed the miracle. And you know, I'm afraid that a lot of times there's Christians that are so upset about something that they miss the miracle. They're so concerned about complaining about something that didn't go their way, or they're so upset about something that they didn't like the response to, or they get so focused in and tied up in on their their little issue of concern. That uh they miss what God's doing. They miss the miracles that God is performing all around them because they're so focused. on that little thing. We need to be careful in our dealings that we don't get that way. That we see what God is doing and don't get so consumed with those little things that Satan would try and get us tied up in. Jesus continues to heal many, many more people. His popularity begins to grow. It is during this second year of his ministry that his popularity reaches its peak because as he begins to get more and more followers, at the same time, more and more of the leaders, more and more of the The Pharisees, they see people that used to come to the synagogue are now following Christ, or people that used to be with them are going and doing what Christ wants them to do, and they're getting matter and matter. So at the same time that Christ's popularity is growing, his number of enemies are growing as well. Those that would try and do him harm is growing as well. We see as you move to verse number 12, I'm sorry, verse number 13 in Mark chapter 3 that he appoints his disciples. Now it's after a long night of prayer. He comes and he begins to appoint his disciples. Now he's called them where he met them, like he saw Matthew sitting in the customs, and he says, come and follow me. Now he had called his disciples, and these disciples had gone along with him, but now he makes it official. He appoints them to their position. He does so after a night of prayer. And that's a good example for us. If we have a decision to make, something important in our life, we need to be making it a real matter of prayer before we make that decision. We need to be sitting down and talking to the Lord and letting him guide us through that decision. Jesus, by example, didn't make major decisions or take major steps in his life. without prayer, without time of talking to the Lord. And we need to do the same. So we see him here calling his disciples in Verse number thirteen, he says, And he goeth up into a mountain, and he calleth unto him who he would. And they came unto him. And he ordained twelve. I want you to see here I I gave you the names. You guys know who the disciples are, Simon, Andrew, James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, Thomas. Matthew is also called Levi. James, the son of Alphae, who also called James the less in some places. Thaddeus, which is Jude. You might want to note that there. That's Jude, who's the writer of the book of Jude uh Simon the Canaanite and Judas Iscariot. But what I want you to see is the three goals that he had for them. If you're in the Bible, you may want to underline or circle these three things. The three reasons why he called them to come and do this. In verse number fourteen, they came unto him and he ordained the twelve. There's three purposes. He says that they would be with him. He's calling them. He says, I want you to be with me, stay by me, walk with me, travel with me. Secondly, that he might send them forth to preach. So he wanted to, he says, I want you to be with me. I'm going to prepare you. I'm going to train you. I'm going to get you ready, and I'm going to send you forth. I'm going to send you forth to preach and then and to have power to heal sickness and to cast out devils, to be empowered by him. You know, beloved, it's important those who go into the ministry are prepared, trained, empowered. If we're going to be effective for God in whatever area of ministry we have, we need to be with Him. Be sent by Him and empowered by Him to do it. Whatever area of ministry we have, in the church, in Sunday school, you know, in the prison, wherever, wherever we at, uh listen, it's the work of God. And he's the one that does it. He uses us as tools. And we want to be an available tool in the master's hand, but he's the one that has to do the work. And he tells the disciples here clearly, listen, this is my objective. I've called you here for these three purposes, to be with me. Boy, it ought to be precious to us just to be with Jesus. Just to spend time with him. Just to know him. Just to fellowship with him. That ought to be something precious. And then to send them out, knowing what God wants you to do and to be able to go do that in your daily life and in your ministry, and then knowing that God will empower you to do it. Some just powerful truths that we see as he calls the disciples here to follow him. Now it's noteworthy here. I just want you to know, I'm throwing this kind of in the notes here just for you, that an apostle is a man that must have met uh three qualifications in order to be called an apostle. Okay, this is biblical principles. We're not going to turn to all these, but first of all, they need to be seen. They need to have seen the risen Christ. So they need to have seen the risen Savior. So an apostle, part of the qualifications for you to be an apostle, is you have to have seen the risen Christ. Secondly, is you have to have fellowshipped with Jesus in the flesh. According to Acts chapter 1, 21 and 22, fellowship with Jesus in the flesh. And you have to have been chosen by the Lord. Ephesians 4. 11. Now, the reason that's important is because uh we need to be careful about titles and names that we give people. Uh what I'm saying is there's nobody alive today that meets these qualifications. So that is not a title that we should be giving people. We should not be saying this is Apostle Bob here. And that's not a title we should be giving because he cannot have met the qualifications to be called an apostle. Because he hasn't seen in the flesh the risen Savior. He has not walked and ministered with him and was not specifically called by him. chosen by the Lord. So these are three qualifications for that that are just noteworthy. We see Christ gives the Sermon on the Mount. And I could easily spend six weeks on on this, but we're gonna we're gonna go through it here this morning, believe it or not. So We've got to turn to Matthew for the Sermon on the Mount. So turn to Matthew chapter number 5. You guys know where that's at in the Word of God there, the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5, 6 and 7. This is the second sermon that Christ gives, and this is the longest sermon that's recorded for us in the pages of Scripture. So of all the sermons and uh, you know Stories and parables that that Jesus told. This is the longest sermon that Christ gave. In the prison on Friday night I was teaching and uh I I gave several illustrations and uh one of the guys came up to me after he's like, Man, he's like I I like them stories you've been telling. He says I was glued like from the get-off. I was right there with you, you know. And uh I said, well Jesus used a lot of stories. Jesus used a lot of parables. That helped people to understand what he was teaching. And so I try and include that so that it makes it applicable to us. And I'm glad I'm glad you enjoy it. He said it was court. court that came up to me and said that, he's like, I like that. I was like from the get-go, I was with you. I was like glued. I was like, oh that's good. I'm glad you enjoyed it. But this is the longest sermon that Jesus gave. Now there's several things that we want to see here and you guys are probably familiar with the Sermon on the Mount in in All of its facets, so we're going to go through this relatively quickly. First of all, the New Testament doctrine that grace was going to be a higher standard, not a lower standard I want you to understand that as you consider what Jesus teaches here, and we're going to see this, it is contrary to popular thought today, the idea that, well, we're under grace, we can do whatever we want. Grace is an excuse to just live how I want to live. I'm not under the law. You legalists want to try and tell me I have to live a certain way. No, I'm under grace. Well, let's look at what God said Literally, this passage of Scripture, this Sermon on the Mount, is a uh treatise on grace. on what grace is and what it means. And so we see here, first of all, uh Christ in disrupting his disciples and the multitudes and thereby us the internal attitude of the believer. He begins by dealing with the internal attitude of the believer. The beatitudes are given to us in Matthew 5, verses 3 through 12, all of those, you guys know those? That and I'm not in the right passage of scripture. I'm in chapter six. He says that blessed are they, you know, blessed are they which do hunger and thirst, blessed are the merciful, blessed are the pure heart, blessed are the peacemakers. Those beatitudes. The internal attitudes of the believer. Blessed, you know, means happy. Blessed means happy. So happy are those that have these right kind of spirits, these attitudes. Now these attitudes are contrary to human nature. They're contrary to the way which we would normally think that we should behave or that our own spirit would want to act. And so this is what we get to strive through the power of the Holy Spirit to have active in our life Then we see the external testimony of the believer that he gets into in verses 13 through 16, and you guys know the story there that we are called to be salt, and what else? Light. We're called to be salt and light in this world. Beloved, we're supposed to have an impact on the world. Not the world have an impact on us. We are supposed to bring that uh sweet savour, that that uh you know impact of of drawing out the best uh as salt does, it brings that flavor and and light, shining light into a dark world. And we're supposed to have an impact on the world. And so the external testimony of the believers dealt with there in the idea of salt and light. Then the standard, this new standard of grace that God teaches, Jesus teaches about here, is applied inwardly in the following verses. uh of chapter five basically he says the the balance of this he deals with you know murder and anger um we let's see verse number 21 there and ye have heard it That it was said by them of old time, thou shalt not kill, but whosoever sh shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry With his brother, without a cause, shall be in danger of the judgment. He says, wait a minute, under the law, if you killed somebody, you were in danger. Under grace, if you're angry without a cause, you're in danger of the judgment I mean that's pretty high. That's a pretty strong standard. I wonder, beloved, how many times have we Been angry without a cause. How many times have we loved something that somebody did that really was in the grand scheme of things pretty minimal? Pretty I mean later on we thought about it and we realized how stupid it was to be upset about that. There was once that I was angry at Mary and afterwards I I had to uh confess to her that uh that it was dumb, that I shouldn't have been mad. You know, that's when you feel like a real heel, right? You feel like such a uh bum because and then you're mad at yourself. Because you got mad over something that was stupid, you know, and then you have to apologize and and uh get work through that That was once yesterday. We won't talk about the rest of the times, but um no. So that that idea, well listen, sometimes we have our little pet sins that we feel like are acceptable. It's okay for me to be mad. This is not he the higher standards here is if you are angry without a cause, you're in danger of judgment. This is pretty serious. We need to control that internal spirit that we have. That standard applied inwardly. He goes into adultery and lust. And you guys know the passage there that, hey, listen. If you think upon a maid, you've committed adultery already in your heart. Thinking. Boy, we need to control that mind. He talks about divorce, God's standards regarding divorce. He talks about the importance and the power of swearing oaths and and how they should be handled. He talks about retaliation and revenge, the idea of turning the other cheek and we shouldn't be out to just get revenge and to just get even, uh, but understanding we work under meekness and under grace. He talks about the power of love and hate 43 through 47. He's just giving us so many powerful truths one after the other. Ye have heard it said that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies. Bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. Wow That's powerful. Now you guys are here for Sunday school and and you get a little plug. I want you to remember this. I don't even know that I'm going to have the wherewithal in my mind to point back to it when we get there, but I want you to think about this in the middle of this morning's message. When we get to that point. In this morning's message. But we see that truth shared with us here regarding love and hate. That we're supposed to love our enemies. Pray for those that despitefully use you. Human nature is to get back at them, to attack them, but no, we're supposed to love them We see in verse number 48 that Jesus is the example for all of this. He sets the standard for us. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father, which in heaven is perfect. We're supposed to strive to be like him. Then we see in chapter number six the standard applied upward with regards to our relation to God in verses two through four, the giving of alms. in the the giving in verses uh 5 through 15 the Lord's prayer and then 6 through 18 on fasting Now, you guys, I don't know how many of you I I shouldn't ask this. Let me just tell you. I I spoke a message, I spoke, I preached a message some years ago called Three Intrinsic Investments. And the three intrinsic investments, this is something intrinsic means it has value in and of itself. These are the three intrinsic investments. These are the three things that every Christian should be participating in. In these texts, if you read the passage of scripture, it says, when ye pray, when ye fast, when ye give, there is not a question of if you or Or should you happen to, it is there is an expectation there that as Christians we would be involved in these three things. But these three things pay eternal dividends. These three things have in and of themselves great value for the believer. These things we should be involved in. We should all be praying. We should all be giving. We should all be fasting. Let me ask you, when was the last time that you fasted? No, we just taught on Thursday night about the fact that we do not practice Lent. That's a Catholic holiday and Uh the teachings with regarding to Lent come from Catholic history and we gave a bunch of history about that. And uh so we do not practice Lent in its current modern-day form, but we do practice praying, we do practice fasting, and we do practice giving. And as God's people, we should be fasting. It should be something that we do not once every fifteen years, but it should be something that in our life we say, you know what, I'm gonna fast. As we're coming into Easter, I'm going to fast as I need an answer of prayer in this area of my life. I'm going to fast because I need to get closer to God. It ought to be something that's part of our life. And I've taught on that. With regards to the Lord's Prayer, I've taught on the Lord's Prayer here. The Lord's Prayer is not something that we should be just quoting. The Bible warns against vain repetition. And even though it's right in the scripture, I would encourage you to memorize it. It's wonderful to have it memorized. I would encourage you to be able to quote it, but it shouldn't be vain repetition. The Lord's Prayer is an example of the spirit and the content of what our prayer should contain. And I've thought an entire message on this uh the Lord's prayer and what it means and how it should guide our prayer time with the content that's there. And I don't have time to chase down that today, but just reiterating that that's a pattern for us. to our prayer time should include those things. And those are all available on sermon audio as well. So we see that the teachings regarding investing for eternity in 6 verses 19 through 21, laying up treasure in heaven, investing for eternity, not for this world. It's impossible. Man should not be serving God and mammon. You can't serve serve both And then the idea of worry and trust and just committing our way unto the Lord and letting Him lead us. Then we see the standard applied outwardly With regards to others, uh judging. I'm not even going to chase that at all. The idea of judging is misconstrued today, but you know he he deals with that in verses one through twelve, judging one another, judge not that ye be not uh judged. The idea of exercising and using discernment, verses six through eleven. And then he gives us that the golden rule in verse number twelve Uh we certainly are familiar with that, the gr the golden rule. He says, Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, Do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Just do unto others as he would have them do unto you. Boy, if we just practised that, and that's all we practiced, boy, it would really change things, wouldn't it? Just observing that. Very simple golden rule. Then we see some concluding thoughts given to us in the remainder of the chapter there. He deals with the two gates. You know the story, the wide gate, wide is the way, broad is the way, and the narrow gate. There's the two gates, the two different ways there, and then there is the two trees, uh the the tree that bringeth forth good fruit And the tree that bringeth forth evil fruit. There's two trees that are described and talked about there. Why? Because of what's inside. And then there's the two houses. the man who was wise and built his house on a rock, and the man who was unwise or foolish and built his house on the sand. So he gives us some concluding thoughts there about the two gates, two trees and two houses. And once again we see that the people were in awe at his doctrine, at his teachings, and the authority in which he presented it. You know, he taught these with authority and with belief and conviction. You and I, when we teach, we should teach with authority. We should give it as it is indeed the word of God and not the words of men. This is the Word of God. I'm reminded of a story that a small country church happened to be located right next door to a bar. And this bar was out of control in the evenings uh, you know, in the middle of the services and they would leave their their beer bottles all over and it it was just very disruptive and it was a mess and And this pastor in the church began to pray that the bar would shut down and close down. And the pastor, you know, he even told the bar owner, he says, We're praying that this this place would shut down. He says, Even if God has to burn it down, we wanna we wanna shut this place down. And uh then uh some months later the bar burned to the ground. And then the bar owner Charge them with burning the place to the ground. And the pastor said, we didn't do anything. So they're in court and they're arguing before the judge and uh the bar owner is saying it's their fault. They prayed that the bar would burn down. And the pastor said, It's not our fault, we didn't do anything. And the judge said, I got a problem here because I got a bar owner who believes in the power of prayer, and I got a pastor who doesn't. The bar owner believed his place burned down because the pa the church was praying it would. The pastor's like, no, we had nothing to do with it. When in fact uh God answered their prayer and shut them down, obviously got God did it, it's an act of God, but the thing is is What I'm saying is that when we present truth to people in the world, we need to present it with authority, not our authority, but the authority of God, because it is truth. It is the word of God. It is God's teachings. And men need to follow the Word of God. We don't need to give this book with apology. We don't need to apologize about what God said Well, uh sorry, uh, you know, this is what God told you you're supposed to do. Uh no, this is what God said. And we're supposed to live in line with it. And we see Jesus teaching with authority the authority of God Himself because He was God in the flesh