And uh we are going to um just trying to decide where we where we want to go in the Word of God this morning. Um Let's go to Luke, uh Luke chapter 19. Uh so during the third year of Christ's ministry, uh during the whole of the third year All there was no events during his third year that were recorded in all four Gospels. Sometimes it would be in just one gospel, sometime it might be in two gospels, but no event during his third year was recorded in all four Until we get to this, we're at his final week now. We're we're going to be looking at his final week. We're fast approaching uh uh the where Christ goes to the cross for us and provides for us the the redemption, redemptive payment for our sin. uh and is that lamb that takes away the sin of the world. So we're in his final week. This is recorded in all four Gospels. So we are could pretty much choose wherever we want to go for that. So Whether I did I tell you Luke? So uh I need to get there myself. And uh Luke chapter 19 is where we are this morning uh on looking at Christ's triumphal entry Uh Luke chapter 19. Christ is coming into Jerusalem for the Passover feast. This is the third Passover that he get got to observe during his life and ministry. uh here uh on earth. So this is the third the third one. He's coming to Jerusalem for the feast, even though he knows his life is in danger, even though the disciples have warned him. And multiple times Jesus said, Nope, I've got to go because the time has come. And uh he knows that they're going to attack him and ultimately he is going to give his life, but still he goes and he goes to the Passover feast. So we're in Luke chapter 19 and down in verse number 28 is where this story picks up. He says And when they had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. Now you remember the last few weeks we've been looking at his journey to Jerusalem, his path to Jerusalem and kind of what took place. Now here he is coming. And it came to pass when he came nigh unto Beth Page in Beth Bethany. at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples saying, Go ye into the village over against you, in which ye At your entreating ye shall find a colt tide whereon yet never man sat. Loose him and bring him hither And if any man ask you, why do you lose him, thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him. And they that were sent went their way and found even as he had said unto them. And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of him. And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt. And they sat Jesus thereon. And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way. And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice. for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered, and he said unto them, I tell you that if they should hold their peace the stones would immediately cry out. So we have several things here. First of all, it's noteworthy that the his arrival, this is not in your prophecies fulfilled, the little piece of paper we gave you But his arrival here on a donkey is a fulfillment of Zechariah 9:9. In Zechariah 9:9, he says, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just, and having salvation lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt, the foal of an ass So all the way back, you know, we had 400 silent years between the pages of the Old Testament and the New Testament. Here you have the minor prophet Zechariah, he was preaching and he was saying, hey This is what's going to happen. He prophesied that Jesus, the Messiah, was going to come into Jerusalem riding upon a donkey. And then Jesus and his foreknowledge and in his knowledge Knowing exactly, he tells his disciples, Hey, I want you to go into the next town here, and you're going to see a donkey there. You're going to see uh this donkey tied up, and I want you to grab him, loose him, and bring him to me And he says, when the owner asks, what are you doing with my donkey? Tell him the Messiah, the master, hath need of him. And they're going to give them to you to bring to Donkey Chumi so that prophecy could be fulfilled. So the crowd honored him. They laid garments down in the path. This was a sign of respect. They would say, Oh, we don't want you even to have to tread upon the ground. We're going to lay our garments down and as a sign of respect The laying of palm branches and waving of palm branches was a sign of rejoicing. Really was practiced or uh this was done many times at the completion of a military victory. which they had, a campaign where they had victory, and they would wave the palm branches as kind of a signal or a sign of great victory. So Jesus coming into Jerusalem, of course you know that they they still not fully understanding what was going to happen here, wanting Jesus to set up his kingdom here on earth, they said, hey, behold the king, and and praising for everything that he's done. They're waving these palm branches quite literally uh in maybe a way of declaring his victory like he's come to sit on the throne, but we know in just a week's time the cries for Hosanna in the highest is going to be changed to crucify him. We see that the disciples here were praising God. They say there in verse number 38, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. But note what he says there, peace in heaven. and glory in the highest. It's very noteworthy that here at this stage of Christ's life and ministry, where this of course, having been inspired by God Almighty, that they are saying peace in heaven. Jesus is just a week away from going to heaven. But do you remember in Luke chapter 2 when Jesus was coming to earth What did they say? They said peace on earth. Because Jesus was coming to earth and he was going to be here where Jesus is, there is peace. Jesus was here and uh for the years and time that he was on earth here, they're saying peace on earth and goodwill to men But now that Jesus is going into heaven, he's saying, peace in heaven. This even maybe not even fully understanding what it is that they were saying, but the Pharisees, of course, didn't like it. They they said, Hey, tell your disciples to be quiet. Tell those people, your followers, to stop screaming and yelling all this uh good news about and and Jesus said, Boy, if they if they did not lift up their voice, the stones themselves Would lift up their voice and cry out, Hosanna, in the highest, declaring the glory and the majesty of God Christ looks out over this group of people and out over Jerusalem, and we see that he begins to cry for Jerusalem. Really, for the people of Jerusalem, for what they were going to have to endure, for what was coming because they had rejected him. He sees this city and the coming destruction. He sees the temple torn down completely. In verses 41 to 44, we see, and when he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it. Saying, if thou hast known even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belongeth unto thy peace. But now they are hid from thine eyes. He's saying, You guys don't see all what's coming. For the days shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round And keep thee on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee And they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knowest not the time of thy visitation. He says, Boy You guys don't realize the destruction that's coming. You don't realize the turmoil that you're going to go through. And Jesus is crying for them, weeping for them because of the coming destruction, the the the destroying of the of the temple and all of that. He understands it. He wasn't crying for himself. He was going to be going to the cross, but he wasn't crying for that. He was crying for what his people were going to have to go through and what they were going to have to endure. Christ looks at the Israel and he rebukes them for their hypocrisy. We see here the thirty-third miracle of Christ Cursing a fig tree. Now we could read this here, but I'd like you to turn to Mark chapter number 11. Turn back to Mark chapter 11. We're going to read it in that passage of scripture Christ rebukes the Israel several times. This is the first One of his rebukes here. We notice in Mark chapter 11, verses 12 through 14, that this is on the morrow. He says We you if you see in verse number eleven, and Jesus entered in Jerusalem and into the temple, and when he had looked round about all the things, now the evening tide was come. And he went out unto Bethany with the twelve. So he went out unto Bethany for the evening. We see in verse number twelve, and on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was hungry. So a day has passed, and he's now there and he's hungry and he sees a fig tree uh afar off having leaves he came and happily he might find anything thereon and when he came to it he found nothing but leaves for the time of figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and he said unto it, No man eateth fruit of the hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it. Jesus cursing of this fig tree here is a representative representative of Israel. He's scolding Israel for their mistrust. Oftentimes Jesus uh and the prophets compared Israel to the fig tree. Uh I can give you an example of that in Hosea 9. 10. He said, I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness. I saw your father's as the first stripe in a fig tree at her first coming. So the Often he they Israel was compared to a fig tree, so to the that fruitfulness and the barrenness that was there, and Jesus seeing this fig tree and it not having the fruit that it should have on it, he he says, I'm going to curse you forevermore. You you chose not to bring forth fruit when you should have brought forth fruit, and so I'm going to curse you and you will never bring forth fruit. Christ is telling everyone that Israel was going to be set aside. Now that might not be the best word to put there, but Israel was going to the the the gospel was going to go out to the world, they chose he came unto his own, and his own received him not. And so Jesus is saying, okay You guys are not bringing forth the fruit that you should bring forth. So the gospel now is going to go to the entire world. And you don't turn there, but in Matthew chapter 21, verses 43 and 44, he says, Therefore say I unto you The kingdom of God shall be taken away from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. He says, the kingdom of God, this that we've talked about, that I've taught on, what they wanted him to set up this kingdom, and he says, Boy, the kingdom of God is going to be taken away from you. And it's going to be given to a nation that will bring forth the fruits thereof. Because there's some things that you guys don't quite understand. And so Jesus' cursing of this fig tree was really a lesson to Israel and a rebuke of Israel for not being fruitful, for not responding to his message. that he had given them. We see Christ also cleansing of the temple here in verses 15 through 19. You're still in Mark 11, hopefully. And he says here, and they came to Jerusalem, and Jesus went into the temple and began to cast out them that sold and brought in the temple and overthrow the tables of the money changers and the seats of them that sold doves. So Jesus here again rebuking the people for what they're doing, overturning these money tables, he began his ministry. by the cleansing of the temple back in John uh chapter two I think and we look at that in at the beginning and we taught on what it was what he was teaching and the problem with the money changers uh is that they were literally selling the gospel. They were selling things. People were required to have these doves and they were marking them up Hundreds and hundreds of percent where they could get a dove relatively cheaply somewhere else, but these they had to have these doves to offer, and so they were marking them up. That's what the money changers were doing. So just I t I taught on that the idea of people we we want to be careful not to turn the house of God into a den of thieves and this is not a marketplace, but at the same time uh you know it's not Oh, we can't ever sell or exchange any monies on the church property because we're turning it into identities. There are some people that have taken that way beyond And I think it's just they don't understand the principle of what Jesus was doing here is they were literally selling the gospel. And there are churches that do that. You can't get to heaven unless you're faithful, tithing member of the church Well that's wrong. God was turning overturning the money changers and throwing them out because that's what they were doing. They were saying, you can't be right with God unless you pay this amount. And and that's wrong to sell the gospel, to sell uh salvation salvation, to sell penance To try and buy your way into grace, to buy your way into heaven. And that's wrong. And Jesus wasn't for it. So Jesus is cleansing the temple here. He began his ministry this way, and he closes his ministry this way. We see that Christ leaves the city, the end of another day, in verse number 19. And when evening was come, he went out of the city. So we see another day is past. We're we're progressing through Christ's last week here before he goes to the cross. We see that in the morning. Um Several things happen, but Christ is challenged in the temple. Several things that they challenge him about. Jump down to verse number 28. We see I'm going to begin in verse number twenty-seven. And they came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, there came to him the chief priests and the scribes and the elders And say unto him, By what authority dost thou these things, and who gave thee this authority to do these things? So they were challenging him, saying you throw overthrow these money changers, you're cleaning the temple out. By what authority do you do this? How is it you can do that? They questioned his authority, but Christ's answer to them, which is usual, he many times answered with a question. and provoked great thought on their behalf. But he give poses a question for them in verses 29 through 30. He says, And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, was it from heaven or of men? Answer me. And they reasoned within themselves, saying, if we shall say from heaven, he will say, why then did ye not believe him? But if we shall say of men, they feared the people. So Jesus says, okay, is this from heaven? Was the baptism of John from heaven If they recognized that John the Baptist and his baptism was from heaven, then why didn't they believe his message about Jesus that behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. And basically saying, okay, by what authority do I do this? If you recognize John the Baptist's baptism as a baptism from heaven, then that's the authority. That's understandable. You understand that. But they said, but wait, we can't say that. But if they say, well, it's of men. Then all the people who love John the Baptist, all the people who respect John the Baptist, who know that he speaks with authority, they're all going to be mad So what are we going to do? So Jesus kind of backs them into a corner there and says, hey, answer me this, and then I'll answer you. He goes on to teach several parables, the parable of the two sons, the parable of the husbandman, the parable of the marriage, uh of the king's son. There's several there which we're not going to take time to teach. I've listed out the parables for you and we've taught on those in other times. But then Christ was asked about tribute to Caesar. I want you to turn to Matthew chapter 22 for this story. We could read on 13 through 17 right here. But if you have to turn, it keeps you awake. Amen. So we're going to look in Matthew chapter 22. 15 to 22, uh to see this story take place here where Christ is asked about tribute. Then went the Pharisees and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk. Again, they're trying to find any way to trip him up, any way to catch him where they might charge him. And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the persons of men. Tell us, therefore, what thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar Or not. But Jesus perceived their wickedness and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? Jesus, again, understanding what they're trying to do, understanding the deceitfulness in which they approach him, answers them with great wisdom. You see, if Jesus says, pay taxes, then he is supporting the Roman occupation. And everybody's going to be mad about that because they can't stand the Romans and they're thinking this is a way that we could catch them. But if he says, no, you don't have to pay taxes. Well then they can get him in trouble with the Romans because he's guilty of sedition. He's standing against the Roman occupation and so they think we've got him I mean they sat down, you know, the Herodians were followers of Herod. They believed they did not get along with the Pharisees at all. They were not friends. Yet, you know the saying, the enemy of my enemy is my friend. That's what happened here. The Pharisees and the Herodians got together and they said, okay, we've got to find a way to trick them up. And what a Conniving and yet very like that's a pretty good trick. Like they get him in trouble no matter what he says. Jesus has no good answer here. If he says pay your taxes, then they're in trouble. If he says don't pay your taxes, then he's in trouble as well. And they've got him either way, right? Well, not with Jesus. So the Herodians were were lovers of uh Herod, they were followers of him, they didn't get along. But uh notice that they tried to use false flattery to get Jesus to drop his guard there. In verse number 16, you see them come up and they're like, oh. He said, Master, we know that thou art true and teachest the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the person of men. He said, Boy. We know that thou have no regard for what a individual man might think that you you know the truth and the truth is what's most important. So you tell us What we should do. Should we pay? You know, you've got to be very careful about false flattery. Uh and and be careful that you're not using false flattery to try and get what you want. From other men, people that are your friends or your family. We're warned about false flattery several places in the Word of God. In Psalms chapter 12, verses 1 or 2, he says, They speak vanity, every one with his neighbor. with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. Just false flattery, just trying to uh get what they desire. That's one of the biggest problems I have with I don't think I would ever be a good politician. Uh because I just am not good at that And uh y y you gotta play both sides of the fence all the time and and you know, you gotta compromise on this in order to get that and back and forth. And it's it's uh it's certainly not something that I envy or, you know, I I am aware of the challenges that they face to try and get anything accomplished, and that's why we need to be in prayer for for all of our leaders, uh, that they would follow the word of God and do what's right. It's certainly a challenging thing. In Romans 16, 18 he says, For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speech. deceive the hearts of the simple. That's what the Herodians were doing here. So, but Jesus responds to them and with wisdom. Let's see, where did where did we leave off? We're 2216, we read that. And he said unto them, verse number 20 Whose is this image in superscription? They say unto him, Caesar. Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. Boy, they didn't understand or perceive the wisdom that he would have. You know, when you and I uh James tells, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God. And Sometimes if you've been seeking the Lord, you've been reading, this is where wisdom comes from, is from this book. And uh people will ask a question of you And you'll give an answer and later even in your mind you'll be like, I'm not even sure where that came from. Like, I don't have that kind of wisdom myself. I I don't have that knowledge. I mean, where did that come from? God gives you wisdom, like that answer that Jesus just gave, where people are like, whoa. Man, that was that was pretty wise. And and we can function in the realm of spiritual wisdom and have wisdom with our dealings if we're walking with God and allowing Him to lead us. Jesus here gives this uh response. You see, beloved, uh he he understands that these people Had been living under Roman rule, and they enjoyed the things that Rome brought to them. For instance, they made good use of the roads that were provided. They enjoyed the commerce that was brought to their city by them. They used the coins as means of exchange. And so Jesus is saying to them, Listen, you're here, you're a part of this society, you might not care for Roman rule, but the fact of the matter is, is you are benefiting from what they are bringing, so you need to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. You're partaking of this, you're having part of this, you're benefiting from what they're bringing to the table, so you've got to render under Caesar what is Caesar's. And beloved, Christians ought to pay their taxes. You don't like how many taxes there are, then you have a process by which you can try and get somebody else in office that would try and lower the taxes or change it. But until then, we're supposed to pay our taxes. I do not appreciate People that call themselves Christians that uh say, well, taxes are unconstitutional and we're just not going to pay taxes, and and they get this group and following and eventually they end up in jail, uh because they're not paying their taxes. Um but the fact of the matter is is they're driving on the roads They're using the trash service. They're availing themselves of the police. They're benefiting from all the things that society gives to them. And then they're saying, no, I'm not going to pay my part. I'm not going to do anything. And that's wrong. And Jesus himself said it's wrong. He says, render unto Caesar that which is Caesar's. We're going to benefit from the safety that we have in this country because of the military that protects and provides safety for us. That's paid for by taxes. And so everybody should do their part. Now I think that we're taxed a little bit too much and I wouldn't mind trying to change that sum. But until then, you don't be dishonest and lie and try and cheat the government out of it. You pay whatever taxes you owe. That's what Jesus said But then he also said, but render unto God the things that are God's. Beloved, we have a responsibility before God to honor him with our life, to honor him with the first fruits of our increase, to do what God asks of us to do, to be a follower of him, we need to Render unto him the things that are that are his, putting him first in our life. The Pharisees Didn't care for this. They didn't even understand the wisdom that he would have as he continually evaded their traps. You see, nobody took Jesus' life. When it came time he gave it. They could not entrap him But he walked happily towards, as the scripture says, he set his face as a flint. He he looked, he knew where he was going and what was coming. We see that Christ was asked by the Sadducees about the resurrection in chapter 22, verses 23 through 33. He says. The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say, There is no resurrection. And asks him, saying, Master, Moses said, if a man die, this is really crazy. Listen to this hypothetical question that they posed to Jesus So they say here, saying, Master, Moses said, if a man die having no children, his brother shall marry his wife and raise up a seed unto his brother. Okay, this was a according to the law. The the Sadducees were followers of the law. They believed in the law. They did not believe in judgment. They didn't believe in the resurrection. uh the but they did follow the law and so they looked at it and said, Hey Moses said, if your brothers dies and they don't have any uh heirs yet, there's no male seed to carry on the name It was uh something God wanted the names of the families to to remain. So you were supposed to marry your brother's wife and bring up seed to their behalf. And that was according to law. He says, Now there were with us seven brethren. And the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and having no issues left his wife unto his brother, likewise the second, also the third, unto the seventh And the last of all the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be? They say, okay, this happened seven times. This hypothetical question. Seven times in this family of brothers, this lady got passed from one brother to the next. All the way down. Now Jesus, in the resurrection, when we all get to heaven, who's she going to be married to? And Jesus says to them, well, there's something you don't understand. And I've actually been asked this question. for from people who not got married seven times to the same brothers or family, not that. But in situations where somebody's mate passed away young and they got remarried and and lived a number of years uh married happily to their second wife or some people that have gone through uh the pain of divorce and have remarried and now They're like, well, what's gonna happen when I get to heaven? It's gonna be a little awkward. My first husband, my second husband, or or first wife and second wife, and You know, I gotta introduce them to each other, or what's gonna happen there? Well, what does Jesus say? So Jesus gives us the answer here. Look in verse number 29. Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures. nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven So he teaches them, beloved, that our relationships in heaven are going to be different. We're not going to be married or given to marriage in heaven. So when we get to heaven. We're not going to have those same relationships. We will the Bible is very clear that we will be known and we will know. We will be recognizable among each other. We'll know each other. We'll be able to recognize Paul and Moses and I'm glad we'll have perfect knowledge because I have a hard time remembering the names of people I that I I I can't imagine once we get to heaven how how uh many people they're gonna have to try and remember Uh so we'll recognize people, but we're not going to be given in marriage. We're not going to have those same relationships. And he says you're going to be more like the angels. The angels who are created beings. And so there's several things about that with regards to angels. In heaven, men are going to be like the angels. That is, that we're not going to die. He tells us that in in Luke. We're not there, so we're not going to turn there. But Luke chapter 20, verse number 36, he gives us these several things there, that examples of that we're not going to marry. We're not going to have a need for food. I personally kind of hope we still get to eat. Um I I enjoy good food. I was talking to some guys at the uh Thursday night at the fellowship out there on the property, I says, Well, I mean that's the problem is I just really enjoy good food. And uh I guess I enjoy junk food too, but but a good meal, I mean a well prepared good meal, I mean that's that's just an enjoyment for me. And so one day, I guess maybe I won't have this old flesh and so it wouldn't matter. I don't know. But I look forward to it in heaven. We're not going to have the need for food to sustain life. because we're going to live forever. So that's not going to be something we need. So we're not going to be not going to die, not going to be married, not going to have a need for food. And we're not going to have the commission or command of God to be fruitful and multiply. So we're not going to be given in that type of relationship. where we're trying to multiply where Jesus gave the command to Adam and Eve to be fruitful and multiply, and of course to Noah after the flood. That they were to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. And so we're not going to be given in those things. So We are going to stop there. I know that as far as your notes, you're done, right? So I do have uh more, but we'll just pick up there next week. Continuing on with the final week of uh Christ's time here on earth. Let's close in prayer. Multiply as we have been given that commission and command here on earth to be fruitful and multiply. We're not going to be doing that in heaven. So those relationships are completely different, and it's something that's a little bit beyond our uh ability to even comprehend or think about because of our life and how it's made up and we are really confined by our experience, uh, even the idea of time. Our life is governed and controlled by time and that's by design. God set up the day, the morning and the night to mark a passage of time. And that's for us. But to think about eternity is is Infallible. I mean we we contemplate it and there's been many illustrations written about how to measure it or gauge it, but we we just really can't in our minds because his thoughts are not our thoughts and his ways are not our ways and He is so much higher than us to be able to understand those things. But he gives us a little bit of glimpse into it there as he talks about what it's going to be like. And of course we are enjoy studying that. Then Christ was asked about the greatest commandment. So in Matthew chapter 22 is where we're going to uh pick up here And I need to get there myself. Matthew chapter 22, he's asked about the greatest commandment. In verse 34 through 40 Again, that's found in Mark as well, but we're not going to go there. But a lawyer comes up and tries to entrap Jesus. So let's look at this here, beginning in verse number 34 of Matthew 22. But when the Pharisees had heard that they had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together. Now, you know the Pharisees and the Sadducees, they weren't buddies. They didn't like each other, but they had a common enemy, and that was Jesus Christ. And so they got together anytime they could. maybe do something against Christ, but I can imagine some mixed emotions here in the f uh the Pharisees because Christ kind of put the Sadducees in their place. uh with the questions that they were asking and they probably thought, man, that that was neat to see Jesus put the Sadducees in their place, but then they were a little disappointed because uh the goal of entrapping Jesus didn't happen yet. And so this lawyer uh began to uh contemplate and think about uh how could I get him? You know lawyers uh tend to be intellectual, they tend to be thinkers, and the Word of God many times scribes. That you find scribes mentioned. You have the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and the Scribes, and many times scribes were also lawyers. And so this lawyer uh comes up and he asks of Jesus. He says, again trying to And trap him, this verse number thirty-five. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law. You see, the Pharisees had set up six hundred and thirteen laws that they had looked through the law, which is the Pentateuch, the beginning chapters of the Old Testament, and they had established 613 Definable laws that they were supposed to obey, that they were supposed to follow, and they in their minds had uh According to Josephus, had made these laws into two categories, heavy laws and light laws, laws that maybe weren't quite as important. But among those laws that were considered heavy or very important, this lawyer comes and again trying to challenge Jesus, uh, let's see what your knowledge is. Among these laws, which is the greatest? What's the greatest law that we have that we're supposed to follow? It's amazing the wisdom that is evident in Christ's answer here. The the just the completely turning the question on its head and teaching such a powerful truth to them and to us In that he replies to them and says, Listen, in verse number 37, Jesus said unto them, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it: thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Now, Christ was actually quoting the law. I don't know if you want to mark in the margin of your Bible these references, but Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verse number 5. Deuteronomy 6. 5 says, And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And Leviticus 19, 18 Says, thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. So he is quoting the law, but he is giving to them uh these two commandments and saying, listen, on these two laws Hang every other law. Doesn't matter what it is, doesn't matter what other law you want to mention, it's not even part of the Great Commandments or the Ten Commandments. He says, as a matter of fact, all of the Ten Commandments and every other one of the laws you want to lay out can be hung on these two laws. If you would love God first and love your neighbors yourself, the rest of the commandments would Take care of themselves. What a powerful truth that He imparts and teaches to them and to us. So then Christ kind of turns himself a little bit and changes. They had been accusing him, they had been attacking him, they had been questioning him. And Jesus says, well, let me ask you a question. He kind of turns it on them just a little bit as he addresses his accusers. And uh we'll just continue down in this chapter right here because it it takes place here as well in verses 41 through 46. He says, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, saying, What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he? You see, they asked him a very basic question, Jesus asked the Pharisees. He asked him a very basic question concerning the Messiah. He says, who is he? What think ye of Christ? Who is the Messiah? And the obvious answer, the answer that is wrote, that basically anybody would give that they understood to be a fact, they could state the fact, they said, oh. Well, he is the Lord, right? He is the Messiah. He comes from David's lineage. That's what was supposed to be. So he saith unto them, verse number forty-three. I'm sorry, verse 42 he says, saying, What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he? They say unto him, the son of David. That is the row answer. That is the answer that is understood. Like they knew the Messiah. They knew Christ was supposed to come from the line of Christ, of the line of David. And so they said, oh, is David's son? And then Jesus quotes Psalm 110 verse 1, and he says to them, He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord? Saying, and here's where he quotes Psalms. He says, The Lord saith unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool. If David then called him Lord, How is he his son? And no man was able to answer him a word, neither does any man from that day forth ask him any more questions. You see. You know from our study on the names of God, that uh there in verse number 44, the Lord, all capital, that is Jehovah God. That's Jehovah God. And so He's asking of them, hey, whose son is he? How is it that David can call him Lord? If he's David's son, why did David call him Lord? And the Pharisees are putting themselves right in the crosshairs here. Clearly letting any everybody know that although they know the letter of the law, they don't know the Lord of the Law. They don't know what it is that the Messiah was supposed to accomplish. They don't know really who the Lord was Because they said, oh, well he's David's son. But when he said, well, how is it that David called him Lord? They're like, uh Didn't have an answer. They couldn't answer it. You see, because they did not know who the Lord was. You see, he was David's son by human lineage. But David was able to call his own son Lord by divine lineage. He was David's son uh as his offspring, as man's offspring, but he was David's Lord and God the Father's offspring And they did not understand that, admitting or really showing that they didn't really know who the Messiah was. And from that point on, they just ceased to ask him questions. They thought, boy. Uh I'm not getting into a battle of the wits with this guy. And they stopped asking questions. I stopped asking my wife questions a long time ago because Don't want to get into the battle of the wits with her. Uh you know, she's she's very quick and uh I'm not so quick. And uh you don't you don't want to get into it. But she Uh there there are some people that way and they've they just decided, you know what, it's not worth it. Every time we ask this guy a question, he gives us the law, he gives us the scripture, he points us back and answers it. And we just can't trap him, so they decided that's enough. Enough is enough. Then we see that Jesus condemned the scribes and the Pharisees in a very powerful sermon. Against religion that didn't have any righteousness. We can just look here in Matthew chapter 23. We can continue right on down. What a powerful message that he gives him here. He says so many things about the Pharisees and their religion, but didn't have righteousness. And uh he says here first that they failed to practice what they preached. We see that in verses three and four. All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do. But do not ye after their works For they say and do not. He's saying boy, they say it, they speak it, they talk a big talk, but they don't do it. He said they failed. to do what they preach, to practice what they preach. You know, we need to practice what we preach. We need to be uh not As the hypocrites were. We need to say, okay, thus saith the Lord, and that needs to define our life. It needs to define the way we live. It needs to establish our habits. And Jesus was calling them on the carpet, saying, hey, you guys aren't even practicing what you preach. He says in verses 5 through 7 that their faith was only to be seen of men All of their faith that they had, all of their practices was really just a matter of to be seen of men. In verse 5, he says, but all their works they do for to be seen of men. They make broad their phylactories and enlarge the borders of their garments So a phylactery was uh a habit that even still today Jewish people have that are devout Jews, and if you're in Israel you'll see in the morning prayer time and whatever, uh, because several times in the Word of God it tells them to bind it about their wrist. or to bind it, uh, for that the word of God is to be the frontlet between their eyes. And so you will see men that have a small little box tied to their forehead. And and in that little box is scripture that has been written, recorded, rolled up and stuck in this box. And they will bind them, they'll have uh things wrapped around long Latches that go around and they'll bind it about their wrist because they believe the law in that way that they're going to follow that and and have these and he says you make broad your the hems of your garment And that's because in the law the Bible told them in uh Numbers fifteen thirty-eight, it says, Speak unto the children of Israel and bind them that they make them And bid them, sorry, that they make fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generation, and they put upon the fringe of the borders a reband of blue. So they were supposed to put this ribbon of blue around their their uh garments and they were supposed to have this, but the whole motivation for them doing it was that they would be seen of men. It really had nothing to do with their heart. It had nothing to do with their relationship with God, with righteousness. It was just that men would see them and think them spiritual. They could make, well, they had that guy has a three-inch border on his garment. Well, I'm going to make a four-inch border on mine. I'm more spiritual than him. I'm going to make a five-inch border on mine. Uh and and it was just motivated by what others would see, and Jesus called them on the carpet for it. He says that, and they love, verse number six, and they love the upmost rooms at feast and the chief seats in the synagogue. and greetings in the markets and to be called of men Rabbi, Rabbi. He said, boy, you love that. You love the recognition. It's all about being seen of men. It's all about uh being acknowledged and being uh excholled as somebody uh virtuous or great In verses 8 through 12, he tells them that they should have one Father that is God. Father, he was alone to be their God. He says, In verse number 8, but be not ye called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. and call no man your father upon earth, for one is your father, which is in heaven. Neither be ye called master, for one is your master, even Christ, but he that is the greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall be exalted himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. He says, boy, you guys, it's all about being seen of men, it's all about being lifted up. And he says, but what you need to do is realize don't don't call a man father. Don't call uh a man you've only got one father. Don't seek to be the master. The one who is the least among you will be the greatest. The one who is the greatest is going to be the least. He says, when this is what you're going after, but you humble yourself, God will lift you up. God will use the humble man in mighty ways, but the one who is doing all that he's doing just to be seen of men? God's not pleased with that. And God's hand is not going to be behind it. He tells them the framework of their religion is in fact keeping people from God. In verse number 13, he says, But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. He says, what you've done is you've you've laid bare, you've you've made it so difficult, you've made it so hard that you've shut up the kingdom of heaven. It's like you've made it people desire to come to God and you've made it so that They they can't even get there. You've made it so it's so difficult you've hindered. Even yourselves can't keep the 613 laws that you said men need to keep. You've set up it's it's so difficult for yourself, let alone anybody else. You've put these heavy burdens on men so that you've made it difficult and hard and you've basically blocked people from coming to God The framework of their religion, beloved, we need to be careful about that. The framework of our religion Doesn't hinder people. We need to live lives that are honoring to Christ. And we're going to be talking about that this morning as we talk about Jehovah Mekedesh, the God who sanctifies But beloved, we need to remember that God loves men right where they are. I heard this week a a uh story or a illustration of a pastor that was reaching a young man with the gospel of Jesus Christ and the young man said, Boy, uh I like smoking pot. He says, if I come to Christ, do I have to give up my plot? And the pastor looked at him and said, no. And he says, wait, wait, wait, no. Uh you you understand, preacher, I'm talking about reefer. I'm talking about the green stuff. I I'm saying preacher, you know If I come if I want to come to Christ, do I have to give that up? Do I have to quit that? And he says, No. The boy's just really confused because all the religion that he had ever heard of had put boundaries and said you can do this or can't do that. And and he says, let me ask you this. If your mom or dad looked at you and said, uh boy, you need to get cleaned up. Do you go take a shower before you take a shower? Mmm that that doesn't make sense. Do you get cleaned up to go get cleaned up? He says, no. He says that the shower cleans me up. And that's that's what we do when we come to Christ. You come to Christ as you are. God loves you and forgives you of your sin. But then what God does is he begins to work from the inside out and he tells you if there's something in your life that you need to let go. But it's not something that you've had to let go in order to come to Christ. It's you you now are living in submission to him, and then God speaks to your heart, and you decide in your heart that listen, this is not honoring and pleasing to my Lord, and so I want to give that up. It's not a law that God says you have to do this in order to know me. No, God will accept you like you are. He'll save you and forgive you. But we need to let people come to Christ as they are and be careful that we're not like the Fa the the Pharisees and establishing our rules, our laws, and saying, hey, if you're gonna be a Christian, this is what a Christian looks like We need to leave that up to God and them. Allow God to work on their heart. Let them come to Christ as they are. And then God, just like God gloriously and majestically began to change us, and I'm glad that He's still working on me, amen. That God will begin to work on them. And God will let them know if there's something in their life that's not pleasing to him, and they will give that up out of love for God, not the law that you laid down. And this is what the Pharisees were doing. The framework of their religion was keeping people from a relationship with God. And Jesus was not happy about it. He says, their facade of spiritualness, they were spiritualizing their sin in verse number 14. He says, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye devour widows' houses. And for pretense, make long prayer. He said, you guys are doing wrong. You're on one hand, you're neglecting, even abusing, not treating these widows correct But you're standing in front of their house making a long prayer. He says, boy, this is not right. The facade of their spirit religion. was just masking their sinfulness. Their followers were worse off than they were before. In verse number 15, he says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye encompass sea and land to make one proselyte. He said, boy, you go everywhere to bring one person. And when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourself. Now, people today like to say that Jesus was uh, they like to use the words tolerant and inclusive and loved everybody. Just read this chapter. He laid down and said, this is not right. He says, ye hypocrites, what you have done is you've made the people that have come and followed you twofold the child of hell that you are. And that they were, he says, boy, this is unacceptable. The followers were worse off than they were. They focused on things that were ilrelevant in verses 16 through 22. Their fidelity was lacking. That is, they weren't honest with all that they were doing. They weren't keeping everything. They were just doing those things which of course were being seen of men. They were leaving off those things which are most important. Their fake spirituality was only skin deep. but wherein they are full of extortions and excess. He says, Boy, you you you worry about what people see on the outside. It's only skin deep. Their false superiority was evident in verses 29 to 35. They really felt themselves to be special. Let me see here. Listen to the Christ's reprimand here, verse number 27. He says, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful in the outward, but are within but are within full of dead man's bones, and of uncleanliness. Even so ye as outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. Very clearly telling them this is y what you're concerned with is what people see, but what you need to be concerned with is what's on the inside. God was not saying unto them to leave off these less important things. God was saying don't be worried about the external. He wasn't saying the external doesn't matter. Really, he was saying you need to you need to do both. You need to uh care for both. Let me see if I can find that verse. Maybe you'll read it before me, but he says there that you should not have left off or not leave off, I think is the term of the word that he uses there Okay, look at verse gotta back up a little. Verse number 23. He says, Woe and you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites, for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cumin. and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. He said, boy, you're real worried about this little thing But you're not even doing the big thing. You're not doing what is that of utmost importance. But note what he says here. He says, these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. So he says you y you really should be doing both. As a matter of fidelity, as a matter of honesty, as a matter of doing what's right, you need to do both. So both are important. We need to remember that, that this outside what people see, the fact of the matter is, is the world sees you and the the Bible tells you that it is your works, that men see your good works and thereby glorify your Father which is in heaven. So what men see is important. But we can't focus on just doing what men see and leave the heart undone And not not worry about what we are inside, not worry about how pure and clean we are before God. That is of weightier matter. That is of utmost importance. But we need to take care of the outside as well. So both, Christ says very clearly, both are important. We see also not only did he condemn the scribes and Pharisees in this sermon here that he gives them. But he cries over the state of Jerusalem. He begins to weep over them. In verses 37 to 39, he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. Thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are set unto thee, how oft would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chicks under her wings, and ye would not Behold, your house is left unto you desolate, for I say unto you, ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. He says, you're not going to see me again until I until my return. But he says, boy, his heart was broken over what they were going to have to endure, over what Jerusalem was going to go through in the coming days the judgment of God that was going to fall and the desolation that was going to happen. He he cries over the state of Jerusal Jerusalem. He commends the widow, we're not going to turn there, but he commends the widow for her giving her all. In Mark and in Luke, those stories take place, but you guys know the story of the widow who gave her two mites? And others came in and gave large sums, and Jesus was observant and noticed what she gave. By the way, God sees what we give. God sees it all. He sees those that give uh a lot and those that give little. And beloved, it's the the lot in little is not compared to how much you give. It's compared to how much you have left. The gift that she gave was two mites, which was the smallest denomination available in that time, and was equivalent to about one-fifth of a penny. today. That's the value of a mite. One f it took five pennies to make one mite. And so that's what she gave, the equivalent of that. And uh Jesus said, boy, she's given a far greater amount. You know, Elon Musk could buy our new church building Build it, ten million dollar project, and literally not even notice. I mean literally like it would be like you giving ten bucks It it would be like a ten dollar gift. I mean the the the equivalent uh for somebody worth that much money. So it's not about how much you give. I mean obviously anybody in here, as far as I know, ten million dollars is a lot of money. It is substantially beyond what any of us have the capacity to do. But what can we do? We just need to be honest before God and know that God sees it all And it's not about how much we give, it's about what we have left and the heart behind it. Really, Jesus saw this lady's heart and she's commended for her love and for her sacrifice. Well, others that gave so much more God didn't say anything about why? Because the so much more they gave was just a fraction. They were, you know, basically, to put into modern vernacular, they were tipping God. Oh here you go, God. Here's a couple bucks. Thanks for all you do for me. Yeah, here here you go. Let me let me let me just give you this. You know I'm not going to go down that road. We need to keep moving. He says, uh, so he commends the widow for for giving her all. And then he communicated with some Greeks. We do need to turn to John to see this because it doesn't take place in Matthew. So in John chapter 12, we're going to come back to Matthew chapter 24 in just a moment, but if you would mind turn to John chapter number twelve. Some Greeks come in verse number twenty through thirty-six. They come and ask of him some questions. He says here in verse number 20, and there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast. And the same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethesda of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew, and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. And then Jesus begins to teach them here. about the time that was at hand and what was going to take place and the importance of it. Verse number 23, and Jesus answered them saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Think about that term. Jesus saying the hour has come that the Son of Man should be glorified, realizing what he is saying is that he was going to suffer. He was going to die. And he was saying that this was glory. You know, Christian, we need to realize when God sends us through suffering or we go through a trial, that it is always for our good or his glory. Most of the time, both. It is to help us, to build us, but it is also for his glory. Jesus was going to go to the cross, he was going to suffer, and he was going to die, and he said, Boy, the time has come, the time is at hand that the Son of Man should be glorified. Note what he says, Verily, verily I say unto you, verse number twenty-four, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it into life eternal. He's saying, listen, what are you living for? The time has come for me to die. And if if If we try and save our life, you're going to lose it. If you try and keep all of your life for yourself and man this world it's all about me and I'm going to get everything I can, you're going to live a miserable, lonely, unsatisfying life because you've accomplished nothing. But when you lose your life, you live for others and do what God wants you to do, then your life is multiplied many times over. And you have rejoicing in your heart and rejoicing in your life as you see all that God has done. He's teaching them this principle that except the seed die and falleth into the ground, it abideth alone. But when it dies, it was raised up and it is multiplied many times over. The amazing thing here. And he says in verse number 26, if a man serve me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serve me, him will my father honor. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause came I into this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Note here, then came there a voice from heaven saying, I have both glorified it and will glorify it again. Beloved, we have here God the Father. Speaking for the third time in an audible voice to his son here on earth. You know the first was at baptism. Where he comes and says, Behold, my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. The second was at the Mount of Transfiguration. I've given you the references for that. And here, as Jesus was on his way to the cross, God the Father spake verbally concerning his Son. So he commends the widow. He communicated with the Greeks, and we see he condemns the Jews for their unbelief in John 12, 37 through 50. We're not going to take time to read that. You know the Jews He came to his own and his own received him not. Ultimately they did not believe. And therefore they were the greater uh they they lost because of that. What I want to do is I want you to turn back to Matthew chapter 24 And man, I was hoping to get to this because this is very powerful. Uh the Olivet Discourse The Olivet Discourse is called the Olivet Discourse not because they're talking about Olives, but because it took place on the Mount of Olives But the teaching that we really need to do in order to go through this, I do not have in the time that we have left here. So we're gonna have to pick up there next week. But um It is very important that we understand this all about discourse in the context of what he was teaching it. Okay, so he is teaching this. Matthew is written to the Jew. Matthew is speaking to Jewish people. The church age hasn't started yet. The church is not what is in view here as he is speaking to them and giving them the Olivet discourse. in this passage of Scripture, as he is discussing and talking about the return, we need to remember that that is what he's talking about. The next thing on the calendar, on God's calendar, is the rapture. We're going to be raptured out of here. But understand the rapture is not the return of Christ. Those are two different events. The rapture is when we are caught up together with him in the clouds. That is when those that are saved are gone. Now we are pre-tribulationists. We believe that we are going to be raptured out of here, that we're not going to be here during the tribulation. This passage, the Olivet Discourse, is talking to the Jews that are present here on earth during the tribulation. And so that because of that, there's a lot of foundation, a lot of a teaching that needs to take place. to correctly interpret that. And if you aren't careful and don't look at this in context, you will misinterpret especially the parables that he teaches in chapter 25. He teaches some parables there, and you'll misapply them, especially if you misapply some of the things that he's talking about to the rapture. Instead of the return. Now a lot of times, and I'm guilty of this especially anybody that talks as much as a preacher says things wrong for sure on occasion. So sometimes Uh I've been guilty of this where you'll say something out of these passages where it's describing the signs of the times And things like that, and we're going to look at that next week. But you'll say it in light of uh the return. I mean in light of the rapture. And not in context when he's actually talking about something that's taking place during the tribulation for the return of Christ during that three and a half, first three and a half, or second three and a half years. So that's what we want to understand it. So next week we're going to dig into that, really discuss it. I would encourage you to read those chapters and uh maybe think of some good, hard questions I could have Stephen answer. And we'll get into that next week. I know there's a lot of interest around this topic, so I don't want to rush through it. So we're going to close in prayer and we'll pick up here next week.