The Gospel of Christ, because we're going to be dealing with the death, burial, and the resurrection as we're walking through the New Testament and looking uh just at what happened, of course, the synopsis of the gospel, including uh Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and what takes place in each of these, each of them having their own perspective and teaching their their own point of view, but uh covering the same events many times in a very like manner But small little things different from one to the other. They don't contradict, but they complement each other uh as the story is told. And now we are getting here right down to the end uh of the Gospels as we cover Ultimately the cause and a purpose for Christ's coming is his death, burial, and resurrection. So uh after they had we we we talked about concluded our notes two weeks ago on uh basically Christ's last week, you know, what has been called the Passion Week, the week before his crucifixion. We concluded that the angry mob uh mocked and jeered at the Lord. They wanted him to be crucified. We know that the beating that he took uh he was almost unrecognizable. uh as a man. Uh and Pilate thought that maybe if he just beat him really good that the people would let him go, that a beating would be sufficient, but they still cried out the more, crucify him, crucify him And uh so they chose to uh let Barabbas go and and hold on to Christ and have him crucified Uh d they put a cross on his shoulders on his back and sent him to Golgotha to be put to death by crucifixion The angry mob and Satan thought that they had won a great victory that day. However, God's plan for redemption was being fulfilled. Because three days later we know that Christ would rise, raise from the dead, and win the ultimate victory over death and the grave and purchase salvation for all mankind. So we're going to look this morning, first of all, here at Christ's death. We are going to spend most of our time in the book of Mark, although we a couple times to see small things we need to jump into a couple others. So look in Mark chapter number 15. Mark chapter number 15. And is where we're going to pick up. We see here that Jesus was marched to Golgotha in Mark chapter 15, verses 20 and 22 is where we're going to pick up this morning. He says, and when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him and put his own clothes on him and led him out to crucify him. And they compel one Simon, a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross. and they bringing him into the place of Golgotha, which is being interpreted, the place of the skull. Christ was so weak from his beating that he could not even muster the strength to carry his own cross It was the custom, the habit, where they, as part of their humiliation, those that were going to be crucified, would be required to carry their own cross through the city, up the hill to the place where they would die. However, Christ was beaten to the point where he no longer had any strength, and he could not carry his own cross and So Simon, the Cyrenian, was called to carry his cross, compelled to carry his cross up Golgotha. Galgotha there we see means the place of the skull That is given to us several times in the New Testament. I've had the privilege of being in Jerusalem. I've walked up the Via Della Rosa, the 600-meter path that uh they believe that Christ walked and where Simon was pulled to carry the cross because Christ could no longer bear the weight of it up up the incline. I've gone through that. And there's a lot that takes place here from this point to the point in just a few hours where Christ gives up his spirit, where he gives up the ghost. and ultimately dies, a lot happens, and we're going to kind of walk through that and talk about it. But this place in Israel, which is very near the Garden of Gethsemane uh where that they believe the place of the skull was. And I have a picture here for you this morning. The reason that it's called the place of the skull is believed because of its resemblance to a skull when you're looking at it, the the hill you climb up around the back side of it and it's not that big, but on this side you can almost picture a guy's skull in the middle of that there. You see his nose, the crown of his nose coming down and the two eyes this there's other perspectives that give you a little bit greater this is uh one theory that it was called the place of the skull because of its resemblance to a skull when you happen to be walking around, I can imagine, in the twilight of an evening. uh a child walking home and seeing this great big skull on the side of a hill looking at him, you know, and so it was called that. It also could be the place of the skull because of the fact that they crucified many, many people there, many people died, and it may be that their skulls were still present that you could go and find uh their skulls in in that place. But certainly we know the Bible tells us clearly that that's what it was called. On his path, on this what is now called the Via della Rosa, that path where he was marching to ultimately to his death. The women of Jerusalem had prepared and offered him a drink in verse number 23, and they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh, but he received it not. This drink that he refused was a drink that was prepared by the ladies of Jerusalem. It was often something that they would do because they had compassion on those that were being killed. And this drink is described in the book of Matthew as vinegar. Vinegar mixed with myrrh. Now, myrrh, that word for myrrh, literally means bile. It was a very bitter drink. The myrrh was some secretions from the root of a plant that was very bitter. However, it had numbing properties. And uh this drink that they had prepared would numb the pain. It would ease what they were enduring, it would kind of mask it uh as it as it were. And so They offered this to him, which is something that was common or something that the ladies of Jerusalem would do to those being crucified because they knew the pain that they were going to endure. And yet Christ refused that, understanding uh what his job was to bear the sin of the world and to go through this point of suffering, he refused to be comforted or to dull or to mask or hide the pain that uh was he was going to have to endure. Now, they parted his garments by casting lots in verse number 24, and when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, that is, when they had nailed him to the cross. They cast lots upon what every man should take. A little more detail is given in other passages of scripture, but I want you to know we're going to give you several fulfillments if you have this sheet here that we've gave you back at the beginning. uh on prophecies and when they were fulfilled, you'll see here that his clothing was gambled for in Psalms 22 verse number 18. So we have the fulfillment of that You want to mark down in Mark 15, 24. Psalms 22, 18 says, They part my garments among them and cast lots upon my vesture. You see, a prophecy hundreds of years before Christ ever came about what would happen at the foot of the cross. that his clothes would be uh parted among those that were crucifying him. That to determine not just that they would take his clothes, that might be something somebody could guess about, but that they would desire them so that they would have to cast lots to determine who got what, the prophecy being fulfilled there from Psalms 2218, fulfilled in Mark 1524. And then they crucified him, that is, they lifted him up, they put him in. The pattern of crucifixion was that they would pierce the hands and feet of those that they put on the cross. In verse number twenty-five, and it was the third hour, and they crucified him. So they pierced his hands and feet. This was the pattern, the habit that they did, and this was a fulfillment, if you have your sheet there. Uh it was a fulfillment of verse number twenty-six. I'm sorry, t Psalms twenty-two sixteen. For dogs have compassed me, and assembled of the wicked have enclosed me. The assembly of the wicked have enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. describing that his hands and feet were were going to be pierced and they were pierced as they lifted him up on the cross. They lifted him up there, they crucified him, they put him erect, and I want you to understand that this is exactly what Christ said to Nicodemus. Even as the serpent was lifted up in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. Moses in the wilderness that hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years earlier, uh the those that had been bitten by a snake and God provided a way for them to be healed, and they lifted up a serpent in the wilderness, and he says, if you'll look, you'll live. Look to the serpent and live. Look and live, my brother, live. As the serpent was lifted up, and the people by faith had to turn and look to the serpent. It doesn't make any sense. That's so simple. It's not scientific. It doesn't make logical sense. How is it that if I look at that I'm going to live? But that's what God said, and when those by faith look to the serpent They were healed of that uh poisonous uh serpent's bite, and they lived, and so Jesus Christ was lifted up. And the same idea given that those that would look by faith on the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, they could live, have eternal life, obviously. is what they what he was talking about. They placed a sign over his head, the king of the Jews, in verse number twenty-six. And the subscription of his accusation was written over the King of the Jews the king of the Jews. Now Pilate ordered that this be done, giving you the reference there in John chapter 19. This is Pilate said that I want this put over his head. And uh the Jews didn't want him to put it over his head. The Jews didn't want that connection. The king of the Jews? No, we don't want that. And and Pilate said, no, what I said, I said. This is what's going to happen. And they put this over his head. Not only did they just write it, but they wrote it in three languages. It was in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek. And uh the Reason is that the Hebrew was the language of the people, those people that were there, that were around. Latin was the language of government, of leadership. And Greek was the language of the world, the trade language, the common language, the language that all other people that maybe might not might might not have been local or Jewish people, they would have recognized it was written in three languages. They were leaving no question as to who it was that they were crucifying. The Jews desired that that connection not be put there. Why? Because they had rejected Jesus. They had rejected him as the king. They initially cried at his triumphal entry Hosanna, Hosanna to the highest. But now, a week later, they have rejected him as king and they didn't want that connection with him. We see here, and I put in your notes, the first utterance from the cross. There are seven utterances from the cross, and I've given those to you. We'll talk about them. uh as we go down through here, but the first thing that Christ says from the cross there, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Father, forgive them. In Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, he points out this, and I'm just going to read it to you, his thoughts with regards to this. He said, This prayer has bothered some. As it seems to be a blanket pardon for all involved in Jesus' crucifixion. Of course, we believe that forgiveness is only through faith. It although has been pointed out by some that this word forgive here can also mean to allow. As it has been translated at least 13 other occasions in the New Testament to allow. Christ then would have been praying to the Father, allow them to crucify me. Thus, his prayer is a plead for the Father to stay his wrath against this unjust punishment. the to view his beloved son being murdered by sinful and wicked men. Jesus crying on the cross Exactly what was meant. I mean Wilmington's guide to the Bible Wilmington there, Harold Wilmington's, you know, synopsis or ideas possibly uh are worth considering, but ultimately we know what Jesus was crying for is their their forgiveness. He was offering forgiveness, making it available. Now we believe that forgiveness has to be received, it has to be accepted. Jesus has already paid sin's debt. He's already provided forgiveness. He's already provided that. He's already offered it. But we have to accept that So Jesus was not just blanketly forgiving all those that happened to be there and all of a sudden all of them are saved. That's not what he's saying. But he is crying out that God would allow them to be forgiven should they request it. We see that he was crucified between two thieves in 27 and 28. He says, and the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, and he was numbered with transgressors. Now this is found in Isaiah chapter 53, verse number twelve, and that again um is on your sheet here, Isaiah 53. 12, that he would die with the wicked. So you want to mark that down, Mark 1527, in fulfillment of that, but Isaiah 53. 12, and he was numbered with transgressors. And he bare the sin of many and made intercession for the transgressors. So fulfillment of that, Jesus making intercession for them, praying for them, Father, forgive them. Jesus being crucified amongst those who were indeed guilty. That's the case. One of these thieves here on the cross we know believed on Jesus. I'm going to turn to uh Luke now in verse number 23. We're going to be back here in Mark, so if you're turning, keep your finger there. We're going to be back there in just a moment. In Luke 23, verses 40 to 43, I want you to read read that what takes place here with this man on the cross. Verse 40 to 43. But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward of our deeds, but this man hath done nothing amiss. And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. And we see here the third or second utterance, sorry, of from the cross here, today shalt thou be with me in paradise. Jesus hearing his cry and seeing his face, acknowledging and recognizing that and accepting it And providing salvation for him. There's several things that this teaches us. This occurrence and what happened here on the cross gives us some real insight into salvation. And the fact of the matter is that salvation is available for all at any time. At any time. Even there's been some consternation over the fact that Uh well that was a foxhole conversion. Like he got saved just because the bomb was coming in and he was gonna die and he had no opportunity to do anything else, so he just cried out in that hour, and I don't know if it's really real. Well, do you understand, beloved, that uh only God knows if it's real? It's not for us to determine. But the fact of the matter is, is we have here a foxhole conversion We have here somebody on the cross who in their last moments of life cried out in faith, believing, and God accepted him. And so it lets us know that even those that the problem with us as humanity, sometimes we are so convinced and so bought into works salvation. That we have a problem with somebody receiving salvation and never having done anything for it But, beloved, we cannot work it. We cannot earn it. It doesn't matter how good we are or how long you have to live and honor and bring glory to God, you did not earn your salvation, it was freely given to you. It's a free gift from God. But man somehow we were so tied into that idea that that people have a problem with somebody being able to confess at the last minute and trust Christ and, oh, they were on their deathbed and They they prayed because they knew they were dying and they asked for salvation, but I don't know if it was real or not. And I I'm not sure if Jesus really saved him. Listen Uh take hope in the fact we have here a testimony from Jesus Himself that this man on his deathbed, uh hanging on a cross a few moments from eternity, cried out and God tr accepted him and said, Today you're going to be in paradise. Just on uh Thursday night we were rejoicing with uh Wilby and Cherry because Wilby's father was in ICU and d doesn't look good. He does probably not long for this world and Wilby's witness to him many times. I remember many times over the years when he was here in church, them talking about going to spend time with Wilby and his family and gonna go to the Philippines and he would say, Pray that I could witness to my father. Pray that I could be a testimony to my father. My father would trust Christ. And through all these years that never happened. But here now Wilby's father is on his deathbed and Wilby was able to witness to him on Thursday and he trusted Jesus Christ. just before he died. Well, I don't know that he passed, but just it's in the recent, it's it's coming. And so we see that that is something we can take hope in Because Jesus accepted this man. Listen, secondly, it also teaches us that just like any other work, baptism is not required. As part of your salvation. We do not believe in baptismal regeneration. We do not believe that any any measure of grace is bestowed upon you because you uh got baptized. That is obedience. It makes God happy. We do what God wants us to do, and God is pleased with that. But your salvation was purchased, paid for, and provided all through the cross. There's nothing you can do for it. And we see that here. Clearly, this man was accepted and went to heaven with Jesus, and he never had opportunity to get baptized. Harold Wilmington says, one was dying for sin, one was dying from sin, and one was dying in sin. You have one who is dying for sin, that was the righteous one, that was the one who had never sinned, Jesus gave himself a sacrifice. Then you have one dying from sin because he saw his need of a savior and he called on Jesus Christ and said, Would you remember me? Would you forgive me? I understand I'm guilty, but you're innocent. And Jesus, accepting that right then, forgave him of his sin. He was dying from sin. But there was one who rejected, and he died in his sin. We also see from this very clear three participants in this thing that not everybody that's a man is a child of God. You know, there's this mentality in the world that, oh, we're all God's children. No, we're not. Not according to the Bible. He told Jesus, told those he was speaking to, he says, Ye are of your father the devil. Why? Because we have the sin nature of Satan. And we need to be born again or put our faith and trust in Christ to be born into the family of God. To as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. So you become a child of God when you put your faith and trust in Him. I know that you guys know this. But in light of what we're looking at right now, I guess I may be trying to give you some ammunition, some information that you could have as you talk to other people, as they bring up these things. They talk about, well, you got to be baptized you can point to this. You say, oh well, uh we're all God's children. No, no, we're not. Just so that you would have that and be ready to deal with it. Christ was mocked and insulted by many. We're back in Mark now, chapter 15, verses 29 through 32. We just see they continue to mock and make fun of him. And they that passed by railed on him. Wagging their heads and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself and come down from the cross. Likewise also the chief priests mocking and said among themselves with the scribes, He saved others, himself he cannot save It's probably in the early 90s. I heard evangelist Phil Schuler, who's gone on to be with the Lord now, he's no longer alive, but he preached a message. He saved others. Himself he cannot save. One of the most powerful salvation messages I've ever heard. It's stuck with me all these others. Just that phrase, he saved others, himself he cannot save. The reason he couldn't save himself is he chose to die for you and I. He gave himself. But they mocked and they railed and they made fun. They said, Oh, yeah, he's going to save others. He's going to save everybody else. But he can't even save himself. They made fun of him. They mocked him. We see the crowd here. I've listed the the comments of mocking that that You find in the different passages in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and John. You see, he said, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. mocking what he had said, talking about his physical temple that was going to die and in three days would rise again, but they didn't understand what he was saying. They said, if you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. Oh, if you're God, just come down, just escape. But you see, he didn't save himself because he wanted to give himself a sacrifice. The Jewish leaders, those that were in charge, mocking him, he saved others. Himself he cannot save. Let him save himself if he be Christ, the chosen of God They said, he trusted in God, let him deliver him now, if he will have him, for he said, I am the Son of God. He's saying he said he was the son of God. Let's see if God saves him now. Let's see if God helps him now. They mocked and made fun. They laughed and Continue these comments. The soldiers said, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. The thieves looked at him and said, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. He said, Oh, come on, help us out, get us out of this mess. We have the third utterance from the cross. As Jesus is there and everybody's mocking and making fun. Uttering their comments, Jesus looks down and says, Woman, behold thy son. He looks over at John, he says, Behold thy mother. We see that Jesus is speaking here to his earthly mother and to John, and from this point on the Bible tells us that John actually, Mary went with them, and John took care of her the rest of her life. She lived with him and took care of her in honoring of what Jesus was speaking of here. It is then that darkness falls upon the earth. Verse 33 through 35. And when the sixth hour was come, this is the sixth hour of the day, when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. So you have three hours here that darkness is upon the earth. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, We see this darkness falls upon the earth. Now this beloved is not just a solar eclipse. There are some who try and explain Bible things like this with scientific means. They say, well, they could have easily been a solar eclipse. Well, a solar eclipse lasts uh from start to finish about seven minutes. Solar eclipse is very the very brief time where it's actually dark. And of course it's still not dark like complete darkness. But this was three hours. Three hours of darkness. So it's not something that can be explained scientifically, but it's something that happened. Quite possibly, because this is the point where Jesus on the cross took upon himself the sin of all mankind. It is at that point where God the Father turns his back on his son, and darkness falls upon the earth. We see here in verse number 34 at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, El Moskhabakhthanai, which is being interpreted, my God, my God. Why hast thou forsaken me? Why hast thou forsaken me? The question here: there's never been a more powerful why asked in human history. Why? God, why have you forsaken me? There is some perspective that you think about as this is God in the flesh, Jesus. Wouldn't he know why? But you understand that this is something that in our hearts and minds we have to grapple with, and I don't know that until we get to heaven and we have perfect knowledge that we'll truly be able to grasp the entirety of it. On one aspect, you have somebody who was all God and somebody who was all man. His humanity was all human and he was tempted in all points like we are. And he felt hunger and he felt weariness and he felt temptation and he went through all these things, but Somebody uh I I heard a question this this week somebody asked R. C. Sproul uh about Christ and this idea of being human, and they said, well, if in fact he was human Then wouldn't he have had the sin nature? And R. C. Sprohl very wisely went back to Adam and said, Adam and Eve are human. And they didn't have the sin nature. They were created by God without it. And then they fell. And took that upon themselves. So the sin nature is not required for humanity to be human. It's not a nature of humanity. It's something that all men born after Adam have because we have the nature of our Father. But Jesus didn't have the nature of it of a human father because he was uh miraculously conceived by the Holy Spirit he has the nature of his heavenly father. And so we see this this this battle between somebody that was all man And somebody that was all God. What I'm saying is on the cross there, in his humanity, he was going through this pain and suffering. In his humanity, he did not understand all of the wise. And in our life, many things we're not going to understand. We're going to have why questions. Why, God? Why has this befallen me? Why am I going to this. Why did this happen? Why is this necessary? We'll have some why questions, but we see maybe and can draw some great comfort from the fact that Jesus himself asked why. It's amazing when you think about this. Jesus cry, why, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I think that is amazing because we, as God's children, have a promise from God that He will never leave thee or forsake thee. God the Father turned his back on his own son. But he's promised you and I that he would never leave thee nor forsake thee. An amazing promise from God for us. And an amazing sacrifice that he did to turn his back on his own son when he took upon himself the sin of the world. As he was there, uh crying out to the Father, saying, Why hast thou forsaken me? There are some that were close by that thought he was calling for Elias, calling for Elijah, saying, Hey, come and save me. Get me off of this. And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth for Elias. They were saying, Oh look, look, he was calling for some help and a and th they wanted to see, is Elias gonna come? Is Elijah gonna come and make this Save him from this. They wanted to see what would happen. That of course is not what was happening. Then we see his fifth utterance from the cross. Jesus said, I thirst. I thirst. Matthew and Mark have the offering here of vinegar, the story of what happened when he said I thirst, but only John has the question. We're not going to turn over to John to read that, but John 19, 28. We see the question where he he utters and he says, I thirst. And we see that they offer him vinegar. The crowd continues to to mock and make fun of him. And Jesus is about to give up the ghost or to allow his spirit to finally passed off the scene and we see that he says, Te telesti. In verse number 37, he says And Jesus verse 37, and Jesus cried with a loud voice and gave up the ghost. He gave this voice that he cried with. In John 19, 30 tells us that he says, it is finished. Te telesti. Meaning that not just that his journey on the cross was done, not just that the suffering that he was asked of the Father to endure had come to a conclusion, but that The work that God had given him to do was finished. And we, beloved, ought to strive to Finish the work that God has given us to do. Whatever it is, we ought to continue to be faithful until the end and finish that task that God has given to us to do. Beloved what he is crying out here in these words of completion. I mean when you have a goal, an ambition, a desire, something that you've wanted to do for a very, very long time and Finally you accomplished it. Maybe you've wanted to build an addition on the house for 25 years and you finally got it done or you were looking to Finally get that car that you really liked and you had to earn enough money or whatever. I'm talking about a long-term goal that you wanted to accomplish and finally you reached that place and you accomplished it You're like, oh, I did it! Finally, Jesus said it is finished. Can I tell you what he was saying is the plan for the redemption of mankind that was birthed in the mind of God, in the heart of God, over 4,000 years earlier, at the foundation of the world. That plan that God had said would happen, where He would send a Redeemer, that way of salvation for mankind, the purchasing of the forgiveness of the sin of man. That's what Jesus was saying. It is finished. 4,000 years of working with men and ultimately delivering the Messiah. The fulfillment of prophecy after prophecy after prophecy, Jesus going to the cross and being crucified as he was, and finally giving up the ghost, allowing his spirit to be taken, he says, it is finished. This phrase, it is finished, appears three times or the use of that uh word It's used three times in scriptures. It was used at creation in Genesis 2. 1 when God completed the creation of the world. It is used here on the cross in John 19, verse number 30, where the redemption of man was purchased. And we see that it is also used at the end in Revelation 10, verse number 7, and Revelation 16, 17. At the conclusion of what happens here on earth and God's plan, he says, boy, it's finished. Very powerful words. When he died, he gave his life and his blood for us. Just as a lamb's blood was shed. To cover man's sin. Now the Lamb of God's blood was shed to forgive man's sin. We see some signs of the finished work. As this comes to a conclusion, some um oh I'm sorry, the seventh utterance here. I've got the seventh utterance, the last from the cross. He says, Father, into thy hands. I commend my spirit. So he c so he just gives up the ghost and commends his spirit and he gets moved into the hands of God We see here some signs of the finished work. I'm going to go through this quickly. We're going to wrap up. This morning we see the veil was rent in twain. given to us several passages there. The veil we know was a curtain that hung between the the temples to separate that portion of the holy place from the most holy place, from the holy of holies. Joseph's description of this veil says it was twenty-four feet wide, eighty-two feet high, and four inches thick. This veil, the heavy veil that stood between these two places. Man was not allowed to go into this place. But this veil the Bible tells us was rent from the top down. Showing us that God rent the veil. And God was at that point, by illustration, saying that man now has access into the very presence of God through Jesus Christ. Man used to have to go through a priest who would go and offer sacrifice for them, who would enter into the Holy of Holies for the people But now you and I, we believe in the priesthood of the believer, that we have the privilege of having direct access to God. God rent that veil and allowed Every one of us now to go into that place to be where Jesus was or where his presence was, we can go into the presence of God. I wonder how often do we do it? We have the privilege to do it, to go into his presence at any time, but I wonder how often do we? The veil was rent and we see You might write down next to that Hebrews 10, 19 through 20 is a description of this. He says, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. We can because of Jesus Christ, we can go into that holy of holies, that place where His presence is. The centurion believed and And verse number 39, he understood that this was an innocent man who died for mankind, and the centurion turns to him. Only as far as we know, only two people's destiny was changed here at the cross. the thief and the centurion. Then we see that the earth shook. In Matthew 27, verse number 51, there was an earthquake. Even the earth itself groaned and cried out. Many graves were opened. Matthew 27, verse number 52. Why don't we turn there? We'll conclude with that. Turn to Matthew 27. I just want you to see this so as you keep it in context. Matthew 27, verse number 52. The graves were opened, but the dead did not rise until Christ arose. So Matthew 27, verse number 52, we see he says here, and the graves were opened. And many bodies of the saints which slept arose. Now, we've got to look at verse number 53 to understand this. And came out of the graves After his resurrection. You see, Jesus is the first fruits. It is his resurrection that provides means or capacity for others to arise, for us to arise when when uh he comes again. So he says there that uh it was after his the graves were opened when the earth shook. But when Jesus arose, there were many other people, don't know how many, just said many, that that arose. And then tells us there in verse number 53 that and went into the holy city and appeared unto many. I mean, can you imagine What w how they felt what they thought when this person that they had just buried a month ago or last year or whatever was back in the city. It's a testament to the power of God over death and the grave. Those who cried for the crucifixion went home and the Bible tells us in Luke twenty three, forty eight, that they were smiting their breast. I think that the the ultimately the conviction of what they had done rested upon their shoulders and realizing they had killed this innocent man. But the work of God was being done. So we have here this morning the the death of our Lord and Savior, but the story doesn't end there as we look at the gospel. We're going to see his burial and resurrection as we get into It next week.