All right. As we uh begin today, I just want you to know that occasionally there's Uh there may be a discrepancy from one commentator you read to another on the specific order of events that you find in the New Testament. That's due to the fact that some of the gospels record certain events and they leave out others and they jump right to the next event and skip over one and then that goes excuse me, that goes back and forth. And so Certainly not something to worry about. The biggest thing is we know that the events took place because we know that God said they did and we trust the Lord. And so I just want you to be aware of that fact as you're looking at different commentators. One might say, well, Christ went to Galilee first and and and he performed this miracle and then he met the disciples by the seaside or somebody else might say, well he was by the seaside first and then that's when he uh went and performed that next miracle. So it just depends on who you're reading and we don't have to stress too much about these things. We're just gonna kind of walk through uh the events and if one event happens to be out of order uh from somebody you read it's not ultimately that big a deal. Okay, so what we see here first is that Christ's first tour of ministry in Galilee, uh where he heads out. He leaves his hometown. So we're in John chapter 4. uh reading in verse number 43 down to verse number 45, but he says, now after two days he departed thence and went unto Galilee. For Jesus himself testified that a prophet hath no honor in his own country. So the fact of the matter is, is they recognized or he recognized that the people there in their town uh i i i he was a prophet without honor. Why? Because they knew him. That happens sometimes in churches where you have a young man or a young lady grow up and and uh they've been there all their life and you saw them when they were an idiot. You knew them when they were little and they had uh you know they did the stupid things the kids do sometimes and then they they begin to grow And they begin develop and and what they can accomplish uh can shock us sometimes because in our mind there's still this little kid. In our mind they don't have the maturity or the wisdom or the wherewithal to do certain things. And so we sometimes as adults hold them back. That's one of the reasons it's necessarily or possibly good for a young person to go off to college because they get out there where other people aren't holding them down thinking, well, no, you're not smart enough, you're not strong enough, you're not uh capable of doing this and that's where Jesus, his hometown, they didn't recognize who he was and what he could do. So he went out and began to minister in other places And as he did this, his fame, people began to notice and see what he did. He tells us here in verse number 45, then went he Sorry, then when he was come unto Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast, for they also went unto the feast. And so they they saw, people saw what Jesus was doing, the miracles he was performing, and uh they recognized him for who he was, and so his ministry began to grow. Christ performs his second miracle here in John chapter four, verses forty-six through fifty-four, the miracle of the healing of the nobleman's son. Now, we know that he performed many more miracles. We're calling this the second because the Bible says it's his second. If you look down in verse number 54 of John, he says, then Uh this is again the second miracle that Jesus did when he was come out of Judea into Galilee. So it could be stated specifically his second miracle in Galilee, in that region and area But we know the Bible tells us over in uh John chapter 2, we're not gonna turn back there, but ver two verse number 23, he says, when they saw the miracles So people saw and observed many miracles that Jesus did. There's thousands and thousands of miracles which Jesus performed which aren't recorded for us on the pages of Scripture. So we don't have that to uh to know everything. I mean sometimes the Bible talks about him going into an area and healing everybody there, everybody present. We don't have all of those individual miracles recorded for us, but we certainly uh have some specific ones that God has given us uh by his wisdom and design for us to see and to learn from. So we have this second miracle recorded here of the healing of the nobleman's sons. Some very powerful truths are communicated to us here Uh Canaan is approximately fifteen miles from Capernaum. And I want you to know, I mean I have a map here for you to look at. You can see see it on the map and today you could even just go to Google and look it up. You know you can see it on a on a world map today satellite view. But uh it's about fifteen miles and Jesus doesn't go to uh uh perform this miracle Jesus heals him and I want you to know Jesus can heal somebody whether that's from uh right next to them or fifteen miles away or fifty thousand miles away. Proximity is not what's important Which is part of the lesson that the nobleman gets here as he approaches Jesus with his need. This nobleman was a man of state, uh certainly a man of status. He probably served in Herod Antipasis uh court. Uh what I want you to understand is that wealth Does not wealth does not make it so you are going to be free from hardship or trial You are still gonna have burdens. You are still gonna have hardship. You are still gonna face many trials in your life. And this nobleman who had means and capacity and position still face this terrible tr hardship here. So he comes and he requests for his son to be healed. So we're going to look here uh at verse number forty six, John four, forty-six And forty seven. He says, So Jesus came again unto Canaan of Galilee, where he made the water turn to wine here, water into wine, and there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum. Now, when he heard that Jesus was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went unto him and he besought him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. Then Jesus saith unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. So here's the thing: you have the request for his son to be healed, but then you have a rebuke. uh because this nobleman's faith was weak. The nobleman's faith was weak. You see, he was expecting some sign. He was expecting some Miraculous event to take place. He was worried more about the ritual than about Jesus and who he was. And we've got to be careful about that today in the church, that people are concerned about the ritual. The ritual means more than the relationship. And we say all the time that Christianity is not a religion It's a relationship, but the problem is many people are trying to turn it back into a religion because what they do is the ritual is more than the relationship. What I'm talking about is people that the and and listen, the Lord's Supper is valuable, the Lord's Supper is meaningful, and we should observe the Lord's Supper following Christ's command, and it should be something that's precious to us But when that ritual is more meaningful than your relationship with God that you have every day of the week personally walking with your Lord and Savior when coming to God's house And and observing this with the church family is more meaningful than your personal walk, then your walk is suffering. Your walk is not what it should be Your time with Jesus is not precious like it should be. Yes, this is meaningful, but the relationship is far more important than the ritual. This man wanted to see some signs and wonders, thought he was going to do like a faith healer, come and perform some big ceremony or slap him on the head and say, boy, you're healed Whatever it is, he was expecting something great, and Jesus knew that, and he says, wait, except you see signs and wonders, you're not going to believe. He's rebuked by Jesus. Now there is a reward because his faith was exercised. You see, at first his belief was bound by his own experience. You see, he his experience was the ritual. His experience was the uh going through these practices and uh seeing religion on its surface and that was his experience and his faith was bound by that but as he was introduced and met Jesus Christ his faith was exercised, and because of that there was a reward. We see in verse number 50, Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way, thy son liveth And that man believed, and the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way He went his way. You see, his faith was exercised. There's no question about that because he went and did what God said to do If he did not believe, he wouldn't have left. He was longing for his son to be healed. He would have stayed at Jesus' side and would have begged and said, No, you don't understand. We need you to Come, you got to come, Jesus, you got to help. But he went. That was his faith on display. I want you to understand, Christian, your faith is just obedience When you obey God, that is faith in action. That is you doing what God says. And sometimes we look at faith as this kind of something pie in the sky or out there as uh somewhere in the ether that we can somehow grab a hold of and do we have enough faith but faith is just obedience Are you obeying God? This is what this man did, and God rewarded him because of his faith. He went away. We see that his faith was strengthened by a new experience. Every experience he had had up to this point. Told him that Jesus had to come, but now he hears Jesus say, Thy son is healed, he goes his way, and he has a new experience with Jesus. We see that in verse number 50. Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way, thy son liveth. And the man believed, and the words that Jesus had spoken unto him, he went his way. And as he was now going down, his servants met him and told him, saying, Thy son liveth. Then he acquired he of them the hour which he began to amend And they said unto him, yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him. Now listen to this. He says, so the Father knew That it was at the same hour in which Jesus saith unto him, Thy Son liveth, and himself believed, and his whole house. He and his whole house were saved because of seeing what God could do. The faith was exercised because of a whole new experience here. At the same hour that Jesus said, Go thy way, thy son liveth, and he had faith enough to turn and go and head home to check on it. I'm sure the whole way he was going home. He was doubting in his mind. I don't think this is going to work. This surely is not what I expected Jesus to do. But when he gets home Jesus is there. I mean his son is healed. Jesus did it. Jesus did it. Right at that same hour. So he and his whole house were saved. Listen, beloved, God can heal a man from 15 miles or 15,000 miles. It doesn't make any difference. So we continue on as Christ speaks in the synagogue in Nazareth. That's in Luke. We're going to turn over to Luke chapter 4, verse number 16. In Luke chapter 4, verse 16, and he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he opened the book, he found the place where it was written. So Jesus goes into the synagogue. The synagogue was a place of meeting. It was a place where scripture was read, commentary was made, songs were sung, uh a lot of interchange happened, a lot of communication happened in the synagogue. And he he goes there and he reads and he expounds on Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2. This is a fulfillment of prophecy, a direct result of what they said was going to happen in uh the book of Isaiah. You might want to write that next to this, Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2. He he describes the ministry of Christ here. He says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and he sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. So they're there, they're listening to him and seeing the authority in which he speaks. And he communicates unto them the message that is of utmost importance. We see in verse 21, he says, And he began to say unto them this day This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. The scripture was fulfilled in their ears that day. He's saying that which Isaiah, the prophet, spoke of Is fulfilled in your ears today. He was saying, This is me. Isaiah was talking about me. I'm that person. I am the Messiah. I have come to fulfill what Isaiah prophesied and said was going to happen. Yeah. Problem is they didn't like that much. We see in verse number twenty-nine that they wanted to kill him. And they rose up and thrust him out of the city and led him into the burrow of the hill wherein their city was built. They had a plan to destroy him. They wanted to kill him. But the Bible tells us that he was protected. You'll see that the religious leaders, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Sanhedrin, these leaders of the religious society of the day wanted to kill Jesus because of his message, but the time was not at hand. It was not yet. time to fulfill Christ's giving himself as a sacrifice. And so he was able to walk free from them So Christ speaks in the synagogue at Capernaum next. We see in the book of Matthew. I'm going to turn back to Matthew chapter 4 in Matthew 4. Verse number 14, 13, sorry, Matthew 4, 13. He says, and leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum. which is upon the seacoast and before of Zebulun and Naphtalon. Now Zebulin and Naphtali, these are the regions, uh the tribe of Zebulun, the tribe of Naphtali, and uh on the map I have a show you here that the cities, Capernaum and Nazareth, uh that we've been talking about are in these areas, these regions which are mentioned. So obviously having been rejected at his hometown, he goes on to Capernaum once again. Fulfilling Old Testament prophecy of Isaiah chapter 9 and verse number 1, Christ teaches his disciples here and he calls James to follow him. There's some great lessons that are learned in this where Jesus meets here with his disciples and adds James to the fold, you know. And uh again, this is one of those things where timing It's a little bit different from one gospel to the next maybe, or how I'm tracking it does not follow. But you see Jesus requested the use of Peter's ship so that he might go forth and uh teach the people that had come unto him. So we see in Luke chapter five, in verse number three, I believe it is, let's look at that. Um sorry, I'm in Matthew, I need to get over to Luke Luke 5 and verse number 3 he says, And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people out of the ship. So Jesus asked of Peter, you know, Jesus is the one that will request. He's not going to force himself on you. He's not going to make you do anything. He is going to request of you, like he requested of Peter, the use of his ship. That's a blessing, but it also gives you the ability to refuse Christ and what Christ wants to do in your life. At the conclusion of his message and his time of preaching, he goes on to teach the disciples He tells Peter to launch out into the deep. So he began by telling them to thrust out a little ways from the shore, and he taught the people there. And then he says, Launch out into the deep and We see a picture here of Christ's method of discipleship and of training that we can use. There's a progression, there's a beginning like, hey, thrust out a little ways, and then he Says, hey, I want you to go even a little further, go out into the deep where great things can happen, but you gotta risk something to get out there. And then he tells him in a minute or two we'll see that he says, Hey Put down your nets and follow me. So there's a progression there. Peter obeys Christ and they go out into the deep, and we're not going to teach through all of what this happens, but uh They of course are able to perform or catch a great catch. This is in fact the third miracle. That is recorded for us, how he takes this fisherman and all their nets and they go out into the sea and they catch a catch that's beyond anything humanly possible. Beyond what even the boats could carry back. They were like to sink. Let's look at it here. He had thus done. They enclosed a great multitude of fish, and their net broke, and they beckoned unto their partners which were in the other ships, that they should come and help them, and they came and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. He was astonished, and all that were with him, at the drought of fish which they had taken. And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, from henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought their ships to the land, they forsook all and followed him. So Jesus performs this miracle where they fill he fills their nets with a great catch. When they get back to shore, they see what Christ has done and Jesus calls for these men to come and follow him. And it's noteworthy that he instructs them that they put down their nets. They left What was their means of income behind? Now this is something that's discussed or debated. uh but I believe that it is God's will that those that are of the gospel should live of the gospel. That a man uh that is called into the ministry to pastor, to preach the word, to carry forth the gospel of Jesus Christ. Should live of the gospel. We see that example several times through the scriptures, including right here where the disciples were called and they put down their nets. Their nets was their means of making money. Their nets was their job. This was their livelihood. But when they were called of God to go and to be fishers of men, to be disciples, they left their nets behind. Now my own brother is a bi vocational pastor. He still works a job many, many hours every week, and I don't know how he does it. I I just but his church is not in a place uh where the church can support him But it ought to be every church's desire to get to the place where they can support their pastor full-time. They uh pastors are div divided in their focus and they can't really Give all to the ministry, uh, to the people of the Lord when they have to maintain a job in order to pay their bills. They that are of the gospel should live of the gospel. I I believe that is what would ultimately be uh God's desire. I know sometimes when churches are in transition, sometimes when they're going through struggles, uh there's places and situations where men need to go out and get a job and work for a little while, but that shouldn't be Uh churches get used to that, and that's a problem. When churches get used to it and they say, oh well, why should we pay you? I mean you make money doing this. uh and and they have a wrong mentality, a wrong philosophy regarding that. And so I just wanted to point that out as we touched on this here that Jesus calls these disciples, they follow him, and when they do, they put down their nets. Then we see uh we're going to turn to Mark chapter 1, if you would. We're going to see Christ's fourth miracle. We're going to get over into the book of Mark, and we're going to kind of stay there, although the stories we're reading could be read in other passages. For simplicity's sake, we're just going to stay in the book of Mark, I think, for the balance of this morning here. But we see is here the healing of a demonic man. So in Mark chapter 1, beginning in verse number 21, he says here, and they went into Capernaum, and straightway On the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes. Okay, the authority here, uh, I was reading Matthew Henry on this, and Matthew Henry had some some nice insight with regards to him teaching with authority. And uh I know from studying speech and going through, that was my major in college, and and doing that, you know, they they instruct you to establish the credentials of anybody you quote. That gives what you quote authority because the credentials of the individual that has the capacity to say, okay, this person has published 17 books, he's been uh you know quoted by so-and-so uh president so-and-so acknowledged his position. He is definitely an authority on the subject and he said this. Or you quote somebody that's well known. And that gives you authority because everybody knows this person is a leader in that field. And so you would quote him and say, this is this. You know, let's say I was talking about the stocks and uh warr I I would say Warren Buffett said that you should do this Okay, he's the founder of Brookshire Hathaway. Everybody is a recognizable name. You quote Warren Buffett. That has some authority regarding financial matters. I wouldn't quote Warren Buffett concerning the scriptures, but concerning financial matters, you could quote him and and he's got a lot of wisdom and how I I appreciate how he handles his investments. I'm not chasing that rabbit, but you guys understand what I'm saying. So here's the thing, Matthew Henry is talking about what what would happen is young scribes would come into the synagogue And they wouldn't use their own words. They would give a passage of scripture and they would quote previous scribes. So the authority that they had when they spoke came from the scribes that were for them. And so what he's saying here is he spoke as one that had authority, not as the scribes, not as the other teachers that came in. You see Jesus didn't need to get authority from the other teachers. Jesus spoke as one that had his own authority. When he shared the scripture and when he spoke, he didn't need to quote some previous rabbi or some scribe. He had his own authority, and they were astonished at the authority in which he spake, not quoting the scribes, not as other men did it. So this often you'll see this as far as people's response to Jesus Christ and the authority that he had. Then Christ encounters his his first encounter with a demon takes place here Um he verse number twenty-three. And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, saying, Let us alone What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art The Holy One of God. So we see a couple of things here that's noteworthy. First of all, this is Christ's first. uh encounter with a demon. Although we know he's going to encounter many, many more. Even as we read through this passage, we'll see that he frees many more from demons in the book of Acts chapter 10 verse number 30, it describes how he healed many. And then in chapter 10, verse 38 the of Acts it says, God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed of devils. All that were oppressed of devils. So Jesus encountered demonic activity on a regular basis, and he healed them, he freed them from this demonic uh oppression or possession that he came across. We note that this man with an unclean spirit was in the synagogue. Verse number 23 there tells us that. He met him there in the synagogue. Can I tell you, just because someone's in church doesn't mean they're in Christ. Just because someone's in church doesn't mean that they're holy or that they're righteous. Here's a man who's literally possessed of the devil in church. I've met some kids like that. That were there's been times my own kids have been like that, possessed of a devil. You're like, what has gotten into you? I thought we had this fixed, I thought we had this taken care of, and sometimes, you know, that's just how it gets. And uh so we just need to be aware of that and realize that uh Satan's at work and we have got to be on guard against him. It's noteworthy that this demon knew who Christ was. In verse number 24. You know, e uh it it's amazing that even the devil and his angels know Jesus Christ. They know God. They know his power. They know that they are in subjection to him and have no say. They basically all they can do is plead for mercy. Have mercy, you know. They they they cannot stand in the face of Jesus. He says, Have you come to destroy us? I know thee Who thou art, the Holy One of God. And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace and come out of him. And when the unclean spirit had torn him and cried with a loud voice, he came out And they were all amazed, insomuch that they had questions among themselves, saying, What thing is this? What new doctrine is this? What for what authority commandeth he, even the unclean spirits? and they do obey him. We see in verse number 28, and immediately his fame spread abroad throughout the region. We in the diagram that I gave you the timeline thing here about Christ, you'll notice that the beginning here of Christ's ministry, he was in relative obscurity. uh uh you know he was in his hometown and he started performing miracles, he started healing the sick, he started, you know, uh giving sight to the blind and and casting out demons and then his popularity begins to grow. His recognition begins to know. There's a season in the middle here where he uh you know his popularity excels and excels and excels and everybody wants to be around Jesus. And then that popularity begins to wane and he goes into a point of opposition where even though a lot of people know about him, they oppose him and also up obviously ultimately lead to his uh uh crucifixion, but we are currently in the timeline here, you'll see this early Judean ministry and he crossed over into Galilee. So we're coming into he's just into his Galilean, early Galilean Galilean ministry there, that time period on the map where more and more people are starting to recognize him, his fame is being noised abroad. everywhere he goes people want to see him and uh spend time with him. So we see that uh Moving on now to his fifth miracle. Again, in Mark, we're just going to continue down in verse number 29. Christ heals Peter's mother-in-law. And verse number twenty nine he says and forthwith when they were come out of the synagogue they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew and James and John. But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever You know, sometimes I think we put the disciples on a pedestal. We almost look at them as superhuman. We think of them as being gifted beyond measure or something like they did not endure normal life stuff. They didn't have normal life problems. They didn't deal with the things that your average guy would deal with. But here's just an example of life situations, here is mother-in-law sick. And you know, they dealt with the normal things that we deal with The things that come up, the things that are inconvenient, the things that are hurtful, the trials and tests in our lives. And here he was faced with this burden of his mother-in-law that was sick Now, God had power to heal here in the New Testament, and I want you to know that God still has power to heal today. Now, there are groups out there that make a mockery of this. There are groups that try and capitalize on it and basically it's it's a money scheme. It's a Ponzi scheme where they're taking advantage of people and just trying to line their own pockets. Um uh you know one of the most prominent well known names in this field for many, many years was Benny Hinn. And uh he Claimed to have the power of God and the Holy Spirit, and I just within the last month listened to uh his nephew, who was part of his evangelistic team that traveled with him. And he grew up doing this. He said, I was on the stage. I caught the people as the Holy Spirit slain them and they fell down in the spirit. I I instructed how to catch these people and he said then I remember as a late teenager the first time that I was invited along to go into the crowd To find people that needed healing. And these people would come to these healing crusades and they would sit in a particular section. And he says, I remember when I went down for the first time and my my mind I'm battling with this and and I'm seeing this but you you know you hear people mock and make fun of it and you're like, well they just don't believe. They don't have enough faith and and he says, but then He says, even as a late teen, I got invited to go down with one of the other directors and like let's get some guys to come up to the stage to be healed. And he says, I remember specifically we're going through the crowd and the guy's like, oh no, you can't come. No, no, you can't come. There was people that were specifically that they had very notable, without question, problems. And they were excluded. They you can you can't come up, you can't come up, you can't come up. And he says, in my mind I'm thinking, well, if God can heal, then why can't God heal that person? Why can't God and and it's not we have no idea how much faith they have or don't have, but no, they wouldn't allow them uh to come up. Uh they would pick hand pick people from the group that had come to be healed that day and those are the people that got to go on the stage and experience the healing. Uh even in the line they had one more screen before the group would walk onto the stage. There was two guys standing there and they would be watching the people that are coming up on the stage and he said they would if there's anybody in the line that was noticeably damaged or that was a problem they would i they would say, hey sorry, you you come here, you can't go up on the stage. And they would keep these people out. And one particular story was a young lady who her biggest prayer request was that she could walk. She was born with a degenerative de disease of the bones. curvature of her bones and she couldn't walk and she just wanted to be healed. They traveled all the way to Calgary uh to be at a healing crusade. Her mom picked her up and carried her down there and before she got on the stage they said, No, you can't go. And these healing crusades, and he said, That's when my eyes started to be open, like, wait a minute, if if God heals, he said, I even wondered like If God's healing, then why don't we just go to the hospital? He says I even asked my uncle about that, Benny Hinn. I'm like, why don't why don't we just go to the hospital and heal people? And he's like, well You don't know if they have faith or not. And you know, he said he had an explanation, but in my mind I was battling with this He says then uh talking about what they did, they they went to I don't remember what country they were in. He said, but I was living the high life. He says, I was loving it. He says we were staying in hotel rooms that were twenty-six thousand dollars a night That's the hotel rooms we were staying in. We were driving around in Bentley's. We were flying in in personal jets. He said, this was the high life, man. This was what every young man would exp would love to experience. And he says, but I had a crisis of my faith because I saw what it was producing, but it wasn't real in the back. Everything was staged. Everything was was set up. And he went through much more details about that. And you see that kind of stuff and you and it puts you off and you say, man, it's just all fake. Well God can heal. Even though there are people like that that just make a mockery of it and trying to make money out of it, God can heal If he will, he can. And uh the faith of uh believing and trusting in God and just coming to him in prayer, and I've seen God heal people and and God can do it, uh, but it's not by some guy waving his coat over the top of your or knocking you down or slaying you in a spirit on the stage uh one day. But just just know that just like God healed Peter's mother-in-law here, God can heal to today. We see in verse number thirty-one that after she was healed, she served him And it came and took he he and he came and he took her by the hand and lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto him. That's a great pattern to have when when When people when Christ serves us, when he obviously saved us, but ministers to us, sustains us, we ought to have a mindset and the spirit of service and want to serve him. So Christ goes throughout all of Galilee, continues to preach, and his fame continues to be noised abroad. In verse number 32, in the evening when the sun did set, They brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils, and all the city was gathered together at the door, and he healed many that were sick of diverse diseases, and cast out many devils and suffered not the devils to speak because they knew him. And in the morning, rising up a great while before the day, he went out and departed into a solitary place. And there he prayed. He was seeking for a place to just get alone, to be alone with his father. In verse number 35 there. Christ's ministry moves from that place of obscurity to a place of prominence, and more and more people began to seek after him. They came and they sought him in the crowds enthronged him and they were there constantly and so early in the morning before other people would normally be up he went out and sought for a time to be alone and beloved we need to follow Christ's example and seek for that time That time when we can be alone. The morning works well because it's a time when other people aren't up and around, when the thing everything is quiet, when your day hasn't begun yet. But you need to find a time that works for you that you can on a daily basis get alone with God and get refreshed and get fed by Him. Men sought after him continually, verse number 37 here. And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. Jesus was alone, trying to get alone, and the disciples come and they say, Boy, everybody's looking for you. Everybody's been asking about you. What you know where you are. And and these his again his ministry began to expand and grow Christ desired to minister to all of them. He sought to be a help to them, not just to a select few. We see in 38 and 39. And he said unto them, Let us go into the next town. that I may preach there also, for therefore came I forth. He's saying, This is what I came for. This is why I'm here. I came for this purpose. Let's go. Let's preach the gospel. Let's minister to people. And he preached in their synagogues throughout all of Galilee and cast out devils. So he's ministering. He's going throughout all of Galilee. Josephus said that during this stage of his Galilean ministry, that he presented himself or preached in the in what historically was over 200 towns in the Galilean region. Now that's just historical documents, records that they had. He's a Jewish Josephus a Jewish historian. It's not light reading, but if you want to look some stuff up, it's a great resource. Uh so he said over two hundred towns that were in in the Galilean region that Jesus went to and ministered to uh during this time period where he's going about healing sick, uh, you know, again casting out devils and demons and people. and ministering to so many. As he's doing this, we see Christ's sixth miracle here, healing of a leper. Verse number 40. And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. This is amazing. This leprous man comes and falls at his feet. And you see his faith here. His faith is if thou wilt. You can. We need to have that kind of faith in God where we know and believe without question that if God wills, He can That he can do it. We come to him in prayer and say, Lord, if you will, you can. And so we ask of you, and we're looking for this, or we desire this of you. And he says you have not because you asks not. And we need to come and bow our head in prayer and seek the face of God to get our prayers answered and come with that kind of faith. He says, if you will, Lord, I know that you can That kind of strong faith. And we know that Jesus here, he does not hesitate. Verse number 41, he puts forth his hand and he touches him. He says, And Jesus moved with compassion, put forth his hand and touched him, and saith unto him, I will be thou clean. This is an amazing gesture of faith. Amazing demonstration of power. Obviously, the leprosy was a death sentence. Many times in typology, leprosy is a type of sin. It looks, it is like sin. It's a death sentence. There's no way it could be healed. Nothing that could be done about it. Uh and but Jesus healed it. And Jesus in in this way, he put forth his hand and he touched him. Now we know because we just read uh about Um the man who came and asked for his daughter to be healed, but she was fifteen miles away. And Jesus healed that young man from fifteen miles away and yet Jesus touched this this uh leper. You know you weren't supposed to touch lepers. They had social distancing pre-COVID. Okay, they lepers were supposed to say unclean, unclean. They were supposed to keep their distance from other people. They weren't supposed to get in proximity because of the how contagious leprosy was. And nobody in their right mind would touch a leper. Yet Jesus, in a demonstration of his power and compassion, reached out and touched this leper and healed him and uh showed people his power over this disease which killed, as well as his compassion on people that were afflicted with it. And uh this of course again compelled his ministry to the forefront where people sought him, desired to be with him. And I often wondered, like, and maybe some of you have heard or have some ideas about this, but Most of the time when Jesus did a miracle, uh, you know, he would tell the individual, Go and tell your family, tell your friends, tell all the people uh what Jesus has done for you. But you see here that he says the opposite. And Jesus reached down to verse number forty-one and he touched him, but verse number forty-two he says, And soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed, and he straightway charged him. And forthwith sent him away. And he saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man, but go thy way. Show thyself to the priests and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded for a testimony unto them. So he says, Hey, go your way, go to the priest, see the priest, and let him pronounce you Clean, so you don't have to be under the judgment of leprosy right now, but don't tell anybody what happened. And I think As I evaluated this, the only cause or motivation for this is that Jesus' fame and uh progression of his ministry had grown to such a point that it was making it difficult for him to do what he came to do. Jesus, we just saw a few minutes ago where the disciples came and said, Man, all men seek thee. Everybody's looking for thee. Everybody's right here at the door. The whole town is at the door. And Jesus said, Let's go to the next town to preach the gospel, this for this is why I came, that uh he had a job to do, he had a ministry to fulfill, and this throng of people maybe was hindering that The Bible doesn't say that, so that's just me in my mind trying to evaluate like why would Jesus say, Don't tell anybody? But then in other places he said, Go tell. And of course, with regards to us We're supposed to noise abroad. We're supposed to be a light set on a hill. We're supposed to tell everybody what Jesus has done for us, and that other meet people may be drawn to him And uh so I don't has anybody heard any other examples as to why Jesus said this, Jacob? Um it could have been conditional to until he went and talked to the priest. the law of Moses, you had to go before the priest to prove yourself that you were clean. And I mean he might have stole his clothing, we don't know his clothing would have been like he said, hey, don't Because it kind of at least when I read it, the sentence kind of goes together, See thou say nothing to any man, but go thy way, show thyself to the priest. He's saying, Hey, don't, you know, go feel what you're supposed to do according to the law first. In my opinion, that's that's kind of maybe what he's saying. Hey, go do what you're supposed to do first. Yeah, so that very well may be a uh particular reason why uh he would say wait uh to do this. Uh just interesting to contemplate or consider the these things