Uh we are looking at Christ's third year in ministry. You should have the notes that were out under the mirror this morning. Uh there's no longer a mirror there. We'll have to say under the air conditioner now. Uh so we did get that AC unit mounted, but uh it's not uh operational. It'll still be a week or two before it's operational. There's some work to do, but it's hanging on the wall at least. But you should have pages 48 through 51. That's where we're at today. If you have your prophecies concerning the Messiah, there's one of these I forgot to give you last week when we covered it. So you know as we're going through the New Testament, as we come into these prophecies that are fulfilled. We're marking those down, and last week we had one that I forgot to give you, but Isaiah 53, verses 4 and 5 tells us that he's going to suffer for others, and that was fulfilled in John chapter 10, verse number 11. John 10, verse number 11. looked at that last week and I forgot to mention it to you. So you'll want to mark that down, John 10, 11. Now there's a lot left because many of the prophecies are dealing of course with his uh death, burial, and resurrection. And so those we as we're coming into that time period of Christ's life, we're going to start hitting a lot more of those prophecies that are fulfilled. But uh we looked last week uh at the Transfiguration and you could turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter 17. We're just gonna kind of continue on. Uh Christ is coming off the mountain We'll see that the story just progresses. So we're going to be in Matthew here for these first couple uh things we're looking at today. But They're coming down off the mountain. We see Matthew chapter 17, beginning verse number 14. And when they were come to the mountain, there came to the multitude. Came to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, So they're coming down off the mountain. Look at verse number thirteen there. understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist. So we're just continuing the story. You remember they thought that the appearance of Elias, like maybe that was the fulfillment. And Jesus explained to them that no John the Baptist, uh they had this discussion over that. And uh so we're just continuing right right on with the story of what takes place next. They came down and then this man comes to him. uh seeking for some help, the healing of a demon-possessed uh boy here, Christ's 25th miracle found in these verses. Verse number 15, he says, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is a lunatic and sore vexed, for oftentimes he falleth into the fire and oft into the water. So we see here that this young man, demon-possessed, comes, his father comes and asks God to help him. Hey, my son needs some help. My son needs uh help and he took him to the disciples and the disciples were unable to help him in any way. This demon-possessed man uh caused great pain to this boy. It was very hurtful to him. It was uh destructive. He would put him into epileptic fits. And also, he would cause him to fall into the fire. He would cause him to fall into the water. He would cause him to do self- harm. And uh I just want to point out, because this is something that is very uh popular or prevalent in society, especially young among young people, and I want you to know that it's satanic This uh idea of people hurting themselves, cutting themselves, doing this, these uh self-mutilation, these things, that's that's of the devil And uh you see that throughout the scriptures oftentimes, and it's something that Satan's using in in today's society in a very strong way, especially among the young who uh by their testament are dealing with so much emotional pain that they have to hurt themselves physically to be able to feel anything at all. And uh it's because of the onslaught of the work of Satan in our society in the lives of people. This demon-possessed young boy was doing these things to himself. And uh Christ uh reprimands them a little bit and he says, Bring them to me in verse number 17. Then Jesus answered and he said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and how long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. Jesus is always willing to help those in need. He always willing to call uh people to himself and When somebody is hurting, he is there. He's ready and willing. If you're in a situation in your life, something you're facing, I want you to know that Jesus is there. He's waiting. If you will turn to him, he will turn to you. Draw nigh unto me, and I will draw nigh unto you, the scripture tells us. And Jesus was always willing for those that were hurting to come to him. He says, Bring him unto me. And uh then Jesus commands the demon to depart and heals this boy. Then the question arises From the disciples, why couldn't we do that? I mean, we have healed other people. We've cast out other demons. This is something that they had experienced at some point. But verse number 19. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out? And we're in Matthew chapter 17, verse number 19, if you're not there. But he said, they said, Why couldn't we do that? Why couldn't we cast him out? We don't understand. You know, we tried the same thing we did before, and it just didn't work. And Jesus teaches them a few things about this, about why they couldn't do that. First of all, is because of their unbelief. He says in verse number 20. And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief. For verily I say unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall be moved. And nothing shall be impossible unto ye Beloved, I wonder how much of the work of God is hindered because of unbelief. Because we really just don't believe that God will do it. Maybe we in our mind we believe God can do it. Maybe we we don't doubt the fact that it's possible that God can do anything and we at least have enough faith to Realize that that yeah, God can do anything he wants to do. Nothing is impossible with God. But we're not talking about God, we're talking about me. And so uh I don't think God is gonna do that for me. I don't have the faith to think that God's going to make that happen in my life. And I wonder how much of what God would like to do for us is limited by our lack of faith. You guys know that I I I've told you before, I think this is one area where I'm I really struggle, where I'm I'm weak. I I don't necessarily have an abundance of faith where I just Just like, yep, God's gonna do it. Let's go, amen. And and push forward. I like to have all my ducks in a row. I like I like to have a plan and be able to see how it's gonna happen and is this possible? I mean, yeah, if God drops us you know, a few million dollars down, then I'll say, yep, it's God's will, let's do it, you know. But but I'm not ready to step into the water ahead of time and trust God for a few million. You know, now maybe I should, but I I tend to be a little hesitant. And it's an area that I wonder maybe do I limit Hunt Valley Baptist Church because I l lack a little bit of faith, that I'm not ready and willing to just trust God and step out and do what God wants us to do. us to do and I I need to see the beginning from the end instead of we know we don't walk by sight. We're supposed to walk by faith. So this certainly is a reproband to me, just a a challenge to me. They could have done this if they would have had some faith to do it, but they didn't, so Jesus does it. And then he talks to them about the fact that just the smallest amount of faith uh in nothing shall be impossible unto you And then he gives him one more piece of information. He says that prayer and fasting is the key to power with God. He says there, and Jesus saith unto them, Because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence in yonder place, and it shall be moved, and nothing shall be impossible unto you How be it, this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. So he said, There's another level of commitment necessary for you to see this level of miracle. There's a level of persistence. There's a level of desire that is necessary. If you want to have that kind of power, it's going to take some prayer and some fasting. is not going to be casual Christianity. You're not going to see the great hands of God moving on your behalf. If you're just going to be a casual Christian and just catch them on Sunday mornings and hey, we'll see you next week, Lord. He's saying if you want to see God moving, it's going to take some commitment in prayer, some commitment in fasting. some time with God. And I would exhort you and encourage you if you've got something in your life that is of utmost importance, an important decision, an important move, a big step, something in your life, or you need something miraculous to take place. You might ought to take on some fasting. And there's a lot of stuff out there on fasting. There's a bunch of stuff on our website. I've taught on it several times and deal with with the intricacies of it and how to fast and how long to fast and you know some of the medical concerns and things you've got to be aware of. But uh we're not going to teach on that this morning, but you need to know that That if we want to see God do great things, sometimes it takes that level of commitment. Prayer and fasting is necessary. So we're going to continue right on in Matthew chapter 17 is the as the story progresses, but we see that Christ is heading towards uh Jerusalem Christ is heading towards Jerusalem. You know, he is on his way to the Feast of the Tabernacles, and we understand that Jesus knew ultimately what was going to happen. The Bible tells us that he set his face as a flint. That he knew where he was going. He knew ultimately what was going to take place when he got there. But he starts heading down towards Jerusalem. And even though he knows what's taking place, we see his twenty-sixth miracle here, a fish and a coin. He uses this opportunity to teach some things to the disciples. We see, look down in verse number 24. And when they were come to Campernium, they that received tribute money came to Peter and said, Doth not your master pay tribute? He saith, yes. This is Peter opening his mouth again, maybe before he should have. You know, just a sidelight here. It's a small thing, but if you're really not sure, you probably shouldn't open your mouth You really shouldn't speak, right? Don't don't just just wait. And the problem is you get yourself and other people into trouble when when you don't really know the answer or when you speak out of turn. Just a small thing, like with parents, sometimes, you know, maybe it maybe some parents really don't like their kids to have candy. And in front of the two-year-old, you're like, oh, would you like a piece of candy? Is it okay if he has candy? That is not very smart. Okay. Let's have a little bit of respect for others and for mom and dad, and you turn to mom and dad without the kid knowing, you say, hey, can you add this? And then mom and dad are like, sure, yeah. And then you can offer it to them. But if you offer it to them first, you've already stuck your foot in your mouth. Now mom has to be the mean ogre and say, no, you can't eat candy. Because I don't like kids to have any fun. I don't like kids to enjoy life. Uh my goal is to make you suffer, you know? And Mom has to be the bad person there because you wanted her to you know to give away. Just think about that. You know, if it was your two-year-old, what would you want? Talk to mom and dad first. But Peter opens his mouth here and he says, yes. And Christ teaches some things concerning the temple tax here. Now, the temple tax uh was a half shekel of silver that was to be paid by every Jewish male And you can read Exodus chapter 30, verse number 13, if you want to just mark that in the edge of your notes there, the temple text in instructions concerning that is given to us there in Exodus chapter 30. But uh Jesus asked him, he says, hey, is the king to receive tribute from his own children or from a stranger? In verse number twenty five, and he saith yes, and when he was come into the house Jesus prevented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth custom or tr take custom or tribute Of their own children or of strangers? He's asking Peter. He says, Where where do the this come from? And the strangers there is not strangers like we think of people you don't don't know, but it's really it means like people that are not part of the family, people outside the family. Does the king's kids pay tribute? Or does tribute come from people outside the king's house? And Peter rightly answers outside. See, Peter saith unto him, verse 26, of strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children free. So he what he's saying here, he says, listen, the temple is my father's house. As the son of God, I would not be required to pay the temple tax. It would not be expected of me to pay the temple tax. I wouldn't have to do that. But he says here, notwithstanding, notice what he says, he says, notwithstanding, he's saying, nevertheless, or that being said with the understanding that I really don't have to pay the temple tax, but note he says here, lest we should offend them Go thou to the sea and cast a hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up, and when thou hast opened his mouth thou shalt find a piece of money that take and give unto them for me and thee So Christ teaches Peter here and tells him to go go catch a fish. This uh there would be a coin in his mouth. Now this fish, I've actually had this fish, it's a type of tilapia that they catch in that area of the country, and today they're known as St. Peter's Fish. uh because of this. It's a type of tilapia. I don't remember the actual name of it, but uh I had some of it when I was in Israel uh there. They served it to us uh you know and it they like tilapia, nothing special, but uh I mean it it was good. But today that fish is known as St. Peter's fish because of this. And this fish, particular particular kind of fish, has a large gullet or whatever in his mouth, a space that they they can actually store food for a period of time. They can capture things and keep them in their mouth and And it's not uncommon for them to have something in their mouth, right in their mouth for a period of time because of how they have a big hollowed out spot. And uh so Jesus tells Peter, Hey, go catch a fish, the first fish you catch. is going to be there. Now there's some that have said this is not that much of a miracle uh for this to take place uh but you understand this th there's a lot of things here. In order for this miracle to take place somebody had to lose a coin I mean I can imagine some fisherman the day before out on the lake and and he leans over to grab a fish and and coins fall out of his pocket. And he's like, oh no, and he's looking down there through the water and then he sees a fish eat one. He's like, Oh, he just ate my coin, you know. He's looking his fish, eats his coin, and then starts swimming away. Now this fish has a coin in his mouth, but the fish has to swim to the other side of the lake to get where Peter's going to be and hang out until Peter throws his hook in. And then Peter throws his hook in, and then he grabs the hook and he pulls him up. Not only that is the exact amount that they need to pay the temple tax. So here's the thing. If Jesus just knew that the coin was there and he had nothing to do with the orchestration of these events, then we see his omniscience That he knew that that coin was in that fish's mouth, whether he orchestrated any of it or not, just the fact that he is all-knowing points to the fact that he's God But if he orchestrated the events, like this fisherman maybe accidentally lost his coin, and Jesus is like, well tomorrow I'm going to need that. Hey, can you grab that fit that coin? for me and he sends the fish to get it and then that fish comes to the exact place and grabs uh Peter's hook and he pulls up then we see his omnipotence That he is all powerful and that he can do that. So this miraculous thing here of Jesus teaching not to offend and we're going to pay the temple tax. So just hear his 26th miracle, this fish and a coin where they paint, where they uh pay the temple tax. Then we see Christ's 11th sermon where he does some instructions, some teaching. to the disciples. We'll continue right on in Matthew chapter 18, verses 1 through 10. We see, first of all, that he answers a question concerning who is the greatest. Now, this overt concern regarding who is the greatest is not uncommon today. It was something that was there with Jesus and the disciples. I don't think any of them were in any way insinuating that they were greater than Jesus, but they were like, okay, who's next, Lord? We understand you're God. We're not there, but we want to know who's next. Who is the greatest among us? Who's going to have the cheapest position? You know, beloved, that we should not be that concerned about it. Who who oh I'm a deacon in the church. I'm uh I'm an elder. I I'm uh uh you know a a I'm uh part of the pastoral staff of the of the church. We should not be so worried about who's the greatest. Amen? We ought to all be Jesus came to minister, that is to serve. not to be ministered unto. And if God's people were more concerned about being the kind of servants we should be, listen, God said, humble yourself and I will lift you up. Instead of seeking those positions, we ought to be seeking to serve and let God do whatever He wants to with us. And He will be a we will be amazed at what God does with the humble servant. That's willing to just do what God wants them to do instead of seeking a position of seniority or power or recognition. Are we just really, really willing and wanting to serve? Now I was a second man for, I guess. about sixteen years and uh well maybe depending upon the two years you count where I was interim pastor. Uh but uh you know you can call it four 14 years, but uh I was perfectly content to be the second man, wasn't looking for anything different. Uh talking to Stephen about this here sometime in the last couple of weeks. just it was a lot easier uh being the second man uh you know and just dealing with that but obviously God does what he wants to with somebody who's willing to but We shouldn't be just trying to climb a ladder, trying to get to the next position. These pastors that use these small churches as just stepping stones to try to That's not right. You you need to just serve God and serve God's people where He has you and let let the Lord uh take and put us where he will. The disciples had this question, and this is prevalent in society today, and we need to guard against that in our own hearts. Like, oh, I'm not getting recognized for for my uh And my contributions to the church, whether those are labor or money or whatever it is, we're all just here to serve the Lord. Christ teaches them that without humility You will not be able to enter the kingdom of heaven, let alone be the greatest. It takes humility even to get into the kingdom of heaven. So we see Verse number eighteen, let me just read a few of these verses. And the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called a little child unto him, and he said unto him Set him in the midst of them and said, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever there shall therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is the greatest in the kingdom. He's saying, listen, you ought to just be looking for humility. The humility of a child, the simplicity of a child, that's what should be of utmost importance to us. And without humility, you aren't even going to come to Christ to be saved, let alone reach any position of success or stature in the kingdom of heaven. And so he teaches that the greatest one is the one with childlike humility. Then he warns concerning offenses, verses 7 through 9 he talks here, woe unto the world because of offences. For it must needs be that offences come, but woe to the man that by whom the offense cometh Now this word offense here is not the word that we would typically associate with that. It's not that, you know, uh Timothy knocked over Andrew's cornflakes this morning. And now he's offended. We're not talking about that kind of offense. That didn't happen. Andrew was gone a long time very early this morning for his appointment. But uh it's not that kind of offense. What he's talking about is literally means to stumble or cause to sin. That's the kind of offense he's talking about. And that's why he takes it so seriously. That's why he says, Woe unto him that causes somebody else to stumble or to ascend. Sin. You know, beloved, none of us live unto ourselves. I know many people think they live unto themselves and they like to use the statement, this is my life. I can do what I want to do. But beloved, your life is impacting somebody else. Every single one of us here, your life is either encouraging someone to follow and pursue God or discouraging people from following and pursuing God. Every one of us, none of us live unto ourselves. We are all impacting others, and Jesus here very clearly says, woe unto them Woe unto the world because of offenses, for it must needs be that offenses come. That is, there's going to be stumbling blocks, there's going to be some things that cause you to sin, but woe to the man by whom that offense cometh. He said, well, you're going to be held accountable for that. Somebody was going to go to church and you called them and said, why are you doing that? Woe unto him. You caused a great stumbling block there. You hindered from somebody doing that which he should do, following after the Lord and pursuing the Lord You need to be always encouraging people. And by your life, by your actions, and certainly by your words, we don't want to ever be a stumbling block to others. He goes on here and he says, Wherefore, if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off. And cast them from thee. It is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. He says, man, if your hand or your foot offends you, that is causing a stumbling block in your life, cut it off. You see the the the importance of that, the the uh uh extreme step that Christ is taking when he's teaching, he says, if this is causing an offense, if this is causing you to stumble Cut it off. Now listen, some of you can't even cut this off. Christ looks at you and says, if your hand is causing you to stumble, you need to get rid of it. If your foot is causing you to stumble, it'd be better to go through life halt and maimed. It'd be better to go through life without a smartphone than to have it and allow it to cause you to stumble. It's keeping you from being what God wants you to be. It's taking you down roads you shouldn't be going down. It's causing you to look at things you shouldn't be looking at. It's causing you to partake of and indulge in things that you know you shouldn't indulge in. To top all that off, it's causing you to waste time and we're supposed to redeem the time because the days are evil. And he says, if it's if it's causing you to stumble You need to cut it off. I wonder how many of us would be following biblical principle there if we went and got a dumb phone. You know, what phones were originally used for, just for calling, instead of all the other things. Now there's a lot of tools that are that are very useful and very handy to have. But listen, if it's causing you to stumble as a Christian, if it's keeping you from being what God wants you to be, you need to cut it off. Let's take a little a little less extreme stand here and say, okay, you don't have to get rid of the phone completely, but maybe what you need to do is you need to delete that app. You just need to get rid of that app because you know that app is opening the w uh Instagram. You know the feeds that are coming on that. And you weren't even really looking for it, but there it is. Maybe you just need to get rid of that app. Delete your Instagram account. So you're not going to be a influencer. Sorry. It's better for you to go through life not an influencer and do what God wants you to do than just keep trying for that and and it's costing you spiritually. And I don't know what other apps there are, but you know what apps are causing you to be hurt spiritually. There's kind of a rabbit trail. Let's get back to our uh text here. We see That uh he gives a pattern for dealing with trespass. Now this trespass is uh what we would really look at with regards to offense So he he deals with that. He gives us this pattern in eighteen verses fifteen through twenty. He says, Moreover, if thy brother trespass against thee, if he if your brother spills your cornflakes And uh he caused thee to go tell him his fault between thee and him alone. If he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee two or more that he In the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word may be established. If he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church. So we see here several things, and I noticed in my notes I forgot to finish, but we see that first the pattern that he gives us here is try to win your brother privately, go to them privately. Discuss it with them. If that brother trespasses, if your brother offends you, go to him privately first. There is way too much communication with everybody else about the problem. than with the person that caused the offense. That's sin. It's wrong. It's disrupting the Lord's work and hurting people spiritually because you can't control this. And listen, if it's not serious enough to confront the individual that did it, then it's not serious enough to tell anybody else about it. You need to just let it go. You're like, well, I don't want to talk to them about it. It's not that big a deal. Well, why are you talking to everybody else about it? If somebody has offended you, the Bible gives us a very clear pattern for how to deal with it. You go to them personally. You talk to them. I can tell you from life experience, most of the time that's going to fix it. Sometimes offenses are greater, they're stronger, it's harder to deal with than that. Maybe somebody's being stubborn, and so he says, hey, uh go I I was working on my little race in here and I actually put put both of them in in the outline for you. I wasn't sure which word I wanted to use, whether partner or participant And I actually left forgot and left them both there. But try to win your brother with a partner or a participant, with somebody else. Go with them and bring them with you. And so now you have that way every word can be established I mean I I'm terrible about this. We have a conversation later and uh they come back and they say you said this and you're like uh I don't remember that Uh and and you said that. Well I don't think I said that. Um, you know, so what he's saying is you need to take somebody with you so every word can be established. So that there's somebody that can stand and and function maybe as a moderator or mediator and just to help work through that and that can bring some stability to the conversation. And then if it still doesn't take care of it, then go. publicly, take them before the church, then deal with it in a more public manner. But we need to follow the biblical principle with regards to dealing with these things. And stop letting our mouth run and talk to everybody else about other people instead of dealing with them individually. Then he goes into the cost for following Christ. And we need to turn to Luke chapter 9. Oh, you know what I forgot to tell you? It just we moved Luke, and I'm like, we're leaving Matthew. What happened? It's interesting that the fish and the coin, that story of the fish and coin, is only recorded in the book of Matthew. There's not in any other one. Now why do you suppose that Matthew recorded that story? Because he was a tax collector. That's he's the only one that thought, man, that's pretty interesting. I'm gonna let people know about that. The other guys were like, uh who cares about tax collectors, you know? We're not recording that story Uh but I forgot to mention that when we were going through that part of it. Just interesting note. Uh because I do include where these things are recorded for you in the things that we see. And Luke, you guys are there and I'm not there. So Luke chapter nine is where we want to be in verse all the way towards the end here, verse fifty-one. Um So we see here he he begins communicating and talking about what it's going to cost to follow Jesus in 951. I need to see if I'm He says, and it came to pass when the time was come that he should re uh be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. So you see we're still progressing on our way to Jerusalem. He's heading that direction. These things are taking place in the pattern as he's heading on. And uh we're going to jump to verse number 58. And we see first of all that to be a follower of Christ, it's not going to be comfortable. And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nest, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. The reason he said that is because verse 57, and it came to pass that as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. He said, Lord, I'm with you. I'll go with you wherever you want to go. I'm here. I'm by you. Jesus, whatever you desire. And I can tell you there's been a lot of people that signed up for the Christian life and thought it was all going to be peaches and cream, it was all going to be sugar and nice and everything sweet. And they found out right away that it's not. And they get discouraged and they quit on God. Jesus never told anybody it was going to be sweet. Jesus never told anybody it was going to be easy. Now in the trials we have Jesus with us. That's the exciting thing. We have the Lord Savior walking with us. Everybody, listen, it rains on the just and the unjust. Everybody has battles. Everybody has loved ones that pass away. Everybody has hardship that comes into life, but as a believer, we have a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. We have somebody that's carrying us through those times of life when the the storm hits and the trial comes and the burden is too great, you have somebody with you. The world does not And it is evident in their uh face and in the turmoil they're going through, how they're just lost and without direction, but we have somebody with us. That's the joy of knowing Jesus. Not that you're going to be saved from every storm or not have to deal with any battles. Jesus says right here, it's not going to be comfortable. You want to serve me? It ain't going to be easy. You're going to have to go through some trials. You're going to have to go through some storms. Matter of fact, I'm here on earth and I didn't have a place to lay my head. I've got to pull up a stone once in a while and put rest my head on that. He says, boy, it's not going to be easy. Even the foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. He said, Boy, this I think what he was teaching us as well is that this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. I'm not so worried about laying up treasure here. I want to lay up treasure there where where I'm headed. So he says that uh hey, it isn't going to be comfortable. And he says also that you it you're going to need to be committed in verse number 62. We see 61, and another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, where at home at my house. And Jesus saith unto him, No man hath, having put his hand to the plow and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Now, my brother-in-law, Clint, was here and he spoke for us on Thursday night. And uh one thing that I would say about him from the very beginning, from when he got saved. You see he got saved in nineteen ninety seven and I was done and he started very shortly after he got saved he started dating my little sister And uh that's where we were like, I don't know. Here's this guy, he's been in the military, he's been in the world, he just got saved, he just came to the Lord, and you know You know, was a little hesitant, but can I tell you that from day one he put his hand to the plow and now all these years he He has been faithful pushing forward. He has not looked back. His the level of the commitment that he's had from day one where he right a quick finish he finished his degree at Purdue University, but then went right into Bible college. and then studied for the ministry and then right into the ministry and he has continued all these years to be faithful to push forward. He worked for me for uh a year uh in in Indiana and can I tell you that working for me everywhere he went he was a witness. He was giving out gospel tracts. He was he was a witness. To the point I had people I mean I was the you know, head of the company. I had people calling me saying, You can't have people witnessing on the job. You can't this is not why you're here you know, people were getting mad because he was being a witness. I told him keep it up. Thanks a lot. It's good. You're not going to get in trouble for being a witness on this job. Amen But he he's still that way. And I appreciate that about him. He's faithful, and he's no longer here, so I can say those things. But uh listen, he's he's he's been faithful since the beginning, and that's what Christ expects of us. We shouldn't be looking back. You know, we're gonna look at Lot a little bit in this morning's service, and uh you know Lot's wife. She turned into a pillar of salt, not because she looked in the rear of her mirror, but the idea is that longingly in her heart, she looked back at Sodom at what she was losing. She looked back and thought, oh no, the house, all my friends, the things that I had is all going to burn up. I wonder, are affections set on things on the earth, things here, or are we set in pursuit of God? We put our hands to the plow and say, okay, Lord, I'm working for you. I'm doing what you want me to do. I'm going to live a life for your honor and glory. And I'm not looking back because this world's not my home. I'm just the passing through. I got nothing here that I want. Nothing here that I'm holding on to. Lord, it's all about you. It's all about the kingdom. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. That's what we need to be doing. And that's what Christ was teaching the disciples in this message. Now we're going to close it down this morning. We'll pick up right there next week as we have what will be the final lesson on um Christ's third year of ministry when we move right into uh his concluding months and of course his crucifixion and those things. Should be in your notes on the bottom of page number 49. We have just seen Christ uh teaching us in the book of Luke. You can turn to Luke. Uh chapter nine is where we left off last week, Luke chapter nine. You're gonna notice today that we kind of skip through uh some chapters like we jump jump chapter by chapter, uh sometimes two or three chapters at a time. And that is because I gave you all of the parables that Jesus taught. I kind of gave them to you all at once. And so we're not taking time to teach those parables as they come up. We're kind of uh you you have all the parables, and so we're going to just be moving through kind of the other key events. And uh so if You're looking at well we just skipped three chapters. What happened? That's because that those things we just gave to you individually or not in chronological order, but you have them. Uh so we're gonna pick up here Christ's teaching. We just finished him talking to his followers and talking about the fact that uh listen, if you're gonna be a follower of Christ, it's not gonna be comfortable in chapter 9, verse number 58. He says, Hey, uh, you know, you the fowls of the air, these these the fox of the field, these these animals had a place to lay their head, but the Son of Man had no place to lay his head. And if you're gonna be a follower of Christ You're gonna have to be willing to be uh uh uncomfortable. There's gonna be some things that aren't as enjoyable as you would like. And then he says it's gonna take some real commitment. You're gonna have to be committed in uh Verse 62, a follower of Christ, is going to have to be fully and completely committed. And so we move right into Christ's 12th sermon in chapter number 11. Luke chapter number 11. So right away he says, and it came to pass that as he was praying in a certain place which he uh ceased one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. They have this discussion over uh prayer and uh Christ teaching them to pray. And uh Uh of course it's i uh a needed thing as Christians we ought to be men and women of prayer. And uh if you want an example or want to learn how to pray Then this is a great passage of scripture. We're not going to dig into that specifically because we're getting here dealing with Christ's miracle. He's begins to send these uh Not disciples, the disciples, but he sends uh a group of followers uh out, seventy unknown disciples out to go minister. And he begins teaching them. Uh he sends them out into the fields. And I jumped a chapter. That's why I'm confused here. So chapter number ten is where we should be. Um In Luke chapter number 10. And uh so he he says, hey, it's time it's time to go out into these fields. It says, after these things, that's where I was looking for. So we know the story of the the The story is just continuing on. He says, after these things the Lord appointed another seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place. where he himself would come. So he sent them out two by two to go to go do this. Uh and they were supposed to uh be ministers and he was sending these seventy disciples out. Now we know that Christ chose twelve disciples, and he had these twelve, and we don't have a particular or definitive reason why Christ chose twelve. It was his inner circle, it was those that were closest to him and ministered with him and he sent them out to go work and uh it has been conjectured or possibly that the twelve are representative of the twelve tribes when Christ began his ministry He was of course initially ministering to the Jewish, the Jewish people, his people. And uh through this period of time, the uh he lets the ju the Jews and the disciples know that his ministry is going to expand to include the Gentiles. And uh here uh he sends seventy out and the seventy could be representative of the seventy nations and are given to us in the book of Genesis. Uh and so possibly that's why now Christ is is showing or illustrating the fact that not only it Is he going to be reaching the twelve, but he's going to send the seventy out, and they're going to go and representative of the seventy nations that are out there, and ultimately that his message is going to be for the whole world, not just for the twelve tribes of Israel. It's going to be for everyone. So we see several things here. First of all, his concern was evident in verse number two. He says, Therefore said he unto them, the harvest truly is great. But the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. His concern is evident. He sees the need. He sees these fields that are white unto harvest that are ready. And he wants them to be reached. And he sends forth these seventy and he says, hey, you guys need to pray that God would send forth more labor Because there's a greater need. There's more people that need to be reached. He had a great concern. Then his commission is clear. And verses 2 through 11, he really describes it. Commission, what he's telling them to do, where they're supposed to go, how they're supposed to be ministering. Uh he first of all, they were to travel light in verse number four. He says, uh But well let's pick up in verse number three. He says, Go your ways, behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. Carry neither purse. nor script, nor shoes, and salute no man by the way. He says you need to travel light. You need to be ready to move. You've got a long ways to go. You've got a lot to accomplish. And it's not about how much you can get or carry along the path. You've got a job to do. This is what I want it to be your focus. So he says you need to travel light. He says in verse number five, you need to abide with believers. He says, and unto Whatsoever house ye enter first, say peace be unto you. The peace of God, the path is all understanding, the peace that's in the heart of the believer, is something we should have pre-present with us. Everywhere we go, we ought to bring peace. I was listening to a uh uh documentary this last week and uh a man was describing his childhood and he says my father was more concerned about uh having the presence or or the presentation of order in our home than he was about the reality of order in our home. And he went on to illustrate how that, you know, if anything was out of place in the house, Dad would go ballistic. He would would just lose his composure. He would yell and scream and throw things. So real order was not the not what was important. Because Dad didn't have a problem at all losing his temper. He didn't have a problem at all destroying the order that was present. But the The idea of order was important. And we need to look good, but we don't have to be good. And this is a problem as Christians. We need to be good. It's not necessarily so important about uh what we put on, what airs we put on, but we need to have that peace of God. And really anywhere we go, uh we need to have and bring that peace As Christians, there ought to be peace in our homes. There ought to be peace in our relationships. That ought to be something that's evident, that's a marker of the believer. that you have peace and that you carry that peace with you wherever you go. Then they were to heal the sick. In verse number nine, he says And heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, the kingdom of God has come nigh unto you. They were to go and heal the sick. God had given them power to be able to do these types of miracles at this time to help uh the Jewish people were very strong on signs. They were always looking for signs and wonders. And God had given these initial disciples and ministers in the New Testament here the sign gifts. that people could see and say, oh, this is of God because of this. And so they had this gift to be able to heal and to do miraculous things. Then they were to announce unto them that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. We read that in verse number nine. The kingdom of God has come unto you. And so they were to go city by city. You'll see this over and over again through this passage of scripture, the city that you go unto one to the city the city whereunto thou enter, the city. They were to continue to go. But they were to abandon those who rejected in verse number eleven. Even the very dust of your city which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you. Notwithstanding, be sure of this that the kingdom of God has come nigh unto you. He says, I guess I need to back up verse number 10 to see that you see, but unto whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not. He said, when they receive you not, go your ways out of the street of the same and say, even the very dust of your city which cleaves on us, we do wipe off. They were to say, hey, dust Dust that off, don't let it bother you, just go on to the next city. If they've rejected, if they've turned away, and a lot of times we don't understand things that we we look at today because we don't know the whole history and what I'm talking about is sometimes there are cities, there's nations, there's groups of people out there in the world, and we say, well how can God judge them? They have not heard. But we don't understand that there was a time that God sent somebody to them, and as a people, they rejected it. They said no. And God said okay, and they went to the next city. The opportunity that they had was there. Beloved, the Bible is very clear. No man is without excuse. No man can has a reason to say, listen, I knew nothing about it. Doth not nature itself declare the handiwork of God? And uh so everybody has a witness of some kind And uh those that are desirous of it, God finds a way, God sends somebody to them. But we if we look through the long course of history, sometimes you can see a nation being judged, and that's because when you go back in their history There was a time that God sent them a witness and they rejected it. Here Christ is saying to them, Listen, if they reject, if turn away, dust the feet off, and go on to the next city. Why? Because you don't want to spend three months there getting beat to death trying to minister to a people that have rejected it because there's a whole nother city that is ready and willing and wants to hear it. Go reach the people that want to hear it. Go reach the people that desire it. And so spend your time reaching those people. So he says that to them. Um abandon those who rejected it. And then his chastisement was strong. Verses 13 through 16. He really This chastisement here is is pretty brutal, talking about those cities that rejected him. Uh in verse number 14 he says, but it shall be more tolerable for Tyra and Sidon at the judgment than for you. And for you, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell. He that heareth you heareth me, and he that despiseth you despiseth me, and he that despiseth me despiseth me He's saying, hey, you had a chance and you rejected it, and it's going to be more tolerable for the nation of Sidon, it's going to be more tolerable for Tyra than it is for For you in the day of judgment. And uh why? Because you had the truth right there at your door, because to whom much is given, much is required. And when the truth was present, when when you had somebody lovingly, compassionately trying to give you the truth of the gospel, and beloved every single person that you've ever had the opportunity to witness to in the day of judgment they're going to stand there and in their mind's eye, in their memory, they will hear that witness. They will know that they are without excuse. They'll know that they rejected it. and uh to whom much is given, much is required. And I want to just throw this out here, young people that grow up in church, there's a lot required of you. You've had the truth. You're not free just to decide to walk away and go do whatever you want to do. The fact of the matter is God says that you you will be judged more harshly Because you understood, because you had the word of God, because you had a witness, because somebody showed you the truth. And uh, you know, I understand that sometimes when the Bible you know says to whom much is given, much is required, sometimes we want to say, Well, I just don't want to know so much. You know, I just don't don't tell me. If I'm not if you don't tell me then I'm not responsible for it But the fact of the matter is is we we've already heard, we already know, and to young people we are to be a followers of Christ and uh we are going to be held responsible and accountable for what we know, to whom much is given, much is required. And And Jesus' judgment here upon this, his chastisement on them was very strong. And his comments were kind. Look in verse number 23 and 24. He says, and he turned him Unto his disciples, and he said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. He's saying, You guys have truly been blessed. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see and have not seen them, and to hear those things which ye hear and have not heard them. What he's talking about here is the Old Testament prophets, the Old Testament saints that loved God, that were following God, that they desired to see Jesus, they desired to see this work of Christ here on earth, they desired to see this to see the Messiah and he's saying they they longed for that and they didn't get to do it. Well you've been blessed. You've been blessed to be able to see this. And you know, when you as God's people get to be in a place where God is working and you're seeing souls saved, you're seeing lives changed, you're seeing guest visitors come in to the church house. You see the baptismal waters stirred. You see these things. Do you understand that there's churches all over this country that would love to see that in their church? There's churches that it's been four, five, six, ten years since the baptismal waters have been stirred. And and and to to we can't take for granted what God is doing in our midst. We need to praise Him for it and we We need to pray that it would continue. This is not something that that we should just say, oh, this is just the way it is, but it there are many people that desire to see Christ and God working in their midst in such a way and they don't get to see it. God has blessed us here in a unique way, and I I don't understand it, and I don't know why. I mean we had ten guests last week. That is not normal in fundamental independent Baptist churches There are many churches and I know it because uh I go to churches on vacation and and it has been years since they had anybody that wasn't part of the four uh come through the door. You know, us four no more. I mean, you we show up with our family and we come in for Sunday morning ready for church and they're just shocked. They're like Like almost like why are you here? Well Sunday. This looked like a good church. I just wanted to come and worship with somebody And and they're just shocked. They're not ready. It's been years since they had a Sunday school class and they're like, Oh, what do we do with the kids? Where where did um I don't know, hey Could you do something with the kids? Yeah, okay, they're going to do that. I mean they're not ready at all because why? Because they haven't had anything happen in that place for years Beloved, don't take for granted that God is doing something in our mix. We need to praise Him for it. We need to thank Him for it and pray that it continues because except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain to build it. It's not a work that we do, and yes, we need to do our part, and we need to pray, and we need to work like it all depends on us and pray like it all depends upon God, but God's the one that has to do it. And we certainly are thrilled because of it. And he and Jesus tells these disciples, man, you've been blessed to be able to see that. You've been blessed to be a part of that. And that is exciting that we can be a part of a church and see God working here. So he gives us here his 12th sermon in Luke chapter number 10. Then we're moving right on to His twenty-seventh miracle, a healing of a blind man who was also demon-possessed. So Luke chapter number eleven. Now we're moving on to Luke chapter number eleven and we're gonna jump down. I see what I did a minute ago. I was looking at Matthew, and it's Matthew chapter 11 is where that last story takes place. And I was I was in Luke, so I jumped a chapter there. But now moving to chapter number eleven, we see this twenty-seventh miracle. Uh really in verse number fourteen is where it takes place and then he kind of the story continues. He says And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb, and it came to pass when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake, and the people So he's healing this uh blind man that uh was mute uh as well and he was demon possessed. And he's doing this great work, but uh obviously those around him are disturbed by it. They they continue to be able to do that. But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub, the chief of the devils. And uh Christ, of course, calls this into question and says, wait a minute, how can a devil cast himself out? How can Be el Beelzebub work against Beelzebub. By the power of Beelzebub. He says that in verse number 18, if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? Because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub. He said, that doesn't make any sense that I'm doing this work through the power of Beelzebub. That's not the case. We're in chapter 11, verse number 18. Now verse uh and Christ says here that whoever is not with me is against me in verse number twenty-three. Um he that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scattered. And uh, you know, a lot of times Christians feel like they're gonna be neutral, like we're just gonna I mean I'm not going to be sold out for God, but I'm not going to work against God. is with me, whoever is against me scattereth, you're working against. And beloved, if we're not moving forward for God, then we're moving backwards. And uh th there's not a place where we can be neutral. There's not a situation where we can just decide to uh uh just kinda drift for a while and then determine whether we want to take a Step or not. We need to be moving forward for God and if we're not with him, we're against him. Then we see in chapter thirteen uh that Christ's twenty-eighth miracle, healing of a woman With an infirmity. She had an infirmity for eight years in Luke chapter 13. And verse ten, Luke chapter thirteen, verse number ten, it says, and when he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity, and we eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, Thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God. So he's here, he's in the synagogue, he's ministering, and he sees this lady, and uh it's interesting that in this situation we've seen over and over and over again these miracles where people come and they ask Christ to be healed and Christ does it. But here Christ just sees this lady and chooses There's nothing said here about her uh you know approaching him or requesting from him, uh and yet Christ sees that. You know, Christ sees our need. Um the Bible tells us though that you have not because you ask not. And uh he encourages us and And exhorts us to come to him in prayer and to let our request be made known unto him and to ask of him the thing that you have need of Now he knows what you have need of before you even ask. He's aware of that. So I'm I'm not sure exactly why Christ chose to in this situation. heal that need. But I think there's times in our lives that Christ solves the problem before we even have a chance to pray about it. Christ uh comes and and performs that miracle before we even, you know, in our mind we're like, man, I need to pray that God would do something about this or that he could bring us through that and then all of a sudden it's already solved. You find out that the miracle has already been done, that God did it and you never even had a chance to pray about it. So there are times that God chooses to do that for us, maybe just an expression of His love and His care uh for us. Now, this woman, the religious crowd, of course, responds in indignation. They're upset. They don't like it. And Christ rebukes them in verse number 17. So let's just uh verse number let's back up to verse number sixteen. And ought not this woman being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound? loose these eighteen years be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day. They of course were accusing him of laboring on the Sabbath, and he says, Man, Satan's had this woman bound for eighteen years. And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done. We see Christ's twenty-ninth miracle, uh the healing of a man with uh uh droopsey. Uh this is a would be called an edema today, some type of an edema uh liquid that accumulates under the f under the skin. Uh many times it will make itself prevalent in one leg or both of your legs or sometimes we had a lady in Kansas who whose arms were afflicted with this and her arms would just collect water, her arms would be bigger than her legs. And that this edema just just collects fluid in the body. doesn't know how to deal with it and it just keeps collecting there. It can be very painful uh and obviously very uh debilitating uh at times and so christ performs this miracle healing this man with uh Droopsy. Uh and then we see Christ's thirtieth miracle, healing of the ten lephers. Uh and we're going to jump to chapter seventeen now. Um and see this in chapter seventeen This uh healing of the Tim Lepers, obviously a very familiar passage uh beginning in verse number eleven. We're gonna be back in this chapter's uh looking at these things I think in this evening service, but he says here, and it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off, and they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, Have mercy on us. He saw them. He said unto them, Go show yourselves unto the priest. And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. So Jesus again, we see him in verse number 11 there, and it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he's on his way to Jerusalem. Jerusalem. This is what we're discussing, this time period where he's heading there, coming into the closing days of his life. He's on his way to Jerusalem still. He's seeing and ministering to people all on his path as he's going, these lepers come and they cry out for mercy. Christ directs them to go to the priest in verse number 14 there. This was normal and it was part of the law of what they were supposed to Jesus tells him to go, uh present themselves to the priest. Just Leviticus fourteen two tells us there. Uh this shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing, he shall be brought unto the the priest. So the priest had to review him, had to check and make sure that his leprosy was cured, uh, pronounced clean before he could come and present himself back. back into normal society. You guys know the story here that uh these ten, you know they they they get healed, they're excited, and they go on their way, but there's one that returns. There's one that returns. Verse number 15, and one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And he fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks, and he was a Samaritan. A Samaritan. You know, the Samaritans by rule didn't have anything to do with the Jewish people, or vice versa. There was conflict between them. And yet this Samaritan, so moved with gratitude, came back to what would be his enemy and said, thank you. Thank you. Thank you for doing this. You know, gratitude really shapes your service. Gratitude shapes your heart. And we've got to be careful to maintain a heart of gratitude in our life. It needs to be part of our, you know, maybe maybe we need to be praying. The Lord would help us to see what people do for us, to be able to see how good we have it. Because in today's society, by and large, people have completely left off gratitude. These people who, by the world standards, literally have been born with a spoon in their mouth Literally given everything this world has to offer. And I know that they differ from that. They would say that's not the case. But by the world standards By the children growing up in India, young people growing up in this country have got everything. And uh they want to The problem is that they completely lost all gratitude for everything. Everything that they have, everything that this country has provided them. And without any gratitude, it has shaped their actions. You know, when you lose gratitude at work, You start to serve from a point of this place owes me. I'm given to this job. You know, when you first started there, you had gratitude and you were thankful for a job. I'm just thankful for a job. I'm thankful that I can go to work. I'm thankful that I can get a paycheck. But now you feel like you give more to work than they give to you. All the gratitude is gone. They're just a bunch of abusers and they they're just using you I mean they're still giving you the paycheck that you've agreed to work for. They're still giving you vacation time. They're still giving you health care. They're they're still putting money in your your in your Roth IRA, but none of that, you're not grateful for any of that anymore, and you go into work bitter and angry, and you feel like oh it's okay for you to clock out early because they owe you that time It's okay for you to take things from work that aren't yours because they owe you those things because they're not paying you enough anyway. You see, gratitude really shapes how we act and react. And you know what? It's the same thing in the ministry. You get people in the ministry, and if we aren't careful, we'll get that mentality. It's a privilege to serve God in any capacity. It's a privilege to serve in the ministry But if you if if we as ministers, as people, you'll have pastors, one of the reasons they'll start stealing from the church is because they think the church is not paying them enough. They've lost the gratitude of of just the privilege to serve God. We ought to be thankful that we get paid anything at all. It's it's we really, Kristen, need to guard against this heart of ingratitude because it shapes all of our service. And we're not going to have time to get into the context here. of this passage of scripture, but there's a very clear teaching on the master-slave relationship that he talks about here, and that he says, listen We move right into this area, this thought of gratitude, and gratitude shapes our thinking. And if we have a heart of gratitude, we're going to respond in a completely different way. Then if we think we deserve everything we've got, we've earned everything we've got. Matter of fact, we're not getting near what we should. Whether that's time or attention or you know, whatever husband-and-wife relationship, when gratitude between the husband and wife disappears, Problems are going to follow without fail. Because then you're no longer thankful for who they are and what they do and how they've provided or how they serve you or the things that they do for you. It's all about you're not getting what you deserve as a mate. I'm not, she's not meeting my knees. She's not this, she's not that, he's not this, he's not that, instead of being thankful for all the things that they are. Many people in many situations, there's 80% that they do that's correct, and there's 20% that you don't like, and for a lot of people. They will destroy a relationship where almost everything is right for the 20%. Why? Because their heart and mind is focused on that twenty percent. Instead of the 80% that's Correct, the 80% that they like. There's a lot of people that will lead churches for the same thing. They're in a good church. They love everything about the church. The church is amazing. The people are amazing. They just can't stand it that they keep the auditorium so cold. Or they can't, you know, they just can't stand it. I don't know why we have to have announcements every single service I mean there's little things like that. People will get underneath their saddle and they're just like just driving them nuts. I don't know why the pastor has to wear cordimon shoes. Don't you know you wear black shoes with a suit? Whatever thing you get under your saddle that you just get upset about and and Satan just keeps stirring it for you And there's a church. There's 80% of the church you you're excited about, but that twenty percent and you're letting Satan just keep turning it around in your mind, just turning it over, and you're getting more and more mad about it And you'll end up leaving a church, you know there's going to be 20% problems no matter where you go. No matter what church you're in, no matter what group of people you're worshiping with, no place is perfect because we got imperfect people there. Who whatever it is and whatever relationship you're in That you're battling with. You know the the the Hollywood mentality of that, well, if you had your soulmate If you had that one magical person that you were supposed to be with, then everything would be perfect. That's a lie. You can be married to your soulmate and find out they don't wear deodorant. I I don't you're gonna find out something about 'em that's not right, that's not that's not good, you know? I mean You married your soulmate and he went bald. You know, whatever it is, you got situations that that are gonna come up that you're like, man, because none of us are perfect. We gotta stop focusing on that little bit of stuff that we don't like and look at all that we do, that we're thrilled with, that we're excited about, and start getting a heart of gratitude again. It will shape your service. He comes back and notice what the benefit of this gratitude was for him. Christ gives him eternal life in verse number 19. He says, and he said unto him, Arise, go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. It's a sad thing when you think about the other nine. They g they got healed, but they weren't made whole. They were cured of their leprosy and they lived another thirty or fifty years, and we don't know how old they were, but They died and went to hell. The Bible says, what should it profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? It would have been better for them not to have been healed of their leprosy. And to have been made whole spiritually and lived how many every years until their leprosy took them and went to heaven for an eternity and then spent an eternity eternity in in a place called hell. The benefits of gratitude cannot be measured. Let me just ask you, is there something that Christ has done that you've yet to thank him for? Is the goodness of God left and for you know kind of drifted off in your mind and you're no longer pondering those great blessings? Is there somebody or something that someone has done for you that you've got to express appreciation for? We're going to bring this to a conclusion here quickly, the Christ's thirty-first miracle, the raising of Lazarus. We need to turn to John for this. Turn to John chapter number eleven. Some concluding thoughts here. We see this the raising of Lazarus in John chapter eleven. This really is the the whole of this book. But you know the story here, there's a familiar one. But verse number three, therefore his sister sent unto him and said, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. Let me just say, beloved, that uh don't think that because you have hardship come into your life, that God doesn't love you Because you have some great burden or you have experienced some great hardship, don't think that Christ doesn't love you. Here we know that Christ loved Lazarus. Everybody understood that and And not only that, he's going to die. He he tells them here in verse number four, When Jesus heard that he said, This sickness is not unto death but for the glory of God. So Jesus very clearly tells him, listen, Christ knows that he's going to die because he has a discussion with the disciples in a second and tells them, hey, Lazarus is dead. Well he said Lazarus is sleeping. And they thought he meant resting. And they said, Well, that's a good thing. I mean, a guy that's sick needs his rest. And Jesus looks at him and says, No. Dummy, th he's dead. Like literally says, No, he's dead. And and they're like, Oh no. He's dead. Well Jesus had told them it wasn't unto death. He knew the miracle he was going to perform. He knew what was going to take place. And sometimes God wants to show great and miraculous things in our lives. And we must go through the burden in order to see it, but God is doing something great. We just have to be willing to endure it. Christ gives the reason for why you stick there in verse number four ultimately because it's to bring glory of God. Christ delayed his trip on purpose. So that the disciples would be uh so that the world would see and know ultimately that Christ would raise him from the dead. Uh Thomas thought, let's see, down in uh Verse number, let's pick up in verse number 14. That concludes the discussion I was just telling you about. He says, Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. They didn't understand, so Jesus says, hey, no, no, he's dead. And verse number 15, and I'm glad for your sakes that I was not there to the intent ye may believe. Nevertheless, let us go unto him Now, they just had this discussion with the disciples, and the disciples said to Jesus, Hey, you're going to go to Lazarus? Don't you know they want to kill you there? Don't you know they spake of stoning you? And Jesus said, Hey, I'm not walking around in the dark. I'm not ignorant of this. I understand that this is what they want to do. And Jesus was going anyway. Well Thomas thought, well, Jesus knows. So he says here, we see In verse number 16, then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellow disciples, Let us also go with him, that we may die with him. You see, he thought Jesus was going to be killed at that time. He says, hey, Jesus knows they want to kill him. He's going. Let's go with him. I guess we'll all just die with him. Now I appreciate his commitment His willingness to go on thinking that he was going to be dead, but we know that this wasn't Jesus' time, but we see a transition taking place here where the people are moving towards this. Then when Jesus came he found that he had lain in the grave four days. And then we see the faith of Martha. We really can see the faith of Mary as well in verse number 21. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hast been here, my brother had not died. She said, Lord, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn't have died. But look down at verse number thirty-two. Then when Mary was come where Jesus was and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord If thou hast been here, my brother had not died. So she too had faith that God had power, Jesus had power, if he would have been there, then Lazarus wouldn't have died. Certainly Lazarus could have been healed if Jesus would have been present. She believed that Jesus could do it. She expected him to do it. They have a discussion over the resurrection, and Jesus explained he's going to raise him, and she's like, oh, I know he'll raise in the last day. She believed in the resurrection But he says, no, right now. And so we see that Jesus calls for the stone to be removed. We are also introduced, or we see the compassion of Christ here in this story, verse number 33. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping, which came with her, he groaned in his spirit and was troubled. And he said, Where have ye laid him? They said, Unto the Lord. Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him. Jesus wept for them. Christ commanded that a stone be rolled away, and then he commanded that Lazarus come forth from the grave. In verse number fourteen. We see ultimately in verse number 45 that many did believe, and verse number 45, then many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen these things which Jesus did, believed on him. Okay, the the many believed. This created a stir and a problem. Some people went back and tattled. We see in verse number 46. But some of them went their way to the Pharisees and told them what things Jesus had done. The Pharisees were not very happy about this. Now Jesus is raising people from the dead? Man, many people are believing. They literally say everybody's going to believe. In verse number forty eight, if we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. He said, Man, all people are going to believe on him. If we don't do something So here's this transition. Look down at verse number 53. Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. So there's a there's a transition. We're moving now into the closing months of Jesus' life where they're going to put him to death, where there's this plan, this motion in place where they're going to try and find a way to ultimately crucify our Lord. And so Next week we'll get into that the closing months of our Lord's ministry here on earth and his death