All right. We left off last week looking at Christ giving his Olivet Discourse. They're basically the top of page 58. It's kind of where we uh ended last week, just introduced that idea. Uh and that the Olivet Discourse is found in Matthew chapter 24 and 25. So if you would Turn your Bibles there to Matthew 24 and 25. We see right off the bat the setting for the discussion, the setting for the talk that they're having as it opens up. In chapter number 24 of Matthew, and Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple. The disciples came and Jesus, they were kind of given to a tour and saying, Look at look at all of this. And they were so very impressed with it. And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things. Verily I say unto you There shall not be left here one stone upon another. Now remember that statement, because we're going to refer back to it here in just a few minutes. Jesus is prophesying here and shall not be uh that shall not be thrown down. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us Now note the three questions they ask here. These chapters 24 and 25 are an answer to these three questions. They said, tell us, he says, when shall these things be And what shall be the sign of thy coming and the end of the world? So they said, hey, tell us, when is this going to happen? What are the signs going to be? When is the end of the world taking place? They wanted to know. And so Jesus began to teach them what is known as the Olivet Discourse. So the disciples asking about this temple, looking at it, Jesus saying, listen, this temple is not what's important. It's important, but it's not what's important overall. You need to understand that this temple is going to be destroyed. There shall not be one stone left unturned. And the temple, you know, had much gold and silver in it And uh it was very opulent. It took uh Herod the Great over 50 years uh to restore, to build, and uh they They say historically what happened when the temple was ransacked and when it was burned, that all of the gold that had covered different parts of the temple, the gold ornaments on things, the golden candlesticks Uh these things melted down into the ground. They it because it burned, this gold melted and kind of creeped into the rocks. But when Rome came in and ransacked and looted the temple, They wanted that gold. And so because it had melted down into the ground, they literally upturned every single stone, every single rock. They're looking for that gold that had creep down into the ground. And so Jesus prophesying here saying this, and there's not going to be one stone left unturned. Little did anybody know what actually was going to happen that would cause this situation to be fulfilled in detail Not one stone was left unturned. Rome came in and turned it all over, digging through to try and find every little bit of gold and silver that they could. The disciples desiring to know this information, Jesus gives unto them the Olivet Discourse. Now, we mentioned this last week, but Jesus is describing here the events that take place during the tribulation and specifically in regards to the Jewish people. Okay? This is coming upon Israel. during the tribulation. That's very uh important because a lot of times when we read this, uh there are signs of the times. And there are things that are evident and things are going, the Bible's clear, things are going to wax worse and worse. And as the time approaches, you will be able to see more of these things. But full description what it's talking about is during the tribulation. So these things will be more evident, but also This so that we understand it correctly, it's during the tribulation. A comparative passage, we're not going to turn there, but in Revelation chapter 19, verses 11 through 11 through 19. Now, some pe things that give us this understanding that we know it's in context is that Matthew was written to the Jewish people. It was written to them, so they in reading this or him teaching them. is understanding that it's dealing with the Jewish people as a nation. Uh the church age has not started yet. I believe personally some people think the church did not start until Acts chapter eight. I personally think the church started with Jesus Christ and the disciples. Acts 8 says that they added unto the church. You can only add to something that's already existing. Not going to debate it. I don't think in the grand scheme of things it's going to change my faith or make any difference one way or the other. But that's just what I think. However, the church age uh had was still a mystery at this point. Uh they didn't really see it. They they couldn't see what Christ was doing, that he was going to go and a comforter was going to come and we were going to have the church age. And so they didn't really understand that. And Jesus was not teaching them about the church, the bride of Christ. He was teaching them about the children of Israel. Also, the bride of Christ, the church, is not going to be here during the tribulation So this if this is describing the tribulation, then it's not stuff that we're going to be going through, because the church, those that are saved and know the Lord, are going to be gone, we're going to be caught up together in the air, we're going to be with him at the rapture. And so we're not going to be here during the tribulation. So the things that are described here, although some things are evident in the world even today in such unbelievable ways. The fulfillment of this really is during the tribulation. We want to make sure we have that correct. So he he talks here in verses four through fourteen about the signs of the times. The signs of the times. And uh First of all, verse number five, he talks about the deception of many. He says, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ. and shall deceive many. There's going to be many people that that stand up, and again, during the tribulation, there'll be people that claim to be Christ. Uh the Antichrist, uh the greatest of those, but there'll be others that claim to be the deliverer. And he goes on here in a little bit and says there's going to be a time when uh they'll even be able to do great miracles and they're gonna deceive many, uh even the elect And so there's the deception of many. There's this destruction of war in verse number six. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet So the the the the abundance of wars around the world, and uh I mean we see that increasing even in the world today. Uh I can't imagine how bad it's going to be during the time of the tribulation. Then we see the desperation of famine and pestilence in verse number 7. He says, For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. And there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. Uh this natural disasters and the great famine is going to cause friend and and uh you know brothers and sisters in one nation to rise against another nation, things are going to continue to wax worse and worse. He talks about the doubling of sorrow in verse number eight. All these are the beginning of sorrows Okay, the beginning of sorrows is referring to the beginning of the tribulation period. These are things that are going to be at the beginning of the tribulation period. It's going to be a time of great distress. But that is in contrast and why Christ mentions here the beginning of sorrows because that's in contrast to what is the great tribulation or the last three and a half years. which is going to be magnitudes worse than the first three and a half years. So we see uh that he The distress of Jewish believers, verses 9 through 13, uh is a increase of persecution upon the Jewish people such as they have never known, which is unbelievable considering the Jewish people have always been under persecution. They they have always through all history have been attacked and persecuted and and people coming in on them through all of history, but this is going to be a time in which it is greater than they've ever known. We see this in verses 9 through 13. He says, Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted. and shall kill you, and shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. And then shall my uh shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many, and because iniquity uh shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. This increase of time of persecution of Jewish believers. Paul talks about in the book of Romans a time when the time of the Gentiles was fulfilled. And that is speaking about the end of time when the time of the Gentiles is fulfilled. There'll be a time where the Jewish people, which had been at a period blinded, but Now their eyes are opened, and there'll be many, many, many Jewish people that come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ during this time period. Because the blindness is off, and they are believing upon Christ. And uh Paul talks about that, which happens during this time. That's in Romans chapter eleven, the latter latter part of Romans eleven. uh care to read about that. Then we'll see the dissemination of the gospel, verse number 14. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world. for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. So he's describing here that dissemination, the spreading of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Many people are believing on the Lord. And then we reach here this the turning point, the second half of the tribulation, verses 15 through 22. The abomination of devolation of desolation that's mentioned here in chapter or verse number 15, he says, when ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel, the prophet, stand in the holy place who readeth, let him understand. He said you need to understand when this happens, this is this marking point, the abomination of desolation spoken of in Daniel. That's the turning point, the middle, the three and a half years has been reached. There's three and a half more years of persecution, but it's going to be greater than anything they had seen. Uh the Antichrist is going to turn upon the Jewish believers. And God warns them to run to the hills. The Antichrist had kind of befriended them for the first three and a half years, had basically uh played around and then at the second three and a half years he's gonna turn against them Why? Because this is a time when there's a lot of the same thing. in the persecution uh upon the Jews. And it's so great that God tells them, gives them a warning right here. He says, hey, you need to run to the hills. He says there in verse number sixteen, then let them which be in Judah f flee unto the mountains. Let him which is on the housetop not come down to take anything out of his house. He says, Don't even Run in there and grab your coat. You need to run to the hills. Neither let him which is in the field return back and take his clothes. And woe unto him that them that are with child and to them that gives up in those days. But pray ye that your flight be not in winter, neither on the Sabbath day, for there shall be great tribulation. This is a to the great tribulation or a time of Jacob's trouble, such as was not Since the beginning of the world to this time, no nor even shall be. So this time of Jacob's trouble, God tells him to run to the hills. The Jewish nation is under great persecution and they're supposed to run and basically uh hide if they can. Now, God in his mercy does a miraculous thing for them. You see this in verse number 22. He says, and except those days should be shortened. There should no flesh be saved, but for the elect's sake, those days shall be shortened. So this is a miraculous thing that God does. There's a couple things here. Again, we are talking about the Jewish people. Most of the time in the Word of God, when the Bible talks about the elect, he is speaking about the Jewish people because they are God's chosen nation. uh there are people who like to use the word elect and uh you know talk about how people are elected to be saved, elected to get to heaven and there's people who aren't elected and there's nothing you can do about it either way and uh listen That's not the case, even in this situation, and most of the time it's talking about the Jewish nation. It's not even talking about believers as far as Christians, people that put their faith and trust in Christ. This is what he's talking about here. But he says because of that, because his compassion and his care for the Jewish people, the the their persecution is so bad. Now the time frame of three and a half years Has to be fulfilled. The number of days is going to be fulfilled, but the length of days does not have to remain the same. And God, in his mercy, says here, except the days be shortened, every one of them will be killed. But you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to shorten the days. In mercy, I'm going to make the days shorter. I don't know how much shorter, but it's really notable to me that on July 9th, this year, 2025, It was one of the shortest days recorded in history. It is 1. 3 milliseconds shorter than the typical 24-hour period. That is how closely and consistently God keeps things on track here in the world That they can measure and know that today's 24-hour period was 1. 3 milliseconds shorter than any other recorded day in history. And the reason is is because of the moving of the planets and our proximity to the moon and we're closer than we've ever been, and that caused a 24-hour period to be just slightly shorter than 24 hours. So God could very easily adjust things a little bit and uh the day end up being fifteen-hour days or something that the we're cycling through time quick so that the days of the tribulation are fulfilled, but they're shorter. I don't know how much shorter it's going to be, but God here says, because of mercy. He's going to make the days shorter so that his people don't have to go through such terrible uh persecution and tribulation during this time. So then we see in verses 23 to 31, he's talking here about the second coming. The second coming again, not to be confused with the rapture. There are two different events. The rapture, we're caught up together in the clouds. The second coming, Christ comes down and puts his feet on the earth. They're two different events. when he comes back. So he begins to talk about the second coming, which is at the conclusion of the tribulation or the seven years. So at the second coming there's going to be an increase in false Christ. Verses 23 through 28, he says there. Then, if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there, believe it not. For there shall arise false Christ and false prophets, and show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if we were if it were possible they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have told you before. Wherefore, if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in a desert go not forth. Behold, he is in a secret chamber. Believe it not. He's saying that there that these people are coming cla claiming to be Christ, claiming to be the deliverer, claiming to be uh he's saying don't believe it. There's going to be a great increase in that. The true Christ will come in power and glory, verse number 29, immediately after the tribulation. So you see here we're concluding the tribulation. Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the power of heaven shall be shaken, and there shall appear in the sign of the Son of Man in heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great So we see that the Son of Man, Jesus, is coming there. And this again is immediately after the tribulation. And he shall gather together his elect in verse number 31, and he shall send his angels with great sound of a trumpet, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds from one end of heaven to the other. Um this is going to be a time that's marked by great signs. Uh there like the fig tree like the fig tree tells of the coming of summer and the change of the seasons when you just like you can tell When the trees start budding, like okay, spring is spring's here, and you hope you don't have another frost that kills off the flowers or whatever, but you say, hey, there's a sign. We can see spring's here, and it's very evident. And God says these signs are going to be there, these signs are going to be evident. There's not going to be any question except that man knows n no man knows the day or the hour. Verse number thirty-six. But of that day and hour knoweth no man, know not the angels of heaven, but my Father only So there's many signs that we can see, and signs that are evident even now that are prevalent in the world. I mean, have you ever seen so many earthquakes? Have you ever seen so many floods Have you ever seen uh the wars and rumors of wars like that are out there today? Uh the signs of the times and his his coming is soon at hand. Uh it's very evident that it's not that far off. Uh but I know as this progresses, as we get into what will be the actual tribulation, of course we're not going to be here. I can't imagine how uh terrible the persecution thing is going to be during that time. So It's going to be a time that's marked by signs. It's going to be a time that's marked by sin in verses 37 through 39. But as of the days of Noah, so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. For as in the days were before the flood, they were eating and drinking and marrying giving and marriage until the day that Noah entered into the ark. He's saying just like that, a time of sin is going to be a time when people are saying, Hey, uh you know Eat, drink, and be merry. Let's have a good time. They're not going to be given any thought to it, but the time of his appearing is at hand. Then we see the saints are given a responsibility in verses forty-two through fifty-one. The saints that are present during that time, those that have been saved and Put their faith and trust in Christ, they've been given a responsibility. First of all, they are to be watching. He says, Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Now this is important because we're moving into chapter 25, and he's going to give us three teachings in chapter 25 which are applicable to what he's saying right here. He's saying, listen, you need to watch. They're supposed to be watching because you don't know the day or the hour, you don't know the time. You need to be watching. And he says, then you need to be working in verses 45 through 51. He says, Who then is faithful and wise servant? whom his Lord hath made ruler over his household to give them meat in due season. Blessed is that servant whom the Lord when he cometh shall find so doing He says, listen, you've got a task to do. You need to watch, because the day's at hand. It's not that far off. You need to be looking for it. But then you need to be working. You need to be working well the It is day, for the night cometh when no man can work. You know, gotta make hay while the sun shines. Amen. That's what he's saying. So we're to be watching and we're to be working And uh those that are existing or living during this time, he's giving them that warning and saying, be watching, be working, because you don't know the day or the hour or the time, and you need to be ready for it. Again, this is an answer to the question The three questions that they ask in verse number three. Hey, what are the signs? When is this going to be? What's the end of the world? And Jesus is teaching this to them, giving them these things. So he's telling the servants there they need to prepare for his coming. Chapter number 25, that's really what chapter 25 is all about. Teaching them to prepare for his coming. They need to prepare for that. And so He says to them, uh, first of all, the parable of the ten versions, uh, giving them this. Now This parable of ten virgins, ten is a very significant number. In Jewish culture, they could not have a synagogue unless they had an assembly of at least ten Jewish people. You couldn't hold an official meeting of any kind unless there were ten Jewish people. You couldn't even get married unless you had ten Jewish people. Anything of any official capacity had to have ten Jewish people present. If you read the story of Boaz and Ruth, you'll read that they had ten people with them at their marriage. Ten witnesses. And that is to keeping in c in connection or consistency with the scripture and what they had to have uh in order to observe or for anything to be officials, you had to have at least ten. And so by him having here these ten virgins, it it's a it's applicable. He's talking to the Jewish people, they would understand a wedding was going to take place and uh they had ten uh virgins there. So it was significant. Now these ten virgins were by application to us is ten professing believers. The bridegroom of course is Jesus Christ. and the lamps are our vessels, is us, and the oil that they're supposed to have is the Holy Spirit. And the difference is those that had the Holy Spirit, the difference between profession and possession. Some people talked about it, but they have a lamp. They have a vessel, but they had no oil in it. And uh the time of the wedding was gonna come. They didn't know exactly when, but the you know the groom was gonna come and they needed to be ready for it And some of them had oil in their lamps and they were ready, but some didn't. They didn't prepare. They didn't make ready. They they weren't ready for when the bride when when the groom came. They were there and they were caught unprepared And so that's the lesson he's saying, hey, you don't know when it's going to be. That means you need to be ready now. You need to be a prepper of sorts. Now not prepping against uh cataclysmic events and and you know have all this stuff stored in your basement. I mean I don't care if you do or don't, but that's not what he's talking about He's talking about making sure you're right with God, making sure that your spirit is right and that you're prepared for his coming and ready to meet the Lord. Uh you need to prepare for that. We don't know when it's going to be, and these people that are real, you know, serious about prepping. Uh they don't know when the thing's gonna come in their mind the end's gonna come. I mean they're gonna declare martial law and everybody's gonna be locked in their house and Uh they've got wheat for 75 years in in their basement or whatever whatever it is. Uh back in 2020, you guys remember that, uh the Y2K thing and all those people prepping for the end of the world at Y2K. I remember my dad Talking during that time, he's like, son, I've been around long enough. I've seen several of these kind of things in my life. They usually come and go. He's like, I don't know what's going to happen, but I'm just trusting God. And uh meanwhile he had some pastor friends that were really serious about this prepping and realized I mean they were reading books and publishing papers and talking about how the end's coming and you you're being foolish if you're not prepepping. You need to teach your church to pre prep and get ready for this because they're not gonna be ready and dad was like, I'm just leaving it in the Lord's hands. We're gonna keep serving the Lord and uh if it happens then the end is near and I'm not worried about it, you know. And uh so I just kinda I went along with that. Not didn't really have the wisdom myself. But then when it came and went and nothing happened, I was like, oh amen. Dad was right. But uh, you know, we don't know when it's gonna be So we need to prepare. That's what he was teaching him there with this parable, the ten versions. Be prepared. Be ready. The lesson of that is that no one can know the time of his coming. So be wise and be ready now. Get ready today. Then he gives them the parable of the talents. When I taught through these I called this three stewards and their stash. So they they these three uh stewards, these three servants, they had, you know, the master came and says, Hey, I'm gonna give you uh some talents and I'm gonna give five talents to you and you're gonna give uh the second one was it three or two? Two talents to you and I'm going to give one talent to you and uh I'm gonna go away into a far country and when I come again So he had given them something and they were to take that and literally in the parable of the talents he he is dealing with money, not physical talents. not skills, you can apply it to that. And uh I believe that God is an investor, but he uses financial terms, like he says to them, that, hey, you should have brought that again unto me with usury. usury as a financial term that that you should have brought it back with interest. And that's what happened. The one that had five came back with ten. The one that had two came back with four and the one that had one buried it. And he says, man, uh you shouldn't have done that You took what I gave you and you did nothing with it. Now he didn't lose it. But he did nothing with it. He didn't profit with it at all. He didn't invest it. He didn't do something profitable with it. And he God took it away from him. And gave it to the guy that had ten. Now that goes completely against all modern human thinking. Modern human thinking is let's take the guy that has 10, let's take it away from him and give it to the guy that has one. But see, God looked at it and said, the guy that had one didn't do anything with it, he doesn't deserve it. If he's just gonna waste it, take it away from him and give it to the guy that's doing something with it. And beloved, God sometimes will do that with you and I. If you're not using the talent that God has given you, if you're not multiplying or increasing or doing something with what God gives us, even as a church. We've got an amazing church building. We've got amazing facilities. This is over and over again, we just had the ensemble here and they travel all over the country and they're in churches every single week, sometimes two or three churches in a week, and and they Several of them said, Man, this is one of the most beautiful churches that we've been in. This is amazing. Listen, that's a blessing of God. And if we're not using it for the cause of Christ and doing something profitable with it, Just as easy as God gave it to us, he could take it away. It could end up in a tent somewhere. We need to be using what God gives us and multiplying it because we don't know when the Lord is going to come back. Then he talks about the judgment of nations in 31 through 46. In context, this is again the second coming, the closing of the tribulation. We saw that in verse thirty-one. Uh look at twenty-five thirty-one. He says, When the Son of Man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory. He's gonna he's gonna come He's going to come in glory, he's going to come in power, and when that happens, he's going to deal with all nations. So he has really been talking to the Jewish people thus far. But he says, not only am I going to deal with the Jewish people, but I'm going to deal with all nations. And he describes how he's going to be dealing with all nations there, verses 31 through 36. He's letting the world know that he's going to be dealing with them as well. So we see, uh moving on now to Christ's acts of preparation. He's got some things that he's got to do to prepare. He knows the time is at hand for his uh eventual uh going to the cross. And so the conspiracy to kill Jesus is put in place. And we're going to turn to Mark chapter 14 for this. We could stay in Matthew here, but just for uh change of pace, turn over to Mark chapter 14. It is the same story takes place in Matthew 26, but in Mark 14 is what we're going to look at here, beginning in verse number 1 and 2. He says, After two days was the feast of the Passover and of unleavened bread, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft and put him to death. But they said, No, not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people. See, there's many people that uh appreciated what Jesus had done for them. Even if they didn't necessarily believe on him as the Messiah, He healed them, He caused lame to walk and blind to see and and people with issues of blood to uh be able to uh be healed. So over and over again, many people uh liked him and they knew there would be a problem, so they said, how can we get him and do it without people getting all mad. We've got to find a way to get an airtight case against him. And they they conspire together to kill Jesus. And you know they've been working towards this for some time. I want you to understand that Satan Was the head of this plot to kill Jesus. Satan thought that if he could kill Jesus, he could foil God's plan. This shows you that Satan is not omniscient. Because actually he's falling right into God's plan. In his mind he thinks, I'm gonna stop God's plan. I'm gonna FOIL this whole project and we're gonna let's crucify Jesus. Let's let's let's kill the Messiah. And uh Satan didn't realize he was actually fulfilling God's plan, God's purpose from the foundation of the world. And so Satan doesn't know everything. He knows some things, but not everything. Satan's The head of this plot. However, Judas commits to joining the plot. Look at verse number 10. We see, verily I say unto you I'm sorry, I'm in 9. And Judas Iscariot, verse number 10 there, 14, 10. And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priest to betray him unto them. And when they had heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money, and he sought how he might conveniently betray him. So he plots with them. Judas joins in, that treacherous traitor against the Messiah. You see, Judas was in this thing. He was not a believer. He was in it with Jesus Christ for what he could get out of it. His goal was always the benefit or the gain. We've got to be careful that our Christianity is not based on that as well. That we follow Christ because He answers our prayers. We follow God because He delivers us. We follow him because he sent a comforter for us. We follow him because of his goodness to us. We should follow him either way. Judas was a follower as long as it was beneficial. When he realized he wasn't going to benefit from it, he sought for another way to benefit. He said, Oh, I'm going to benefit some other way And this is a fulfillment. If you have your sheets here, these sheets that have the prophecies on them, here's a fulfillment for you. Psalms 41 and verse number 9. Tells us that he would be betrayed by a friend. Stephen, would you look that up? Psalms 41, verse number nine. So Mark 14, 10 tells us he would be betrayed by a friend. And this is uh Sorry, Psalms 41, 9 says you'd be betrayed by a friend. Mark 14, 10 is a fulfillment of that. So you want to mark that down. Now I I think I missed one. You guys don't have the one before that, right? That he would suffer for others. Isaiah 53, 4, and 5, we already covered this, but it's in John 10, verse number 11 is the fulfillment of that. John 10, verse number 11 is when that was fulfilled. Can you read Psalms 41, 9 for us? So that prophecy there saying that the familiar friend The one he trusted, the one who ate of his bread. You remember in the last supper, the description of them sitting there, he says, Oh, the one that uh dips in this uh with me is the one that's going to betray me. The one that eat of my bread, my familiar friend is going to betray me. Well this is a fulfillment of that. We're going to see it further. Then in Zechariah chapter eleven, verses twelve and thirteen uh tells us that he was sold for thirty pieces of silver. Now the fulfillment of that specifically is Matthew 26, 14 and 15. Matthew twenty-six, fourteen and fifteen. That tells us exactly that he was betrayed for thirty pieces of silver. Here we read that they chose to give him money, but the amount of money is not stated. But in Matthew it tells us that they chose to give him thirty pieces of silver. So the details are are more complete there in that statement. So they pay Judas for betraying Jesus in 1410 there. Then we see, I'm going to give you this and we're going to bring this to a close. We see the care of some is seen when he is anointed with oil. When he is anointed with oil. This is verses 3 through 9. And beginning in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment. of Spike Nard, very precious, and she broke the box and poured it on his head. And there were some that had indignation within themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her So we see several things here. This care and concern for Christ, where this precious ointment was poured upon his head. They gathered for a mirror at Simon the leper's house. Simon the leper was very likely a man that had leprosy that Jesus had healed. And as they already had some Simons in their group, they probably chose to call him Simon the Leper. uh be to differentiate. He obviously didn't still have leprosy. Christ probably healed him, but that name kind of stuck and they gathered in the home. Simon the leper. I had the privilege of going into a home in Israel that they believe was Simon the Leper's home, that uh they believe that this story took place there, and uh quite amazing, but The disciples looked at the cost and said, man, this is a waste, some of the disciples. But don't you know that Jesus praised her gift of love? Verses six through nine and Jesus said, Let her alone. Why trouble ye her? She hath wrought a good work on me, for ye have the poor with you always, and whosoever ye will may do them good. But Me ye have not always. She hath done what she could. She gave her best to Jesus. She anointed him. Jesus praised her gift. You know It's amazing here how the world looks at things sometimes and how we look at things. They uh she dumped this oil which is worth 300 pence, uh more than 300 pence. In putting it into that time frame, uh that was the equivalent of about a year's worth of salary A year's salary during that time. Now what's the medium salary today? What would you say? Anybody w want to You're probably you're closer. You're exactly right. At least according to Google, uh he said eighty thousand. That's the median median income. Now there's guesses in here I heard anywhere from thirty to a hundred. Uh but uh the median median income right now in uh America is eighty thousand. Let's just call it fifty thousand. I'm going to ask you, if you had a bottle of something worth 50,000, would you dump it at the feet of Jesus? That's a lot. I mean we look at that and we say, Man, you know, that's great. She so you have this thing and you think three hundred pence like uh you know, I mean What is that, three dollars, maybe thirty dollars? I I don't know what's three hundred pence. We don't think about it, but the magnitude of what they had was about a year's salary is what it would cost to buy that. And uh she dumped it at the feet of Jesus. Showing her love and compassion or care. Now, if the story that took place in John is the same, The account that takes place in John chapter 12 is the same story. It tells us that Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were there. And the oil, the precious oil that was poured out was Spiknered. Now the spike nerd is an ambered colored oil that was a perfume, that was a precious thing, and it was used in incense, it was used in uh uh as a type of To improve smell and specifically they would use it to anoint uh bodies at their death for burial so that it would help with the smell as the body decomposed. So it had a pleasant smell, but it also was very strong and helped to overcome uh those smells. So this precious ointment uh signifying Christ's coming death, he was anointed beforehand. And there's some teaching I could give you right here. We might get into that next week. But uh this precious thing and just thinking about what would you do for Jesus if you had the capacity uh or the ability. when he is anointed with oil, and we discussed this last week, but just the idea that she sacrificed and gave uh not out of her abundance, but out of her lack. And you'll find that God honors that when men uh sacrifice and give, even though from a human standpoint we look at it and say, well, we don't really have the capacity to do that. And yet we still out of love go ahead and do it. And that's what we see here, this love and concern put on display as she sacrifices and gives out of her uh out of her lack when she really didn't have the means to do it, yet she did it. The disciples of course looked at it and said it was a waste, but Jesus praised her gift of love. He says, hey, don't give her a hard time in verses six through nine, Mark chapter 14, beginning in verse number six. And Jesus said, Let her alone. Why trouble ye her? She hath wrought a good work on me, for ye have the poor with you always, and when Soever ye will, ye may do them good, but me ye have not always. She hath done what she could And she did what she could. Boy, that's something we ought to set as a goal, an ambition for us. In our service for God, in life, listen, just do what you can. Do what is you have the ability to do. And uh in and through the power of God, we have the ability to do a lot more than we think we do. God will enable you to do exceedingly abundantly above what you could think because you begin to function in His strength instead of your own strength. And we see this concern and love that she had here. The account of this same story that's uh given to us over in the book of John. We're not going to turn there, but there's a little bit more detail given to us in John. It tells us that Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were present there. There are some people that believe these are two separate instances, two separate stories. So some commentators you might read and they might say that this is a different instance. event altogether, but the similarities are too close. I think there's just a little more detail in John. I would tend to believe that they're the same event, but it tells us a little bit more about it. It tells us that that precious ointment was Spike nerd. That Spike nerd, I talked about it last week, just the overall value, what it was used for, the value of that ointment being 300 pence. And uh 300 pence is a year's equal to a year's salary in that time. Um and Judas, it tells us Judas was the one complaining about the money. Uh isn't that fitting, uh, Judas, whose ambition, whose goal, his he was in it for what he could get out of it. Yeah, I think he might have been less worried about what was given to the poor and more worried about what he could have skimmed off of it as it came through. Like, oh, we could have taken that money and done something for the poor and meanwhile he could have lined his pockets Judas was uh his ambition, his goal was to get to serve God as long as it was beneficial to him. When it was not, he no longer did, and we'll see that in a little while as we talk about, of course, him betraying Christ. Then we see the coordination of the Last Supper is made. They put together the plans for the Last Supper, Mark chapter 14, verses 12 through 16. And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the Passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the Passover? And he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and he said unto them, Go ye into the city, and there shall meet you a man. Bring a pitcher of water, bringing a pitcher of water, follow him And whensoever he shall go in, say ye to this good man of the house, The master saith, Where is the guest chamber where I shall eat the Passover with my disciples? So Jesus says, go into the city, you're going to find a guy carrying a pitch of water. And follow him home. When he gets to his house and you know where he lives, Then go up to them and say, hey, where's your guest room? We we have need of it. The master is looking for a place to eat the Lord's Supper together And uh it's quite unusual in this time period for a man to be carrying the pitcher of water. It was something that that duty would have been done by the woman of the household during this time period So it wasn't likely that he was going to see a whole bunch of men carrying pitchers of water. This was a unique thing that God says you're going to see this. And you'll know it's the right one because there's not going to be an abundance of them. There's not going to be a plethora of men to choose from because it's an unlikely thing. And God had pointed that out and said, You go see this man, follow him home. And they made plans to be able to observe and partake of the Lord's Supper together, the Passover, at this time. The Passover had come. The Passover was a Jewish feast, obviously to remember how God saved the firstborn and delivered them out of Egypt, out of bondage. And they observe that, Passover, and continue to, uh, even in Jewish homes today, remembering uh what Jesus, what God did and how He preserved their firstborn. and freed them from bondage, the miraculous way in which God did that. So they observed the Passover together. And this was the Passover feast that Jesus is going to partake of. Now they're there Christ and the twelve gathered in the upper room for this one last meal of fellowship, uh one last time of sitting down together before what Christ knew was coming, before he he knew what was right around the corner. And the disciples begin to debate who is the greatest. See, this is not new. This has been in the heart of man since the beginning of time, the ambition to be recognized, to be uh praised, to be lifted up, and here they are serving with Jesus and And at this Passover meal just before the end of Jesus' life when he's going to not just die but be crucified, and they're talking about who's going to be the greatest. Discussion takes place. We're not going to turn there, but over in Luke chapter 22, verses 24 through 30. Christ teaches them with the example of servant leadership. Now you can turn to John chapter 13 and read this entire story as well. We're not going to turn there. But you guys know the story where Jesus washes the feet of the disciple. The master became the servant. The master washes the feet of Jesus. Now the washing the feet of Jesus I'm sorry the master of Jesus washes the feet of the disciples. Now washing people's feet It was an example, not an ordinance. It's not a church ordinance. There is no command given. This do ye Like there is with the Lord's Supper, like there is with baptism, the two ordinances of the church, and there are some churches that have turned this into an ordinance. And as a church, they observe this and they wash one another's feet. Um, you know, I would not uh enjoy that myself and I'm glad that God did not make that an ordinance. Uh but the idea, the example given to us by Christ is what we're supposed to do. It is our spirit that is supposed to be a spirit of servanthood. Not a spirit of of, oh, look at me and and I have this position and and I I am the one in charge or I get to do this or that, but we all should have the spirit of Servanthood, where we serve one another, where we serve the Lord together. And that's what Christ was setting as an example for us in when he washed the feet of the disciples. Christ tells them there who was going to betray him. Let's say verse number 18, Matthew, or I'm sorry, Mark 14 is where we are, so look down in verse number 18. And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily, I say unto you, one of you which eateth with me shall betray me. And they begged to be sorrowful and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? And another said, Is it I? And he answered and said unto them, It is the one of the twelve that dippeth with me in the dish. The Son of Man indeed goeth, as is written of him, but woe to the man by whom the Son of Man is Betrayed. So he says, Hey, one of you are going to betray me. It is the one that uh dips in with me. And I'm wondering how the rest of that meal went. Everybody was kind of like watching and Like I uh no, I'm not gonna do it I'm not gonna get it right now. It's like when you're reaching for something, you're like the last one. The last one on the dish and everybody's waiting, who's gonna take it, who's gonna gonna take it, nobody's gonna take it, and then you think, oh I'll I'll go ahead and take it and somebody else reaches at the same time. Uh very uncomfortable. I'm sure the rest of that meal everybody's like, oh I I don't want to They've probably eaten their bread draw dry and hard just because they don't want to dip it in. They don't want to accidentally be the one. But obviously Judas is revealed to be the one. Christ tells them of his death. uh of his suffering, and he gives to us the example and the commission of the Lord's Supper that we were to observe in verses 22 to 25. And as they did eat, Jesus took the bread and blessed it and broke it and gave them and said, Take eat, this is my body. And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them And they all drank it, and he said unto them, This is my body of the New Testament which is shed for many. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. And we, of course, reference and read that passage uh often if we are observing the Lord's Supper as a church, but he He gives that to them. And obviously not just in this passage, over in Corinthians as well, we know that it's an ordinance for the church, something that we are to observe in remembering our Lord and his sacrifice. And that's what he's telling them there. Then Christ foretells of Peter's denial. Verse number 27 through 30 there, of course, Peter's having none of that. And Jesus saith unto them, all ye shall be offended because of me this night. For it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. And Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. And Jesus saith, Verily, I say unto thee, that this day, even in this night, before the cock row twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter even more vehemently scripture says he he denied it. You know, I have found after 25 years in the ministry, there oftentimes the people that are the most vocal are the least likely to actually be there. The people that have the most to say about it oftentimes are the ones doing the least. I think it's far better just to keep your mouth shut and just do it. Just do what you're supposed to do. Uh don't talk about it. Just do it. Peter obviously is known for this. He's very quick with his tongue and ready to say something and first one to speak up and first one to jump out of the boat. And there's a place for that Um but I think if your your actions speak a lot louder than your words and uh I I've just seen it over and over again. Uh people in the ministry uh serving the Lord that often they got all kinds of stuff to say about it, but come work party, where where are they? They're nowhere around. Oh. They got all kinds of ideas about how it should be done, but when it comes time to do it, they're not even here. Uh and that's just a sad situation. Uh we oughta really just be be servants and just do it and and uh not try and push our opinion on other people but just be available and ready and willing to to work. Then we see the cry of Christ is heard. The cry of Christ is heard. Verses 32 through 36. They come into Gethsemane, that garden, that place of rest for Christ. I think oftentimes Jesus went there to pray, and so it was a place of solitude for him. And uh they're there, and they came to a place which is named Gethsemane. In verse number 32, and he saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I shall pray. And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed. To be very heavy, and saith unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful unto death. Tarry ye here and watch And he went forth unto a l and fell on the ground and prayed that if it were possible the hour might pass from him And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt. And he cometh and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest, sleepest thou, couldst not thou watch one hour? Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak, and we are familiar with this passage of scripture, but Jesus, in his hour of need going and uh crying out to his father, Abba, Father, but at the same time being submitted to God's will, giving us that powerful example of how we should be living our lives. It's okay to come to God with your heart's desire and to pray and say, Lord, I desire that My loved one be lifted up. I desire that my uh family member be healed. I desire that I don't have to go through this, but God, I'm going to yield to you, whatever your will is. Give me grace and strength to support you. So it's it's it's okay to cry and give your heart to God and say, here's my heart's desire, Lord. Sometimes We're not even sure how we should pray in situations. Should we pray that this passes or should we pray that it doesn't? And that's when the Holy Spirit maketh intercession for us. When we can just sit quietly before God and the Holy Spirit does and prays for, Jesus prays for us, the scripture says. But Jesus giving us that example, the disciples were given to weariness while Christ was overcome with the weight of the world. Christ carrying the weight of the world, getting ready to take upon himself the sin of all mankind. He's there and sweat as it were great drops of blood. The turmoil that he was carrying. And I could see it almost as an act of betrayal, almost like the these guys have no comprehension. They're out here sleeping. Well, I'm going through this great burden. He says, couldn't you watch one hour? The time is at hand. He knows that it's close So he cries, the cup here that he asked to be to miss or to let pass from him is representative of the saw the suffering of the cross that he would have to endure the taking on the sins of the world. The hour is the time when the sin of the world would be put upon him. He says, let this hour pass from me. I might not let this cup pass from me. These are representative of what he's going to be taking on, but he does, he he cries out in prayer, but he does so in a submissive way. Then we see the capture of Christ is made. We could just continue to read here and mark the capture of Christ is made in verses 43 The Bible says that, and immediately while he has faith cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same as he, take him and lead him away safely. As soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him and said, Master, Master, and kissed him. And they laid their hands on him and took him So we see the capture of Christ is made. Judas gives Christ the kiss of betrayal. It is over In the book of John that it says that a band of men came. Now a band of men is one-tenth of a legion. And in the Roman soldiers, a legion was 6,000 men. So a band of men would be 600 men. Judas came to the Garden of Gethsemane with 600 men. I've been in the Garden of Gethsemane, it's not that big Uh that this was no I mean this was not secretive at all. This was they came like a mob and uh gee Judas pretending, Master, Master, and gives him a kiss. Uh I I I think it would have been pretty evident from the get-go, even if Jesus wasn't all-knowing, uh that this something was up. They lay hands on him and of course they're there and ready to take him. I don't know what they were expecting, but they asked, you know, is this he and he says I and B and they have a discussion about it. They of course Jesus says, You did you come To take a thief or a robber? I mean why why would you come with swords and staves and and uh to to take me? But uh of course you know the story there where Peter tries to lift up his sword in defense of Christ, which is pretty admirable considering there were six hundred men behind Judas. I mean It wasn't just too I mean in my mind as a kid I always pictured like Judas and a couple guys, you know. I I just pictured a couple guys uh and Judas grabbed his sword and cut one of their ears off. You know, he's like he I mean Peter grabbed the sword and cut one of the rears off. Uh but there were six hundred of 'em there. Peter pulled out his sword and said, You're not taking my master and he cuts one of their ears off, and of course, uh Jesus rebukes them because it it is God's will. It's God's plan. He knows this is what supposed to happen. And so Jesus, of course, Malchus's ear gets cut off and he reaches down, he picks up Malchus's ear and he puts it back on. He performs the last miracle that he'll perform here on earth, there in the garden. just before the time of his trial comes. So we see that the capture of Christ was done under the cover of darkness. And uh Uh you you got to turn over to Luke to see that, but it was done under the cover of darkness, and that's because they did not want people to uprise and uh protest against this because there are many followers of Christ, many people that loved him. So they thought, well, we'll take him under the cover of darkness. Nobody will know. And we are going to at that point find something to try him for And in that point, the disciples flee. In uh Mark 14, verse number 50, he says, it says, and they all forsook him and fled. the disciples took off. Here the disciples, you know, we could give them a hard time because we're looking in hindsight, right? But the disciples, I mean you can imagine there were 600 men. They're taking Jesus very likely to kill him The disciples, what in their mind they thought was supposed to happen, that Jesus was going to set up his kingdom, how is this going to happen now? Jesus is going to be killed. Maybe we're going to be killed with them. Man, this is not looking very promising. They were said, I'm out. I'm gone. They took off And uh, of course, you know the story how Peter follows afar off, begins to kind of hang back from a distance and doesn't just run, but doesn't Stick right by his side. So we see that Christ is put on trial. We're going to move to that now. Christ is put on trial, uh the middle of page number 62 there. So Uh depending upon how these get broken up, um there's uh anywhere from five to seven trials, I think, uh four trials, seven trials. Depends on how they try and divide or break these up to show the different trials that Jesus went through in a very short period of time. Uh some people believe in as short as twelve hours. They they They they expedited this. Their goal and ambition was to try and uh crucify him. But we know that he's taken under the cover of darkness and right away, immediately He is taken first to Annas to be put on trial. Now we do have to turn to John to see this. So tur turn to John chapter 18. In John chapter eighteen and verse number twelve Then Jesus said unto Peter, we see here, put thy sword into the sheath. I'm going to verse 11, the cup which my father hath given me, shall I not drink it? So he's saying, listen, this is what God said for me to do, uh it's what was given me, I've got to take it. Then verse number twelve, then the band and the captains and the officers of the Jews took Jesus and bound him and led him away. to Annas first. For he was father-in-law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year. So Annas was or used to be the high priest. They kind of colluded with him, said, let's let's get together and let's put on a mock trial. We need to establish guilt so that we could have an official trial. So Anis is not even really an official, he's not the high priest anymore. He's not even serving in in an official capacity. He's not even able really to decree somebody guilty, yet they brought him to him and said, let's establish guilt. Now this whole trial was a farce It was a sham because according to Jewish law it was illegal to hold court at night. They couldn't hold court at night, yet here they were holding court at night. It was illegal to put somebody on trial to find guilt. You had to be guilty before you could be tried. So that that was illegal. It was illegal to hold court in private. Court was to be done in a public place And so all across the board, they realized that this was wrong. They were doing it under the cover of darkness. They're trying to establish some means by which they could formally charge Christ. They asked after his disciples and his doctrine. You see, they thought they could find fault in his teaching Or his motives, or his men. They were just trying to find some way to trap him, some way to officially be able to charge him. for sedition or some crime of blasphemy, which ultimately they d they they do. We see I think it's uh verse number twenty five. We see that this is the point where Simon Peter warmed himself with the fire. This is where Peter having followed Jesus afar off, it denies Christ. So this trial that takes place during the middle of the night, when it's not supposed to happen at all anyway, is coming to a conclusion and they take Jesus and Peter is kind of following afar off and you know he stands by the fire and warms himself. You know, we need to be careful anytime we find ourselves following a far off. We're still in church, but we're not in church. Like we're still attending, but not that involved. Not that yeah, we're still Christians, but uh we're just gonna be taking it easy for a little while. Listen, anytime we find ourselves in the place where we're following afar off, I want you to know you're in danger. You're in danger. Peter said, I will never deny thee. Everybody else may deny thee, but I won't deny thee, but I want you to know it doesn't matter how committed you used to be, how fully on board you once were When you allow yourself to start taking a step back, when you allow yourself to start to drift and to follow a far off, and oh, I'm still going to follow Christ, I'm just going to be more relaxed in my pursuit of godly things. You see Peter here in in uh really kind of following the path of Psalms 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight shall be in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night He he he was following afar off. He was in the path of sinners, in the way of sinners. He was sitting in the seat of the scornful, sitting down with them around the fire. He was warming himself at Satan's fire. And beloved, anytime we find ourselves in that place, we are in danger as believers of denying Christ. of falling away. And we need to guard against that. Christ has asked there who Let's just read it verse number twenty and twenty-one. I think it is what it was is He says, Jesus answered him and spake openly to the world. I have taught in the synagogues and in temples, oh yes, uh whither the Jews always resort. And In secret have I said nothing. So he's they they asked him like about his doctrine and he says, listen, I I've not taught anything in secret. I've taught everything out in the public. Everybody's heard what I said. It was in the synagogues. It was in a public place. Why don't you ask anybody that's heard me teach? Why ask ye why ask me about it? Wouldn't you if I've done wrong, wouldn't you have witnesses here to say I've done wrong? They didn't like that answer. One of the officers slapped him for it. When uh why askest thou me, verse number 21, why askest thou me? Ask them which heard me what I have said unto them. Behold, they know what I said. And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand. saying, answerest thou the high priest so? They didn't like his answer, and they struck him for it. So Jesus said, if I have spoken evil, where are the witnesses? Where are the people that should be charging me? But there was none. So then we get to trial number two. This is before Caiaphas and the Sanhedrin. Caiaphas was the actual high priest at this time. They bring him to Caiaphas. Let's turn back to Mark chapter fourteen now. And we're going to finish with this one. Mark chapter fourteen. The second trial of Christ here, beginning in verse number 53. He says, and they led Jesus away to the high priest. And with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes, and Peter followed him afar off, even unto the place of the high priest, and he sat with him servants and warmed himself with the fire So we see them here doing this. He was charged with heresy. They begin to, like in verse number 58, we heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands. And within three days I will build another, made without hands. But neither so did their witnesses agree together. So he's brought here again in a sham of a trial. He was charged with heresy, and I thought this was a great play on words. uh because he was charged with heresy because what the charges were were heresy. But the charge was heresy. Yeah, I thought it was fun. But anyways. Uh so uh the witnesses that they introduced could not agree. They they could not agree. Uh but they had these false witnesses come. And so we have here another fulfillment of prophecy. If you have your uh sheet here, uh it says that uh That he would be accused by false witnesses in Psalms 27, 12. You can write down there Mark 14, 56 and 57. Mark 14, 56. that he was accused by false witnesses. And we are going to start coming to a bunch of these pretty quickly here as we get closer to the end, to the fulfillment of these prophecies. Jesus did not try to refute the false accusations because he was submitted to his father's will. Caiaphas asked of Jesus, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And uh let me see, verse number sixty-one. But he held his peace, and he answered nothing. Again, the high priest asked him and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? And Jesus said, I am. And ye shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. So here is where Jesus says he is But he acknowledges here that not only that, but you're going to see the Son of Man one day sitting on the right hand of God. Essentially saying that he is equal with God, that he's there with God, and that he has that position. And one day they're going to see him coming. And so the Caiaphas, the high priest, of course, does not appreciate that. And Jesus is accused with blasphemy for claiming to be equal with God. They began to spit on him and to buffet him. Verse number 65. And some began to spit on him and to cover his face and to buffet him and to say unto him, Prophesy! And the servants did strike him with the palm of their hands. This is a fulfillment of prophecy as well, right here, where we see that uh He was smitten and spat upon. Isaiah 50, verse number 6. You can write down Mark 14, 65. Mark 14, 65, a fulfillment of prophecy there. We here's where Judas tries to return his silver and he is rejected. He he feels bad about what he did, and so he's going to be rejected, and and of course we know ultimately Judas goes out and hangs himself. So we're going to close there. We have a little bit more. I could keep going, but we're going to stop there.