So the the the journey starts in cesarea. Um it's important to remember we're we're not talking about um you know, big diesel ships. We're not talking about, you know, container vessels. We're talking about sailboats, large sailboats, uh, but sailing vessels nonetheless. Um no motorized You know, the only motorized part of it may be some crew rowing close to to the shore. This is just a sailing vessel. This is going to be a long, slow journey. It's not going to be nothing happens fast. And so let's get into the to the Bible here, Acts chapter 27 and verse 1. And it was determined that we should sail into Italy. They delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius and Centurion of Augustus's band, and entering into a ship of Adramidium we launched, meaning to sail by the coast of Asia, one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us. The next day we touched at Sidon, and Julius courteously entreated Paul and gave him liberty to go into his friends and refresh himself. And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus because the winds were contrary. When we had sailed over the Sea of Cilicia and Pymphilia, we came to Mira, a city of Lycia. And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy, and he put us therein. And when he had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come over against Snidius, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete over against Thalmone And hardly passing it came unto a place which is called the Fair Havens. Nigh whereunto was the city of Lycia Look at verse 4 there. You see that the winds were contrary, meaning they were not favorable. They were blowing against the ship. Again, they are sailing They're sailing against the wind. That doesn't work very well. You can go, but it doesn't work well. Difficult sailing. And um and so they get on another ship. They uh they they find a ship that's from from Alexandria. Um Paul, his guard, gets on another ship and they start heading to to Italy. Then in verse 7 you see that it was a very difficult time sailing. They sailed slowly many days. You know, the wind was not suffering us, hardly passing it. This was this was already a difficult journey in that it's in a sailboat, but now they're against the wind. They're having a difficult time You can see that from the way this is written here. Finally they made it to a place that has a great name, the Fair Havens. Doesn't that sound great? It sounds like a what after several hard days of sailing they make to a place make it to a place called the Fair Haven. It's almost like this this beautiful harbor. You can almost picture a resort there, a very welcoming place, very uh hospitable place. And it was a great place. It was a place where the ship And the people on the ship would be safe during this time when all these storms were coming up, where they could get a break from the the the difficult sailing that they were encountering. It's like hurricane season, right? Uh you know, y I don't want to go on a cruise during hurricane season. Um just pick another time. Um Maybe you're okay, maybe you're not. And so, you know, there were stormy times. It was dangerous at this time to leave this fair havens, this harbor. The Apostle Paul told them as much in verse 9. And when much time was spent with sailing was now dangerous because the fast was now already passed, Paul admonished them and said to them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives. Nevertheless, the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship more than those which were spoken, those things which were spoken by Paul. That's a very stern warning from a very experienced traveler. But the centurion was under orders. Get Paul to Rome. He's in a hurry. And the captain of the ship says Don't listen to that preacher. He doesn't know what he's talking about. I've been on the sea my whole life. I know better than he does. Let's go. And verse 12, because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence also if by any means they might attain to Phoenicia and there to winter, which is in the haven of Crete, and lie it toward the southwest and northwest And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosening thence they sailed close by Crete. But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind called Euryclyton. Everything they leave the harbor, everything is good. See that that guy doesn't know what he's talking about. You know, Paul, there's nothing to worry about. Look at we have great sailing now, everything's nice and calm, everything's good, but it doesn't take long until trouble starts to come. In verse 14, not long after there was a tempestuous wind. Today they call storms in the Mediterranean a Medicain, which is an amalgamation of Mediterranean hurricane. Um typhoons are in the Pacific Ocean, hurricanes are in the Atlantic Oceans, Cyclones are in the Indian Ocean. And a Medicain is in the in the Mediterranean. So what happens when the storm comes up? Look at verse 15. When the ship was caught? Uh when the ship was caught and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive, and running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come about the boat, which when they had taken up they used helps, undergirding the ship, and fearing lest they should fall into the Quick sand, straight sail, and so we're driven. And we being exceedingly tossed with the tempest, the next day they lightened the ship And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship. And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away. Verse 15, we go back there. The sailors lost control of the ship, and they just hands off the wheel. You know, if you're in an accident, you know, if you're in a race car, you have an accident, hands off the wheel, you're going to break your wrists. No No no hope for them. I mean you look at the language in verses 15 through 20. We let her drive. Verse 16, much work to come by the the boat. Verse 17, they had to use helps under girding the ship. At the end of verse 17, they were no longer driving, they were driven. Verse 18, they were exceedingly tossed with a tempest. They had to lighten the ship. In verse 19, with their own hands. They didn't watch somebody do it. They took the stuff off the ship and with their own hands got it off the ship. Neither sun nor stars in many days appeared. We had, was it a month or two ago, I I think for like a week straight it rained, and there was no sun, like this yellow thing came out and it was like, what is that? Like that's the sun. Uh we haven't seen it in a while. Um Imagine you're on the ocean and it's like that. They say no small tempest way on us, and then they finally say all hope that we should be saved was taken away. I mean total, totally hopeless situation out on the ocean. You're going to die. There's no hope for you. But all hope's not gone because the man of God is still on the boat, and God needs him to go to Rome. And thankfully Paul was there and verse 21, Paul's a preacher No doubt about it. After long abstinence, verse 21, Paul stood forth in the midst of them and said, Sirs, you should have hearkened unto me and not have lose from creep, and to have gained this harm and loss. He held his tongue as long as he could, and he finally had to say something. Verse 22, and now I exhort you to be of good cheer, for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you but of the ship There stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer, for I believe God that it shall be even as it was told me, howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island. Paul Paul stands up, he's had it. You should have listened to me I I told you we should have just stayed where we were at. And he tells of an encounter that he has with an angel of God and tells the and and and reassures them that nobody's going to die. that that it's going to be a long, hard journey, but it's going to be okay. Everybody's going to survive. Verse 27, when the 14th night was come, I've been on boats, Pastor said we were in the Philippines. I've been on boats in the middle of a typhoon. And I always watched the sailors. I figure if the sailors aren't nervous, I don't need to be nervous. I've been on boats where the sailors were nervous. I cannot imagine that for 14 days of just sheer terror Probably not sleeping, because how do you sleep when you're going to die? When you know you're going to die? Just adrenaline, you know, when you go for a little while, you get worn out. When you go for 14 days straight, you're just going to be totally exhausted, hopeless, helpless. Verse 27, the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and down in Adria about midnight, the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country, and Sounded and found it twenty fathoms. When they had gone a little further, they sounded again and found at fifteen fathoms. Then, fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern and wished for the day And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they left down the boat into the sea under color, as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship, Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship You cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat and let her fall off. They're sounding, they're getting closer and closer to land. They know they're getting closer to land. The crew of the ship says we need to we need to set anchor. We don't want to run into the rocks. They set anchor They they lower the boats, the lifeboats, as if though they're lowering ankles because they're going to abandon ship. Professional sailors Said, we've had enough. We're out of here. We're we're going to abandon ship. If you don't believe it's bad, it's it is a horrible situation. And you know, they're just going to leave. And front uh fortunately the the Paul spoke up and said, Hey You know, he says to his guard, if these don't aren't in the ship, we're all going to perish. And so the soldiers cut the ropes off of the boat, and all the boats went away. So now they're just adrift Then verse 33, while the day was coming, Paul besought them all to take meat. Paul was a Baptist, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that you have tarried in continued fasting, having taken nothing. Nothing Wherefore I pray you to take some meat, for this is for your health, for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you. And when he had thus spoken he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all, and when he had broken it, he began to eat Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat. And we were all on the ship, two hundred, threescore, and sixteen souls. So not only is there a lot of goods on the ship, there's a lot of people on the ship. And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship and cast out the wheat into the sea. Again, Paul, you know, he says, eat. I've heard somebody one time say, when you don't have enough sleep, you need calories. Calories will help overcome tiredness. I'm tired a lot, so. He reassures them they they take the the weak. Now what's the whole purpose of the boat is to take goods from one place to another. Right? I mean that's the the people on the boat are secondary. The main purpose of that ship is to take goods from one place to another. When the dolly hit the bridge I I started watching it because it was just kind of interesting to see them salvaging all that stuff. And they talked about how the the each person that had a container on the ship has a share in the liability of the accident Because the only according to maritime law, the only reason the ship is on the water is because the the cargo is on it Very d it'd be like you get an Uber and the Uber driver has an accident and you're liable for his accident because the only reason he's driving is because you're sitting there. Well you wonder why everything talk costs so much. The whole reason that that ship was sailing was to deliver the wheat. The the passengers and stuff, that's just some extra income for the the captain and the crew. And we're getting near the end here. We're getting near the message. The message is short, it just takes a long time to get there. Verse 29. Verse 39. When it was day they knew not the land, but they discovered a certain creek with a shore, into which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship. And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves into the sea and loosed the rudder bands, hoisted the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore. Following into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground, and the forepart stuck fast and remained unmovable, but the hinder part was broken up, uh broken with the violence of the waves The soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners lest any of them should swim out and escape. But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea and get to land. And the rest, some on board, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass that they all escaped safe to land. The ship gets run aground. The front part was okay. It got stuck in the ground. It's anchored It's it's moored into the ground. The back part of the ship though is just just torn apart. Some of them were able to swim. They jumped off, they swam into into the shore, some of them grabbed onto the wood or whatever was broken off from the ship and did whatever they could to get off of the boat and get on onto land. And as Paul said, as God told Paul, everyone made it there safely. They should have stayed in verse 8. Right? They should have stayed, hardly passing by, Caelan to a place which is called the Fair Havens. That's where they should have stayed. Right? Hardly passing it, they b they they were They were struggling. They got to a place that was good. That it was a nice place. It's a wonderful name, the Fair Havens. That's where they should have stayed. You know, in a lot of ways, life is like a sea voyage. You know, we have a destination, you know, we run into storms, the storm gets us off track from that destination. We run into trouble, sometimes the wind is contrary, we have to change course. While we do have some degree of control, we're largely sailing along to whatever the circumstances of life are. Now, thank God if you're saved, you know the one who controls the wind and the waves. But the sea is much like the circumstances of our life, and we're just ship sailing along. In fact when I was driving here I was thinking about all the songs I was hoping we would sing like We Have an Anchor That Keeps Our Soul or you know I've anchored my soul in the Haven of Rest or Pastor Gus. Yeah, one of those songs, but no. But the the sea is very much like our circumstances of life, and we're just like ships. uh sailing along. So keeping all that in mind, we're going to get some truth about this from this story about our own lives. So with the Lord's help, we're going to look at how the church is our fair havens, where you can be sheltered from the storms of life. And that you should never leave that shelter. So church is a place where you can escape from the storms of life. It is a harbor from the storms of life. If you're here on the Thursday night, You're dedicated, you understand that. One of the favorite services usually is the midweek service because you just get out of the world for a while. I'm around people that that that use profanity incessantly. And it's just nice to come in here and just You know, and friendly faces and nice people and and people that want to be here and you know you have that peace while you're in the church where God wants you to be. You know, no matter what storms come, uh there's peace in that storm in the will of God. Christ built the church, and he did so in part to provide us a place just as a shelter. Just to get out of the world for a while. And now it has to be a church where God wants you to be. You can't just go to any church. Uh there were many harbors, there were many ports along the way that that ship could have sent pulled into, where that ship could have ducked, but there was only one fair havens. There was only one place where God allowed the ship to come to rest and get out of the storms. And there's only one place where God wants us to anchor our souls. Of course, that's in the Lord Jesus Christ. But by staying in church, by being in church, you're around God's people and listening to the preaching and teaching of God's word. It's going to keep you close to the Lord. Church is a place where a thirsty soul can hear the truth of the gospel. It's a place where a broken family can be mended. It's a place where a boy who has no dad can see a Christian man. It's a place where a future pastor or missionary or a pastor's wife can can train and learn to dream for God. That's not found out on the ocean. That's not found out in the storms. That's not found tossing about in the winds and the waves, the hot beating sun. That's found in the safety and comfort of the fair havens. in church. Church is a the the fair havens is a place where you can get good counsel from godly people. Paul was a godly man. I mean he was uh uh uh just sh uh a man of god and he gave good godly advice to the centurion You know, don't ever doubt that the pastor loves you and cares for you. Yes, he pokes at you sometimes, but that's not him. That's the Holy Spirit. And and he said things before that got me that he doesn't even know he said. And if I told him he wouldn't know what I would he'd be like, oh okay, whatever. Sometimes God gives wisdom to the pastor, to other godly leaders to see things that you don't Don't doubt that you'll get a lot better advice from godly counselors than you will from worldly counselors. You might not hear what you want to hear. The answer you want might not be what you want, but it'll be what you need. And that's exactly what Paul did, isn't it? The centurion had a mission. Get this man to Rome. And Paul said, uh, we can go, but maybe later. And the the centurion said, well, the captain of the ship said it's okay Why should I listen to you over him? I mean, Paul admonishes them. He says in verse uh the He said, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage not only of the lading and ship. but also of our lives. Nevertheless, the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship more than those things which were spoken by Paul. That stupid preacher doesn't know what he's talking about. What does he know about sailing? What does he know about raising kids? What does he know about what happens if I drink or gamble How how does he know those things? He's not an expert on those things. I mean, do I trust the preacher or do I trust the experienced captain of the of the ship? Do I trust the spiritual advice or do I take the worldly advice? The worldly advice is what I want to hear. That's the answer that I want And if you want to answer, you know, sometimes we look for people who will give us the answer that we want, instead of looking for the person who will give us the answer that we need, that will keep us safe. When you leave the fair havens, the church where the Lord wants you to be, the storms will come. It usually doesn't start immediately. Look at verse 13. The soft, the south wind blows softly. You've been in church your whole life, you've heard it your whole life, don't leave church, stay in church, it's important for you to be in church, and you say, uh, it's fine. You stop coming to church, you stop for a couple of weeks, a month, two months, and you're like everything's okay. Nothing's wrong. I mean we left and everything's just fine. See, I knew better than the preacher. I I knew better than all those people. I mean, smooth, calm sailing, even for a while. I imagine the centurion was with the Paul every day. He said, look, he said, we're going to be in trouble. We're not. But before you know it. In a short time, in not many days, here it comes, Euracliden. Hit you like you don't know what's what what what happened. I was driving home one day, I drive down Black Rock Road, there's big fields there, the wind will howl across those fields sometimes. One day I was driving I I mean I've a forerunner, it's big, it catches wind. I was driving one day, not paying attention, and all of a sudden, because a big gust of wind just just hit me. And um it wasn't a big deal, but you know, when you get hit from the side like that from wind, you don't know what's happened. And what happens, you just lose all control. Everything just starts spiraling out of control. You take your hands off the wheel, and the storm just takes you where it wants. You're no longer driving. You are driven. Further and further away from the fair havens. And as good as it was in the fair havens, that's as bad as it gets in the storm. There's a danger when you get out of with the will of God for your life. I mean we're applying this to church, but this applies to any area of of your life. When you get out of the church that God has for you, um you're going to find yourself in a great storm. And you're not going to have anywhere to go. And that's a scary place to be. When we are in the Philippines in the tropics, it rains. Rain here is is nothing compared to rain in the Philippines or in the tropics in general. And we were in the city one day, we lived out in the country. I I don't know. It was like an hour from the city, so we would go to the city every once in a while. We'd go to the city once a week to eat, you know, Burger King and McDonald's and The Americans go bowling sometimes and do American kind of things. And um we were we were in the city and uh it it it was an absolute downpour. And it is very fast and very immediate. The flooding was in in uh Brazil recently there was flooding. Um I mean you just can't imagine how quickly that happens. And here we are in our car. We had a toilet tamaral. It was like a little tiny SUV, you know, a little four-cylinder diesel engine. But along and the streets are just flooded. You can't hardly pass. You should probably should not have been driving in it. Wanted to turn around, but if we'd have turned around, we wouldn't have been able to make it back to the city. It it's it's scary. It's scary to be in a situation because there's nothing to do. And, you know Um it it's it's too bad to t it's too bad it was too too bad to turn back. And and you know, when you're out of control like that, I mean, do you think man I had it so good back there And now everything is just kind of spiraling out of control. Why did I ever leave? Why did I leave? Why didn't I not listen and stay where I was at? The eventual end is destruction. The storm always wins. You see I mean storms have more power than anything we can ever bear. You've seen the pictures, I mean, hurricanes blow through, and I don't care what kind of building it is, it's it's demolished. It is destroyed. Nothing outlasts the storm. Cars flipped over, people stranded on their roofs, hoping that a helicopter can come by and and and and rescue them. And look, when when people leave the fair havens, I mean look back there at the verses there again. I mean, verse 15, we let her drive. We had much work. Verse 18, exceedingly tossed with the tempest. Verse 19, they had to cast out with their own hands the tackling of the ship. And verse 20, they didn't see the sun or the stars for many days. It was dark times. No small tempest lay upon us. All hope that we should be saved was taken away. They didn't stand a chance against the storm. Nothing they could do. They were hopeless. And they knew it. They were just kind of waiting to be swallowed up. They did what they could, but none of it really helped. What a pathetic picture. If they would have just stayed in the fair havens, if they just would have stayed in verse 8 and stayed in that place where God had them. where they could have been sheltered from the storm, everything would have been all right. The vessel usually is destroyed in the end. And remember, you're the vessel. Look what happened to the ship. The whole it was all broken up. It was no longer effective. It couldn't be used for the purpose it was made for any longer, ever again. It would never again carry a load of grain. The same thing happens to Christians as they leave the church, as they as they get away from the place where God wants them to be. You're forever safe. You're forever in God's hand, but you'll lose your effectiveness for God. the the ship will be broken. The purpose for which you were built will no longer be fulfilled. All because you left the fair havens. The storm raged, it beat and beat and battered and it wouldn't stop In the harbor of the fair havens, the ship was protected. The storm still would have come, the ship would have been affected a little bit. It would have bobbed up and down. Even in the harbor, the ships are affected. But they're safe. They would have lived to sail another day. First Timothy chapter one Verse 18 and 19, the same Apostle Paul, writing to a young preacher, says this. He says, This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy. According to the prophecies which went on before thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck. Stay in the fair havens. Stay in that local church where God has you, where where God wants you to be. I I thank God for this church. I thank God for our pastor, Pastor Gus. And other men of the church and and members of the church, I I I thank God that that we have this place that God has given us to be a refuge from there This is your fair havens. It's in the local church where you're protected from the storms of life, where you can tell others that, hey Here, stay here and be protected from the storms of life. Don't get away from the Lord. You get away from the Lord, there's nothing for you. And it's going to look like smooth sailing for a while. You're going to walk away and be like, oh yeah, I knew better than everybody else. Look at this, nothing's going wrong. And then all of a sudden Here is where you'll find people who love you, care for you, pray for you. Why would you ever want to leave? Why would you ever want to leave? Anchor yourself here and stay protected