Take your Bibles with me to Hebrews chapter 11, you're right there. We're going to begin studying today a subject of biblical civics. I have a title of today's lesson, Citizens of Heaven, Subject on Earth, an introduction to Biblical Civics. If we look at Hebrews 11, verses 13 through 16. We see here in this chapter regarding the faith of those who have gone before us, verse number thirteen, the Bible says, These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them. and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. But now they desire a better country, that is, and heavenly. Wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word. Uh what we can learn from it, I pray we would learn a lesson today on how you want us to understand our lives and cr as Christians and our roles in our society, Lord, as we begin this study, that you would help me uh to have wisdom to We ask you to bless this time around your word this morning and ask in Christ's name. Amen. As I said already, we'll probably be going a little bit quicker this morning, but most of the things we covered today we're going to revisit in future lessons. I do have notes prepared for you. If you didn't get those, those were on the back table. I started punching them for you today, so if you want to put these in a binder when you get home to keep track of these notes. Those are available. I encourage our teens. They all have binders downstairs. I encourage them on Thursday to bring them with them to class. Not sure if any of them did. But we'll be going through this series. So as I mentioned last week, over the next few weeks, we're going to be looking at the topic of biblical civics As I announced that, I can imagine that there's three, maybe four responses to a study on that idea. I imagine that there are some who are probably excited. Oh, this is going to be this is going to be interesting. These would probably be those who are more interested in conservative politics and they think that they know what I believe politically and they're looking forward to a biblical study of American politics Unfortunately, for those, that's not the direction the study is going to be going. Not to put it damper and you've not come back to class next week, but that's not what we're going to take this study to do. Along with those who are excited, there's probably some who are dreading the study. Perhaps the term civics brings back terrible childhood memories of high school and other triggering terms like government and economics Let me ease your fears by saying that although this is going to be a more academic series, I treat my Sunday school topics that way, this will be nothing like what you learned in high school, and I will not be giving any tests or pop quizzes. outside of next week when I say who remembers what we learned last week. That's as far as we're going to go. No grades will be given out as far as this goes. Along with those who are exciting and dreading the series, there are probably some who are confused. Well, what would a class on biblical civics entail? Does the Bible have anything to say about government? What about the separation of church and state? Well, I'm glad you asked. We're going to go over those things in this study. So we'll be looking at those topics there. I guess the final response to this study, this topic of study, probably comes from Pastor Caleb, Pastor Gus. They're going to wonder if our church loses our tax exempt status when this goes online. Probably not. We'll see how that goes. We'll see. So over the last year, by way of introduction, we've seen some major changes to our government and ha and society that has caused many good people to draw many different lines. There's been an upheaval and changes that are that are unprecedented in our times as far as that goes. If I brought up fifty independent Baptist pastors here today, we had asked them What do you think about what on over last year? You know what we find? Fifty different answers, fifty different responses, fifty different ways that they handled things at their church. During this time of unprecedented change. For a year now, uh I've had many times of reflection, conversation, debate. Agreement, disagreement, Bible study, and soul searching to find my role in these times. What's my role as an assistant? I need to advise and support pastor. What's my role as a pastor? I'm leading people and I'm helping to train their thinking biblically. What's my role as a father? I need to make decisions for my home and my children. What's my role as a Christian? How do I navigate my life in the world while not being of the world? What's my role as an American? I'm a citizen of the country. I have a role to fulfill. How do all these roles blend together into one consistent individual It was these questions that drove me to the Bible. Of all the roles that I mentioned, my primary role is that of a Christian. That comes first. As a Christian, it's my responsibility to live biblically and approach the world with a biblical worldview. It is with this desire that I approach this study on biblical civics. What does God's word teach about a Christian citizen and his relationship with the government he is under, the country he is a citizen of, and the community that he is a member of? Today we're going to go through an introduction to the idea of biblical civics, and I hope by, and at the end of the lesson, I'll be sharing where we're going to be taking this study from here today. First of all, as you see there on your notes, the question is, well, what is civics? Many of us, it's been a long time since high school. There are probably some who didn't have a class on civics in high school. I don't know if I had one specifically entitled Civics. I don't remember. Um and it's I some of you has been longer than for me, uh since you're in high school. So so what is civics? Civics uh a simple definition would be that the word civics comes from the Latin word civis, meaning A citizen, and civicis meaning a city, a town, a state, or community. The study of civics usually involves a review of various characteristics of government. It includes the study of citizens It includes the study of a citizen's relationship to the government they live under, and it includes the study of a citizen's relationship to others around them who live under the same government. Webster's 1828 dictionary describes civics as that pertaining to a city or citizen relating to civil affairs or honors. A modern dictionary describes this as the study or science of the privileges and obligations of citizens. So we see it with civics, a big part of that is being a citizen. So what is a citizen? A citizen can loosely be defined as a person who lives and works in a certain nation or state. A stricter definition refers to one who has been born in that nation or has legally joined that nation and has certain rights and privileges that are not necessarily granted to all the residents of that nation. We have a biblical example of a citizen in the Bible, um obviously a biblical example, uh, in the life of Paul. In the life of Paul, if you remember, there was at one point that he was going to he was arrested and he was going to be beaten uh by a captain of the soldiers there for having preached there in the city. And right before, um, I imagine I see a little bit of sarcasm in in the life of Paul. I can imagine he waited until the whip was like halfway back and he's like, hey, are you allowed to do that to a Roman citizen? That stopped the guard quick, didn't it? Um hold on a second. What do you mean? What do you mean, a a citizen? So in the time of the Roman Empire, there was a class system And each class had different rights and privileges. These ranged from the ruling class all the way down to the slaves, and there were many levels in between. We see this idea that Paul was about to be beaten without a trial, and he asked the captain if it was legal for him to do this to a Roman citizen. This was legal to do to many of the classes in the Roman Empire. Perfectly easy to do to a slave. to do to somebody who's a working class member. But there's a line that you could not you had certain rights in Roman Empire as a citizen. And we see that one of these rights were the right to a trial and accusation before you were given a punishment. This conversation between Paul and the captain led to an even further discovery on this idea of citizenship when it was revealed that Paul was a free-born citizen. And the captain, he had purchased his citizenship, so even another level there. So we see this idea of a citizen, and it entails you to certain rights under the government that you're a part of. Again, the idea of a citizen is defined in the Webster's 1828 dictionary as the native of a city or an inhabitant who enjoys the freedom and privileges of the city in which he resides. The freedman of a c city as distinguished from a foreigner or one who is not entitled to its franchises. I thought this was interesting again this is from the eighteen twenty-eight dictionary, so a couple hundred years old, and we see it it defines under citizenship, it says, in the United States, a person native or naturalized who has the privilege of exercising the elective franchise or the qualifications which enable him to vote for rulers and to purchase and hold real estate. If the citizens of the United States should not be free and happy, the fault will be entirely their own. So a prophecy there written in the dictionary back in 1828 when he's defining a citizen. A more modern definition of a citizen we have from dictionary. com, a native or a naturalized member of a state or nation who owes his allegiance to its government and is entitled to its protection, as distinguished from an alien. So that's what civics is. So what do what do I mean by biblical civics? As I said already, th I want to define first of all what we're not going to be studying in biblical civics. First of all, this is not going to be a study on American government. There's books you can read, there's classes you can take. This is not a study on that, although towards the end of the series we will be looking at some of the biblical foundations of American government. That will be an enjoyable study, but that's not the purpose of this to study American government. This is not a study of politics. I don't know if you've ever heard the etymology of the word politics. You have the two two words in there. You have poly meaning many, you know, polytheism, many gods, and then you have ticks, which are blood-sucking parasites. Um so that's kind of the uh uh etymology there behind politics. Not exactly. We'll talk about that more later, what politics actually are. But this is not what that's going to be. Not a study on politics. This is not a pursuit of utopia. I'm not laying out here a dream like, hey, this is This is what we want to take America to. We know that utopia is not going to be um be possible and that we're not going to achieve that through our efforts. We're not here to build Christ's kingdom. He's going to come back, wipe everything out, start over. Then we'll have a good government But the government, the purpose of government has been corrupted since its founding. What God set it up to be has been messed up because man got involved. And so we're not going to see like, hey, here's what we want to have or here's what we yes, this would be a biblical idea, but it's not something we're going to be pursuing as as a church to try to go change our government. uh into what we're talking about today. So it's not a pursuit of utopia. It's not a plan to set up a quote Christian government. While it may be our desire to have a biblical government, it's not the job of the government to promote Christian values. For example, we don't want the government mandating church attendance. At first thought, like, hey, that'd be great if the government of Maryland put out a new mandate that everybody has to attend Hunt Valley Baptist Church. in the state. Uh that would be great for the offerings and for all that until uh we had a vote on uh whether or not to keep Pastor Caleb. And if we had everybody in Maryland attending, I don't know that we could get a majority on that one. So no, we don't want the government promoting Christian practices and values. So-called Christian governments in history have not worked out very well for us as Baptists. If you know anything about Baptist history. A lot of Christian governments killed a lot of Baptist people. So it's not something that we're pursuing here with this study. So what is it? What is biblical civics? Well, it's going to be a study for our purposes here, of the biblical foundation, origin, and purpose of government. Where did government come from? Why was it created? What's it supposed to do? What did God give it power to do? What did God not give it power to do? So one element there is going to be the biblical foundation of government. We're also going to be studying a Christian's relationship with human government as a citizen. What is our relationship, first as a Christian, secondly as a citizen? Notice our topic again titled Citizens of Heaven, Subject on Earth. What is our role when it comes to human government? It'll also be, thirdly, a study of a Christian's relationships with other citizens. How do we interact with others in our community and how we are supposed to do that? And then we also see a study of Christians' responsibility when it comes to government, politics, and culture. So that's the topic that we'll be looking at, biblical civics. Next question, why should we study this? What's the purpose behind doing a biblical study on what civics are? Well, first question is: is God interested in government? Is God interested in government? Does God have anything to say about government? Well, a couple things here. God created the first government. It was started by God. We'll be looking at that more next week. We also see that God has given lots of commands regarding governments. For example, God has given commands regarding political leaders. Deuteronomy chapter 17 lays out the requirements for kings. God has given commands regarding the judicial system and judges. Some of these were that they are not to take bribes, they're not to pervert judgment, they can only accept testimony at the mouth of two witnesses God laid out judicial po um rules when it comes to uh the word of God. God has also given us the moral foundation of the law, starting with the Ten Commandments, the idea of personal liberty. personal property, life that originates in the image of God and the value that that has in every individual, that is all found in the Word of God. We also see that throughout history God has established different forms of government. God ruled Israel as a theocracy for a time. God ruled Israel through a judicial system with chosen judges. God ruled Israel through kings that he chose and sat on the throne. We see that God also set up and directed the actions of pagan kings. In the kings that He set up and raised up to go and conquer Israel to punish them for their sins, in the kings that he raised up to return Israel back to the land and to fund the rebuilding of the temple. God has his way in human government when he chooses to do so. Also, we understand that all governmental power is derived from God. Now, not all governmental power um all governmental use of power is sanctioned by God, um, but all government's power is stems from God originally, as we see it when Jesus told Pilate, Thou couldst have no power at all against me He told the king there, You don't have any power You wouldn't have any power if God didn't give it to you. So God is the source of all government power. It's derived from God. Also, with this idea, not only has God given commands regarding government, we also see that God has given Christians instructions Regarding our relationship with government. Christians are commanded to pay taxes in Romans chapter 13, verse number 6. For this cause, pay ye tribute also, for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. Christians are to submit to the ordinances of men. 1 Peter 2, 13 and 14, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, or as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. Christians are commanded to pray for their government leaders. 1 Timothy 2, 1 through 2. I exhort therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and for all that are in authority, that we may live a qu quiet and peaceful life in all godliness of and honesty. So in this point here We're commanded to pray for our government leaders, so if we don't understand um government and what it's supposed to be and what the leaders are supposed to do, how sh how are we going to know what to pray for them? What should we pray for them to do? How should we pray for them to act and vote if we don't understand how God sees government and what we should be praying for these government leaders to do? The Bible also, as far as commands to Christians, condemns those who speak evil of dignities. Jude 8. Likewise, also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities Also, throughout the Bible, we have seen God use Christians or His people, Old Testament saints, to be involved in government throughout history. We think of Moses, he was a prince in a pagan nation that was once an empire there in Egypt. Joshua, a military general and a political leader. David set out to be a king Gideon set up to be a judge. Daniel, an ambassador and an advisor to pagan kings. Esther was a queen of the disciples. One was a tax collector and one was a zealot. Opposite sides of the political spectrum there. Right there in the disciples. We have Nehemiah, he was the cupbearer to the king. Again, a political position there. We see Joseph, he was the vice president to Pharaoh. We see the centurion, a military leader there, led to the Lord by Paul. So God had a lot to say about government in the Bible. So if it's in the Bible, it's worth giving some attention to and study. So fourthly this morning, how do we live as citizens of heaven, subject here on earth. Again, this is kind of introductory. We'll be going through this material quickly. We'll be revisiting this in future weeks. So what is our responsibility as Christians here on earth? First of all, our allegiance is to the Lord. Our allegiance is first to the Lord. We understand from Acts chapter five that we ought to obey God rather than men. Verse twenty-seven says, When they had brought him, they sent them before the council, and the high priest asked them, saying Did we not straightly command you that you should not teach in his name in this name? And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us? Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men Whenever the commands of men ask us to violate the commands of God, we should disregard the commands of men without hesitation or embarrassment. We just read about this, an example of this in Daniel chapter 3 with the fiery furnace. In these verses, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace And he will deliver us out of thy hand, O King. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. We're not careful to answer. When it comes to your God, we're following God. So Christians, our our allegiance is first to the Lord. Part of this we need to understand that every written or spoken claim by men should be compared to the Word of God. The Word of God is our basis for all of our decisions when it comes to everything we participate in as Christians. And that includes our role in government, our role as citizens. What does the Bible have to say about that? What does the Bible not what do I like? What do I not like? What makes me happy? What's going to be best for me? What's going to benefit me? What's going to be harmful to me? What does God say about it? Our allegiance is first to the Lord. We also need to understand that our citizenship is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. Strange the ch Christians are described as strangers and pilgrims here on this earth. We read that in Hebrews 11 verse 13. which says they confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. Also in 1 Peter 2, verse 11, it says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. So our citizenship, we're strangers to pilgrims on this earth because our citizenship is in heaven. Secondly, a Christian's politics are in heaven. A Christian's politics are in heaven. Philippians three verse number twenty says, For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we have the word conversation there. The definition that I would give you and that most pastors would give you when it comes to conversation that has to do with the idea of your lifestyle. Our lifestyle is in heaven. But if you look up that word in the Greek, it is the Greek word Polituma. Polituma. Politics. The role of a citizen in relation to his government. He says there, our polituma, our politics are in heaven. Our conversation is in heaven As Christians, we share our citizenships with other believers. Ephesians 2. 19 says, Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and of the household of God. As a Christian, my citizenship's in heaven, and as a Christian in China, their citizenship's in heaven. We're fellow citizens. As Christians, we share a citizenship that's um that's in heaven. So our citizenship there uh is in heaven. We share it with other believers. And this citizenship is not something that's going to be future. It's something that's right now. In Colossians one thirteen it says, Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the Past tense. You're saved. God's translated you. God's moved your citizenship. You didn't have to wait. You didn't have to apply for a card. You got saved. God moved your citizenship to heaven. It's been transferred. And it's active right now. But at the same time, while our citizenship is in heaven, we also understand that we are subject here on earth. We have responsibilities to the governments that God has placed us under. Romans thirteen one says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. Not only do we have these responsibilities to our governments, but we have the responsibility to have an impact on the nations in which we reside. In Proverbs 13, 34, the Bible says, righteousness exalteth a nation But sin is a reproach to any people. Just to see the impact that Christians can have in their community, we only have to look back to the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Sodom and Gomorrah, we understand that Lot, the Bible calls a just man, was there in the city with his four daughters, two of which were married. So in his immediate family, he had him and his wife, four daughters, and two sons-in-law. So that brings us up to a number of eight. In order to save the city, how many righteous people did there have to be? Ten. Just ten people. Ten people doing right could have saved a city from God's judgment. And it was a large city. Two two large cities. And all it took was ten people doing what was right. As Christians, we can have an impact in our society. Unfortunately for Lot, he didn't do that. Lot could have saved his city by winning his family and two people to the Lord. could have saved both of those cities from destruction if he allowed righteousness to exalt the nation he was a part of. If he was a biblical citizen. If he did a hit what hit was his responsibility uh as a Christian, as a believer, to uh impact his world and his country, his cities that he was a part of, he could have saved it. Because why the righteousness Exalteth the nation. We have a responsibility to have an impact in our nation as Christians as something that God expects of us and requires from us. This being said, we understand that Christians have been, are, and will continually be mistreated by governments until Christ sets up his kingdom. So our solution is not to fix everything in the government. That's not going to fix things for us as Christians. We do our part, we we have an impact in our society, we live righteously, we win people to Christ, but we're not going to find uh reprieve or salvation in government or in politics. Uh we're not going to find that until we come to Christ. In fact, Christ said that you're blessed when you're persecuted. So as Christians we're blessed when taxes go up. We're blessed when people say you can't go to church. It doesn't make sense to us and we don't think so, but God's God's word has made it clear. We're not here to set up Christ's kingdom. We're here to have an impact on eternity by reaching people for Christ. But that being said, we are citizens of heaven. At the same time, we're subject here on earth. So, what's going to be involved in this study? Where are we going to be going from here? We'll be studying the three institutions that God has set up. We will be studying the origin and the purpose of government. We will study what it means to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God. We will study in more detail, as I mentioned, the idea of the Christian citizen. And we'll conclude the study by looking at the biblical foundations of American government. That's where we're going so far. As I continue the study, we might be adding, changing, or subtracting, but that's the plan right now, to go through this study to see our role as Christians. being citizens of heaven, yet subject here on earth.