Well, uh we've been in the book of Colossians. Uh started a few weeks ago, and uh last week we got to look at Verse 1 and 2 of the book of Colossians. We observed and saw the tactful way in which Paul approached the saints with his greeting unto them, the saints of Colossae. We were challenged with the fact that God has a purpose for your life, that He has a place for your family. That he has power for you to serve, and that he's got peace that will endure. And we praise praise God for these thoughts. Today we're going to dive right into verse number two. three as we see Paul begins to broach the purpose of his writing. So let's read Verse number three through verse number eight. If we can this morning, I would like to get down all the way through verse number eight. This is one sentence. He says here, we give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in you. In Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints, for the hope which is laid up for you and Heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of truth of the gospel, which is come unto you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit. As it doth also in you, since the day he heard of it, and know the grace of God in truth. As ye also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ, who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit of God. So we're going to kind of get into the second part of this. Last week we looked at the salutation, verses 1-2 and two, uh Paul's greeting unto them. Today we're going to look at uh his satisfaction and what he had learned of them as he He reiterates this as we see there in verse number eight. He says, Epaphras who declared unto us your love in the world. Spirit. He said, These things that we've heard of you. You know, he talks about his satisfaction in hearing of the growth that was taking place and the things that they have learned and what was evident in their lives. First of all, we in verse number three we see his appreciation. Paul's appreciation for them. He says, starts out, he says, we. Now we, of course, he's talking there about Timothy. As he opened up the chapter with his salutations, he says, hey, this is Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. And Timotheus, our brother in the Lord. Both of them together, and he puts Timotheus with him, and he says, Hey, we are glad and giving thanks for these things. You know, you need somebody to be with you sometimes. I'll tell you what, here we see, and we're going to get into it further, the things that they're doing together, but uh, you know As a Christian, sometimes the biggest help is just having a fellow brother or sister in Christ just to walk with you. Just to be able to pray with you. Take some time Time you and her or you and him, and you you just you're friends in the Lord, and you're praying together over things, you're serving God together, you're working together, and uh Sometimes that just makes all the difference in the world. I can think through the years of those friends that I've had in the faith that have helped me and encouraged me and challenged me to keep on He says we give thanks. He's talking about Timothy there. He he he he shows his appreciation, giving thanks, showing his gratitude and his appreciation But notice where his gratitude and appreciation is directed. He says, we give thanks to who? To God. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know, he was thankful for them, thankful for what he saw in their lives, but he wasn't saying, hey. Brother Sam, man, I really appreciate your faith. I really appreciate what you've done. No, what he's acknowledging is that the growth in their life was because of God. He was saying, Man, I give thanks unto God for the work that's being done in your heart. I mean I'm excited Perfect gift cometh from above. That God is the one that does this work in our hearts. Any measure of grace that we display, any measure of growth that we are able to achieve, you understand it's a And we ought to acknowledge and recognize that as Paul did. He says, Hey, I give God I give God thanks for what I see in your life. He was excited about it, but he r offered his thanks in recognition. To God, his appreciation to them. He says, Man, this stirs my heart to see what God's doing in your heart, to see what God's doing in your life. And it ought to stir When we see fellow Christians growing, when we see fellow Christians taking steps of faith, when we see them begin to be faithful to truth, church when we see them begin to read the word of God and and and kind of talking about hey guess what I got out of my devotions this week or look at what the Lord taught me and hey God answered a prayer for me this week and we see God's work if in their heart and life. I mean we ought to be excited about it. We ought to be thrilled. To see these things because God is the one that gives faith. God is the one, the Bible tells us that uh He began. A work in you. He began the work and he is faithful to perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He will continue to do that work in you. We of course love him because he first loved us. Because of what he's done. Are you glad this morning for the work that God has done Doing, not just in your heart, but in the heart of fellow believers, in other saints of God. And if someone has truly been a blessing to you, Maybe especially for the investment that they've had in your life. Maybe somebody's invested time and energy and effort. Maybe they've prayed with you and for you. Maybe they've taken time to work with you and and you know it would be a good thing to thank God for them. To thank God for the work that they've done in the in your heart and for the pleasure they are. Now he was thanking God, but here obviously he was writing this letter to them. So it doesn't hurt to let them know that you're thankful. Man, I praise God for you. That uh that it goes a long way to encourage somebody, doesn't it, man? I praise God for you. I praise God for your help and for your prayers. For your encouragement. Many times I felt like quitting, but you just encouraged me, and I I praise God for you. You're such a blessing. That encourages the saints, and Paul was encouraging them. here hit his appreciation and then we see his appeal. He said he is praying always for you. His appeal. You think about Paul's prayer list. If you know this the the epistles at all, you know that Paul was praying for everybody. I mean he was praying all the time. He's telling all these saints at Colossae and the saints at Corinth and the Saints at Ephesus and uh you know he He's telling all these saints, hey, I'm praying for you. I'm praying all I cease not to pray for you. I remember you daily in my prayers. I mean these phrases Paul says all the time. Man. As I contemplated this, I just thought, how's my prayer life for the saints? How am I how am I doing praying for God's people. He's praying for these saints at Colossa he's never even met. He's never even been there. He's never even seen these people. And he says, man, I pray always for you. You know prayer changes things. Prayer is powerful. And beloved, we need to be people of prayer. And we need to be praying for one another. You know, if we prayed for each other like we should, it'd be a whole lot harder for us to be critical of each other like the devil. If we were praying for each other like we should, the devil had a lot harder time getting in and causing problems between The brethren, because we're holding each other up in prayer. His appeal is he was praying for them, praying always for them. I want to just point out that although Paul was thankful for them, Although Paul acknowledged God was doing great things in their life, that that didn't stop Paul from dealing with what he had to deal with in the balance of this letter. Goes on to deal with the sin that was prevalent there. He didn't say, hey, you guys are doing good here, so we're not going to worry about this. No, he goes on in the letter and he says, here's some things that are wrong. He says, I love you. I'm praying for you. I'm excited about what God's doing in your heart. But I want to help you too. And and you know I You need to fix this. So he goes on to deal with that in a little later in a letter. We see in verse number four, we see He says, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, he had been told he had heard of the faith that they had in Christ Jesus. Jesus and of the love which he have to all the saints. He became aware, he was made aware of what was going on in their life. The church there had a testimony of faith And love. Faith in Jesus Christ. He was thankful for their faith, for their love. And it carries over into verse number five there. There's one more thing. He says Doesn't the word and is not there, but it is also included in the list he was thankful for. What is the third thing? First part of verse number five, I think. Hope. He's thankful for the hope that they have. Faith, love, and hope. You know, our faith, a lot of people question or wonder about their faith. You know, do I have enough faith? You know you hear these TV preachers preaching and talking about if you have enough faith you can just be healed today. If you have enough faith, your bank account will be full. And and people think, man, I must not have enough faith. Uh I must not have enough faith. There I pray and do do I have enough faith Let me let me give you a a thought here that'll help you with. Or even people sometimes that doubt their salvation. They're like, when I prayed for salvation Did I really believe in my heart? Did I really have the kind of faith, saving faith? Did I really have that? But do you understand that our faith is not based upon The strength of our faith? You say, is my faith strong enough? Our faith is based upon the strength of the object of our faith. You see, I could have a whole lot of faith in January walking out on a lake That has iced over. I could have a whole lot of faith that that's thick and it's solid. But I could get out there a little bit and find out that my faith was open place to right. I could end up going swimming in some ice water, right? My you could have a whole lot of faith sometimes in things. The object of your faith is what is important Where are you placing your faith? It's not how much faith you have, it's how strong is the object of your faith. And when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, He strong. He's sure. He's stable. And that is faith that will never fail. Again, it doesn't, it does not fail because of us. But it doesn't fail because of him and how strong he is. They had faith. There is saving faith, but there's also serving faith Sustaining faith. Faith that causes us to continue to do what God wants us to do. Why? Because we have faith in Him and we believe the things that He has said unto us. James chapter 2 and verse number 14 and 17 says, What doth it profit, my brethren? Though a man say he hath faith and hath not works, can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not these things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it is, if it hath not works, is dead. Alone. Now he's not saying in this passage of scripture that you need to maintain a level of works in order to be saved. No, what he's saying, he says, is if you're saved it's going to change you. If you're truly saved, if you're saved, it's going to make a difference in your life. There's going to be an evidence of it. There's going to, it's going to cause you to what's the second thing Paul was thankful for their faith and that's the third thing. Hope is third. What was the second one? Love. Faith and love. You see James tells, hey, you see somebody in need and you don't do anything about it? Faith without works is dead. He's saying if you truly have faith in God, it's going to change you from the inside, it's going to cause you To love. Why? Because of the love that He had for us. Because of the sacrifice of Christ for us. Because when we see that, we say, man, He loved us Loved me and it makes it possible for us to love others. Even people like Paul here saying about this church of class that he didn't No. He said, Man. We love you. Seeing that love, it shows that that faith is Real. Faith will cause you to love. It'll cause you to respond to the need. It'll move you to love the brethren. To love the unlovable. I don't Want you to tell me who in here is unlovable this morning. We'll leave that between you and God, amen. But our faith allows us to love each That's what Christ did for us. He loved us when we were unlovable. You understand that these are the two elements needed For a church to thrive? Faith and love. Both of these are necessary. These are two pillars of a church. You gotta have faith. You gotta know what you believe. We gotta believe in something, amen. I remember when we bought this building, this building we're in right now from Pleasant Hill Chapel, a non-denomination. And uh this was so we're standing in his office right here, and he says, Man, your guys' church is probably gonna do really good here. And we says, Really? And he says, Yeah, because you're Baptist. Um We kind of wondered what what do you mean? He's like, well, people know what you believe. He says, for us, we were non-denominational, which people wondered What do you believe? And he says, for you guys when you show somebody your baptism It at least gives them an idea of where you stand, of what you believe, what is your faith. And that's what we as Christians, we've got to have faith. Amen? We've got to know what we believe. We've got to have something we stand on and faith in God. But do you understand faith without works is dead. Just to stand over here on our faith and our blessed assurance and never do anything for God, that that that doesn't accomplish anything. We've got to have something in our heart that moves us to love. And yes, we believe, but over here we love. And these pillars are necessary for any church to thrive. We've got to have firm faith. Not wavering faith. But at the same time, with our faith, we've got to have love. We've got to love the brethren. We've got to love the Lost. We've got to love the world around us. We've got to let the love of Christ shine through us. That is the light that they see. These two things are necessary. And Paul looked at this church and he says, Hey, you guys got it. I commend you, man. I praise God for you. You've got faith. And you've got love. But the third thing he was thankful for, do you understand that we're moving into verse number five, but uh our faith, sometimes we get tired. We get it's hard to stand, right? And and over here, love, loving the unlovable. What is it that motivates us to continue to stand in our faith and continue to love? It's because we have the third thing. That's three, right? Hope. We have hope. We have a more sure word, a promise from God. We have hope. Hope that this world doesn't have. It's exciting. So we see Paul's assurance here in verse number five of the promised hope, the hope that we have, you know, to weather the storms. To continue to love, we have hope. Hope that this world doesn't hold. You know, this world sometimes their hope is in. in retirement. They're looking to retirement. Or they're looking to that vacation they're planning for next summer. This is their hope that they're going to get to. Or they're We're even just hoping for the weekend. Looking to the weekend. But we have a hope. One day we're going to be in God's presence. One day all the tears are going to be wiped away and all the pain's going to be gone and those that have gone on before us, we're going to be reunited with them. We're going to be with our Savior Jesus Christ. And that is what motivates us to continue having faith, to continue loving. Even when it's hard. Why? Because we have hope. It's a sure hope. You know, sometimes when you're working hard, when the day's been long, and you're really weary, you think, man I sure am going to enjoy going to bed tonight. You know I mean it might be a few hours off, it might be a while still, but you look at it and you think, boy, it's gonna be great when I finally get to lay down tonight And I've got some more work to do, but I I'm looking forward to that. I mean it it's not a hope that is somehow you're gonna miss There's not a hope there's not at some point you are going to be laying down and letting your body rest. And you look at that with sure hope and you say, well I can keep going because I know in a few hours I'm going to get to stop and then I'm going to get to rest. And you And you keep on going. And we've got a sure hope, a promised hope from God Himself that one day we'll be out of here. One day we'll be done. Look at verse number 27. I want you to see who this hope is. In Colossians chapter 1, verse number 27. He says, To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles. House, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Jesus Christ. Christ in you, that hope, that hope and glory. The longer I'm saved, the older I get, the more I look forward to heaven. The more I look forward to Being with Jesus. Stop battling this old flesh. Stop dealing with this. I mean, I can't imagine how excited Dr. Keller is for for heaven. The longer the longer I live my life here he has a reason for me to still be here. Amen. Amen. Praise God. But we start to look forward to that hope and don't lose sight of it. Paul's acknowledges that for them. Then I want you to see Paul's admiration. He was i he admired what they were doing as a church. He admired their faithfulness, what God was doing in their heart. Yet another reason for Paul's expression of gratitude and thanks He says, hey, there's some fruit that's evident in your guys' life. Let me read verse number six for you. You got it there. He says which is come unto you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew the grace. He was admired about the fruit that was evident in their life. They started bearing fruit right away. They started bearing fruit right away. He says, this fruit, there's evidence, and the the telltale phrase in there, he says, since the day ye heard of it. They started bearing fruit since the day they heard about it. Since the gospel began to work in their life, they immediately began to be used of God to bring forth fruit in other people's lives. Since the day you heard of it. There are far too many Christians who have received the gospel, who know Jesus, and they're not buried fruit. Not just since the day they heard of it, but they've gone weeks and months and years holding on to the truth and not bearing any fruit. We are supposed to be fruit bearing Christians. It's through through the bearing of fruit that we We prove that you are a disciple, according to John's fifteen, eight. You prove you are a disciple because you're bearing fruit. The gospel is exciting here. He says the gospel unto you as it is unto all the world. The gospel, of course, is for all men. And I know you know that, but but think about this. Do you know that there is very little in this life? That is actually for all men. There's very little in this life that's actually for all mankind. I mean, some people are given skill with their hands. They've got skill and ability with their hands to do certain things. But not everybody has that Some people have mental capacity, the wherewithal to to memorize and to learn and and maybe speak three, four, five, six languages. They've got the ability to do that, but not everybody has that It's not just, oh, if I take the classes they have, I could do that. No, it's not the same, is it? We don't all have the same mental capacity. I mean Some have have strength and ability and others their body is more feeble and weak. Th there's very little in this life that you could look at and say that is for everybody. Everybody can have that. If they want it. But the gospel's for everybody. It's available to the whole world. Some people are are blessed to to be in America and by the world standards But not everybody has wealth. But the gospel can be for everyone. As soon as the gospel was heard by them, they began to bear fruit in the lives of others. The gospel has the power to change lives. To change us from the inside out. That gospel message. You know, uh there was a man working in the Crystal Palace. uh and he was up high in the rafters working on the stained glass windows and it was late at night and most of the building was dark and he's up there working and uh Out of nowhere and kind of seemed like from everywhere, he heard, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. This man stopped and looked around the building. He's like W I mean he was here working in this quiet solitude all by himself and these words came out before that night was done that man gave his heart to Jesus Christ and trusted the Lord as Savior What he found out later is that C. H. Spurgeon was supposed to preach in the Crystal Palace the next day. Having never been there before, he went there the night before. It was late in the evening, but he wanted to see the auditorium and see how well his voice would carry, just to know if he could reach the back of the audience and so on. So he stood in his place, and that's what came to his And he's like, Yeah, I I can do I can reach this works pretty good, and he and he left And that small fragment of the gospel message caused this man to get saved. The gospel message has power. It has power to change lives. God changed our life And if God can change us, hey, He can change anybody, amen. It has the God the power to do that. And it just continues to go on and on and on. As God blesses me, I share that with somebody else. As God feeds me from His Word, I share that with somebody else with somebody else and then you you get that and you say wow and you share that with somebody else and it just keeps on going. It just keeps on going. We see lastly his appreciation. Verses 7 and 8. We see his appreciation for, I'm sorry, his apprentice. I haven't looked at the wrong notes here. His his apprentice. We of course know Timothy, his son of the faith, and we talked about him in the beginning here, but Epaphros is what we're going to look at here. apprentice he was teaching him working with him he says as ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellow servant who is for you a faithful minister of Christ who also declared unto us your love Love in the spirit. His apprentice. You know, we see the humility of Paul again here. Where he puts a paper on the same level with him. He puts a paphorus, he says, my fellow laborer, my fellow servant in Christ. We're we're in this thing together. The Apostle Paul was handpicked by God. To do some amazing things. He was an apostle, trained at the feet of Gamaleo. Wrote most of what we have now as the New Testament. And Epaphras was a messenger. He was carrying the message that Paul wrote to the church. But Paul didn't look at him as a messenger. Paul looked at him as a fellow servant of Jesus Christ. And this is the exciting and the amazing thing in the Church of Jesus Christ is there is not laity and the people down here. We are all fellow servants of Jesus Christ. We're working together. And Paul says whether you're carrying the message, or whether God used you to write the message, or whether you do this, or you you serve in the nursery, or whether you work downstairs or you served in vacation Bible school and We're all just picking up our corner of the load and we're getting it done for the Lord all together. Amen. Because we're that we're in this together and we're all doing what God has called us to do. And every job is equally important in the eyes of God. Because we're fulfilling his call for our life. And the apostle Paul recognized that when he says, hey, we're fellow servants. He's pinning the pages of scripture. And he gives it to a guy to carry. And he says, hey, we're in this. together. It's amazing to see that. Epaphras, this messenger. How did he serve the church? How did Epaphras serve the church? Look at chapter 4, verse number 12. We know that he was the pastor. This is pastor epapyrus. Later in chapter 4, I think it is, he's called Epapyritus. It's the same person, but he was the pastor of the church here at this time. But look in Colossians chapter 4 and verse number 12. He says the papyrus, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, served Salute you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. Epaphras labored fervently for them in prayers. You know, sometimes, actually probably most of the time. The work done behind the scenes is far more important to the overall scope and vision of what God wants to do than what's done behind In front of people. Paul says, hey, this fellow servant of Jesus Christ, he labors in prayer for you. He labors in prayer for you that God would do in your heart and that you would do the will of God. Sometimes, like Dr. Keller, He's an encourager. Comes in, is faithful, quiet, go sit to sit and talk to him. You can't help get encouraged. A prayer warrior praying for you. Ms. Gracie, who is often unable to make it here in the mornings because her body is just uh racked with pain in the mornings, wants to be here in God's house, but uh she's a prayer warrior. Maybe you've ever had the opportunity just to sit and listen to her pray. Listen to her talk to God. Or she's just talking to a friend. Crying out to our Lord. Just a prayer warrior. And I think someday when we get to glory, we're going to find out these prayer warriors that have been in the backgrounds are what have held our churches up. It would have sustained what's going on. Wasn't what we saw or what we thought, but these that were laboring together. From Epaphras, Paul heard about the church and what was going on. He had carried the message to him. He's telling him, I've heard this from Epaphras. You know, this little section makes clear the joy, that satisfaction that flooded the heart of Paul as he heard of About what God was doing in the church there. Many individual lessons that we can learn. About what kind of a testimony do we have as a church? As an individual, if somebody was carrying the message of what we are doing, what would that message be? I hope and pray we would be a church that has faith. That has love, that has hope. Why? Because the gospel has changed us. And the gospel is being used. to bear fruit and change more people. That's what we want God to do. Let's pray. Lord. So we thank you for today and the time in Sunday school. Thank you for this look into the Word of God, this letter to the Church of Colossae, which is also for us as a church. Help us, God, to be full of faith, to have charity and hope. Lord, we thank you for these things. We pray that you'll give us a wonderful time in God's house this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen