Turn to the book of Colossians if you would, and uh to chapter number two. We are going to look this morning at uh chapter number two, verses uh ten down through verse number fifteen. Um we I had prepared last week on into uh a little bit further than we got. I had to cut it off. We ran out of time, so we stopped in the middle of verse number ten. And uh so we'll pick up there in verse number 10, he says, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. And uh we talked about the idea last week about the adequacy of Christ, how we are complete in him, which is what uh we were just singing about here with happiness is the Lord. It is the Lord. Lord, knowing the Lord, He is happiness, and when we have Him, we have happiness. And uh we talked about how to know Christ is to know God And all that we need to know about the Father was revealed unto us in Jesus Christ. He was all God, although he was all man, and our minds sometimes have a hard time grasping that and understanding that and how that works But the facts are the facts, and that's what God has given us in the truth of the Word of God. And that's what if you believe the Word, then uh that's what the Bible tells us. And so you d we don't get to uh just pick and choose what we like about the word and say, oh well I believe this, but I don't believe that. Uh if any of it's untrue, then it's all untrue. Then it's all just made up. But if it's true, then it's all true. And so we have to line up with the scripture, not get the scripture to line up with us. And so we see the sufficiency of Christ and the adequacy here of Christ. And then we concluded last week as we talked about the adequacy of the Christian. Ye are complete in Him. We are complete as believers in Jesus Christ. The position of the believer is complete When you trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, your position is in Christ and it's complete. There's nothing else that you have to do in order to earn your position in the family of God. Once you confess your sins before an Almighty God, once you acknowledge the fact that you are in need of a Savior, ask Him to forgive you of your sins. And to save your soul, you are saved, and the Bible says, born into the family of God. And there's nothing else that you have to do to earn that position. You you you are being adopted into the family of God, and although you might sometimes be a pretty bad kid, I mean that happens, right? You've got some kids that are adopted and they just are not doing what they're supposed to be doing. But they've been adopted into the family, and although they aren't doing right, they're still in the family. And that position is secure And I'm glad that we believe and we teach in the security of the believer. Once you're trusted Jesus Christ, you're in the family of God, and although our fellowship is broken with God and we don't have the close fellowship that we should have with him because of our sin. The Bible says your sin has separated you from God, but you're still in the family. Amen. So there's nothing else. You're complete in Jesus Christ. Your position is complete. You're all the way in. And nothing else you've got to do to earn that. don't have to uh continue to be s be faithful to church so many times. Although I think you oughta be faithful to church, amen. And I think you ought to you oughta come to God's house and I think you oughta get in the Word of God and you oughta uh as the Bible tells us to follow the Lord and believers baptism. Do you know if you never follow the Lord and Believers baptism, you can you're still going to heaven? Because there's nothing else that you need to do in order to get that position than to trust Jesus Christ and Him alone. Now I think you ought to get baptized. That's the first step of obedience. Chelsea got baptized a few weeks ago, been saved for many years. was not in uh the right place or in a good church or in a situation where she could do that, but and she knew in her heart she said, Boy, I want to do this. I need to get baptized. And And so she came and did that, and we're going to give you a sift certificate in this morning's uh s service, and that's why I thought of that here. But uh, you know, that ought to be in the heart of any believer. That's what God wants? Yeah, I wanna do it. But we do it as a matter of obedience, not to try and gain a better position, not to try and earn our position. We're complete in Jesus Christ. And then the practice of the believer We have the potential, because of what Jesus Christ has done in us to be complete as well. First Thessalonians 5. 23 says And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. Sanctify you wholly, completely, all of you. And then he goes on. He says, I pray the God, your whole spirit Soul and body be pervert preserved blameless. So he says, all of you is going to be preserved blameless. But in Jesus Christ we have the potential To live a holy and blameless life. That seems so far out of reach. But we can do it because of what Jesus Jesus Christ has given us, the ability He has given us. We can live holy in Jesus Christ. Through Christ we can know victory over sin in this Christian There's far too many Christians that are waiting until they get to heaven to live a holy life. You know, when we get to heaven, we're going to finally be removed from the presence of sin. And boy that's gonna be great. Sometimes you get so fed up with this old flesh and the sin in this world and you just think, you know, man, I wish the Lord would just come back or or you know, just And uh God would come back and we would all be in heaven and and you know the battle would be done. That would be But you know what we can have, although we're not removed from the presence of sin, we can have victory over sin. Because It's here, and yes, it's something we got to deal with, but we can be victorious because what Jesus Christ has done. You know, you think about somebody who may be Maybe went through an accident and they're a car wreck, or maybe they're in the military and uh stepped on a landmine or something happened where they lost one of their limbs Um and we look and we think, man, how much harder it is for them because of the struggle they have because they're not completely Now praise God for the technology we have and the prosthetics that they can build today and the ability that people that even a quadruplegic who's lost all of his limbs can still uh do amazing things today, even run a marathon because of the technology that uh is available today, but it's certainly a lot more work and a lot harder for them, right? We look at that and certainly we we we should have a heart of gratitude and thankfulness to God uh for the abilities that we have and the strengths that we have currently. Um but we look and we think, wow uh that makes her life so much harder because they're not complete because they don't have a leg or because they don't have an arm. But do you understand that everyone Born in the world today is not complete. They don't have Jesus Christ. And they're going through life without Christ. And although that's something that we don't necessarily see on the outside, think of how much harder their life is. Because they don't because they're not complete. They don't have Jesus Christ. And we talked and we've we've taught on this how that we are uh mind, body and soul and our soul, that God consciousness, the Bible says you're dead in your trespasses and sins. They're they're they're born into this world dead in their trespasses and sin. They they don't have a God consciousness. The Bible that to be born again awakens that God consciousness There's an emptiness inside that's searching for that. And when they hear the truth of the word of God, they can trust Jesus Christ and they are born again or made alive And we'll see a word here in a minute talking about quickened. We're going to see that in a second. In and through the power of Jesus Christ, but it makes us complete. I mean, I know that every one of you here has thought about it in your life, like, man, where would I be going through this if I didn't have Jesus? Where would I be? How would it be doing this struggle in this life and the battles that I'm facing if I didn't have Jesus? Because we're complete in him. And without him, we're handicapped. Without him, we're we're missing something. And that ought to touch our hearts and think about those in the world who are living their life day after day after day without Jesus. Jesus without his help, without being complete in him. Then the Apostle Paul goes into verse number 11 and verse number 12, and we see Christ's salvation that he offers. Christ's salvation. So we just saw Christ's efficiency. And then we see Christ's salvation in verse number eleven. He says, In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting off the body of the sin of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead. These two verses here are using a picture of what salvation is and something that the people needed to understand. And we've talked about how they were teaching of the other things that were necessary for salvation, how they were teaching of the Gnostics and Judaism and what was necessary. The controversy of Judaism seemed to follow the Apostle Paul everywhere he went. Seemed like that's something he dealt with all the time, ev all of his life, uh is the widespread belief that Gentiles, the the the Jews as a as a whole might even think the Gentile couldn't be saved. At all. But if, in fact, they said, okay, well, a Gentile could know the Lord, a Gentile could come to understand understanding and knowing God. But if if they were going to do that, then what they needed to do is they need to effectively become Jews. They needed to be circumcised. They needed to adopt Judaism in order to know God. That's what would be necessary. And so they were teaching this. And of course, you know that was a strong philosophy of the Pharisees of the day and and This is what they really looked at and held to, and they would look and say, listen, if you if you're not willing to be circumcised, then y y you can't know God. You can't be brought into a presence of God. You can't be made complete in him. But Christ offered the way. Christ offers the way. The idea here of putting off the flesh, of course, you know circumcision was a cutting away of the physical flesh. It symbolized for the Jews putting away the flesh and all that sin that is incumbent upon us in our flesh. It symbolized putting away all of that for them. But circumcision was just an outward mark of what happened inside. It never saved anybody. We know that they were in the Old Testament saved by faith. The act of circumcision did not provide salvation, did not provide the relationship with God. It was an outward mark. It was a departure from the old life And a declaration to living a new one. Circumcision, that picture. You know, some people believe, it's kind of a side note here, but just to give you this to put in the bat in your in the back of your mind, some people who believe in infant baptism use this passage of scripture to teach that you should baptize infants because the infants of course were circumcised and this was necessary to be a Jew and that you should be circumcised and the infant didn't know anything about it. The infant didn't know what was happening and so they they say baptism in the New Testament replaces circumcision of the Old Testament and since circumcision Circumcision was done to an infant, baptism should be done to an infant. Okay, you see their reasoning, but it's not biblical. I'm just telling you about that argument so that when you come across it or when you might face it at some point. uh you'll be able to you'll have heard that and say, oh, but you have to take scripture with scripture. And when you take all the scripture, it's very clear that infant baptism is at Infant baptism is not in the scriptures. Nowhere do you ever see an infant being baptized uh and it baptism also does not replace circumcision. nowhere is that taught either. But I'm just giving you that they'll use these verses here for that. Circumcision was just an outward expression or an outward example or picture. of what took place internally. They talked about uncircumcised people in the scriptures and many other places. In Exodus chapter 6, they talked about those that had uncircumcised lips. Does that mean you didn't have your lips cut off? I mean is that what they're saying? No. They're not talking about the physical act of circumcision, they're talking about the picture of circumcision, which is what circumcision was supposed to represent. The idea of the departure from the old life and a dedication to a new one. They're saying you've got lips that are still talking the way you used to talk You got uncircumcised lips. They're not saying lips that got cut off. Uh they're saying lips that have not displayed the new life. They're still like the old life, and they're not supposed to be like that They talked about those that had an uncircumcised ear in Jeremiah chapter 6 in verse number 10. They talked about those that had an uncircumcised heart in Leviticus 26. Verse number 41 and in Ezra chapter 40 and verse number 7. An uncircumcised heart. He's not saying those that had their heart cut away. He's saying a heart that has not departed from the old way. And been dedicated to the new. That's what he's saying. It was a picture, a declaration to the world of the change of the heart. Circumcision never saved any man, it was just a symbol. You know, false teachers, they like to say you can't be saved unless you do And they can plug whatever they want in there. Here for the the Judaizers they wanted to say it was circumcision was necessary. They say no matter how much you trust Jesus, it is not enough. You will not be accepted into the Lord's family unless you And this is what they were teaching. And although you don't really hear much about circumcision today, you don't hear churches preaching if you're going to be saved, if you're going to know God, if you're going to have a relationship, you've got to get circumcised. They don't say that. But they do say things like, you gotta be baptized. They say things like, you have got to display a level of commitment to the church. You've got to give, you've got to do do this. You've got to observe the sacraments. You've got to follow these traditions. You know, anytime you hear somebody adding something to salvation, it ought to put a warning flag up in your mind. that, hey, this is false teaching. This is false doctrine because of the sufficiency of Christ. How could we look at the sacrifice of Jesus Christ and say that was not enough? What I need to do is what makes it acceptable. Well uh this guy right here Matt Matt is a lot smarter than me and if our salvation was dependent upon our ability and what we could do Matt might be able to do it. But there might not be hope for me. Because I'm not as smart as Matt is. And it was up to what I could do. We're all at different skills, different abilities, different levels. And man, could you imagine trying to try and attain something that you you look and say, Oh, I gotta be like him Or I got to do what he does? No, it's all because of Jesus. Amen? It's not what we do. So you just put that in your back of your head as well. Anytime somebody's adding something And if they just say, oh yeah, it's faith in Christ and oh right there, that's a warning. And sometimes people in their conversations, they'll say something. And you've got to continue to listen uh or discuss with them and and clarify what were you saying because sometimes we say things and and we're not really thinking about how it's coming across and they'll say, No, I don't believe you've got to add anything to Christ. I mean he is sufficient. You see what Christ was saying here is that uh well though Paul was saying of course in and through the power of God but he says any priest could do a a circumcision with their hand. This any priest could do a circumcision with a hand. But what we're talking about is a circumcision done without hands. A circumcision that Christ did. Where it was a change of the heart, an inside, a change that only Christ could do. Only Christ could do. Then he goes on in verse number 12 and says, putting to death Our flesh. Baptism is another picture. Baptism is a picture of the death, the burial, and resurrection of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's our Again, the testimony, an outward picture, a putting away of that which is old and a dedication to that which is new. We say that when you're baptized, bearing the likeness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. to walk in this new life. That's how we're supposed to be walking. Paul is saying that Jesus is a fulfillment of what these things pictured. These things were just a picture. Circumcision and baptism, they're just pictures. Jesus put away the flesh. Jesus helped raise us to newness of life. And this picture is what should be taking place in our life. We should be raised to newness of life. When our our walk Our newness of life, when we're not practicing what we're professing, we don't have the joy of the Lord. A lot of cheap times people talk about the Christian life and boy it's not as uh you know happy or it's not as exciting or there's not as much joy as people talk about or whatever, many times it's because we're not practicing what we're professional. And you can't have joy doing that. You can't have joy living two lives. You're always trying to figure out which end is up and what you're supposed to be doing where. And trying to balance those two lives, there's there's no joy in that. Our our practice ought to be matching our profession. That word operation here, um Let me look back there. He says the operation of God, he says, buried with him in baptism, where wherein also you are raised with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead. Faith in the operation of God. That word operation actually means efficiency, strong working. Think about the ability that God had to raise Christ from the dead. The operation of God, the strong working of God. There should be a strong working of God in our lives That operation should be working in us. That same power that raised Christ from the dead is the power that works in you and I. And that should be bringing us into To a uh place of service for the Lord, of faithfulness to the Lord, a testimony of God, a picture, but not to earn it, just as a matter of obedience. We see in verse number 13 and 14 Christ's forgiveness. Christ's forgiveness. He says, and you being dead in your sins. And the uncircumcision of your flesh hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which is contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. Again, these couple of verses very picturesque in their descriptions and of describing of what happens uh to the sin of mankind. First we see the seriousness of sin and how you were dead in your sins in the uncircumcision of your flesh. In our flesh, born into this world in our uncircumcised state, again just the picture, not the physical act of circumcision, but the idea of that not having taken place in our life yet. When we were born, circumcision hasn't happened yet. Well, salvation hasn't happened yet. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. I mean the seriousness of sin. Every single person ever born was is is born out of the family of God. Out of the they're they're all out. You've heard the description about uh the some people they're down and out They're just in this world they're down and out. I mean they're they're they're living on the street maybe or whatever they're down and out. There's some people they're out and out I mean, they're just out and out sinners. I mean, you know, they're just all out. No, nothing, no question about it. They're just out sinners, but they're out. There's some people they're up and out They're very uppity. Maybe they've got position. Maybe they've got money. Maybe they've got recognition in this world, but they're still out. There's some people that are way out. You've gone and you've not you've visited or talked to some people and you just thought boy they they're just way out. They just They they didn't want to have anything to do with God and you talk about Jesus and they're no no they're going they're they they'll talk about say I'm going to hell and I'm proud of it. I'm going to be with all my friends and and all that. Boy they might be way out. But you know what? There's also some people that are in. And they're out. They're in the church. They come into the church every Sunday and they sit down and they have a Bible and they might follow along in the verses. They're looking, they're sitting here, but they're still out. They're not in the family of God because it's not it's not what we do, it's not carrying a Bible, it's what we've done with Jesus Christ Everybody born into this world is born uncircumcised as in not having been saved yet. And we're dead in our trespasses and sins. And without Jesus Christ, we're going to stay that way. We have to trust him as our Lord and Savior. We have to ask him to forgive us of our sin. There has to be a day of salvation. It just doesn't happen. Sometimes children that grow up in church, they're in church every Sunday, they grow up there and they're there all their life and they just think, well, I've always been a Christian. But to be a Christian is to know Jesus Christ. And just to be in church does not give you that relationship. You have to personally accept Him as your Lord and Savior. The seriousness of sin. You were dead. A dead man has no ability to help himself. A dead man can't do anything about it. You know, there is a uh story I read this week about a uh a small town out in uh the out west somewhere and they this is a small town. There was a guy in town, he's kind of slow. He was just a little bit slow and and uh People kinda made fun of him and he used to get up every day and he'd like walk all over the town. Like he'd just walk everywhere. Everybody saw him, everybody knew who he was. They all you know would talk to him. He was a nice guy, as men men like that some most of the time they are. pretty nice, but a little bit slow and didn't get things real quick and and people would make fun of them and they actually the the mortuary was a place where a bunch of guys in town would hang out. They used just hang out in the the mortuary, small town, not allowed to do, and they would sit and talk and whatever. And one night they thought, Hey, this guy the snow's gonna be coming by here and he says, uh, why don't you lay down and in his casket and then I'll go ask him to stay here with the body and uh everybody else go hide. And so they brought this man who was a little bit slow into the into the mortuary and and He's sitting there reading a newspaper and this man who was supposed to be dead is laying in his casket and all the other guys in the other room looking through the door just waiting to see see what's gonna happen. So after a couple minutes the guy in the who's reading his newspaper, the guy that's slow, and the guy in the casket, uh, can't get his attention. So he's like, you know, he doesn't know what to do. So he he takes his arm and he slaps the side of the thing, you know, his arm's outside the casket, you know. So the guy gets up and he goes over and he puts his arm back in there. And he goes sits down and starts reading his casket. And the guy the guy in the casket's like, What in the world? So he takes his arm and his leg and throws both of 'em out. And the guy gets up and he goes back and he puts it back in and and He goes to sit down to read his newspaper and then the guy sits up. And the guy's a little slow walked over there and pushed him back down. He says, You're dead. Now stay there And I didn't bother him at all. He just went, he's like, You're supposed to be dead, now stay there and he went and he sat back down and started reading his newspaper again. The other guys Just it did not work how they wanted. Uh they didn't get to see him jump out of his skin. But that's how how it is. I mean a dead man can't do anything on his own and uh they they wanted to see him Just gets all scared and afraid, but but he didn't. You know, we also are supposed to be dead as Christians. We're dead to ourselves. Sometimes we need to obey the advice of that guy and just stay there. You could not overcome your sin on your own. You could not pay for it on your own. But Jesus Christ, He has quickened you. He's given you new life So transformative is salvation in Jesus Christ that it is described as a new birth. It's described as a new life. That is the transforming power of the saving uh grace of Jesus Christ. It gives us a new life. He's quickened us. So we see the scope of his forgiveness. Not just the seriousness of sin, but the scope of forgiveness. We are made clean. Verse number 14. He says, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us. Which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to the cross. You know, it's amazing. You think about these terms, the descriptive terms here, the handwriting of ordinances against us. In this time, you gotta know the what took place during this time, and they would take the charges that anybody brought against somebody and they would write them out. They would write these charges out. And then they would be brought into court and the charges would be heard and you could defend yourself or testify, but the these charges were written down. And the charges against us were written down. A record of all that we are, all of the sin that we've ever done, is written down. It's written down, therefore, but he says, blotting it out. It was a custom of the Romans there to write the nature of any offense if somebody was going to be crucified. Their crime would be nailed to the cross. Jesus Christ was nailed to a cross and he was crucified, but you know they found no fault in him. So the only thing that they could think of to put on the cross to show everybody what his crime was is Jesus, King of the Jews. Jews. You see, by him declaring himself to be king, although they declared that, but as king, there could be no king but Caesar. And so they saw that as his crime and they nailed it to the cross. And we have here that description of your sins being nailed to the cross. Because Jesus paid for all of our sin on the cross. Our crime, our sin, what we are guilty of, has been nailed to Jesus' cross. And paid for by his death. God has taken what was written about you and I. And he gives us another term here of blotting it out, blotting out that sin. The handwriting that was against us was nailed to the cross and it was blotted out, uh literally wiped away. The word here for that blotting out is a Greek word, and the amazing mercy of God is an understanding of this time period again, the ancient Roman documents were written on papyrus, a uh kind of very heavy, thick uh material. And And the inks of the day did not contain the acid that our inks today carry, where you write on something and that penetrates down into it and it actually soaks in and permeates through whatever you're writing on. You have permanent markers, you have uh things like that which they did not have that time. They The ink that they had they could put down on this paper and it would dry and it would stay there, but they could take a sponge and dip it in a solution and actually wipe away All of the writing like it had never been there. It didn't sink in like our inks today do because that papyrus was very hard to make and it was very expensive, took a lot of time and effort. So they wouldn't just throw it away like we discard paper today, they they would reuse it. And almost like uh an erase board, it wouldn't sink in. They could take a sponge, dip it in this solution, and wipe away everything that was there. Wipe it clean. Well, all that's been against us, all of our sin that's been written down. Jesus took a sponge and dipped it in his blood and wiped away all of our sin. It was removed. I read a story about a uh man who went to prison After he got out of uh after he went he went to prison, was falsely accused, went went through all of his trial, when he got to the end of his trial, uh the judge said there's such a miscarriage of justice here that not only are we for for going to say he is not guilty, we are going to wipe away all of this record. Because once you have a prison record, once you have a uh that you've been arrested and you've been thrown in jail, I mean that's on your record for the rest of your life And the judge said, No, we're going to remove all of that. There's such a miscarriage of justice here. We're going to it's all removed from his record. There's never been an arrest. There's never been any time in jail. And you know, you think about that, that's what Jesus did for us. But the difference is Because that man was falsely accused. We are not falsely accused. We are guilty. And still Jesus wiped away the record, wiped it clean. There's some people who have trouble accepting the forgiveness of God because of what they've done in their life. Listen, Christ is sufficient If you're here and you're struggling with that and think, boy, I've done so many bad things and God can't forgive me, and God can forgive you. He is sufficient. And he can blot out, wipe away all that. We see the spoils taking place. Christ spoils in verse number 15. He says, and having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them openly, triumphing over them. He spoiled the powers that be. There's one of the theologians that I read and illustrated this idea of Christ triumphantly uh winning victory over Satan here. He said, think about it like this, Christian. Think about you're in a city and the city's under siege. The city's under siege and and And th th it's just the battle is raging and you think, man, we we we're not gonna win, it's too hard. And then under the cover of night somebody sneaked. In under the walls and gets into the city, and they come and they tell you, Hey, this army that's outside here, I want you to know that their entire country has has been defeated. These guys don't know it yet. But their army's been defeated. And shortly the word's gonna come to them and they're gonna get the word to lay down their arms because the battle's already over. They've already been defeated And until they get the word, you guys hang out because they're the the battle's already over. And gives us renewed vision and renewed hope and excitement about being able to win. That's what we have with Jesus Christ and Satan. Satan doesn't know it yet, but the victory's already been won. Sometimes we're in this battle of life and we think man is so hard and it's so hard to fight and Satan is such a uh you know just it's no irritating, but hey, he's gonna get the message one of these days that he's already been defeated You see, because he holds up the cross and he says, I I crucified your Savior on that. But Jesus, a few days later, he walked down the road and said, Look, look at the tomb. It's empty. It's empty. He won the victory. The word there for spoils actually means to disarm. It means to strip them. of their weapons or armor. He spoiled and defeated the foe. Not only that, he displayed the foe. In Roman time Uh it was very common for them to take their foes and they would capture the the kings or princes of a of a foreign country and they would bring them and they would chain them to their chariots. And the victorious army would go down through the streets of their city with the with the defeated king strapped to their chariot and put them on display. Display them out there as being defeated. Well Christ won the victory. And he and he has displayed it for us. We know that he has complete victory over Satan Satan. He's one of these days gonna come and every knee is gonna bow including Satan because he's already defeated foe. So you hang on Keep doing what God wants you to do, even though Satan sometimes is is swinging for all he's got because you know he's he's defeated already He's defeated. And we can have a victorious Christian life in and through the power of Jesus Christ. Next week we're going to look at verses, not next week, the following week. Next week is uh Roundup Sunday, but the we'll get into the last section of this chapter where we look at uh Paul's caution to them verses 16 through 23, where he talks to them about legalism, mysticism, and asceticism. So we're going to look at those things next time we come together. Let's uh pray and be dismissed this morning. Lord, we thank you for today and we thank you, Lord, for your sufficiency. God, that our salvation is not dependent upon anything that we do. It's nothing in and of ourselves, nothing we have to attain, but it's given to us fully and freely. And Lord, it's all in and through you. We thank you. Thank you for that, and we pray, God, that we would be able to rely on the victory that you've won and be able to live a victorious Christian life, wholly, set aside and uh honoring unto you the days that we have to live here. Because of the power of Jesus Christ. We'll thank you for it. We ask you to go with us in the morning service. Would you speak to our hearts? Would you challenge us from the Word of God? Give us a vision for this world that's lost and Lord, not complete. Because They don't have Jesus. And Lord, we'll thank you in Jesus' name, Amen.