Turn your Bibles to the book of Colossians. We've been studying and looking at the book of Colossians, just kind of a verse-by-verse undertaking and trying to learn what God would have us know from this text. I wanted to tackle one of the books of the Bible and chose chose this one as we walk through. And it's been it's been it's been fun, it's been good as we have endeavored to study this out. We've looked at the author and we looked at an overview of the book. Then we began the first week looked at the first two verses where we saw the salutation, this the Apostle Paul writing in greeting the the church there and then we turned to his satisfaction where we saw his satisfaction in the saints and what God was doing in their heart and how they were growing and the news that he had heard of them and he was so thrilled about what was going on in their lives and he was excited about that and we see his his satisfaction come Coming through in the next few verses. And today we're going to pick up in verse number nine and down through verse number fourteen where we see Paul's supplication. Paul once again praying for the saints as we talked about. This is a A habit of Paul's, and we see Paul all through the scriptures continuing to pray for the saints. What a pattern he set for us. be praying for one another. So look with me if you would. And as we're reading this, would you pay attention to one of the key words of the book of Colossians is the word all. You know the main theme of the book of Colossians. We talked about that and that is the all-sufficiency of Jesus Christ. The heresy of the Colossae people was a a Gnosticism, a legalism where they wanted to add to Jesus Christ. Yes, they accepted Christ, but they wanted to add rituals to that. They wanted to add observance of some laws to that. They wanted to add other things to that, but Paul's testifying to the all-sufficiency of Jesus Christ. Christ, that he is all sufficient. And watch for that word all, one of the key words as we walk down through this. Verse number nine, we'll read down through fourteen, you follow along. He says, For this cause we also since the day that we heard it, did not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with a knowledge of his will in all wisdom. and spiritual understanding, that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. and increasing in the knowledge of God, strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience. And long-suffering with joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints of light who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sin. So we want to see here today as we dive into this passage of scripture his supplication. I was going to try and tackle, if you'll notice, this is all one sentence. And there's actually two more verses that are part of this sentence, although there's kind of a change in the last verse there, 15, uh where we see a period, I think, at the end of that. But uh I it's kind of the supplication it it It's a nice thought, a conclusive thought here, verses 9 through 14. So we're going to try and get through this today as we see the theme of the all-sufficiency of Jesus Christ coming through for the Colossae people. He was just pointing them back to Christ over and over again. The idea that you can can do all that God would ask of you. Because of Jesus Christ. We could get theological. We could really look at and see what God wants every believer to do. As we go through this, I want you to understand that this is Paul's desire, which we're going to see in a moment, but it's also God's desire for every believer This is applicable for us and should be motivating to us as well As we saw that word all over and over again, the idea there is the complete believer, a believer that's mature. that has continued to grow and that has reached that that level or at least striving for. We know we never actually arrive but we should be pushing always for that level. As Paul prays here for the saints, this desire he has is for them. But it's for us all. For us today as well. So first of all, I want you to see Paul's aim. That's verses 9 through 11. This is Paul's aim. He says, therefore this cause. And he says that since the day we heard it, we did not cease to pray for you to desire that you might be filled. He says, Hey, this is my goal for you. I mean, I'm praying that God would do this for you. And I've got this Desire for you. Have you ever had I mean especially as parents, you kind of have a desire for your kids. You have an aim for them. You have a goal for them, something you want them to accomplish and You know, when they're when they stray from that or when they they tend their they they start going another way, man, it just tears your heart. You just say, Man, you're not going the direction that I desire for you. I want so much more for you This is what Paul is saying to the church here at Colossus. He says, Hey, there's a problem. And listen, what I desire for you is the best. This is the direction I want you to go. So we see his aim for them, first of all, is that they would understand. The will of God. That they would understand the will of God. He says that they might be filled with a knowledge of His will in all wisdom. He was praying for them continually that they would understand the will of God. He started from the time of their conversion. He said, from the time that we heard We did not cease to pray. From the very beginning. You know, believer, we need to be praying for the babes in Christ. We need to be praying for the young Christians that God brings into the church. I mean, it literally is like being thrown into the deep end. The entire atmosphere of church for many is foreign to them. They come in, somebody just last week said said something to me about, you know, Pastor. Sometimes you get up and you say, now I know you guys all know about this. And I may be talking about some Old Testament people or something like that. And they're like, we don't know. What are you talking about? And we we j and I because I I have been in it my whole life. Uh it's some things that in my mind I I I think, oh, everybody n surely knows this But do you understand there's people in our church from every stage of Christian walk? There's babes in Christ, and they're just getting started, and to them this is all foreign. The whole what they're supposed to do and and the steps of growth as a Christian and what does God expect of them and and it's it's they got thrown into the deep end and they're just trying to keep their head above water. We need to be praying for them Praying for them because I'll tell you what the devil sure uh attacks new believers. I mean how many Christians have you known that they got saved and they came to church for a month or two or three months? Maybe five months and then and then they're out, gone. What what happened? They got overwhelmed. I remember talking to a young Christian one day, this is years ago, in Lawrence, Kansas, and the guy he came to me and he says, I can't do that. I can't live this life that you're portraying. I just can't. It's too much for me. And I say, you don't have to live what somebody else is living. You have to do what God wants you to do. And you just take it one step at a time. Nobody's asking you to change this, change this, change this, change this, start this, start this, start this, do this, do this. You just do what God wants you to do today, right now. But they get overwhelmed, believers. And we've got to be patient with them, love them, and be praying for them. Paul was praying for them that they would understand what God's will is for them. They've got to grow into that. It takes time. And he was praying for them that they would understand that, God's will. This is a will that's learned over time by experience. This is a will that's learned as well by prayer. Paul prayed for them, but we know that the Bible tells us, if any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God that give it to all men liberally They need to pray for themselves and ask God to help them to understand. And we're talking about us now. God, help us understand what your will is. Yes, it's a will that we learn by experience, but it's a will we learn as well by just saying, God, teach me. Show me your will, praying for this. That we could gain an understanding of God's will. Now we're not going to take time this morning to teach on the will of God. We've talked about that and we've looked at that in different ways. And there's lots of things we could teach lessons upon lessons about that in itself. But his prayer for them is that they would understand the will of God. I just want to say that it's one thing to know what the Bible says. It's another to know what that means for you. You see, it's one thing to know that the Bible says one thing. A preacher can get up and read a text. But a new believer looks at that and says, okay, what does that mean? What does that mean for me? What does that mean for my family? What does that mean for my life? How how do I incorporate that into every day? At this point it's just knowledge. And Paul is saying, hey, we need to pray that they would understand. God's will. That they would not just be information on a page, but that that would be translated into their heart and into their life. One thing to know what it says, another to know what it means. Does that make sense? We've got to get that understanding, even for ourselves, because we need to continue to be learning what the will of God is for us. He asked that they would not just have a little of the knowledge of God. You see that? Not just a little. What did he say? That they would be what? Filled. Somebody's paying attention. Amen. That they would be filled with the knowledge of God. That they would have that complete. Again, the idea of all knowledge, being filled with the knowledge of God. You know the Bible says in Hosea 4, 6, that my people are destroyed. for lack of knowledge. How many Christians have been destroyed because they just didn't know God very well? Something happens in their life? And and they get mad at God. They get so angry at God because how could he let this happen? They they haven't learned. They don't know God well enough to understand. God did not cause that to happen. God did not bring that into your life for uh uh to to hurt you, there's a cause, there's a reason, there's a purpose, but they have to have that understanding. They have to know God. You know the the thing is if I'm only half full of the knowledge of God That means I'm half full of the knowledge of something else. And for the Colossae Church it may have been the Colossae heresy. Which was Gnosticism and Lalism. For us it might be the world. I'm half full of the knowledge of God, but the other half I've got filled up with my own ambition. My own goals, desires. Right? So to be filled with the knowledge of God doesn't leave any room for the other stuff. And that's what we want to get to, the place where we're filled with the knowledge of God. You know, God has no favorites. We're all equal at the foot of the cross. Every single one of us here have equal opportunity to know God When we come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, we're all equal at the foot of the cross. We're there. We have the pages of Scripture. We have the Holy Spirit that comes to dwell in our hearts. And everyone here Has the same opportunity to know God. There's not nobody has a corner on it. Nobody has a market on it. And boy, I have insight. You better watch it. You hear anybody that talks about having insight that Others people don't have? Just don't even listen to 'em. Okay? Just don't even listen to 'em. God's God's not revealing things for other people to one individual that he would not reveal to you in your heart. God, God, every one of us are equal at the foot of the cross, but you understand that when one person sits at the foot of the cross And he says, wow, look what Jesus did for me. And that motivates him. The love of Christ constrains him, and he begins to pursue after God. He's gone on and he's continued with his walk with God and he's gained in his knowledge of God and he's getting closer to God. But do you understand there's people that are still sitting at the foot of the cross? They've come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. They know the Lord, their Savior, but they're still just at the cross. The relationship hasn't grown. They haven't gained in their knowledge and their understanding of God. Does that make sense? That's what Paul is saying. You've got to continue on this walk with God. You've got to keep going. Because there's more to it than just the cross And that's what he says. He says his desire for them is that they would understand the will of God. In verse number 9, verse number 10, he says his desire for them is that they would undertake a walk with God. He says that ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing. He wanted them to undertake a walk with God. He says, we've got to be walking with him. We've got to be growing with him. Although these two things are very different, they are inexorably linked. A walk with God and an understanding of God's will. Because if I understand God's will, I'm going to be walking with Him. And if I'm walking with Him, I'm going to have an understanding of His will. These go hand in hand and they're reciprocal in their nature. They continue to feed upon one another. They're both necessary. And we have a walk with God. Not just any walk, but he asked him to have a worthy, a worthy walk. Ephesians chapter 4, verse number 1, he says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech ye that ye walk worthy of the vocation whereon ye are called. We're to have a worthy walk. Not just anywalk. How many of you know who uh his first name just slipped my mind. uh Jesse Ventura. How many of you know who that is? Okay. Mo most everybody. Jesse Ventura. He was a worldwide wrestling, you know, federation guy. You know, the guys that dress up in tights and get in a ring and and wrestle and they put on this big show. Now you know that he became a governor. Uh was it Minnesota? Well do you know that after he became a governor of Minnesota the worldwide wrestling foot petty Federation came to him and said, We'll give you one million dollars to step back into the ring one time. And he said, Okay. Except that it went viral and everybody was up in arms. to is they said, you know what, it's okay for you to say, I used to be a wrestler, I used to do that, but now you're the governor. And it's not okay as a governor to step back in the ring. Because that cheapens and degrades the office that you now hold. And he didn't do it. Had one million dollars offered to him just to step back in the ring one time. I mean, hey, why not? Because it cheapens the office that he And do you understand we've been called to have a worthy walk? It's okay for you to say, you know what, this is, and listen, we don't want to ever lift up sin. We don't want to praise sin. We don't want to point to that and say, look at, but it's okay to say this is what I was. But for you and I to step back into the ring one time, it degrees It cheapens what we've been called to. The salvation that we've been given in Jesus Christ. There's a reason why. And the devil will come and offer you one million dollars. The devil will come and offer you a lot to get you to step back into that arena one more time. But we're no longer walking worthy of the office whereunto we have been called. Paul says, man, I want you guys to walk, but not just walk, I want you to walk worthy. Walk worthy. There are so many people who profess the name of Christ, and there's a mentality that's permeating Christianity today that Oh, I can love God and know God, and it doesn't matter what arena I walk into. But it does, doesn't it? Because there's some things that we can do that cheapen. The salvation that we've been given. They degrade the office that we've been called into. And we wouldn't want to do that to our Savior. Our walk is going to be worthy, it's going to be consistent with our creation. That same old saying, practice what you preach. Do what it is that the Bible teaches. We don't get to just pick and choose what we want. Although most people do. Most people just decide what they want to do. They pick what they would like to do. Oh, I like that about Christianity. I like that about with my relationship with God. I could do without that and disregard that. No, I don't like that. But a worthy walk is not that way. We don't just get to pick and choose. In Luke 6. 46. Christ said, and why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not that which I say He says, you call me Lord and you disregard what I say. That does not make sense. You've heard the saying, either he's Lord of all or he is not Lord at all. Christ was saying, hey, you say unto me, Lord, Lord, and then you don't do what I say. I've had conversations with my kids. I said, Do you want to make me happy? Just do what I ask. That's not that hard. They're like, it is hard. It's not that hard. Just do what I ask. And our Heavenly Father, our Savior, our Lord, He says, you call me Lord But you're not even doing what I ask. You're not even doing what I desire for you. You're not walking worthy unto the vocation whereof you've been called. Paul says, hey, you gotta walk worthy. Walk worthy, believers. If we're gonna walk worthy, how do you walk worthy? He goes on and he gives them some descriptive characteristics. Some defining things of a worthy walk. A worthy walker's fruitful. You're going to have a fruitful walk. He says there. He goes on, let me see, uh that you might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful. in every good work, increasing the knowledge of God. It's going to be fruitful. Fruitful unto every good work. God caught has called us to some good works. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto Good works. God's called us to good works. And as a Christian, we're going to be fruitful. We're going to be involved in these things. We are going to be seeing fruit in our life. We've we've spent some time just recently and looked at the fruit of the Spirit and talked about that and how the fruit of the Spirit should be evident in our life. Hey, as Christians, you're going to be fruitful. God said if you're not fruitful, you're good for nothing. be hewn down. You know the exciting thing about this, about the fruitfulness as a fruitful Christian is fruitfulness is not something that we determine that we're going to be Fruitfulness is a byproduct of walking with Christ. It happens. You see, if you're filled with if you walk after the flesh, you're going to fulfill the lust of the flesh. But if you walk in the Spirit, you shall the Spirit reap life everlasting. Be not weary in while doing for due season you shall reap if you faint not, you're going to reap what you sow. If we walk in the Spirit, you will have fruit. As you walk worthy of God, fruit is going to be a byproduct of that. It's just going to happen. You don't determine to start bearing fruit. You determine to walk with God and do what God wants you to do, live a life filled with the Spirit of God, and fruit just happens. It just happens. Any you don't make that decision any more than an apple tree decides whether he's going to have apples. You see an apple tree by its nature produces apples. And a Christian walking with God by the nature that we're feeding the spirit is going to produce fruit. We're going to see fruit in our life. And he he says, hey, if you're walking worthy, you're going to be fruitful. You're going to be fruitful. He says you're also going to be faithful. Faithful, continuing on in your increasing of your knowledge of God. Continuing to increase in that. We've never arrived. We've got to continue. to learn. Pastor Derek and I were just talking this week, just chatting in the office for a few minutes, and we're talking about the scriptures and and I said, man, isn't it just amazing how you can take a passage of scripture and you can break it down and you can study it and you can look at it all from this perspective. and get so much application out of it. But you can take that same passage of scripture, break it down, look at it from this perspective, and the application is broad and it's new and it's fresh. And then you sit down with somebody else, and they're taking the same passage of scripture and they open it up and they're looking at it from this direction. And again, it's broad and it's new and it's fresh and it's for us. The knowledge of God is there if we desire to pursue it. You've never attained and reached it all. Jeremiah 9, verse number 23 and 24 says, Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that glorieth glory in that he understandeth and knoweth me. But him that gloryeth glory that he understandeth and know in me that I am the Lord. Increasing in our knowledge of God. Continuing. I mean if there's something that we're going to be excited about or happy about, it shouldn't be be our uh you know position at work, it ought to be Hey, look at what God showed me in his word today. Look at what I learned about Jesus today. Look how God fed me today. Let me share, and I've tried to encourage you all, this is what our devotional program is at the church all about. is that you would have something you're doing together that you could engage over the pages of Scripture together. Say, hey, today we read this, and you're engaging over Over that, being involved in that, increasing your knowledge of God. You increase in your knowledge of God by looking at the stars. Not just the stars in heaven, but the idea of this creation everywhere we see. I mean, doesn't the firmament declare the handiwork of God? We learn about God and His consistency and His faithfulness, and so much we learn about God by looking at His creation. You look at the pages of Scripture. and you learn about God, you learn about God by knowing his son. By knowing his son. You know, he said, if you know me, you know the Father by learning of his son. Verse number 11 he tells us how we're going to be able to continue that walk. How do we keep that walk? You know what? It is hard sometimes. It is a challenge at times. But in verse number 11, he says, you're strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering with joyfulness. He says, Man, I'm praying for you that you'd be strengthened with almight, with God's glorious power. You know, I told you the story about the in the individual and I could give you his name, but he you know he He said, I just can't do it. It's too hard. I can't do this Christian life. There's times that I think everybody gets there. Where we look at it and say, man, this is hard. It's a struggle. I just can't do it. But you know what? Here's what you know from the prompt from the promises of the pages of Scripture. That if I should I know I can. Because God will empower you to do it. His glorious power. If I should do it, I know I can do it Because I've got God's word on it. I've got His promise that I'll be able to do it. If I should, I know I can, because I can do all things. Right? Through Christ which strengthens me. This is not a physical strength necessarily, although I believe that God is able and many times has uh given physical strength But the greater strength we need is an inner strength. The inner strength will carry you through when your body's tired. The inner strength will give you what you need to stand because we know we don't fight against flesh and blood. but against principalities and powers. This inner strength comes, Ephesians 3. 16 says that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner In the inner man. This is the glorious power of God. He comes in and he strengthens us. Not only are we strengthened, but we're sustained. Sustained. He says to him, he says, hey. Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and long-suffering. There's two types of children. Challenges that are listed there, patience and long suffering. You know, patience is more than just an idea of how we think, well, have patience, wait, wait a little while, I'll I'll be there. It's not just that, it's it's the idea of being able to endure. To be able to go through problems of life. Having patience through the problems that we face. And sometimes it's the hardest time to have patience. But he says what he's what he's asking them, what he's saying is God's going to strengthen you to have patience, to be able to endure. And then the long-suffering, we know that's dealing with people. People. He says, boy, you need some prayer and you need to be strengthened to be able to endure the problems that you're going to face. And also to help you with the people that you're going to be engaged with. Having long-suffering for those that are not long-suffering with you. For those who you thought were friends, but they attacked you. For those who you thought were family And the relationships are broken. He says, you're going to need this. You're going to need this. But God will sustain you with all patience and with all joy, because we know that he is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. We know God can do that. And He'll give us that strength. So we see His aim for them, His desire. Now let me give you, we're just we're almost out of time, but Paul's admonition, verses 12 to 14. I don't think there's well, we're just gonna we're gonna plug away. I've got about six minutes. You guys doing okay? Awake, ready to go? Alright, we'll see how far we get. I want you to see his admonition here in verses twelve through fourteen. He says, Giving thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints of life. who hath delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us under the kingdom of his dear son, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sin. You see here in the beginning of verse number 10 he says, that ye may, that phrase, that ye may. It was Paul's desire for them. He says, that ye may. You could add that to these statements here at the end. His desire, he says, that ye may give thanks unto the Father. You know why? Because of the inheritance that they received. We've been given an inheritance. An inheritance, the Bible tells us in 1 Peter, that is incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away. It's reserved in heaven for you. We have an inheritance You know a lot of the inheritance here on earth, whether you get one or not, I mean you may have one coming, you may not have one coming, but you know, even if you get it, it it's gonna uh in eventually fade away. But the inheritance that we get from God is gonna last forever He said, give thanks because you have that inheritance. You have that inheritance. Not only that, give thanks because you have been made meat. He made us meet. That means worthy. He made us worthy of receiving that inheritance. Again, walking worthy of what we've been called unto, but we've been made worthy by Jesus Christ. Made worthy, our sins have been washed away. We've been delivered. He says, verse number 13, who hath delivered us from the power of darkness? We've been delivered. We of course we know that we've been delivered. That word literally means rescued. We had no power to save ourselves. No strength to rescue ourselves, but we've been rescued. We've been delivered. Not only have we been delivered unto an inheritance That is reserved for us in heaven, but we've been delivered from darkness. Man, this world's a dark place. It's so dark. And that's it's isn't no wonder so many people deal with and fight with depression and discouragement in this world. It's just it's a dark world. But as Christians, we've been Delivered from darkness and given light. Saved from the power, the penalty, and the presence of sin one day. Because of the forgiveness that we have in Christ Jesus. Uh let me ask you, how much debt do you have? Don't tell me. You know, I was reading this week about people, uh you know the average car loan today is thirty over thirty-eight thousand dollars. Um and The the consumer debt has just topped four trillion. Uh that's not national that's just our consumer debt, the debt that individuals individuals are carrying. 1. 3 trillion of that is student loans. Uh I don't remember if it's 1. 8 or something, just slightly higher than student loans is mortgages. But I'm telling you this world is it doesn't matter how much money they make, they are carrying so much debt. What if what if whatever debt you're carrying, maybe Maybe it's just your mortgage, maybe it's just a car, whatever it is. What if I could say to you, Dave, you know what? That's been forgiven. In a biblical sense, what he's saying, he says it's been paid. It's not just that you decided not to pay it or that you got out of it somehow. No, the debt was there and the debt had to be paid, and Jesus Christ. Christ paid it. So what if I told you today somebody paid that debt? I mean you feel the weight of that debt on you, whatever it is. You just like, man, I've got this and it's on there all the time. What if we could come and say, hey, that's been forgiven? That's what Jesus Christ did for us. That weight of sin, a debt we couldn't pay, He paid it for us. He forgave us and gave us this marvelous inheritance So Paul's prayer for the Colossian people, his aim and his his desire for them, what he wanted for them, his his driving force. He prayed for them. But this is something that we ought to pray for ourselves. This is for us, not just for them. And it's something that we ought to be praying for the new believers and the people that we have opportunity to disciple and counsel. He prayed really for two things. That they would have the knowledge of God's will, and that they would have the power to do it. That's what we should do. Would you pray with me? Lord, we thank you for this time in Sunday school. I pray, God, that you would be with each and every heart here. Lord, as we move over into the auditorium and we gather for this morning's service, I pray God you'd meet with us in a real way. Lord, there's people here this morning who are hurting. There's people who are struggling. There's people that need to be encouraged. There's some that need to be challenged. They've uh become a little lackadaisical or a little uh uh Lord, apathetic in their Christian walk. And I pray God you would move amongst us today and speak to us in a very real way. Thank you for what you'll do this morning in God's house. May you feed the heart of your people. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.