Well Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, when you decide upon a passage of scripture that you must preach, then you must dig until you see Christ. For he is the subject of the Bible, and therefore should be the subject of your message. So he was challenging them to wherever you are in the pages of Scripture to find Christ. For he is the message of the Word of God. One commentator put it like this, discussing this idea that the Bible is a message concerning Jesus Christ. He says the Old Testament, we have preparation. For Christ's coming. In the Gospels, we have a presentation that Christ is here. In Acts, we have a proclamation of Christ's message of grace and salvation. In the epistles, we have the personification. For me to live as Christ. And in Revelation, we have the predomination, the Lamb sitting on the throne. the entire Bible about Jesus Christ. So far in Colossians chapter number one, we've studied the salutation, verses one and two, the sanctification, verses three and eight, Paul's supplication, verses nine through fourteen. And we are looking at Christ's supremacy, verses 15 through 23. Now, last week we looked at Christ's supremacy among the creatures. Verse number 15, among creation, verse 16 and 17, in the church, verse 18 and 19. And today we're going to look at Christ's supremacy on the cross. So let's read those you follow along, verses twenty to twenty-three in Colossians chapter number one, our passage of scripture for this morning. He says, And having made peace through the blood of his cross By him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him. I say whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled. in the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblamable and unreprovable in his sight. If ye continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard, and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made. a minister. Again, we're looking at Christ's supremacy. Verses 15 through 23. To keep our outline in the same order, it could be listed as Paul's Savior. to keep the consistency in the outline. However, I like because this is the heart of the of the this book, this is the theme of the book, I like it better stated as Christ's supremacy. Instead of Paul's Savior, although they would be one and the same, the message of the book of Colossians is the supremacy of Christ. We want to see his supremacy on the cross. So let's look at that. We see, first of all, this idea of the cross here, having made peace through the blood of his cross Oswald Chambers said this, all heaven is interested in the cross of Christ. All of hell trembles and is afraid of it. It is men, the only beings, who are more or less ignore it. All heaven is interested in the cross. All of hell is afraid of the cross. It is only men who, for some one reason or another, are able to ignore it. Amazing because the cross really is central to Christianity. The cross is central. If if the Word of God is indeed all about Jesus Christ, Then the cross is central to that. That is the message. He First of all, I want you to see that he defeated the separation. He defeated the separation. There is a separation between man and God. There is a great gulf fixed And I know that you all have seen the picture, the image of this great gulf between where man is and where God is. And somebody so uh creative and artistic and uh a mind for the truth of the word of God was able to see in their mind how the cross laid down across that great gulf. And the cross is what bridged that gap between us. We are separated from God because of our sin. Your iniquities have separated us. You. But the cross is what bridges that gap. And having made peace through the blood of his cross. You know, he did it through his shed blood. The blood of his cross. Now I know in today's world people say, man, you can't talk about the blood. That's too graphic That's too that's too gross. I mean you think about a sacrifice like that and and you you talk about the blood being shed for you and poured out. I mean how can you talk about those things And then they'll go home and watch some movie about uh some axe murderer that that cuts people up and and blood's flying everywhere and and they joke about it and tweet about it and and post it on Facebook and And and enjoy all that. But if in the church house we talk about how the blood of Christ was shed for us, we're being too graphic. You don't want to let the uh world or water down weak Christianity Steal the blood of Christ. You don't want them to let them take it away. I don't know if you're aware of this. I know I'm sure many of you are, that many of the modern perversions remove the blood of Christ from many passages of Scripture. They removed that message. It is through the shed blood of Christ that that gap was bridged. Matthew Henry said this: there was such a value in the blood of Christ. That on the account of Christ setting it, God was then willing to deal with men on new terms, to bring them under a new covenant, a covenant of grace. For the sake of it and the consideration of it, Christ's death on the cross brought pardon and acceptance and favor with God. It is this, the shed blood of Christ, that makes that possible. It is the sacrificial death of Christ on our behalf and his shed blood that bridges The gap for us. Don't let people downplay the blood. The blood is, for without it there is no remission of sin. The shed blood of Christ is what washes away our sin. First Peter tells us, Peter describes for us about how he gives us that phrase, the precious blood of Christ. It is precious. That's what we one of the elements of the Lord's table. When we partake of the Lord's table, we use the pure fruit of the vine, and that is a symbol, a representation of the shed blood of Christ. Not the shed blood We don't believe in transibstantiation. We don't believe that the actual blood of Christ or the actual body of Christ is being partaken of, but just a picture. Of the shed blood of Christ that was shed for us. It is precious. His body was shamed on the cross. His blood was shed, but his body was shamed. I mean, can you imagine the shame? That he went through being hung there on the cross for us. It was through his death that we are reconciled He says, and having made peace through the blood of his cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. It was through his death that we're reconciled. Reconciliation is a uh theological term, term maybe we don't think about as much or as often today, and sometimes When they're not common terms, we might have a a vague idea as to what it means, but reconciliation is to be restored. We talked about the gap that was between us and God. There was something between us. There's a great gulf that was fixed, and something had to bridge that gap. Something had to reset Restore the fellowship, had to re- reconcile us back to God. Christ came that that gap may be bridged, that chasm between God and man. Would be settled. You know, man knows that the gap is there. Whether he's ever cracked the pages of scripture or ever been in the church house, in the heart of man, he knows that there's a gap there. There is a void that's present in the heart of man. Look in uh verse number twenty-one there. Um he says, and you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works. They knew of the wicked works that they were doing, and they knew in their mind that made them an enemy of God. It's something that's inbred in the heart of man, given to us by God, a void that can only be filled by God. We're reconciled. That gap is breached, bridged by Jesus Christ. You know the initiative of reconciliation was brought by Christ. I taught on initiative in our character, the count series that we've been looking at on Thursday nights and talking about initiative. And one of the things I talked about is you need to have initiative to uh restore, to reconcile with people that are offended. Sometimes, you know, we get something happened between us and somebody else and w neither one of us want to say anything. Neither one of us wanna nope, I ain't saying nothing until he says it. something. I'm not I I'm not apologizing until he apologizes. And and and both of you are like that and you've been that way for twenty years. You know somebody's got to take the initiative. And the amazing thing is if we follow the example of Christ, Christ took the initiative with us. He gave himself for us without any guarantee that we would reciprocate. He loved us regardless. He gave himself, he shed his blood for us and died on that cross. Let me ask you this. If you uh in your mind Take out a piece of paper and begin to write down a list of the friends you have. Write down a list of the friends you have if you began listing some of your friends. Now Bob's done. The rest of you guys can keep uh keep going with your list. Now just set that piece of paper aside and get out another piece of paper and begin to list your enemies. Now let me ask you this. Has there ever in your life been a time when somebody that was on the enemy list got moved to the friend list? That's reconciliation. You and I, who were enemies of God, because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross, have been moved from the enemy list. We're going to take it one step further to the family list. Amen. That's what reconciliation is. That's what Jesus Christ did for us. Your sin separated you, but your Savior reconciled you. He reconciled you. He reconciled all things unto himself This again, the message of this passage of scripture is the supremacy of Christ. All things. Nobody is so wicked that the blood of Christ cannot atone for them I know that if you've been i in Christianity for any length of time and had the privilege of working with people at any level, at some point you've met somebody who said, I would like to be saved, but I just I'm too wicked. God can't save me. I've done too much, my sins are too great, but I want you to understand there is no wickedness so great that God cannot forgive. That the blood of Christ cannot atone for the supremacy of Christ, all things. All things. You know, I want you to know that that means all things have the opportunity to be reconcilable. Although some people would take this passage of scripture, and here's, again, I'm trying to point out for you as we go through this places where people teach false doctrine. And here's one of the areas where they take this and they say that all things have been reconciled unto him. Him, that Christ did it here, and God just did it everything that it has been, that this is a declarative statement, and we've all been reconciled. But we we have to respond to that. An opportunity for reconciliation has been extended. But just like if Sandy was mad at me and I came to her and I said, listen, Sandy, I'm apologizing for how I offended you. Uh what I did was wrong. I want to apologize and get that right. And she looked at me and said, Don't ever talk to me again, you jerk. Now I know you guys can see Sandy doing that. That's just so much like her. Reconciliation was instant extended. The opportunity was there, but she rejected it. So we were not restored. Jesus Christ has extended reconciliation, but it is not a declarative statement that no, but we don't have an option to, we've just all been reconciled. No. Opportunity for reconciliation has been extended to all things. But we must respond. We must receive that. And he used the word things here He didn't use the word uh humans, all mankind. How many of you think God knows what he's saying? God has a has a reason for for what he puts in the Word of God? He says things here on purpose. There's other places in the scripture where he uses mankind, talks about us as a nation, as a people, as a as a race. But here he says all things unto himself. You understand that at the in in the book of Genesis when man sinned that there was a curse put on the ground. The ground was cursed and and now we deal with weeds. Grass won't grow, but the weeds just grow nonstop, you know. Uh the the vegetable garden gets overrun with them. And we've got the ground is cursed and we've got to work by the sweat of our brow to try and get anything to grow in it. But one day He's going to reconcile that back to himself. Again, through his death and the shed blood of Jesus Christ, the curse will be lifted. One day there'll be a new heaven, a new earth. There will not be that curse on the ground anymore. All things have been reconciled in heaven and in earth. All's been reconciled, all of God's creation reconciled by this, the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross. You understand that this was an answer to the Gnostics. You remember the Gnostics believed that all matter was evil. And that the wickedness and the evilness of the earth was so bad that God could not actually touch it. He could not approach it. There had to be the rhongs, these representatives that were between God and man and Each one of them progressively more evil until they finally could actually touch the evil. All matter was evil. But Paul's answering that to them. He's saying, no, all things will be reconciled unto God, dealing with that in answer to the teaching of the Gnostics. You know, the idea of all things is kind of out there. It's we we look at that and we see, oh, that's right, God did that. All things have been reconciled. Amen. Everybody, all things. But Paul brings it home to him in verse number 21. He says, even you You right? And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath He reconciled. He says, and even you Even you, he reconciled. Some of you that were alienated. They were aliens. Their wickedness is separated from them from God, and God reconciled them. You know there's no illegal immigration in heaven. There's nobody there just sneaking in. Nobody just coming through. You know that's made very clear in the parable of the wheat and the tares. There's going to be a separation one day. Those it doesn't matter if they've been in the church house, if they if they look like uh wheat God says don't cut them down because you might cut down the wheat. One day he'll separate it out. The wheat Nobody's gonna sneak in. But everybody is welcome in. If they just do it right. Amen. That'll preach. If they just do it right, go by the law that God has written. He saved even you. You know, even you. The that sin that's in that you know that you've committed in your mind that nobody else knows That sin that mom and dad don't know, that sin that your mate doesn't know about, that thing in your mind that you know would send you to hell if your salvation was dependent upon you. You even you, he is reconciled. Even you He is reconciled. All things out there somewhere, but he got personal and said, You. Through the death of his son, that declaration of God's love for us. Those who once were strangers. Now our sons reconciled unto God. So I want you to see that there's a purpose, that there's a reason. Not only did Christ here Defeat the separation, but I want you to know that also he desires sanctification. He desires sanctification. Look in verse number 22. He says, In the body of this flesh through the death, to present you holy, unblameable, unreprovable in his sight. As Christians, we are to be moving forward for God. That is to be the direction of our lives In Australia, the coat of arms is two animals. Two animals that have one thing in common. It's the emu, that flightless bird, and the kangaroo. The emu has a three-footed three-pronged foot that if he was to try and turn around or tries to step backwards, he falls down. He the emu cannot move in reverse. And the kangaroo is restricted from remov m moving in reverse by his large tail. So those two animals are used for the Australian coat of arms because they are animals that are always moving forward And as Christians, that's how we're supposed to be. Always moving forward. It is not to be the way of a Christian to be going backwards. Is it to be going away from God? We are on a progressive journey, praise God, I'm not what I should be, but I'm not what I was. And and I'll tell you what, as Christians, maybe we're not all we want to be, but we're thankful and excited we're not what we were, and we're in the right direction. We're going towards God. God reconciled us for a reason. If without this purpose, without the reason that God would present us holy, Jesus Christ would present us holy before God. Without that, man would just in his mind say, Okay, I've been reconciled, I've been restored, and God loves me regardless. So why not just live however I want? Why not just do whatever I want to do? Because we've been reconciled for a reason For a purpose. The heart of Jesus Christ is stated here. He says that he may present you holy, unblamable, unreprovable in his sight. We're not given the opportunity for sin, but we are given the obligation to submit. We've been saved not so that we can sin without punishment, but so that we can submit to the Savior, that He may present us to the Father. Oh, what a moment. What a moment. When you think of that when we see Jesus, when we stand face to face in his embrace and thank him for his amazing grace oh what a moment when we're presented holy to god the father Unblamable, that is without blemish, like he says in Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 27, that he may present you to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkled or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. Unblamable. Unreprovable. That means that there's not an accusation can even be brought. No accusation can be brought Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy. He's able to do that. It is the purpose for which we've been reconciled, is that we would be on this journey, this progression towards God, ever learning and growing in our knowledge of Him. And one day Jesus Christ will present us to the Father. Amen. Then I want you to see lastly here this morning is Christ delivers security. He delivers security. Verse number 23 says, if ye continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard. And which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister, as you continue in your faith and become more and more grounded. You're to continue in the faith, in the gospel that you've heard, the faith that saved you, the truth of the Word of God. These people were being pulled away and taught false doctrine. The Gnostics and the Pharisees were adding things to the Word of God and to the truth of the Word of God and saying, you've got to do this and you can't do that. And and they were teaching uh these other other false doctrines. And he says, No, you need to hold To the faith that you started with. Be grounded. Be settled in that faith. That's what you need to be, settled in that faith He gives us security as you continue in that faith. This is what Paul was saying in those verses that we learned in Ephesians chapter 4. Be no more children tossed to and fro, and cast about by every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men in cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things. even the head which is Christ. He's saying, no, be grounded, be settled. Don't be tossed to and fro Don't just hear these things and jump on that bandwagon and jump on that bandwagon. Continue in the faith that you've heard. Have it settled. You are preserved by God. You're preserved by God. It's His salvation that bridges the gap, not your performance But do you understand that it is by your perseverance that is your perseverance, your continuance Continuing, continue in the faith. That perseverance is an earthly declaration, an earthly testimony of your eternal or heavenly salvation. By persevering, you're showing that you are one of his. He concludes with a reference to our point that we will get into next week in uh the end there of verse number twenty-three. He says, wherefore I, Paul, am made a minister. Next week we're going to look at the last passage of this passage of scripture in verse number 24 to 29. The end of chapter number one, as we look at the topic of Paul's service. Paul's service. His work for the Lord and what God has called him to, these last few verses. The Christian life that we live is a different kind of life. It's not understood by the world and what God calls us to doesn't make sense to others sometimes A. W. Tozer put it like this. He said the Christian is an odd number anyway. He feels a supreme love for one that he's never seen. He talks familiarly every day with one that he cannot see. He expects to go to heaven on the virtue of another He empties himself in order that he might be full. He admits that he is wrong so that he can be declared right. He goes down in order to get up. He is strongest when he's weakest. He's richest when he's poorest. He's happiest when he feels his worst. He dies so that he can live. He forsakes in order to have, and he gives so that he can keep. He sees the invisible, he hears the inaudible, and he knows that which passes all understanding. the life of the Christian. Very different than the life of this world. But that was that's what God has called us to. There's a reason we've been reconciled. It's Jesus Christ wants to present us holy before God Almighty. What an amazing truth. The supremacy, all supremacy of Jesus Christ, He is sufficient For any who would come to Him and accept that. Let's close in prayer and we'll be conclude this Sunday school hour. Lord, we thank you for today and we thank you for For these truths that we've looked at in the Word of God this morning. And we pray, God, that we wouldn't lose sight of Christ's sufficiency, but understanding that there was a purpose That we are to be on a journey whereby we are made more and more like Christ. Where we are more less and less of what we used to be. Not sinless, but sinless. Lord, I pray that you would help us to be that. That kind of a Christian. Live a life of a testimony of your changing power in our hearts. And Lord, we'll thank you for it. Go with us into the morning service. May your will be done. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.