Uh we are going to try and cover seven verses uh of chapter number two, which I think is the largest block of verses we've covered thus far, but um Um that the first seven verses kind of really set the stage and there's a transition in chapter number two that begins with verse number eight uh that really starts the warning with regards to the apostasy and things that were being taught and And so just the rest of the chapter looks at those things. So I wanted to get through the first seven verses and deal with that this morning if we if we can. So let's look at those. Colossius chapter 2 and verse number 1. I'll follow along as I read together with me here the first seven verses. For I would that ye know what great conflict I have for you. And for them at Laodicea, as for as much as have not seen my face in the flesh, I'm sorry, as many as have not seen my face in the flesh. That their hearts might be comforted, be knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ. In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit. Joy and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and builded up in him, and established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abound therein. with thanksgiving. So chapter number one that we've uh just concluded really uh we learned how Paul encouraged the saints there and us that we can take courage, that we can have confidence. And no matter what situation we deal with, and we can have confidence because of that verse, number verse number 27, the not just the key verse of that passage, but a key verse for the entire book of Colossians as the theme of Colossians is the supremacy of Christ. And in verse number 27 he tells us that we can be confident because of Christ in you. the hope of glory. Christ that's in you. And we talked about that last week, how we've got Christ in us and with us in every situation. We never have to tell him goodbye. We never have to say goodnight. Christ is with us and we And we can call upon him in our hour of need, regardless of the day or the hour. He first states outright the principles, the fact that Christ is in us. But here in chapter number two, as he opens up the beginning of this chapter, he starts to say, okay, Christ is in you. So what does that mean? What strengths are yours? What benefits do you have? What things do we learn from this fact that Christ is in us? And as we read these verses, we want to keep in mind who he's writing to and what he's writing for. Of course, he's writing to the saints at Colossae. And they make up that church at Colossae, and it's to be read to those in Laodicea as well. And uh so he's writing to them to the church. And so we see in these first seven verses, we're not going to spend uh much time on these things in particular because although this is applicable to the church as a whole, I want to apply it to you as individuals, but what is the church? It's All of us. Right? The church is made up of people. It's not a separate entity. It's not a, oh, here's the church and here's the people. The church is the people. And so he's writing to the church. He's writing to the saints. But as we think about a church and some some admonitions that a church should have, uh that means they should be part of our lives. So we're going to apply it to our lives, but just listing here in verse number one, a church should have a pastor willing to struggle in prayer and concern for them. You see the Apostle Paul there in that. Then in verses two and three, professing confidence and assurance, the church should have confidence evidence and assurance in in what they believe. And verse number four, a church should resist seductive teaching, not beguiled by enticing words, but should resist seductive teaching. And they should maintain discipline and order and steadfastness, verse number five. They should have order in their life, they should have discipline in their life, steadfastness. And verses 6 and 7, they should walk in the Lord. Now, that's not my outline. I'm going to give you an outline. That's kind of an introduction, applying it to the church. Now we're going to look at it kind of verse by verse, dig in a little bit deeper, and see what God has for us. So first of all, here I want you to see Paul's solicitude. Solicitude. Any of you teens know what that word means? It is not no soliciting. Solicitude. Solicitude is concerned for It is showing attention to, giving care of, solicitude. Paul here in verse number one of chapter two says, For I would that ye know what great conflict I have for you and for them that are Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh. So he has here, first of all, under the solicitude is verses 1 through 3. The solicitude covers those three verses, but I want you to see, first of all, his anxiety. His anxiety, his great concern. Paul had concern for the saints. He desired to see the saints uh you know prosperous and and accomplishing all that God wanted for them and he had great concern for him. Once again we see this spirit of Paul where he's not uh self uh looking out for himself but always in prayer and in concern for the saints He he his his heartbeat and his desire is to see people reached, no matter where they are. And uh one this is one of the reasons why Paul's ministry was successful. Because his ongoing concern for others, even those who were not of his flock Even those that were not immediately known to him or that he had met. But he wrestled in prayer for them. He wrestled in prayer for the saints at Colossae and in Laodicea. And for you and I. By application. He says here For them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face. Do we fit into that category? So we do. Now of course Paul was talking specifically to the saints there in in Colossae and Laodicea and those there that hadn't seen his face, but I you know, we haven't seen his face, and we know of course that this is the word of God that this is for us as well. But Paul was concerned for them, even though he didn't know them personally. But he knew that they loved Christ, and Paul wanted for them all that he had in Christ, all that he knew of Christ's love and the change that was brought about into his life You know, I think about us, and as I contemplated this in Paul's concern for them, which he had never met, I wondered about our missionaries. And how Paul is here laboring in prayer, having great conflict in his soul over the saints that are in the Philippines. Over the saints that are in Trinidad. Over the Saints, uh there's there's there's people they've never met, but I wonder how many of us Have ever labored in prayer for saints we've never met. For people in those churches As missionaries labor there on the field to reach them and share with them the truth of God's word and the love of Jesus Christ and teach them about how the change that God can bring in their life and the hope that they can have in Christ. I wonder if we thought, oh, that's their job. Our job's here. But having a concern for all the saints. And I was convicted, really, as I pondered that thought for myself, for our missionaries and those that we know at a distance. We don't you know, we d maybe we've never seen them, maybe we won't ever see them this side of glory. But Paul here set an example for us. And uh hey could You tell the guys out in the foyer to hold if I can hear them I know you guys can hear them really well. And uh it's distracting me, so it's gotta be distracting you. Um so We need to think uh about our missionaries and those that laboring there. Paul wanted to feed the sheep, but he also wanted to fend off the wolves that would come and teach them with enticing words and he strove to try and uh give these truths unto them So we see Paul's anxiety as concern for them. Then we see Paul's attainment in verse number two. He says, That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love unto all riches of the full assurance of the understanding to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and to the Father and of Christ Jesus. He wanted them to Attain unto all the riches that were available unto them through Jesus Christ. And He challenges them to be students, united together in the study of the riches. of God. He encouraged them. That word comforted there actually means encouraged. He comforted them, but it means encouraged them. Sometimes you just need to be encouraged. To do a task. Especially a hard task. Sometimes you just need to be encouraged. So I mean somebody the word comforted there is comforted, but it actually means encouraged and uh we know of course it comes from the uh Greek word paraclete to come alongside which is what The Holy Spirit is for us. He is our paracleet. He is our comforter. He comes alongside us. But sometimes isn't it a comfort to have somebody come alongside you and just say, hey, let me help you with this? To have somebody just say, hey, I'm going to be there for you. Let's do this together, and you're able to receive encouragement from that. That's what Paul was saying. To be encouraged to do a hard task this last week. The boys and I went down, we dropped off Elysiate College, and we did some work for Dad. Now, Dad and Mom were quite impressed about the level of work that we got done. And you kept commenting on that man, I can't believe. Uh you know, at the end of the first day, they said, you've already done more than we thought we were going to get done the whole time you were here. And uh I told the boys, I said, I don't know why Dad's saying that because he's the one who started this whole crazy work thing. And he's uh this all was him to start with. So so we're working, we were on Tuesday morning Uh we worked late Monday night. We got there Monday night and we worked till late Monday night. We got up Tuesday morning and uh we began working and we started laying wood floor. We laid wood flooring, basically, outside of breaks for lunch and supper, uh, from nine in the morning till nine at night. And we were so we were on our knees all day long. Got got this wood flooring all laid. So at nine at night after we had a few minutes break. I said, okay, uh next thing we need to do is we need to bring in the cabinets, kind of figure out where they're going to fit and stuff like that. And we're talking about it. And I'm talking to Dad through the process here and uh then I said, Okay, let's get at it And he looked at me and he goes, Now I mean, it was so funny. I I I could have just laughed because it was such a complete role reversal. Because when I was a kid, dad would have been, okay, let's do it, and I would have been no You know, we've been working all day. We've been working since nine o'clock this morning. You want us to keep working? And I and Dad looked at me and he's like, son, I don't think I can And I said, that's all right, Dad, don't worry about it. You you relax. You you can go to bed. The boys and I will do it. No problem. We're here to get it done. And Dad's like, well, I'll supervise And I said, okay, you can supervise. We'll do the work. And so uh we we worked for another few hours there, uh got got the cabinets in and everything kind of figured out, ready to tackle in the morning. But dad was not ready to do that task But with a little bit of encouragement, we got it done. That's what Paul says. He wanted to comfort them. He wanted to encourage them to do this labor uh for the Lord. It's like a general who had come and encouraged the troops. You know, you've got a group of men who are dejected and discouraged and the fire is gone and the ambition to to go back into battle is lost. And the general would come and talk to them of the purpose, of the cause that they're fighting for, of those that are home that are relying on them. He would stand with them and say, man, we've got to do it, and this would renew the fire in their heart and give them ambition to go again. That's what Paul is saying to them. I want you to be encouraged. To be united, he says. United. The word is knit together. That is joined together. That word knit means literally like fastened together knit it together like uh I don't knit, so I'm gonna u use the application of uh welding. When I take two pieces of metal They're separated. They're two individual pieces, but I take them and use the welder and they are joined together. They become one piece. He says, hey, as Christian believers, you're to be united together in this purpose But what is it that unites them? They are to be united in love. United in love for their fellow students, for the subject that they're studying That's what they're to be united and drowned. The welding rod for the believer is love. Methods change, modes, modes change, service schedules or times of services might change. Organization of a service might change. Programs in a ministry might change. But we're not united together around a 6 o'clock evening service. That's not what unites us. We're united in the love of Christ. That is what unites us. The love of Christ. We sing the song, Blessed be the tie that binds our hearts in Christian love, the fellowship of kindred minds in likeness to that above. The tie that binds. What is that tie that binds us together? It is the love of Christ. Not just any love, but agape love. Agape love. Love that we learn of from Christ Himself, who gave Himself. Love that doesn't expect anything in return. We love him because he loved us. And we love one another because he loved us. He loves us. Because he loves one another. We have that tie. There was two men that were traveling in Europe and they're they were businessmen, however, one was a Christian. And the other was not. And uh they just happened to be walking down a street and this Christian met a missionary. there in Europe. And they began talking. And of course, the the Bible says that the Spirit beareth witness. And immediately these two had lots in common and they began to talk and and and share and exchange and and they they were like old friends and after a few minutes they separated and walked away and the other businessman And looked at his friend and he says, says, uh, so how long have you known that guy? He says, I just met him. He says, Really? He says, You were talking to him like you've been friends forever. He says, Oh, we're brothers And he says, You're brothers? I thought you said you just met them. He says, I did. But we're brothers in Christ. And that immediately knits our heart together, and that's what we We should have in Jesus Christ. Have have you e we used to play this when we were kids. Have ever as far as I know, they've never heard of this game. Honey, if you love me, will you please please smile? Have you guys ever heard of that? How many of you guys have heard of that? Honey, if you love me, will you please please smile? There's a couple. So this is a game we played when we were teenagers. And uh you get into a big group. And if you're it, you have to find somebody in the group. And you have to get down on one knee. And you looked him in the eye and you say, honey If you love me, will you please please smile And they have to their job is to look at you and they have to look you in the eye and say, Honey, I love you, but I just can't smile. And if they can do that without sig smiling, they get to stay seated. No, she's smiling. But if they can do that without smiling, they get to stay seated. If they can't, then they're it and they have to pick somebody and they have to walk around. They have to pick somebody to do that to you. Now that's a that's a brutal game. Um I I don't know what it accomplishes, but you know, we played that when we were kids. But what I'm saying is that Real love shows. It shows on our face. It shows in our actions. The Apostle Paul displayed his love by his continual prayer. by his concern for the saints and real love for our brothers and sisters in Christ is going to show they're to be united in that kind of love. Do you remember young love? Do you remember when when your love was young and the fire was still there, when the passion was still there and the the desire to to know one another and to get to know each other and and In the fervency of that young love, I mean even the rain was romantic. It didn't ruin your day. You were gonna have a have a date in the park and it was pouring down rain would just be singing in rain. I mean it didn't matter, right? It was all we we were in love. It didn't make any difference. That's the kind of love our hearts are to be knit together. And you know when we have that kind of love for one another, we can overlook some things. We don't get bent out of shape so easily. Our hearts are knit together in agape love, and and I'll tell you what, if things don't go exactly as we originally were gonna do them, it's it's not the end of the world. We're not all upset and bent out of shape. We just say, hey, that's alright, let's go on. Let's do it. It's our hearts knit together in love In full assurance, he says, full assurance, he wanted them to be thoroughly convinced of what they had been taught. It was supposed to be more than head knowledge for them to stand against the error that they were going to be facing. We are to hold fast to the doctrine that we have received. One commentator put it like this with regards to this passage. He said Perhaps we have gone further than had knowledge. Maybe we have sought to examine these things in the light of modern scholarship and are satisfied in our own minds that they are true. Good, so far as it goes, but it could be but a cold agreement of the mind. We should not speak lightly of the attitude, for the mind assuredly plays its part. But something further here is called for. Through the framework of orthodoxy, there must be a flowing of red pulsating blood of conviction. Such as a growing understanding of what lies beneath, what lies within these truths, that we shall capture the hearts of men. He's saying it's got to be something that as we read these things from our Savior, that it's not just an agreement of our mind, it's not just an understanding of, oh, this is true. But it becomes something that is a conviction of our heart that is unwavering, that is assured, that is settled, that is foundational, and we're not going to change. It is a truth, he says, we've got to know that, that they would have full assurance, full understanding of these great mysteries. of the Word of God. It is the job of the church to teach and to make clear the mysteries of God, but it is the job of the saint to apply them to their life and to be assured of them personally. You know, Paul is saying this uh because the of course the Gnostics tried to make a mystery of the knowledge of God. They tried to say there's all this knowledge that you need and only we have it. But Paul was saying, no, what you need is Jesus Christ. They were to be united in the pursuit of the understanding of this mystery through God. In verse number 3, he says, In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge? All the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. You see, the Gnostics believed that they had special knowledge. That there was a lot of unknown things that needed to be revealed to the saints in order for them to attain salvation And they had people had to work and go through these different levels of attainment of knowledge and understanding in order to get saved, in order to be saved. But Paul answers that outright and says, nope. It's in Christ. All the attainment of knowledge. Of wisdom and knowledge. All these treasures, they're not hidden some sect, some group, they're in Jesus Christ and Him alone. It's hid in Christ. It's hid in Christ, not in some book somewhere, not in some man's own head. The amazing thing is, is Christ makes it revealed and understandable to anybody. Anybody that knows Christ, it's hid to the intellectual. It's hid to the educated. It's hid to those that would just want to study this from the standpoint of education. But to the one Who knows Jesus Christ, it's revealed. It's given to you. Education is not necessary to know God. Don't let people tell you or or convince you that you you must uh have a certain level of education in order to understand and to know all of God's truths. Oh, you can know God, but you can't really know God unless you know Greek. I mean I had a man tell me that. I stood and talked to him and he talked to me about he's like I don't understand how you could be a preacher and not speak Greek. Don't you want to know what Christ said? I said, I know what Christ said. It's right here. And I says, I can take a little book. Called a Hebrew and Greek dictionary. And I can look up any word I want to know in the original. I don't have to speak it for God to reveal it to me. The truths that He wants me to learn and to have. And this man had spent years studying Greek. And he was off doctrinally on several major truths. And we talked several times and went round and round about this and he used to bring me papers and we would discuss these things, but uh I said, listen, I don't have to know Greek to know God. And you don't have to either, because this is all in Jesus Christ, and when you know him, the Bible says the Holy Spirit will guide you into all knowledge. Understanding and knowing God is just through the Holy Spirit. So we see here his uh the Apostle Paul, his solicitude, his concern for the saints Then I want you to see his struggle, verse number four and five. He says, And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. Paul's argument here for them. He says, hey, people are going to try and entice you. They're going to try and beguile you. To beguile is to be tricked by reason. It's not just to be outright tricked, but it's to be tricked by reason, somebody with a good argument. Um the enticing words. We as Christians should have a settled faith. Have a settled faith. Sometimes as you might talk with somebody, like I mentioned, this gentleman who uh talked to me about Greek and and And he had some really good army arguments and he was really a a smart and in intellectual type of guy and he could uh talk uh upwards and and backwards and forwards about different passages of scripture. And for me, of course, I talked to you about my memory uh and how I I can I have to go back and look at that again and restudy it, even though I've already studied it and that type of stuff and And and so sometimes I I d stand there and I I feel like an idiot. I know you've never felt like that, but y you know, sometimes you get to talking to somebody from a cult, from from some false religion And they they present an argument to you and you're like, that sounds pretty good. Huh, I wonder, and maybe in your mind you don't have an answer. For what they're saying or how to refute or to give an answer back for what they're saying. But the Apostle Paul says you need to be settled in your faith. Even though you might not have an answer all the time, don't be guiled by enticing words. You need to be settled in your faith. Know what you believe Settle in your faith. We see Paul's absence in verse number five. Paul's absence he says, For though I be absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit. That's what a lot of people said this morning. No, I won't although I be absent from church, I'm with you. I'm with you, Pastor. We're we're there in spirit, amen. So he says, although I be absent in flesh, yet I'm with you in spirit Joying and beholding your order and your steadfastness in your faith. So his absence, he says, he rejoices to see their good order. Their good order. That is uh uh actual uh the what the means is a regular arrangement of things. You know, our lives should have order about them. Our lives should be ordered. Paul was able to, from a distance, look at this church And say, they're doing things right. They've got some order. There's a regular arrangement of things. And as we talk about the church, people should have jobs that they do. There should be organization in the church. There should be a regular arrangement of things. It ought to not just be haphazard and, oh, we're just gathering today and whatever. We'll see what happens, you know, and and but there ought to be an organization about things. And you know, there ought to be some organization in your life too as a saint. You ought to have a regular order of things. What if somebody looked at you from afar or for your life? Would they say there's some order there? Now one of the character traits on my list that we didn't get to actually was orderliness. Orderliness. Having things done decently. and in order. Paul said he he noticed from a distance that they did things in order and he commended them for that. He says, man, I noticed your good order, your arrangement of things. He also says he rejoiced to see their steadfastness in their faith. Solid, unmovable force is what that means. means steadfast. It's a solid, unmovable full force. Both of these terms, that order and steadfastness, really are rooted in a military terms. And which may very well have been on Paul's mind. You remember Paul wrote this from jail. from prison, being kept by the Roman guards. And maybe as he watched these Roman guards and thought of them and how they were systematic in the changing of the guard and how they did the jobs that required of them in a very uh orderly fashion. Maybe he thought about that and said, you know, that's the the Christian life. Soldiers of Jesus Christ. You guys got some order and you got some steadfastness. This steadfastness actually uh means An unmovable force. I think about, and be ye steadfast, unmovable, and always abounding in the work of the Lord. Another passage which Paul pinned. We're to be steadfast. Unmovable. An unmovable force. It's like a soldier where they're there and their commanding general says, hold the line. Hold the line. Don't let the line break. Hold the line. That's what it's like. Hold the line. Be steadfast. As Christians, we're to have a steadfast faith. And that's what Paul was commending for them. Then in verses six and seven we see their we see his sermon. We see his sermon And he says in verse number six, And ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. Paul gives them advice in verse number six. He said, because you have Christ, because Christ is in you, walk in him. Walk in him. A new believer in Christ needs to learn to walk like a Christian. You know it's a new walk. It's it's all new for them. Everything's going to be different. And it might take a little bit of time for them to learn They they've got to get a new pattern of doing things. They've got to learn to change what they used to do and what they're going to do now. But as Christians, we are supposed to have a new walk Some people walk worthy and some walk worthless. How is your walk? Let me give you a couple of thoughts in the Word of God about a Christian and his his new walk. He says, so walk ye in him here. He says, listen, because you have Christ in you. Walk in Christ, but throughout the scriptures we have several other admonitions that this journey of the Christian life that we're on is looked at as a walk. In Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 2, he says, walk in love. As Christ also hath loved us. And we've spoke about this already this morning. We won't take time here, but we're supposed to walk in love. In Ephesians 5, verse number 8, he says, walk as children of light. We are to walk as children of light. We're we're not supposed to be walking as though we're in the dark. Ha have you ever tried to go through a room with the lights off? Do it all the time. He says he just likes it where, you know, people see there's people home and stuff like that, you know, lights are on. Uh but Carol's like, What what do we want the lights on for? But have you ever tried to go through in the in the dark? You walk through it and it's you know you trip over something or you fall well. God said as Christians you're not supposed to be walking like that. You have been given light You have the Holy Spirit inside you. You have the Word of God to guide you. You're not supposed to be walking as the world walks. You're not supposed to walk like you're still in darkness, tripping and falling over the things in this world, dealing with some of the struggles that the people of this world deal with. As saints, we're not supposed to be dealing with those things. God showed us how to live above and beyond that. Why are so many Christians still walking like they're in darkness? That's not what God wants for us. We're supposed to be walking in light. He says you're to walk worthy in Ephesians 4. 1, walk worthy of the vocation whereunto you are called. Listen, God's called us into his glorious light. God's given us a new walk and he's called us Christians, which is Christ-like. We're to walk worthy of that. Amen? In Colossians chapter 4 and verse number 5, he says to walk in wisdom. We're to walk in wisdom. The wisdom of the Word of God. You know it's an interesting study. If you look at this, but wisdom is actually Jesus Christ personified. And then here in this chapter, he says, walk in Christ. And then in chapter four and verse number five he says, walk in wisdom. Almost the same statements. In 3 John 1, verse number 4, he says, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. We're to walk in truth. That's a walk we're supposed to have. And in Galatians 5. 16 he says, walk in the Spirit. So lots of places in the Word of God our lives, a Christian life is considered or talked about as a walk. And there's many admonitions for us in how we're supposed to walk. As if new believers, they might need to find some new entertainment. It might take them a little while to find that new walk. They might have to find uh a new vocabulary. It might take a little while to to find that new walk, uh that that change, but we're supposed to. As believers, we're supposed to learn this new walk. We learn it. Where where where do we learn it? We learn it from the Word of God. We learn it from worshiping together here in church. But do you know one other place we will learn it? It's from the walk of other believers. And there's far too many young Christians being led astray by older what should be more mature Christians who are not walking as they should. A new Christian gets saved and they're trying to learn the new walk and they're saying, oh man, I'm supposed to go to Sunday school? Oh, okay. I I I I want to learn about God. And and and they they come to church Sunday night and they think, where's I thought they've been saved a long time. I thought they Um there in their lives they're starting to give up some things. They've been saved. They're learning a new walk. They're changing their language. And then they're standing around talking with some saints of God. And some of the wrong language comes out of a saint's mouth. And this new Christian goes, I thought we weren't That I that doesn't we're confusing the new saints. Because as what should be More mature saints who have learned how to walk. We're leading younger saints astray. We're supposed to learn this new walk. And we're supposed to have that Paul's advice is to walk in Christ, walk in Christ. Now, I'm not going to have time. We but we're already over here. Verse number seven, we see Paul is abounding, and we'll get into that next week and move on. conclude these thoughts. I'll stop right there with the walking. How's your walk? How's your walk today? Lots of lots of truth right there. We just gave you the conclusion here. Let's pray and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you for today and the time to be in Sunday school. Lord, thank you for the attentiveness of your people this morning. I pray God that their hearts were challenged. And Lord, would you be with us as we go into morning service? Service, would you speak to hearts and give us a a wonderful time around your word and worshiping together in your house today? In Jesus' name, Amen.