I'm hoping to be able this morning just kind of give you a bird's eye view, kind of give you some historical context, looking and viewing some of these things. and just putting uh kind of the the book as a whole inside of our view. I hope that you had opportunity this week to listen to or to read it once or twice in preparation for class as we over the coming week weeks we'll be studying this. I really, as I said, don't know how many weeks this is going to take. I'm just going to go verse by verse. And I've never really done a study this way. I usually will take like one chapter at a time and just kind of Give you some key thoughts and we will move to the next chapter or I'll do something topically, uh, that kind of thing, but this will be uh you know an exegesis of the past passage uh just verse by verse through the text. But this morning we want to look at an overview, uh kind of looking at the writing as a whole of this book that uh God has given us in In the New Testament here, written by the hand of Paul, of course, by the inspiration of God. This uh the book of Colossians is uh one of the four prison epistles Uh so it was one of those uh epistles which uh the apostle Paul wrote while he was in jail, while he was uh under uh I mean kind of a uh a soft jail, as it were. Uh he was under like a house arrest. He having being a Roman citizen, having the the rights and privileges afforded to him Uh he was kind of locked in a in a whole house and he actually could have visitors. People could come and go, people could come and see him. He uh talked to you know, often had visitors come and we we see those interactions and those Different times uh people come in and meeting him and greeting him and he says, hey, bring me the books, bring me the writings when you come back. And so he would have visitors And while he was there, uh he pinned uh this book, as well as three others that are known to us as the prison officials, because he wrote wrote it while he was incarcerated. In approximately sixty-one to sixty Does anybody know what other books were written as part of the prison officials? What four books make up that group of books? Yeah, we have uh Philippians is one, of course, Colossians is one. There's uh one that only has one chapter in it um Titus no um Philemon and Ephesians So books uh that he wrote here, but it's believed that uh the book of Ephesians, Colossians and Philemon were written uh together, basically a uh between sixty one and sixty two AD uh at the same time, or at least they were written, you know, one after another in the same block or same period, and that he actually sent all three of them at the same They were carried. He had these three written and people came to see him and he says, Hey, uhestumus And Ticcius, I want you guys to take these books and deliver them for me. And uh they took these three books all together. Uh turn to Colossians chapter number four. If you're in your Bibles there, we see uh A proof text for the fact that this was one of the prison epistles in chapter 4 and verse number 3. He says, Well, praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ. And what's the last uh part of that sentence there? For which also I am also in bonds. He says, hey. We're praying that God will give us utterance. We're praying that God would give us the ability to preach and to teach and to share, that He'll give us the words to say and the boldness to say it. And he says, which is why I'm in bonds, which is why I'm in prison. Because I was preaching. Because I did have utterance. And now look, I'm I'm in prison. And uh I'll tell you what, reading about the Apostle Paul, what a what a challenge it is, sometimes we feel like we're going through it and we we feel like we're we're really uh enduring hardness and so on and to read about the Apostle Paul and and uh certainly be a challenge to us because he was imprisoned and he was beaten and he was shipwrecked and uh all of all of these things So he wrote these four prison officials. Colossians and Ephesians have been compared to one another. It's almost as if uh you don't teach one without the other. Uh they kind of they're they've been called twin epistles. They They they kind of deal with the same topic or the other side of the coin as it were. The same thing, but maybe one deals with the heads and the other deals with the tails of it. It's their their sister or twin epistles uh kind of dealing with the same types of things, but maybe from a different aspect or a different point of view, where the book of Ephesians deals with the glory of the church in Christ. The book of Colossians deals with the glory of Christ in the church. So very, very similar, but from a different aspect. Where Ephesians deals with the body, you know, the body of the church. The bride of Christ deals with the body, the book of Colossians deals with the head. Who is the head of the church Christ. Christ is the head of the church. And so it deals with Christ, but Christ as the head of the church. Where Ephesians deals with the body. Which Christ is the head of, but it's again same same type of thing, but looking at from a different aspect. The title of the book obviously comes from the destination The destination where the book was supposed to end up, the city of Colossae. In Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 2, he says, To the saints. And the faithful brethren in Christ, which are at Colossae. He wrote this book to this group of people, these saints, in the town of Colossae. Colasse was just a small town. A small town that was known for wool production. So a town of workers, laborers, people that were uh, you know, not not they were industrious. uh and given to uh to much work. Uh Colossae was about a hundred miles east of Ephesus, but it was only eleven miles From Laodicea, and eleven miles from there, Laodicea was a commercial town, a town of politics uh town of much trade. And uh did he get our map up for us? Okay, um so You can see um Colossians here. We have these three cities here which were considered or called a tri-state area. you know, these three cities and you'll s we'll look at the reference in the text here, but it's about a hundred miles to Ephesus. Only uh eleven miles to here and then um little less than that to Hypologies, but these cities right working together is about fifteen miles to Heropolis. Now Heropolis was known as a city of health. It was a city of relaxation. And when I think about that I think about like Hot Springs, Arkansas. A city like that where the there's the springs and there's the you know, you go there to rejuvenate and get your strength back and There's spas all over the place and you know, massage parlors and places where you can go. So that's what that that city was. It was kind of that kind of an atmosphere where people were more uh maybe that's where people retired and went there like they do to Florida now. You know, they they kind of just say, hey, uh time to relax and they had that that place. So that's what that city was known for. Um this whole area of course was Asia Minor, which is now modern day Turkey. Asia Minor was a great cultural center of the world. Um being so it was known for uh uh real heathenism, uh paganism, the different religions that were brought from all different parts of the world, as there's it happens when you you you get into a place where where people come from all different aspects or places of the world, you get a lot of uh different beliefs and thought systems. And that's what happened here. So look in chapter number four and verse number thirteen. We see that this book was written to the Church of Colossae, but was supposed to be shared with these other churches. He says in chapter 4, verse number 13, he says, For I bear him record that he hath great zeal for you. And them that are at Laocea and at Hypolis. And look at chapter 4 and verse number 16. He says, And when this epistle is read among you, Cause that it be read also in the church of Laodiceans, and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. He's saying to them, he says, Hey, I've sent this to you. Once you've read it and you've got a good understanding of it, share it with this other church Take it over there. And you know what? I've sent them a letter, and when they've read it, I want you to read the letter that I sent them. Some believe that the letter to the Laodicean church was the letter uh to Ephesus. that that letter was to be shared among these churches here and that would be the letter that he was referring to. We don't know that for sure. But what the Apostle Paul is telling them, he says, hey listen, I have not told you everything you need to know. Here's a letter for you. Read this letter. But listen, as soon as you're done, I want you to read the letter that I sent this other church. Because there's more to learn yet. There's a little more that you need. to know. We, of course, know that the whole Bible is profitable. The whole Bible is profitable. And it's good for us. And we can't uh we may like the practicality of the book of James, but we can't just spend our entire life as believers in the book of James. We've got some other books that we need to read And we might not care for the teachings of some other book, or we might not get a whole lot of uh things out of some of the books as they're maybe a little harder to read, but we know that it's all profitable. And Paul's admonishment here to the church was, hey, when you've read what I sent you, then Then get that letter and read that letter too. And it's just a challenge to us to remember we're to read the whole council of God, all that God has given to us. whole Bible. The people of Colossae were very were a mixed people, a Gentile people for the most part, strong Greek influence. But in that, there was also a strong influence of Jewish culture. And you'll see see that as we get into the text, this this combining or this clashing of these two worlds, two different beliefs, the thought systems of the Greek and how everything is natural and and uh you know their their ideas and then the Jewish and all of their uh adherences to the law and the teachings of Moses and all of that. And then interjected in that, you have the truth of Jesus Christ, and that he has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And now you have these three things that people are trying to put together in this book. And uh they're coming up with some pretty funny doctrines. And the Apostle Paul says, hey, we need to address this. It's believed that in 62 B. C. there was about 11,000 Jewish people in that tri-city area. So the church at Colossae, this church where Paul wrote this letter to that he sent to them. According to Paul, he had never been there. Look in chapter two and verse number one. He says, For I would that you knew what great conflict I have for you, and for them that are Laidosia, and for as many as have not seen my face. In the flesh. He's writing to them and he says, Hey, I know we've never met, but I want you to know that I care about you I want you to know that I have got some truth here for you and I want to be a help to you. But we haven't met. You haven't seen me. He has never been to this church as far as we know. And according to his testimony here in chapter 2 and verse number 1 But he's trying to help them. He's still writing to them. I think that it's uh interesting That uh, you know, he had never he had never met them, but he had given them the truth, and they were supposed to read it and follow it. You know, we've never met Paul. Uh we've never met those that God used to pin any of these pages. Yet it's still truth. And this church at Colasa had never met Paul. They had probably heard of him. They had probably learned some things of him but they'd never met him, but they had this truth sent to them. And as a church, they were to take it as the word of God And apply it to their life and apply it to their church and use it. And we too are to take these words as words from God for us today. Even all these years later. The church was started during or shortly after Paul's time in Ephesus. Now, Paul spent uh almost three years in the city of Ephesus. Now he he was not, he had never met these people. He didn't go down here and start this church, but it is believed that because of his teaching and his work in Ephesus, that there was raised up some disciples. There was raised up some uh uh people, men of the faith, and that those men said, hey, there's nobody reaching anybody down there uh at Colossey, I'm gonna go let's go down there. We're gonna start church down there. There's nobody, there's nobody over there in Towson. There's nobody over there in Parkville. There's nobody over there in Washington, D. C. There's Nobody and they saw this need and they said, Hey, we need to go You know, that's part of our call as a church is to hopefully God will allow us to raise up some who would get a burden and say, you know what, we've got to go. There's a need here There's a mission field where there's nobody being read nobody reaching those people with the gospel with the truth, and we've got to go do that. And these churches, they were an extension of Paul's ministry. But not directly a result of his ministry. He did not do it personally, but because of people that he invested in, they went out and Did it. He was writing to them out of love for them. He may have felt a measure of responsibility because the founder of the church had been led to the Lord by Paul. on the straight and narrow because you know uh I know the I know your pastor and I know he needs some help maybe. You know, I d I don't know but he he he wanted to he wanted to help him. So look in chapter one and verse number seven. We see here that the founder of this church in Colossae, in Colossians chapter 1, verse number 7, he says, as ye also learned of Epaphras, In later in the book, he's called Epaphroditus, and they're one and the same. It's just two ways of saying the same name. But he's called a papyrus here, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful. Minister of Christ. It's believed that Epaphroditus started the church, one of Paul's converts, and here he was a minister of Christ among them. He was not the pastor at this time. This time at the writing of the church, she believes he started the church, but look in chapter four and verse number seventeen. Archipus was the pastor of the time of writing, is what we what he says here in chapter 4 and verse number 17. He says, I say unto Archipus, take heed to the ministry. Which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it. He says, Hey, God put you in the ministry. So he's leading this church at Colossae, and there's a challenge directly to him from the Apostle Paul, take heed to that. Fulfill it, do what God's called you to do, do the job. So we're learning about this church where this letter was sent, Paul sending this letter to this group of people in this town with a great mix, multitude of different thoughts and beliefs in this church started by one of Paul's converts and pastored here by this man. Another interesting thought, or interesting to know, is that they met in Philemon's house. We know that because over in the book of Philemon, chapter 1, verse number 2. 2 he says, and to our beloved uh Apeah and Archipus, our fellow soldier, and to the church in thy house. So they met in Philemon's house, which means that Philemon was a member of the church, and Onistemus would have been a member or an attender of the church, and they were together there meeting in Philemon's house trying to Do the work of the Lord. This book, written to this group of people, has an overriding theme. The theme of the book is the supremacy of Christ. Christ. The supremacy of Christ. We're going to see this over and over again as we walk through the verses of this text. But look in Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 11. In chapter 3 and verse number 11, he says, where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision. Barbarian, Sythian bond or free, but Christ is all and all. Christ is all in all. The supremacy of Christ, he says you've got these clashes of these cultures and the clashes of these beliefs and people trying to reconcile and put it together. He says, listen, there's neither bond nor free. There's neither Greek nor Jew. It's all about Christ. Christ is all and all. Look in chapter 1 and verse number 18. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have The preeminence. In all things he might have the preeminence. This is the theme of the book: that Christ would have the preeminence. The supremacy of Christ, the all-sufficiency of Christ. He's teaching them of the all-sufficiency of Christ's death. on the cross, that it doesn't take a combining of these worlds' philosophies, it doesn't take an adding to, it doesn't take an adopting of different beliefs. They were combining so many things, as we'll see as we get into the text of it here, and coming up with their own doctrine And their own ideas, and he says, listen, you don't need all that. Christ did it all on the cross. He is all in all. He is sufficient. The supremacy of Christ. The story is told of a celebrated German sculptor, J. H. Von Dachner. When he was asked by Napoleon Bonaparte to make a statue that would be put on display in the gallery of the Labour, that this great sculpture refused. The emperor, being a little offended, went back to the sculptor and offered him a grand sum of money, offered him a lot of money. He says, I would have you make this sculpture. And still, the sculpture refused. The artist refused to make the sculpture. And Napoleon, quite frustrated and upset, went to him and he says, Why? The recognition that you would get, putting your sculpture on display, doing it as a favor to me. Getting great funds, all this money, nothing can seduce you to get this done. Why would you not do that? To which the sculpture and the sculptor answered Sir, I have made a statue of Jesus Christ, and my chisels shall never carve another in my inferior object. When we have Christ, all else is inferior to him. All else is inferior. Paul's teaching on the supremacy and the all-sufficiency of Jesus Christ. So the key words of this book as you walk through it, if you're reading it week by week, listen for these key words and how often they come up. The word all. All and think about it and look at it when you're reading it with the idea of what is he referring to in the all, and how often does it refer to Christ as all in all. The word fullness. The fullness, the complete, the full, the completed work and filled. So the key words are all fullness and filled as you read through, and I have here a list of places where this is found. Many places throughout the book here and just these four chapters with these key words. I have here for the for you this morning just a basic uh handout. Um I'm gonna start right here and just g just grab one and and uh make your way to the back. Uh and I'll start a pile on this side. You can grab what you want and then just kinda hand the stack backwards and it'll uh it'll make its way. But this is just an outline. Uh again, I put his name on here, brother uh Warren Wersby uh producer the outline is just a copy of his outline out of his commentary. But I wanted you to be able to have a uh I wanted you to be able to have something as you're reading, as you're looking at it and studying just to kind of So we have, first of all, the doctrine that Christ is preeminence. Christ and his preeminence is declared really in chapter number one. There's other things that we're going to get into as we We're not necessarily gonna follow this uh directly. Uh I will just go verse by verse through the through the passage, but I wanted you especially in your own reading Reading and stuff to have something. So we see in the gospel, Christ is preeminiscent, preeminent in the in the gospel, and that He's sufficient. Christ's death on the cross is sufficient. Christ in creation. All things were made by him. He is deficient. He is deficient in the church. His preeminence ought to be in the church And then Paul and himself, he says, hey, Christ was preeminent in my ministry. Talking about his own suffering and his own service for God. He says, hey, Christ is preeminent. We're doing it all for Christ. Whatever we're enduring, whatever we're going through, is not for our own recognition, for our own purposes, but for the cause of Christ. Then in chapter number two, he gives them the danger that Christ's preeminence is defined there in chapter. Number two. And he says, Beware of empty philosophies. And he's talking about these adoptions of these different doctrines that were being taught and these ideas that people are coming up with that you know, just a combination of of everybody's own thoughts and we're combining them, putting them together. And he says, Beware of religious legalism. Hey, they're they're combining and putting in some philosophies That aren't what Christ wanted. This warning has been called the Colossian heresy And it has been continued on even into today. There's a caution against philosophies, the ideas, uh, you know, uh ever learning and never coming to the truth. You know, sometimes it's this problem. Sometimes people know too much for their own good. Um Don and I were witnessing yesterday and we met a young lady and uh Uh she said what what did she start out with? Was she uh her first religion? I think she was religion. That was second I believe. So she started out as a Methodist and then she became I think it was Methodist, but then she became a Jehovah's Witness. And then now she says, well, she's just kind of doing her own thing. And uh she has as we talked more and more she's got some beliefs from from being a Jehovah's Witness and she even talked about how, oh yeah, I did what you guys are doing. I went out and you know, I I It was a witness for God and and you know she's like, but I don't know if I'm one of the hundred and forty four thousand and and you know when we talked about salvation. She's like, I don't know if it's if it's me or I guess y are you gonna go to heaven? I don't know, it depends if you're one of the hundred and forty four and then she said she knew Jesus Christ as her Savior, you know, that she had she'd been saved at one point, but she just got a combination of all these things and she says, Well it's kinda we're all just serving God, we're all just doing It's whatever way, whatever belief, whatever you want. And you know, we we met another guy and he was talking about how his dad raised him and his dad uh his dad took him to the Catholic Church And they went to the Catholic Church for a little while and he said my dad didn't really believe anything in particular, but then he took us to the Methodist Church and we went to the Methodist Church for a little while and He said we went over here to a Lutheran church for a little while and he says just kind of exposed us to all the religions and and you know it was really neat, you know, just kinda get to make up your own mind and and uh I Walked away and told us, uh all you end up with that is somebody who's really mixed up. That's all that's all you get in that situation. I mean It's okay to get exposed to another religion so you understand another set of beliefs, so you know what they believe. But listen, it's not just everybody doing whatever they want. As Don was talking to this young lady, he he he tried to continually point her back to the Word of God and says, Well, do you believe the Bible? Well then we have to go back to the Bible. It's not just what I want to do or what somebody else wants to do or what this person says We have to have a standard, we have to have a truth, and it has to be the word of God, otherwise everybody just does whatever they want. And that's what happened here at the Church of Colossey is everybody was combining their own thoughts, their philosophies. And then it went on to ceremonialism. It went on where they kind of started putting in, they were gauging their level of spirituality by what they were doing. And we as people have a tendency to do that because we like to be able to see what we're doing. We like to have the tangible. So we like to gauge our level of spirituality by what we're doing with our hands. By our activity, and this is where the ceremonialism started to come in, and hey, you have got to if you're going to truly be spiritual, you've got to have a red Bible. All Bibles should be read. Amen. See? That's truth. All Bibles should be read. I mean that is Bible. Right? So if you're gonna be spiritual, you've got to have a red Bible. This is the kind of things that could be brought into our lives if we aren't careful Where we start to set these things up and say, man, this is how you can be spiritual. When spirituality is not necessarily what we're doing, but it's what we are. I'm going to get into this in the morning service, but this is so vitally important for us as believers a lot of times, a lot of times I'm going to let the cat out of the bag. I'm going to be preaching on our theme verse for the month this morning, the morning service. If you not weary and well doing, for in due season you shall reap if you faint not. A lot of times the reason we get weary Is because we are so actively doing and we stopped being a long time ago. We feel like our level of spirituality is because of what we're doing And that is not it. Our doing should be an outflow of what we are on the inside. And if what what we are on the inside produces an action on the outside, praise God, but then that comes from inside. And the problem with Christianity today and all the way back here in the book of Colossians was that people were trying to do Christianity. Instead of be something real on the inside. And thereby letting that relationship and that love for Christ flow out of them. And letting what we do be a byproduct of a relationship with a Savior instead of trying to be spiritual by carrying a red Bible. Or doing this or that and we could go down the list. And we've got our own ceremonies today too that we want to prop up on a pedestal and feel that we've arrived as a Christian because we've achieved This level, or because we do this, and all the while we may be dead on the inside. This was the problem of the church at Colossae. They were looking at ceremonialism. And he says, No, what you need is Jesus Christ. He says, beware of the man-made disciplines, asceticism, the idea of Putting your body under subjection. We know Paul was all for that, controlling the flesh. But they would try and hurt the flesh. Punish themselves in a measure of trying to achieve spirituality, and he's trying to teach them that that's not needed. Then in chapters three and four, he gets into the duty. What really we're talking about is the practical side of it. What does this look like? If we are being what God wants us to be, what does that produce in our lives? What is that preeminence of Christ in our life? What does that look like? How is that displayed? This is the life he's talking about. He's saying, you're going to put off the old man and you're going to put on the new. This is what uh one missionary called uh Love with Show. Love for God that has some shoe leather put to it. Faith with action. And he talks about how it's displayed in our personal purity and Christian fellowship. in our home, in our daily work, in our Christian witness, in our Christian service. So this cause for the writing of the book I've given you already, and that is that there were many heresies coming up. Lots of false doctrines being taught. The Gnostics who felt they had special revelation. You know, anytime you hear from somebody that has special revelation, be weary. I was listening this last week to uh a pastor. Uh I'd give you his name, but I don't He talked about how he had special revelation from God. And he was introducing uh Pastor Paula White. Uh which if you don't know about her, that's fine. You don't need to know her. Um so uh she got up and spoke, but he talked about how Pastor Paula White had special special revelation from Donald Trump about what's going on in our country and apparently she had talked to Donald Trump. But then but she had some inside information from Donald Trump. Now he says now I have inside information from God. I mean he's standing in a whole group of people and talked about but this is what what people like that. They like to feel like they're a part of this. Hey we've got the inside track. And if you do this, you're going to have this knowledge. You're going to have this understanding that nobody else has. We're all part of the secret. And this kind of idea was permeating the church there. And it's still out there today in the world today. You've got to be careful about it, this blending of false and truth. And that's what they do. They'll blend some truth in. With all the false teaching. They got they elevated ritualism, mysticism Self-denial into their religious practices to appear spiritual, but it had real no inner value. The comfort today, the comfort for us today, and I'll be done, is this is not new. It's happened all the way back here. In in the Word of God. From the very beginning, this idea, the false teachers, those that were doing right, were under attack on every hand. They dealt with false doctrine coming to the church. They felt vulnerable. They felt threatened. They thought, how are they going to succeed in a wicked world? Paul was encouraging him as he as they wrote this doctrine, listen, Christ is enough. Christ in all his sufficiency. We have the power of God to succeed. I hope that we're strengthened by the same lessons that He gave all this time ago. As they're taught to us as individuals as we deal with things like this in the world today. I was reading with the kids uh the life story of of Billy Sunday. And we're just about done with that uh book, but we're reading about him and there was one chapter on the attacks. And Bill is Billy Sunday was uh preaching And he he he he kind of fell into it. He wasn't actually planning to be a crusader or evangelist and preach all over the country and he kinda fell into it. Somebody that was supposed to preach couldn't pre And they asked him to come and God blessed the meeting in unbelievable ways. And they some somebody else called and says, Hey, I heard about what happened over here. Would you come? And and it just kind of happened. And here he is preaching the citywide crusades. We read about one last night that was uh um I think sixteen weeks long in the city of New York where he preached on a to an average of over seventeen thousand people a night. Um God blessed in miraculous ways. But this one chapter was on the attacks that He was under, and how newspapers, of course, said that he was in it for the money. John D. Rockefeller did a uh review view of his financials, not of his of Billy Sunday's financials, just to see where the money was going. And most of the money that came in into the Crusades was given to the Veterans Fund and uh giving away. So he wasn't in it for the money, but they said he was in two newspaper writers constantly said exposing your children to the teaching of Billy Sunday is bad for their health. Uh other pastors didn't like his uh they said he was vulgar and and uh that he was too uh down to earth and too simple and uneducated. I mean the the list of things one guy got up on in one of his meetings and was run a big burly fella came running down to the front and he yelled he says I've been commissioned by God to put a beating on you and he was coming down to the front And uh Billy Sunday jumped down from the platform and when he jumped down he s he sprained his ankle. But he still he still stood up and uh he said, Well I've been I've been com And he he beat the guy down right there. And he says, You know, it's a good thing I sprained my ankle because I couldn't deal with them like I really wanted to. And he says that old that old flesh comes back too easy, you know. But what I'm saying is people attacked him. He was just trying to do what God wanted and people attacked him You know, I hope that we're encouraged as we go through this. It's nothing new. You're doing something for God, there's going to be opposition. There's going to be people that are going to criticize you. They're going to complain. They're going to say you're not spiritual. You're not doing it for the right purposes. Your motives are wrong or whatever. Listen, just do right. Just do right. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today, and we're excited about getting into this book. I pray, God, you'd teach us. I pray, Lord, you would open each verse and give me understanding. And help me to see the lessons there. Not new revelation, God. Help me to just have scales taken off my eyes that the lessons are exposed that you want us as a church. Church to see, to learn, to apply to our hearts and lives. Lord, we'd be better Christians for you because of it. We grow for having been in God's house today. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.