Colossians chapter 1, we are going to conclude this chapter today. We finishing up this first chapter of the four chapters of Colossians. Down in verse number 24 through 29, follow along as I read it here. He says, who now rejoice in my suffering for you and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church. Whereof I am made a minister. according to the dispensation of God, which is given to me for you, to fulfill the word of God. Even the mystery, which hath been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints. To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of his mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus Whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working which worketh in me mightily. As we tackle this, these concluding verses here in the first chapter of Colossians The title of this section here, verses 24 through 29, I've entitled Paul's Service. Paul's Service, his work for the Lord. As we do this, uh You understand, of course, that Paul was in a position of leadership. Paul was a missionary, uh serving as maybe an evangelist uh at many times as the founder, the the the starter of a church, so also there on the mission field serving as a pastor, as many of our mission missionaries are, they are missionaries going to a foreign country. But there, for their their people in that country, they're they're acting as the pastor for that church. They're serving in that position. So as we look at this about Paul's service, there's a twofold application that I want you to see. First of all, there's a direct application where Paul is talking about his ministry, his service. And so there's a direct application to those that would serve in a position, any type of full-time position. of ministering and serving God, preaching the word. So there's that direct application that would really be directed towards pastors. towards missionaries, maybe even evangelists, but kind of really deals with that idea. But there's a secondary application. And that is to all of us. Every believer. And certainly uh it's more directly applied here to the pastor himself. And we'll look at that, but it also is applicable to all of us as Christians and what we've been called to do. And so I want you to be able to see that And sometimes I may make application to the position of the pastor and fail to make the application to all of us in general, all of us as servants of God. But at other times I might make a application to the individual and fail to make it specifically towards the pastor, but I want you to engage your minds and realize there's a twofold application with each of these points as we're going. down through here and hopefully it'll challenge you and speak to your heart as it did to mine. Paul, this servant of Jesus Christ, fulfilling his call of God on his life I want you to see, first of all, in verse number 24, we see his attitude. Paul's attitude with regards to the service that God has for him. He says here, who now rejoicing in my suffering for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh. For his body's sake, which is the church. So he says, Paul's attitude, see, we see here, first of all, that he was rejoicing in the suffering that he endured. Paul was rejoicing in the suffering. He didn't look at the pun as the suffering he was enduring as punishment. He looked at looked at it as a blessing, as a privilege, to be able to suffer for Christ. He was not complaining about it. He said it was a privilege. A privilege to suffer. I think about it like this. If you've ever had a loved one, somebody you're really close to, somebody you really truly dearly love, going through some type of a sickness. Maybe you sat with them in the hospital. Many times a parent with a child will feel this, where they see their child going through something and you wish you could take their pain. You wish that somehow you could you you'd be like if if I could just If I could go through this for you, I would. If there was something I could do to to to ease the pain you're going through, if I have something I could do to To be in this with you, I I would do it, but you know, sometimes you you love them so much, but you feel so helpless to be able to ease the discomfort they're in and the pain they're going through and the trial that they're facing and you want to And Paul, I see his love for Jesus Christ, and he says, boy, I don't count it as punishment to be endured. This suffering, I count it as a privilege to go through what I mean any suffering that my Christ went through, to be part of that. I think it's amazing that he says here, who now rejoice in my suffering. What's the next two words? For you. He says whatever I have to endure for your sake is okay with me. You know, pastors need to be willing. To suffer for their people. They need to love the people that God has brought to the church enough that they're willing to go through. What they have to go through to endure what they might have to endure. They need to be willing to do that and not count it as punishment and not count it as a cross that they have to bear, but count it as a privilege to do it for Jesus Christ and to do it for the people that God has brought there. For a pastor will endure some suffering. He's going to have to deal with the fact that not everybody loves him, even though he may strive as hard as he can to love everybody It will be no matter how much he works or whatever endeavor he puts forth, it will seem like it is insufficient and not enough, and he just can't measure up. He can't meet the need. He can't make everybody happy. He's going to have to deal with that. He's going to have to deal with the fact that When he preaches the word of God and the truth of the word of God, sometimes truth offends. And some people were upset at him. Some people were get mad and and not want to listen anymore, not want to be part of the flock anymore, not want to hear the words that he's teaching, even though it's Christ's words. He might have to endure that. But a pastor should be willing to. Not just the pastor, but Christians. The Apostle Paul talking to Timothy over in Timothy was encouraging him in this matter, and he said, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus. Shall suffer persecution. All that are going to live godly shall suffer persecution. And the pastor should be willing to The pastor should be willing to face the suffering he might have to, and not count it as a burden, but count it as a privilege to do it. for God and for God's people. But before we're too hard on the pastor, let's just for a minute consider uh how many of you wouldn't answer the help wanted sign. And when you went in for the position, they said, Hey, the pay's not usually that good, and you're going to have to endure a lot of suffering. Are you ready to sign up? You're gonna have to deal with a lot of criticism, you're gonna have to deal with a lot of people not happy with what you're w what you're doing, you're gonna have to endure you know, I I hear things all the time from different from different folks over the years. years in in the church who, man, I don't get paid enough to put up with that. I ain't gonna continue to work there. I I don't deserve to be talked to that way. I'm not going to do this because, you know, uh the they they don't didn't pay me enough to work that that that job or I I didn't sign up to do that, I signed up to do this. You know, over and over. I mean I've heard many, many, many things So before we're too hard on the men of God, who are men just like you You know, and they deal and are tempted in every point just as you are. Before we're too hard on them, let's consider the fact that they uh are doing a job for God and to do it they will have to endure some things. But they should. As we see the Apostle Pauls here, his attitude towards suffering was, hey, it was a privilege. It was a privilege, not a punishment And that should be our attitude as we look at and see the things we might have to endure for Christ. The second part of this verse, we see his allegiance. His allegiance. He says here, the phrase written here, to fill up. What a peculiar phrase. Look at that again. He says, and to fill up that which is behind. Of the afflictions of Christ to fill up that which was behind. When you initially read that, you think, okay, there was something lacking. There's something behind. And he's going to fill up the afflictions of Christ. And well, we certainly know that there was nothing lacking. In the afflictions of Christ, in what Christ went through on the cross. There was nothing that Paul still needed to do to fulfill that. We know that that's not the case. That would be contrary to the rest of the book, for the whole book is really about the sufficiency of Christ and how Christ is all in all. He is enough So that would be contrary to that, but it also would be contrary to the rest of Scripture. So we know that that's not what Paul's saying here. He's not saying there was something lacking in what Christ went through. that he was going to fill up. So what is it that is being taught? There's several ways of looking at this. One is that men could say The those that would persecute Christ, their anger towards Christ was so deep rooted That Christ escaped the rest of their wrath. Because Christ was crucified on the cross and and I mean you've heard people say they they they're so mad that that they would say, you know what, I'm gonna kill you, I'm gonna raise you from the dead and I'm gonna kill you again. I mean they're they're so they're so upset. You you can't kill me more than I only only die once, sorry. Now Christ he rose from the dead. They couldn't kill him again. But uh what I'm saying, he he was he's on the right hand of the Father. He was no longer Present, but they still were full of anger. They were still full of bitterness. There was uh they they just wanted somebody to rail against because Christ was no longer present. Have you ever had to endure uh wrath that was really meant for somebody else? You ever had somebody, you know, your your mate comes home. with something from work on their mind. And you're enduring. You're like, don't get mad at me. I I did not do that. You know, it starts out, they're just telling you about what happened at work and before they're done they're mad at you. What did I do? I mean I I didn't you're just talking to me about it. How how am I all of a sudden You know, the bad person here. What what I think one aspect of this is Paul is saying those that would have liked to have uh continued to attack Christ, Christ is no longer here. But you know what I counted a privilege to bear that. I counted a privilege to to just say, hey, they want to attack him, but he's he's not here, so they're going to attack I'll take whatever's left. That that I'll fill up whatever whatever uh they had that they didn't get to dump on Christ, I'll I'll build that and I'll be glad to bear it. Because man, what kind of what kind of company Company is that to be in? In the company of Christ. Uh they would the hey, they meant it for him, but now I'll take it and I count it a privilege because man, who am I To stand in his shoes in this place? I I'm nobody. I can I can't do that. But they wouldn't have me do that. And Paul said, I I'm glad to. Think about standing for Christ who stood for you. He says to fulfill here. This could be to fill up, could also be stated to fulfill or to complete the work that Christ wanted to accomplish through his suffering on the cross. Not not talking about filling up or completing the work on the cross, but what Christ wanted to accomplish through that work. In that he says, uh he that hath begun a good work in you will fulfill it. He in his work on the cross began a work in you when you trusted Jesus Christ, and he has a work that he wants to And the Apostle Paul says, I'm going to complete that. I'm going to fill up, I'm going to complete all that Christ wants to do in me through his work on the cross. Anyone who serves Christ Is going to suffer. They're going to partake in a small way of the suffering that Christ did. Paul was told, even when he First came to Christ all the way back in Acts chapter 9. You remember his on the road to Damascus and he saw a light and was knocked off his horse. Even in that passage of Scripture, a few verses down, he says, For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my namesake. Even right at the beginning. He was told he was going to suffer for Christ's sake. And Paul said, hey, I'll do it. Maybe there's some things that I still have to endure for Christ. Maybe what Christ is trying to do in and through me is not quite full yet. Not quite complete. I've got to endure a little bit more, but I'm willing to take it all. Whatever else God has planned for me, whatever suffering, if if that, you know, Paul said, I've got a thorn in the flesh. I want it gone. But God said, no, my grace is sufficient. He says, I'm willing to take that. I'll do that. Whatever I have, what God has in store for me, I'm trusting God and I'm willing to endure that. Are you willing to fulfill the work of God in your life? Whatever God has planned for you? Paul said to, I mean, they told, he told Paul, he says, hey, you're going to have to endure some suffering. for me. You're going to have to do this. And whatever God's plan is for you, are you willing to fulfill that? To complete that? To do it for Christ? For his sake? When I think of Paul and all that he had to endure. Don't turn there, but I'll read you a passage in 2 Corinthians where Paul talks about some things that he went through. He says, are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool, I am more, in laborers more abundant and stripes above measure, in prison more frequent in deaths oft. Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep, and journeys offering, and per perils offering of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of mine own countrymen, imperils by the heathen, imperils in the cities, imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the sea, imperils in false brethren. Everywhere he went, he went with your perils. Went through hardship in weariness and in painfulness and watchings often in hunger and in thirst and in fastings in cold and in nakedness. Beside those things that are without that which cometh upon me daily, the care of the churches whereunto I also labor, striving according to his work, which worketh When I read that and I see that what Paul endured for Jesus Christ, and he says, Hey, I don't count it as punishment, I count it as a privilege. I look at it and wonder if I shouldn't be ashamed that my service for Christ has cost me so little. That I truly have not had to suffer. I have not had to go through These kind of things. I read the kids the stories of missionaries and those that have been persecuted for their faith, and uh I think Should I not be ashamed that my service for God has cost me so little? Paul said, I'm I'm willing to fill up, to take it all, whatever, whatever it is. And he's willing to complete that service for him. We see in verse number 25 his administration. So in 24 we saw his attitude about serving God, and that's certainly an attitude that we should have. His allegiance to God, willing to stay faithful to God regardless of whatever it is. And we see his administration in verse number 25. He says, Whereof I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you to fulfill the word of God. He's a minister. This word minister there actually is the same Greek word deaconos from which we get the term term deacon, which we know the term deacon means what does it mean? Servant. A deacon is a servant. And Paul says, Hey, I'm a servant. Now we as people, I I don't want to say that We've messed up here. I think that Christ uh encourages us to give honor to whom honor is due, and uh you know we have raised the position of a pastor or a minister. uh to an important position and we have awarded that position uh honor and and I think that's okay. But from the standpoint of the pastor, the person who's standing in that position, he needs to get that out of his mind. Paul says here, I'm a minister. I'm a servant. And the admonition here, the direct application for the pastor is not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. Not to think, oh man, look at me in the position that I have and and I'm up here and sometimes the praise of men pushes uh pastors to to that kind of a mindset, but we've got to check ourselves. We've got to get back to the Word of God and see what are we called to do. We're not called to rule and to reign over men. We're called to serve men And our greatest example of that was Jesus Christ, who came to serve. He came to seek and to save. He was a minister as well. And all these that would stand in the position of pastor need to be reminded that that position is not a position that's exalted, but a position of service. Serving God's people and being glad to do so. And I hope and pray that in my heart of hearts I'm able to keep and cultivate the spirit of service for God's people. I want to always have that kind of spirit, that kind of attitude where I'm willing to serve. I want to serve. I find it a privilege to serve. And I hope that I can keep that. And that's a reminder to me. That's what God's called me to, is to serve To serve the Lord. He got to serve God. Think about the privilege of that. To serve God. In this aspect, yes, I applied it directly to the pastor, but understand we are all called to serve the Lord. And think about this, the Apostle Paul. You remember what his name used to be? Saul. You remember what he used to do? Right He was a persecutor of the church. He went after God's people. I mean he was throwing them in prison and probably ultimately seeing some of them persecuted greatly and maybe even killed. He was a persecutor of the church. And through the saving grace of God, his life was transformed. And now he's able to serve God I mean here a person looks at what he once was and what he is in Jesus Christ. And he has the opportunity to serve God and he says, Wow, who am I to do this? I shouldn't be able to serve God. I mean, I used to persecute God and God's people, but God's allowing me to serve him. I'm a minister. I'm called of God to do this. And you know in your heart and in your minds. Brother, I'm guessing Miss Irvin's probably sick today. She was sick on Thursday. And uh Martha? Oh she's here? Okay. Um well Brother Greg, uh I'll tell you, you talk to him about his testimony at all? You get into his testimony at all with him, and he's gonna say, I I was a wretched. God saved a wretch like me, he says, I he I can't hardly sing that song without crying. Looking at what I once was, and how God saved me and transformed me, and now I get to serve Him. What a joy, what a privilege. And the Apostle Paul was saying, look, I know what I was. I know what I used to be before God saved me, and now I get to serve God in the church. Christian, we can't lose sight of that. We've been saved for 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 years, and sometimes we lose sight of that and we think that we deserve the position. we've got or we we we have earned or we we deserve to be able to be an usher or to be able to sing in the choir or we deserve to be able to teach a Sunday school class or to be serving God in the nursery or in security or whatever capacity we get to serve the Lord here at the church. Oh, this actually is a little bit below me, but I'll do it for Jesus. You know what I'm saying? We get this kind of mindset and we shouldn't have that. We ought to look at and remember what we once were and say, wow I get to serve God. I don't deserve this, but God changed my heart and He's brought me along and He showed me so much truth and I've come to the place where I understand some of these things and I'm able to be used of God and hallelujah praise the Lord I get to be used of Him Just remembering that and thinking about it, Paul was excited about it. He says, Whereof I am made a minister He thought about his ministry. That he says, I made a minister, but he says, but they're according to the dispensation That's why I call this here his administration, because that word dispensation actually means stewardship. Overseer. According to the dispensation, the office manager, the overseer, the stewardship that God had given him, a God-given responsibility that God had said. He said a uh The dispensation of God is that God had given him some oversight. God had given him a ministry. God had given him a place to serve, and he was to oversee that His God-given responsibility to watch for the souls of men and to preach the truth. Let me remind you, you might not be called into full-time Christian service. The kids and I are reading a book right now and it's an old book and uh first time in my life I've ever seen this phrase is this man said, uh, I desired to be in whole time service. And I stopped and I looked back at that and was like, I've never seen it put that way, whole time. We always call it full time. Uh you know, maybe kind of like a full-time job. But that's not really what it is. I mean he said whole-time, all of my time, serving God with all that I have. Whole-time service. So I just thought that was interesting. But we're we're you might not be called to uh the uh what we would look at today as a full time position where this is your uh job, but we've b all been called to be whole time Christians We've all been called to be full time servants for God. Paul had a job to do and he knew it well, and he knew that it was a job given to him by God. Mueller was he was he was a mess. I mean, my kids uh my kids even asked, like, how could a guy be so evil? Like how could he One time he had a he he he had debts from gambling and all this kind of stuff and and he had people coming after him for that and so he would steal money from his friends in order to pay his to pay his gambling debts. And he was in Bible college at the time, uh training to be in the ministry. And one time his family sent him a bunch of money and he had these gambling debts and he also had debts that he owed his friend And so he says, What can I do? And he actually hid he hid the money in his trunk and he kind of told a few people about it, like man, I had to hide all that money I got from my family and uh made it out to be this large sum, and he hid it in his trunk. And then he he tore his room up, he busted the trunk, he busted the lock on the trunk, and then he left. And then he came back with some friends. and opened the door. And he's like, oh no, the money was stolen. They got it. They stole my money. And he called all of his friends and everybody came in. He tricked all of his friends friends and all the people that he had, that the money that he got was stolen and some of his friends are like, Man, we'll help you out and his friends gave him more money which he had all the money still, so he took that money and paid his debts and then took the money he stole took from his friends who were trying to help him. And my kids are like, How in the world can somebody be so conniving and and my they were so shocked. And George Mueller, uh the reason that he was in training to be a minister was because it was for the state church. And the state church actually would pay if you got a good posting. you would get it's a good salary. And that's why he went there was specifically for that. And the only reason he to he says the only reason I studied hard was because if you didn't have good grades, you would get put in a little church out in the middle nowhere and probably not get paid much. But if you if you were if you excelled in the classroom, they would put you in a big church and you get lots of money. And so that's what he did. But he would go out drinking all night, partying and gambling and all that, just barely do what he had to do to get through class. Uh I mean, unbelievable his beginning, but his transformation when he came in To a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And it was no longer just intellectual and just knowing about God. When he got saved, it changed his life And that's what's supposed to happen. But what I'm saying is he he was going to the ministry just because it was a position. The Apostle Paul said, this is of God. And that's the thing. The ministry. really is a call of God. And God has a call for each of you, an area of service that He wants you to fulfill. And he says, I'm going to do it. The last phrase there, he says, to fulfill the word of God. To do it all. To fulfill whatever God had planned for him To complete that task, to get all the way to the end, and he says in other places, uh, to finish his race is another way to say that. He's going to fulfill all that God had planned for him. He's going to finish the race. All that God had said he was going to do. Are you ready? Are you and I planning to fulfill that? We see his announcement in verse number 26. Um having been made a steward here of the mystery, he's he's been uh you know, we saw that word administration, he was the steward, the overseer. This is what God was having him do. And verse number 26, he says, even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest unto you And we've looked at the mysteries. I have two more mysteries still to cover of the mysteries that are in the New Testament, but you know that the mystery here, what it's talking about, is something that we was uh hid in the Old Testament times that people did not see because Christ hadn't come yet. The the uh prophecy hadn't been fulfilled yet. But when Christ came and he fulfilled the prophecy The revelation, the understanding of what God's plan was, uh was made known to men. And there's several specific things that God taught, uh Jesus Christ taught to the disciples, and now to us in the age of Christ Grace here in what we call the church age, uh that weren't known to those in the Old Testament. And he said these things were a mystery unto them. They did not understand them, it didn't make sense, or they didn't know about it, but now They are revealed to you. And that's what Paul said. I've been made a steward of these mysteries. Uh, this mystery, and I've got to share this. The mystery revealed to the save. Do you know the natural man? He doesn't understand the things of God. It doesn't make sense to him. He reads the scriptures and it just doesn't say he just like, well what what does that mean? Or okay, that's fine. There may be men who are great intellectuals. They may be scholars, they may be linguists, theologians, and they might be able to dissect every nuance of the old language. And they might be able to look at that, but outside of Jesus Christ in their heart, what they're reading is just an old book. They they may have the ability to just dissect the language, but they don't have the Holy Spirit inside that beareth witness That the Bible says the Holy Spirit will guide you unto all truth. And outside of that, they're just studying an old manuscript. They may have an amazing amount of head knowledge. But outside of Jesus Christ, it hasn't become heart knowledge yet. This is the mystery that was revealed unto Paul, and he says, I've got to share this. The mystery of the long-suffering of Christ, God's plan to save the world, love for all mankind You know, no Jew would have come up with this. He would have thought it heretical to begin to witness to and reach the Gentiles, to say God loved them just as much And you know the Gnostics that Paul was teaching against here, the Gnostics wouldn't have believed this because they would not have believed it possible that all men could actually be made righteous. Because we were so so evil and so far from God and and to fact that all that righteousness was available to all, they wouldn't have come up with that. But Paul says, No, I've been made a steward of this mystery. to share with you and show you what Christ, and I've got to carry this message to all. We see in verse number 27 his assurance. His assurance, to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which Christ is in you, the hope of glory. This is it. The hope of glory. His hope is confident expectation. It's confident expectation. Think of the confidence that Peter had when Christ was there on the water. He looked at Christ and he says, If it's you, bid me come unto thee. When he had Christ's presence, he had confidence. But outside of Christ's presence, When Christ was taken captive, Peter was out there in the courtyard all alone outside of the presence of God, what did he do? He denied Christ. He had Christ with him and he had confidence. He had confidence. We can have confidence in our suffering and in our success. You know, Paul said, I know how to be a base a base and how to be a how to abase You know, many people forget who their confidence is in when they're abounding. When they're in success. They forget who their confidence should be in. Paul tells us in Philippians how he had the ability to have confidence in himself because of all of what he was, and I'm not going to take time to read it, but uh he said, Hey, my confidence is not in all those things, but it in Christ. Christ in me, the hope of glory. You know the amazing thing when you think about this? The disciples who walked with Christ. And I've often said, wouldn't it be neat to have walked with Jesus Christ? Wouldn't it have been neat to you know just be with him and the disciples and go on down the road and and just talk to him and just be right there with them? I mean that would have been amazing. But think about that this friend the disciples had to tell Jesus good night the disciples had to say we'll okay we'll see you on the other side Jesus said, get in a boat and go to the other side, and they had to leave his presence to go to the other side. There's times when they might have thought, you know what, I really want to talk to Jesus, and they come over. and they find him resting. Ah I don't think I want to No I'm not going to wake him up. I don't want to disturb him right now. But Do you know you and I never face that? We never have to part from Jesus. Christ in you, the hope of You've got them in you all the time. You go anywhere you need to go and do anything you need to do, and any time that you want to talk to your Savior, He's right there. You don't have to say goodbye to Him. Isn't that awesome? Christ in you the hope of glory. Let me show you lastly his activity and we're going to be done. Verse number 28 and 29, we see his activity. He says, Whom we preach, warning every man, the teaching every man in all wisdom. that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus, whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which worketh in me. Mightily. Hey, again, pastors need to look at this and say, This is what we're supposed to be doing. And Christians, you ought to understand this is the job of the of the pre of the preacher. He said, where whom we preach Warning every man. There's a twofold thing here. First of all, there's the warning. This activity of preaching. The truth of the word of God and warning about the destructiveness of sin. I remember when Governor Ehrlich was here for one of our Harage and Heroes days and we had Larry Brown preach and uh after the service Governor Ehrlich walked down and Larry Brown was walking right next right next to the next to him and and I happened to be standing close by and Governor Ehrlich goes, Hellfire and Brimstone, huh? I still remember. I mean he was just like Hellfrier and brimstone, huh? I mean, that kind of preaching, the warning about the destructiveness of sin, and I want you to understand any pastor worth his salt does not enjoy that kind of preaching He does not like preaching to God's people in that kind of way where he's really reproving. But the fact of the matter is sometimes the pastor's job is to reprove. Not to approve. He's supposed to be warning about the destructiveness of sin and what it really becomes is something in his heart and he sees what Satan is doing in the lives of God's people and and He just has to say something about it. He can't let it go. If he loved you enough, he would actually tell you the truth. Amen? That's the job of the pastors, not just to be warning, but secondly, he's to instruct, teaching every man in all wisdom Listen, if a pastor all he ever does is get up and and rail on sin and preach against everything in the book and tell God's people, boy, they better not do this. and not do that and not do this. All they ever do is hear what they're not supposed to be doing or what they should be quitting. People are going to be frustrated. Because they are supposed to be instructed. Okay, you told us what to give up, but what are we supposed to be doing? Supposed to be instructing them into all wisdom. And what God wants us to do and how to live this Christian life. That's what God is telling us. And He says here instructing them. You know, our nursery's full of babies. And they crawl around and they are consumed with one thing themselves. And you know what? With babies, that's okay. We have a lot of patience with a baby. Right? I mean he he burps all over you and you're like, oh man, and and you go clean it up. Now if Brother Don burped on you, you might be a little less patient. You might not appreciate that as much. You've heard parents say it. They look at their kids and they said, You should know better, right? I mean we have a lot of patience with a little kid, but as they start growing we start to expect a little bit of change in them. They should start to mature. And as they get to be full-gorn adults, they ought to have a little bit, you know, maturity in their life Well, as Christians, the same is true. With the baby Christians, we have a lot of patience. But listen, Christian, we're not supposed to stay there. At some point we're supposed to know better. At some point we're supposed to mature. And that's what the pastor's job is. is to instruct and to help God's people take these steps and to mature into all godliness, to be what God wants us to be. Let's close in prayer. We'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you for this teaching. And Lord, the example that Paul sets for us, and Lord, especially for me as a pastor, the challenge to be This kind of a leader and a and a preacher of your word and to to rightfully rightly divide the word of truth and to share with God's people. Yes, those things that we shouldn't do, but certainly need to instruct on that which we should. And God, I pray you'd give me a balance in this area that God's people would be instructed into all godliness. Lord, we pray you'd go with this now as we go into morning service. May you bless it in Jesus' name. Amen.