And take your Bibles at this time, and we can go to the book of First John. First John and that is where we'll begin. We will switch microphones. And we're turning to first John. And I'm taking a drink of water. I hope you're familiar with the passage as we read it this past week and first John chapter four And really when I was reading this passage is when uh these things kinda uh jumped out at me and so that's kind of what the Lord stirred in my heart to to share uh together tonight. And so uh I don't have a fancy title. I don't have alliterated uh outline today I could not put the the the time and effort into uh into doing that. That is the thing that I usually do uh last. Uh sometimes I can get caught up. in uh trying to find a catchy title or trying to alliterate the points. And so I always save that for the end so that I don't I don't uh uh uh eat up time that I have for that. So we'll keep it simple. I do believe it's going to be it's a very simple thought tonight, but the idea is combating the spirit of Antichrist. Combating the Spirit of Antichrist. And hopefully you pick up what it is that we'll be discussing tonight. 1 John chapter 4, verses 1 through 11. And uh I'll I'll read it. Hopefully you can follow along in your in your Bibles there. And uh follow along as I read it to you. Uh we'll listen closely and then we'll pray. The Bible says this. It says, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God. Because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Hereby know ye the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of Antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come, and even now already is it in the world. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. They are of the world, therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Herein is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. Why don't we pray Father, we do love you. We thank you for the day, and Lord, we thank you for your word, and we thank you for the truths in it. And Lord, I just pray that as we open up your word tonight, that you would help us to see Lord what it is. the the the times that that we live in and the challenges that uh Lord as Christians we face, uh but Father the truths that are in your word and how you want us to to apply them. Lord, I just pray that they would be real and and evident and Lord that you would use them in our lives to better uh equip us for the things that we face on a day-to-day basis. And we'll thank you for it, Lord. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. As we begin tonight, this this thought, as I mentioned, stemmed from the reading this week. What you'll find is that as you read the book of 1 John and the book of 2 John, there's almost this condensed repetition that goes into the book of 2 John. But I was very much struck with a couple of the verses that we'll go over this evening. But I want to begin with an understanding of the spirit of Antichrist, and we'll start with what it is not. Alright, what it is not. What we're not talking about is we're not talking about the Antichrist, uh the from the eschat eschatological point of view in terms of what's going to happen in the end times. That's not what we're going to cover tonight. We're not talking about that man in Revelation who will be uh the leader of the world. Uh that's not that that's not what this passage is referring to. And a lot of times there's some uh uh uh trepidation or kind of some uh uh sinister aspect to that term Antichrist But if you followed along your reading, you will see that it it it comes up over and over and over again in these short uh accounts. And so we have this discussion of the spirit of Antichrist. And what we're talking about is this spirit, which according to this chapter, existed already in the world. If you look at that verse there Uh in that first verse in chapter four, it says, because many false prophets are, or excuse me, not verse one, it's verse three, uh the s And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. And this is that spirit of Antichrist. whereof ye have heard that it should come, and even now already is it in the world. So the clear instruction of the Word of God is that that Spirit uh was already there. And it's very clear what was uh w what the error was that they were dealing with, that error Was the idea that Jesus Christ had come in the flesh? That he had uh that that he was uh uh again, every spirit that confessed it that Jesus Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is n that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. So there was already this dispute This debate that had come up in early Christendom. We're talking about less than a hundred years uh uh uh from the time that uh uh uh from the time that Christ had uh been crucified and gone back to heaven, less than right away within a couple generations of Christians was this spirit already in the world This spirit opposes the things of God. This spirit opposes the teachings of the apostles. It was a spirit that was anti-Jesus. It was anti-God. And so I bring that out Because it's not very hard for us to imagine that spirit in the world, because it's not something that was just evident in this time. It's something that we see even today. And so this spirit was mostly found in people that were called the Gnostics. All right, the Gnostics And the Gnostic teachings are varied. It's uh so wide and they're not really easy to summarize You can't really pin it down and say this is what the Gnostics believed and this was their doctrines and this was their teachings because it was so uh uh m it moved so much and there was the the interesting aspect of it is that they they clearly were in error But they also had some part because this was actually active in the church, there was some part that was actually truth applied uh within that error. And so to a degree there was some confusion going on And uh what we can say is that their teaching corrupted the truth, specifically the truth about Christ. The Christology of these Gnostics was very deficient. And so, as we take a moment, think about that. The spirit of Antichrist diminishes, weakens the doctrine of who Christ is. And any teaching that weakens who Christ truly is Is error. And we have to be careful with that. And so we'll go into that a little bit and hopefully we'll understand a little bit better what that means and how we can combat that. But there's a slightly relevant story here that's a little bit humorous, and so I'll mention it to you all tonight. There is a story of a man in church history that was named Saint Nicholas. And we know this man because he is the character who uh uh that that we call Saint Nick, uh, which is what the idea of Santa came from. Well the funny story about Saint Nicholas is that there's a story that he was at the Council of Nicaea. And uh again, it's relevant because it's Christmas time, so we'll talk a little bit about Saint Nick. The idea is that Saint Nicholas was at this council and there was this discussion happening, and during these councils that happened in the early church, there was a lot of discussions about certain very key doctrines in uh uh what what's considered the Christian faith, but uh uh what truly is the Catholic faith. And uh there was all these discussions about uh certain truths that were happening. And the story goes that St. Nicholas was uh listening to a man named Urias, and Arias was uh going and talking about Christ And Saint Nicholas became so mad, the one that the the character of Santa is based off of, supposedly Saint Nicholas became so mad that we he with the heresy that was coming out of the doctrine of Arias that he went up to him and he slapped him in the face. Right in the middle of the the Council of Nicaea. So there's this group, understand the Council of Nicaea. There's A bunch of preachers around, and St. Nicholas was so mad with the heresy coming out of Arias' mouth that he smacked him right in the face. What's interesting about that, and the reason why I think it's a little bit relevant, is because Arias, the doctrine that he was supposedly teaching, again, we don't know how historical this actually is, but the doctrine that he was supposedly teaching Is that Jesus Christ was not the Son of God. He was questioning the deity of Christ. And that's what made St. Nick so mad. So again, we don't know how the accuracy or how uh how true that is. But again, it's a point of discussion because the deity of Christ is a conversation that has been around for so long. And understand that different teachings, people present Christ in different lights So, for instance, there was a time uh when Sam Kim was still here and we were out on visitation And we were out in the the area where we pick up kids and we bring them to church and we were knocking on doors and we saw some people Walking. And there were two guys wearing short sleeved white shirts with a tie and a little name tag as well. And we were talking to them. And We we saw that they were walking through the area, and we were a little bit concerned with uh obviously these people. To be to be fair, we we we got a little protective of the area and we're like, hey, this is our territory, right? We want these guys here And uh what what I I mentioned this because we went right up to them and we started talking to them. And we said, hey, uh and Sam kind of just kind of led the charge and he was like, hey, what are you doing here? And so they start talking and they say, Oh, we're just here, we're talking to people about the Bible and uh, you know, about Jesus and things like that. And he's like, Okay, uh yeah, yeah, okay. He's like, Yeah, we are too. And so there's this discussion back and forth and we're we're we're talking to them and he's like so are you Mormon? He's like yeah we're Mormon He's like okay so you you're telling people about Jesus? Yeah we're telling people about Jesus And so, and and you know, Sam, you know how Sam is. Sam cuts right to the chase. And he asks him point blank, and he says, Do you believe that Jesus was the Son of God? And they're like, waited a few seconds? They're like, no. And at that point, obviously, you know, you you know you you have these people who say, oh yeah, we're just telling other people about Jesus But when it comes to what they truly believe about Christ, it was deficient. And so understanding that we need to be Ready to combat the spirit of Antichrist all around us. So what I want to share with you tonight is from this passage just a few of the maybe what you would consider weapons. or tools that you can use that you should have at the ready, that we should have at the ready to combat the spirit of Antichrist in our day. We must fight against this spirit today. It has not gone away, and if anything, it has become more and more apparent around us. So first of all, what we want to see in if you turn the page in 1 John, just turn it back real briefly, or it may even be on the same page, verse 24. Where the Bible talks about one of the things that's very important in combating the spirit of Antichrist. In verse 24, the Bible says this, and he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him, and hereby we know that he abideth in us. by the Spirit which He hath given us. So one of the first tools that we ought to use, that we ought to have at the ready, is the Spirit. And this is talking about the Holy Spirit of God. The Spirit of God. God gives us the Holy Spirit. What the Bible teaches us is that at salvation, when a person puts their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, They are given the Holy Spirit which indwells them at salvation. It's an immediate process. And we learn many things about the Spirit of God in the Scriptures. And I'll refresh your memory, but I hope that as you read the Scriptures and understand what they teach About the Holy Spirit of God, these things are triggered in your memory of what it is that the Holy Spirit of God is supposed to do in our lives, the role that He plays. He the Spirit of God is our teacher. He is a teacher to us. And the way the Bible explains it is that there are things that we uh uh cannot understand about God without the Spirit of God. It is crucial. He is it is absolutely necessary to Have to learn, if we want to learn anything, anything spiritual, anything about God, anything truly understanding who God is. We need the Spirit of God to teach that to us. We need Him as our guide. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit is our guide in all truth. The Holy Spirit is available to all believers. The Holy Spirit convicts us. What that means is that the Holy Spirit is the one that shows us when we have sin in our life. He's the one that points it out. Alright? That may happen through the per through the process of a message. That may happen through the process of maybe listening to a sermon or reading something in the scriptures. But what happens is that the Holy Spirit convicts and points out and says, this is what you are doing that is sin. And that's a very valuable and very important thing for us to have and to know. The Bible also says that the Holy Spirit bears witness. Meaning that it helps us to understand, to learn, to discern different things. The Holy Spirit fills us. The Holy Spirit is a source of wisdom. The Holy Spirit is making intercession for us. The Holy Spirit knows us. So because the Holy Spirit is a part of the Godhead, a part of the Trinity. That means that the Holy Spirit is God. And God knows us. He knows who we are. He knows all about us. He knows all of our strengths, all of our weaknesses. And the Bible says that he even knows and understands our thoughts. And so, this obviously because they're one and the same, it's that is the That is what the Holy Spirit knows us as well. The Bible also says that the Holy Spirit makes new. He sanctifies us. The the he bears fruit in our lives. Of course, we read about the fruit of the Spirit So the Spirit is a tool in our arsenal against the spirit of Antichrist. And understand that we are not left unequipped for this for this problem. It's something that God has given to us. There's a spirit of Antichrist in the world. And one of the most the most important thing that God has given us for this battle that we're going to face, that we're going to see around us Most importantly, he's given us the Spirit of God. And that's something that we have to value, that we have to look to That we have to make sure that we listen and listen to. So the Spirit is our baseline because the Spirit is part and parcel to the rest. We need the Holy Spirit, absolutely vital and necessary to combat this spirit of Antichrist in our world. In 1 John 4. 1, the next thing and kind of what I I base a part of my devotional on that day is another tool in our toolbox, another weapon in our arsenal. is that we need to think. If you look at 1 John 4 1, the Bible says, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets are gone out into the world. Another tool is our ability to think, to analyze, to understand what the Bible says to discern. This is something that God gave specially for humankind. For us to really evaluate and take things in and discern matters God gave this to us, and he very clearly spells out, believe not every spirit. We're not supposed to just believe everything that is stated. There has to be some evaluation in the process. There has to be some consideration that you're giving to the things that you hear. And we have to be Be careful in those things that that perhaps may come across as error. And maybe there's some things maybe that don't sit well with us. Maybe that we don't understand. And sometimes we we we we push back against that And the response ought to be, let's understand what it is that the Scripture says. Let's not necessarily Push this out and completely discard this, but let's evaluate this according to what the Bible says. And that's part of thinking. This idea of when the Bible says they're trying to try the spirits, it means we're supposed to put it to the test. We're supposed to evaluate. We're supposed to measure it and analyze it. Now, one of the big problems that we talked about with the Gnostics, these people that were characterized here in this book, And all throughout the New Testament, one of the problems is that there was some truth mixed in with their heresy. And so that is where we have to be cautious. We see this even today. There's people that maybe and ye right now in a lot of cases m you know most churches and such are online Uh but even there there's so many things that you can be exposed to online where a person can make a very convincing, sound very convincing, look very uh authentic and a and sound like authoritative at what they're saying based on the scriptures, but the problem is that they're mixing truth Where we would agree with and come to an agreement and shake our heads and say, yes, yes, we believe that. And then they would mix in some air there. And that's where we have to be careful. One of the per people that uh I would say uh that has become uh a problem in this area uh is a gentleman who who some of you may be exposed to him, some of you may be May not. Uh his name is Steven Anderson. And we find this man all over the internet, and he has really swayed a lot of people who believe like we believe in a direction towards heresy And it it's challenging because again, he sounds authoritative. And in some things, I'll very plainly say we would look at it and we would agree 100% with the things that they're saying. But I'll tell you right now, I'm sure that there were Gnostics that were in the church that we would agree with some things they said 100%. But what they believe is error And it's heresy. And we have to be cautious with that. That's why we have to think, we have to discern. We have to understand what it is that the scripture uh tells us. And that's why it's so important to make sure that we're taking that in and understanding what the Word of God says. We need to be a discerning believer. Those things that are error are not going to get by the believer who is thinking and discerning the scriptures. Understand our goal as preachers is not that you would follow every word that we say. Alright? To some there uh I'll tell you right now there's some people out there that I'm sure they would say the opposite But I think from uh being around Pastor and talking to him, and I know the way my sentiment is and Pastor Derek's sentiment, we are not trying to create disciples of us. We are trying to create disciples of Jesus. People that follow Jesus. Our desire is For each of you to be equipped to use the discernment because you have the Holy Spirit of God There's not any more Holy Spirit that I have, or that any preacher, no matter how big time a preacher he is, there's no more Holy Spirit that he has than that you have. That same Holy Spirit who is a teacher, who is a guide, who helps you, who helps you to discern, who helps you to try the spirits. That Holy Spirit is the one who teaches you and helps you and who is guiding you in the truth. And that Holy Spirit is available to anyone who calls themselves a believer Anyone who's put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, they are indwelt with the Holy Spirit. And I want you to understand that because You know, myself, Pastor Caleb, Pastor Derek, one day w we could be chopping a tree down at my house and the tree take out all three of us. And then what? Are you left without a teacher? You have the Holy Spirit. You have the Word of God. It would be a tragic situation. Lord, we don't want that to happen. But what I what every believer ought to know and take away from understanding what this is teaching is that I have the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit is part of my life. The Holy Spirit is there to teach me. The Holy Spirit is there to guide me. The Holy Spirit is there to help me to discern what is truth and what is error. We want you to hold fast to those things that the Spirit of God teaches you. When we were talking about the Holy Spirit being one that convicts And this is a problem many times is that if something is said from the pulpit about something that you ought to do, a person takes that as Well that's that's what the pastor says. That's what the pastor wants me to do. But what we have to do is step away from that and look at the scriptures. What say the scriptures? And if the scripture is saying it, that means that God said it. And the desire for each believer is not that you would just listen to what is taught at the church. It's that you would build convictions of your own that you have read and understood, that you have learned from God Himself. There's certain things in my life that I know that as I've read the scriptures and as I've looked at them and evaluated, I've looked and said, this is what God wants me to do in this area. And there's no arguing with that. I can't say, well, this person told me to do that, or this person wants me to do that. I know from the bottom of my heart the person that taught me that is Almighty God, and if I have a problem with that, I have a problem with God Himself. And as we look at the scriptures, evaluating and thinking on these things, that is what discernment truly is. Trying the spirits, whether they be of God. Or whether they be of error. We want to make sure that you're understanding that God wants you to think. Another tool that we have access to is the truth. If you look there at verse 6 of 1 John 4. It says, We are of God. He that knoweth God heareth us. He that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. The opposite of the spirit of Antichrist is the spirit of truth. We live in a day where people think that the truth is malleable. Where it's a day of your truth and my truth. And understand that truth is going to stand the test of time. Truth is going to remain. And we need to be familiar with the truth, the truth that God shares with us in His Word, so that we can share the truth as well. So that we can identify truth as we hear it, as we see it, and we can identify error as we hear it, as we The same thing. The more truth we have, the more truth that we take in, we'll be able to use that as a filter for the air and say, wait a minute. Uh that's not that's not the truth. We live in a day of of again fake news and and all things around us are tailored to our our uh uh to ourselves and to our our biases and to to the things that that we're exposed to and the things that we search for and the things online, it's all tailored to be after our own interests. And that creates a mirage of, well, this is truth. And we have to be careful because it's something that we need to be have at the ready. And it's a tool that we have, and we have to be familiar with the truth. Lastly, tonight, to combat the spirit of Antichrist. is love. This is really where the thought uh for tonight uh stemmed from. As I was reading this chapter You're you you begin and you you read and you read about the the error that there is in the world and the spirit of antichrist and Uh the the the the problems that there are and how there were people that didn't believe that Jesus was who he said he was or that Jesus was God and people questioning that, and that was already since the beginning of of the New Testament times, and this has always been there. And one of the things that comes right after this discussion Of trying the spirits, of understanding the the and knowing the truth, of being able to identify these things right after that at verse 7. It starts and it says, beloved, let us love one another. Which was very interesting to me. To think that love is a way to combat the spirit of Antichrist in the world. Now we have to be careful because love in our mind we have sometimes a skewed view of love where we think uh that uh love is There's no conflict in love. Alright, for anyone that's married knows that that's not the case. Alright, just because you have conflict does not mean that you don't love the other person. Alright, we know that. But love is something that we can combat this spirit of error. Love is not disconnected from that. So it's interesting that right after This this this discussion, this dispute about trying the spirits, we we see about love. Love for God. Love for God's Word. What can we learn about love? How can we grow in and sharpen that tool to know how to love? Love is unselfish. Love is sacrifice. And again, if you take a step back and you really consider this teaching, Love, there's the spirit of Antichrist, which is obviously a spirit of error. And if you contrast that with what would be the opposite, which is the Spirit of Christ, characterized all in all throughout all the books that John wrote. Is love. We find these words often in the books of the Bible that the Apostle John wrote about love and that we're supposed to love. Love is giving. Love is considering others. And so it's something that we ought to do as Christians. We ought to consider others. We ought to be unselfish. And most even as is spelled out in this passage, that one of the ways to show that is to love one another. We ought to love one another. Now, this is not a church that does not love one another. W we there there is a a great spirit of love among the brethren. And that ought to continue. That ought to be something and we there's I think maybe from an American context, something uh in a high-paced context, we look at this and we do love each other. But we show we love each other when one of the brethren loses their wife. And we come around that brother and we love him. And what happens is that And the the reason why this is so obvious and so clear is that if you look out there There's a lot of hate. There's a lot of anger. There's a lot of discord. And that should not be how God's people are characterized. And at this time more than any, we need to show the difference that we are from the world. Our testimony, the things that we share online, should not be hateful. Should not be that there's I get it, there is something very carnal and uh thrilling and enjoyable about being hateful and being carnal to somebody and reacting to somebody in that way where you're you're you're you're against them or that you you you get a good dig on them or something like that, that's something That can be carnally gratifying. But as a Christian, as a child of God, does that show love to To our brethren and to people around us. And at the end of the day, this is a challenging thing Because those people that are anti-God, those people that are anti-Jesus, those people that Absolutely hate everything that God and the church and God's people stand for and that will flaunt and try to shove down your throat their their hate, we still have to love them. And that is a challenge. But that's why we have the Holy Spirit to teach us, to help us. To guide us, to show us how to do that. And that's something that's completely supernatural. That's not something that we can do in and of our own flesh. And so I share that with you because it this it it it just as as I was reading it really just kind of stood out to me that you know, you read it and you're reading about the Gnostics and you're reading about like yeah you need to try the spirits and point out the Gnostics, get rid of them because they're not believers and they're corrupting the the the true Christ and what tri Christ truly is. Yet, right following that, there's this discussion about love. Love is of God. And everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And so that these are tools that we have available to us. That we ought to use, that we ought to hone and sharpen and prepare and make better so that we can uh be a testimony in this world. As a Christian, I hope that you can find ways to improve your skills in this world. It's just a reminder, really, as we look at at 2 Corinthians 10, there's this passage that talks about It says, the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. These are s this is a spiritual battle. This is a battle that we need to take and we need to uh prepare for. And it's a battle that can only be done by us being filled with the Spirit of God to help us to do these things as we face the Spirit of Antichrist. That's out in this world today. And it's been out for a long time. And so I hope that you can take these things, learn from them, and use that as a launching point for Bettering and preparing for the battle that's out there. Your homework is to go through the book of 2 John. And it very much condenses 1 John. And you'll kind of see these things come out. But after this message, when you have some time this weekend, think about it, read it. And ask the Lord to help you in which one of these he wants you to improve even now