I was going to preach this evening another one of the messages in the series that I've been preaching on, on the lettuce that are found in the scriptures. However, in light of the events that have struck our church this week, as I'm sure it hit you like it hit me when I got the call that J. R. went home To be with the Lord, you know, kind of just hit you like a brick. Seems like just the other day that he was here at the church. Doing his ministry, his service unto the Lord. And it was his service. I don't even recall ever asking him and Heather to clean the church. They just came one day and started doing it. And they've been faithfully doing that for years now. And he never wanted any recognition, never wanted any recompense, just wanted to serve God. So I was moved in my preparation time to preach this evening on comfort in crisis. Comfort in crisis. In Matthew chapter number five, the section here on the Beatitudes, we have in the midst of those, in verse number four, Blessed are they that mourn. For they shall be comforted. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts this evening? Lord, I thank you for the privilege that's mine to preach the Word of God tonight. It's an awesome responsibility and a task that's not taken lightly. I stand before these your people as an unworthy messenger, but as I've said many times, I'm carrying a worthy message. Lord, we're thankful for your book and how it speaks to our hearts, even in a time of crisis. Whatever is going on in our lives, Lord, your word has the answer, and I pray this evening that you You would speak to every heart and mind that's listening this evening, whether they're here in God's house this evening or they're at home via live stream, I pray that you would speak to Each individual and strengthen them. As was so eloquently sung, Lord. Our song is not dependent upon our situation, but on Our Savior. Lord, speak to us in Jesus' name. Amen. I know that yours, like my heart, breaks for heather and barb. Beloved, tonight I want to remind you that there is comfort in the hour of crisis. However painful the loss is, could I implore you this evening, don't forget, you have a God that loves you. You can and should know, you should experience his comfort in your hour of need. No matter how full your eyes may be of tears, it's when you turn your eyes upon Jesus and look full in his wonderful face that the things of earth grow strangely deep Him in the light of his glory and grace. It is a sad thing that the world looks the wrong place for strength. But it is sadder still many times that Christians look the wrong place for comfort in their hour of grief. Some turn to psychiatry Try and reason their way through. Some turn to pharmaceuticals and they try and medicate their way through. Some turn to alcohol and try and forget all of their pain. Some put themselves into work. Just don't don't deal with it. Just try and get so busy with work they don't actually have to think about it or contemplate it. even get active in religion. But these are empty wells. And when you draw up that bucket it'll be dry. There is not the comfort that you're looking for in those places. So tonight I want to give you some thoughts about where to turn for comfort. Where does our comfort come from? In crisis. First of all, beloved, it comes from an affirmation of God's presence. An affirmation of God's presence To know that God is always there. He said he would never leave you or forsake you. God is with you. In Isaiah 66, verse number 13, he says, as one Whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you. So will I comfort you. Like that compassionate care that a mother gives, To their son or daughter, to their child, God says, I'll comfort you. Would you contemplate with me the magnitude of that statement? I mean, there is comfort in the fact that you have a friend or a brother or a relative that comes and puts their arm around you and says, I'm with you, and there's comfort in that. But what an amazing thing to think about the creator of the universe, the God of heaven, the King of Kings, the Savior of your soul that says, I will comfort you. God says that he would comfort you. We need not be as the psalmist who said, I look on my right hand and beheld, there was no man. He said, there was no man that cared for my soul. The Christian has never to be in that place because God cares for your soul. God is there with you. He is your refuge in the day of trouble. He is a present help in time of need. Not one hair falls from your head except that God knows about it. God is with you. We can trust him even when we don't understand. Because we know God has our best interest at heart. Even when we don't see how it possibly makes sense, we can trust that God knows the beginning from the end and that His will is perfect. He knows the pain that you feel. God is not just a spectator. He's a participant. He knows and understands what it is that you're going through. Not only did he experience it, but God, Son, Jesus Christ. Conquered sorrow and death. And by him conquering sorrow and death, he is able to come and give to us victory over sorrow and death God can share that with us. He's promised to comfort those that mourn. Isaiah 61, verse number 2. He says, in the day of vengeance of our God to comfort all that mourn. He promised to comfort those that mourn, that suffer in heart like that. He has promised to comfort those that are cast down in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 6. He says, Nevertheless, God that comforteth those that are cast down. He's promised to comfort us in our hour of tribulation. He said, Blessed be God in 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3 and 4, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of all mercies. And the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulations. He is the God of all comfort. Do you understand that God has every means of comfort at his disposal? Everything that you could possibly need to bring comfort to your heart or to your soul is available to God to use to minister to you. In your hour of need. He is the God of all comfort. That means he's also always available. He is there in the moment that you need to call upon him. He promises to comfort you in all your tribulations. Beloved, let me ask you or maybe remind you if you happen to be far from God tonight, that the Father's love reaches into a far country. No matter how far you are, like the prodigal of old, you can't always come again. You can Come to the knowledge that you where you are and realize how far you are from Him and at a moment's notice you can come back to God What a reason to stay close to God. Because in your hour of need, He's right there. You never know when that'll be. I mean, we were shocked to hear. I'm saddened to hear about the homegoing of Mrs. Nash. But I wasn't shocked by that. She has been on death's door for a year. That didn't shock me, but Just seems like just a few days ago Brother Trot was in the stairwell telling me uh about serving God and the joy that he's had about being here and and doing his work for the Lord. It wasn't that long ago, and I fully expected that just after a few days, he'll get his drink back and he would be here again. Beloved, you don't know when your hour of need will come. And it would behoove us to stay close to the Savior, stay close to our God, so in that hour of need we can just turn into His loving embrace. He is the God of all comforts. We look to him, and the fact that his presence is right there should bring comfort to us. We also find comfort in the affection of God's people. The affection of God's people. You need to know, beloved, that you're not alone You're not going through this alone. You're not alone in what you're enduring. In the great That you feel. Norman Harris, in his book entitled His Comfort, that was published in 1937 Says, let me remind you that there are many people every year who passed away. Now the numbers that he gave in his box We're quite outdated. But I looked it up. Do you know right now, in 2020, from January 1 until today Today we are encroaching upon thirty-one million people worldwide that have died. Now, unless you think that's because of coronavirus. But you know, on average, about 60,000, 60 million people die every year. So we're at 31. We're a little about halfway through the year. Let's say that just ten people were close enough to those thirty-one million. that have passed to feel the pain of their loss. Let's say just ten. What I'm saying is there's three hundred and ten million people. People that today feel the pain that you feel. You're not alone. This didn't just happen to you. There are many people that are feeling this pain. There are many people that know the loss that you currently know When one walks through this road, they're brought into a unique place with God. When one walks down the road of loss, when one has experienced the pain, When they have endured it, they're able to know God in a way that comes under no other circumstance. They're able to know God's presence and God's comfort. There are some Christians who know of God's saving power, but they've yet to experience God's sustaining power in the hour of loss. Only when you have had to endure it can you be the greatest help to others. You know, God wants us to know Him above all else. And one of the ways we are most Drawn into His presence is when we experience loss. That is a way in which we are brought into a unique relationship with With God, when we know His comfort, there's a level of intimacy that comes with God that's only found when you experience that heartbreak. Second Corinthians one, verse number four says, Who comfort us in all our tribulations? That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted over. Of God. He who has never suffered can't know the pain of sorrow. And try as he might can't provide the comfort to others That they need. But when we've endured it, when you've gone through it, when you yourself have gone through the school of sorrow, and have been thus ministered to by your Heavenly Father. Then you have experienced the peace that passeth understanding. And you can be used in a unique way to minister to others We find great comfort in the fact that our brothers and sisters are with us, that God's people Are there to support us? We are told in 1 Thessalonians 4:18, wherefore comfort one another with these words. Consider with me the power of words. A simple letter, a piece of paper with nothing but words on it, can bring you to tears And it can bring your heart to joy and your mouth to laughter. Just because of the words that are on the page. So are we to use any words? He says, comfort one another with these words. We're to comfort one another with words like Revelation 21, verse number 4, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are past away. We're to comfort one another with John 10, 28, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Or to comfort one another with Psalms 46, verse number 1. He says, God is our refuge and our strength, the very present health. We're to comfort one another with Jeremiah 31, 13. He says, For I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them and make them rejoice in their sorrow. The words of God bring comfort. We comfort one another with these words. We also find comfort in the assurance of God's plan The assurance of God's plan. Beloved, God has a plan. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions, and if it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. God has a plan. Since the foundation of the world, God had a plan for the salvation of men. To provide for them a way of salvation. To be restored to his presence and one day to be able to spend an eternity with him. We have an assurance of God's plan. What's going to take place? In Isaiah chapter 40 and verse number 1, he says, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith God. Well, in Isaiah chapter 39, the captivity of God's people is They're going to go into captivity, yet in verse chapter 40, God says, Comfort my people. What does he comfort them with? There is, in the balance of that chapter, if you read it, the prophecies concerning Jesus Christ. He comforts them with the fact, yes, you're in captivity now, but you will be freed. And it's a picture of the fact that we were dead in our trespasses and sin that we Had no hope that we were captive. But we've been freed because of Jesus Christ. Because of God's plan for man, his salvation of souls. He's got a plan for eternity. And beloved, we should find comfort in knowing and understanding that plan because of Jesus Christ's death on the cross. The saved man does not have to experience death. You say, Pastor Caleb, that doesn't make sense. The saved man doesn't have to experience death. Oh, this mortal flesh passes away. But you don't die. John 11, 26 says, and whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never Die. Believest thou this? Do you believe it? Even as I said it, some of you in your mind question, Pastor, is that true That's what God said. You never die. This mortal flesh passes away, but who you are We should have an assurance in this that the person, Brother Trot, his mortal flesh has passed away, is going to be put into the ground, and one day we'll be raised and joined back together with him. Hey, to be absent from the body is what? Amen. Believest thou this? Beloved, we just passed through the shadows. Just the shadow of death. Yes, we sorrow because we're separated My daughter went to college. Not Commonwealth, sorry, brother. She well let's say I I dropped her off initially, but when she came back for Christmas, she got on a plane. Went off to school. We were separated. But I wasn't in sorrow. Why Because I knew I'd see her again. I knew I'd see her again. Beloved, when our loved ones pass, they They've just hopped on that glory train. They're just In heaven. They've just gone on ahead. And if you believe the word of God, I mean, really, believest thou this? You have assurance in God's plan that we will one day see them again. We're gonna see them again. Beloved, we know where they are. Just like I knew Elise was at a school that would remain unmention unmentioned. It's not to offend our visiting school here. I knew where she was. We know where they are. To be absent with the body is to be present. with the Lord. We know that's where they are, beloved. They're safe at home, one poet said. I'm home in heaven, dear one. Oh, so happy and so bright, there's perfect joy and beauty and everlasting light. All the pain and grief is over, every restless tossing past. I am now at peace forever, safely home in heaven, at last. Did you wonder I so calmly trod the valley? of the shade. Ah, but Jesus lovingly illumined every dark and fearful glade. And he came himself to meet me in that way so hard to tread, And with Jesus arm to lead on. Could I have one doubt or dread? Then you must not grieve so sorely, for I love you dearly still Try to look beyond earth's shadows. Pray and trust our Father's will. There is work still waiting for you. So you must not idly stand. Do it now while life remaineth. You shall rest in Jesus' land We know where they are. Beloved, and we will see them again. We know who they're with. The Bible speaks of them being with Jesus. The Bible speaks of them being with the loved ones that have gone on before. Reunited with those who they love. And we know what they're doing. In Psalm 16, verse number 11, he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life, and in thy presence is fullness of joy, and thy right hand there are pleasures forever. They're experiencing fullness of joy. They're experiencing great pleasure Listen, as I conclude this evening, I don't know who's listening online, but every everyone that's here, I want to implore you Don't refuse the comfort of God. Sometimes, beloved, the pain is so acute, the grief is so strong. That we refuse God's comfort. God doesn't want you to do that. God has his arms outstretched In loving, compassion, looking to comfort you. You know, in Genesis 37, when Joseph The news of Joseph's death was brought to Jacob. The Bible says that he refused To be comforted. Even though he had his family there, even though his children were there. I don't know exactly what verse it is, but you can read it later. Chapter 37. I think it is of Genesis, he refused to be comforted. You can refuse the comfort of God. You can refuse the comfort of your brothers and sisters. who want to be there for you. Listen, let them comfort you. Let them give you comfort In Psalm 7, verse number 2, it says, In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord, my sore rain in the night, and it ceased not. My soul refused to be Comforted. You can refuse it, but God doesn't want you to do that. I'm here to tell you this evening like the disciples told blind Bartimaeus. Who had never seen the light of day. They looked at him when Jesus was present. He sat there Never having experienced sight, longing and looking, never having a reason to get up, just sitting there. And the disciples called to him and They said unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee They said, Bartimaeus, be comforted. Come on, rise up. Jesus is calling. You've never been able to see. You've never known the joy of sight. But Jesus is calling. If you've waited your entire life for comfort, Jesus is here. Comfort is here, it's available. All you've got to do is just, Barnaby is just step up because Jesus is calling. Beloved, tonight Jesus is calling. He wants to comfort you. There's comfort in crisis. Don't refuse the comfort. of God. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? What heights of love, what depths of peace, when fears are stilled, when striving cease. My comfort My all in all. God wants to comfort you tonight.