As I let you know, last week we are going to be observing the Lord's Supper this morning, but first I am compelled to take a few minutes and teach on uh this ordinance that has been left to the church. I know those uh you know for a lot of you you've been in church many years and you would already know much of what has going to be given this morning Uh you understand those things to be true and uh you know, but it never hurts to be reminded of what we're doing and why we do it. Uh but there are also uh others at every stage of their spiritual life and uh you know maybe uh don't know exactly what the Lord's Supper is or why we observe the Lord's Supper and and how we do it and and why we do what we do. So we just want to make sure that as a group we're In accordance and of one mind when we partake of the Lord's Supper together, Hugh here in a few minutes This is an ordinance that was given to the church in verse number two of here in 1 Corinthians chapter number 11, verse number 2. He says, Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things and keep the ordinances As I delivered them unto you. Now there are two ordinances that were given to the church. The first is baptism. The ordinances as a whole were given to the church, and they are meant to protect the church. They are meant to help keep the church clean. The ordinance of baptism is the first step of obedience following salvation. It is the It has often been said the baptism protects the door of the church. That is, it keeps uh those who uh have not put their faith and trust in Christ, who don't know the Lord as their Savior. uh from coming in. We know ultimately, we personally, individually, will never know. God is the only one that knows somebody's heart. Um but it's just a step, it's a measure of protection to protect the door of the church So that the church is made up of of saved believers, people that know that they're forgiven, that they're on their way to heaven, that uh God And then the ordinance of the Lord's Supper is given to protect the heart of the church. And that is to keep the church pure and to keep it clean because we're drawn to a place where we are standing again at the foot of the cross and seeing our Lord and Savior who gave himself a sacrifice for us. And as we ponder and consider that The Lord admonishes us here in this text, which we'll get to in a few minutes, that we are to partake of the Lord's Supper only if we are in a right standing before Him. That before God we know that things are right between us, that we don't want to partake of the Lord's Supper if we're living in sin. That is not you don't want to just take it flippantly and say, oh, I'm just going to do this. God says, hey, there's many sick and some asleep, that is, there's some that have been killed because they've taken of the Lord's Supper without considering this. And so Uh as a church, we want to talk about this idea of the Lord's Supper briefly. First of all, there's only a few passages. If you would like to read these or study them. With regards to the Lord's Supper, there's only a few passages that mention the Lord's Supper at all. First is Matthew 26, verses 26 to 29. We're not going to read those, but that's a passage that mentions it. Mark chapter 14. Verse 22 to 25, Mark 14, 22 to 25. And Luke chapter 22, verse 17. through twenty. These are the passages in the Gospels, and then the passage in which we are looking at this morning, verse uh chapter ten and eleven, both mention the Lord's Supper. And so we're going to kind of focus on this, which is considered the key passage with regards to this, the Lord's Supper, or communion. Now, this is going to be a lot of teaching. I'm not expecting or planning to do i really any preaching this morning. I more want to try and teach And I hope you understand the difference between the two. I want to impart knowledge. I want to give you some biblical truth, and hopefully I want uh I want you to understand what we're looking at. and uh see it in the scripture and come to a full realization uh of what God expects of us as we partake of the Lord's Supper here. So again just with regards to teaching uh this There's only three biblical terms that are found in these passages regarding the Lord's Supper. Okay, what is it called? We call it several things, and they're all biblical terms, and they come right out of the Bible, and that's why we use them. Turn back to 1 Corinthians chapter 10, chapter 10, just one chapter one chapter back, and you'll see the first reference here is called communion. In chapter 10 and verse number 16, he said, the cup of blessing which we bless is not the communion. Is it not, sorry, the communion of the blood of Christ, the bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? So this idea of communion is fellowshipping, being in union. with another. That's what communion means. Being in union, that is in unity, in in great close fellowship one with another. So that's why it's called communion. Then we see in verse number 21, we see it called the Lord's table. The Lord's table. Many times you'll hear churches reference this table that is down in front here, that where we place the communion, is called the Lord's table. And that's from this biblical passage of scripture here in verse number 21. He says, Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. He said, Listen, there's a cup that belongs to God and there's a cup that belongs to the devil. And you you can't can't have communion with both. There's supposed to be a distinction He said, you cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and of the table of devils. So there's a distinction made there between gathering and partaking of this that is at the Lord's table. and that which is part of the world or what the the flesh or the devil would have. And so we see it called communion, we see it called the Lord's table, and we see it called the Lord's Supper. In chapter number 11, verse number 20. So you can turn back to chapter number eleven, verse number twenty, he says, When ye come together, therefore, into one place This is not to eat the Lord's Supper. So it's called the Lord's Supper, referenced here in chapter 11 in several in several ways. But this chapter 11 is the key verses with regards to the Lord's Supper that we'll be looking at So first of all, I would like to discuss with you or talk about the participants of the Lord's Supper. Who is it that should be partaking of the Lord's Supper? Who should be uh observing this with us today uh here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And uh this is where I I just want to try and teach a little bit. and help you see what I have come to realize recently. Now first of all, there are three basic views with regards to the Lord's Supper that are held in Christendom at large. This would be uh all of Christendom, anybody that would call themselves a Christian, anybody that would bother to even partake of the Lord's table, there are three views regarding who should be able to partake Okay, the first view is what is called closed communion. This would be the most restrictive. This is what is considered the local church way, the the way in which a people believe the ordinance was given to the church and should be partaken of, only members of that church That are saved, baptized, members in good standing, uh can partake of the Lord's Supper. That is a closed view. They would stand on that and they would say, listen, nobody else can partake. And uh there are those that hold to that very strictly. Uh some people would even ask you not to partake. If you happen to be at that church on that day and they're having the Lord's Supper, we have some guests here today or people that uh you know are from other churches or currently are attending somewhere else and they In those that hold to this view, the closed view of communion, they would even ask you, listen, we ask that you don't partake, you wait and partake in your church when when you're there. The closed view. Now those that hold to it really strictly They even they do not observe the Lord's Supper at church in a normal church service because they want it to be just their church family, and so they usually will do it on like a Tuesday night They will send out a notice to the members of the church and say, we're going to observe the Lord's Supper on Tuesday for the members of this church, and we're going to do this on at this time. And the church gathers for just that, just to observe the Lord's Supper Now, for my whole life, can I tell you that I believed in closed communion However, what I did is I put it like this, is I said that uh, well, I believed I believe in closed communion. That is, I believe that communion was given to the church and should be observed by the church. However, I practice close communion Now close is the second belief with regards to communion, and we're going to talk about exactly what close means in its entirety in just a moment, but what I kind of Thought, well, the reason that we practice close is because I'm not going to come down there and you know stop at Galena and say you can't partake of this today. I'm not going to what we would call police it We're gonna let people do what they want to do. And well, the fact of the matter is, is sometime last year I was challenged to get into the Word of God and to see what God's Word says about it. Now, we want to line up with Scripture, right? We don't want to line up with what our preferences are. We don't want to line up with what we've always done. Which can I tell you was my problem. When I dug into the scriptures to try and see what the scriptures taught, and I can only be dogmatic where the scripture is dogmatic. I had to come to the realization that I was holding to that view of closed because it's what I had always done. I dug into the scripture, and I'm going to give you some scripture here. We're going to talk about it and how the Lord changed my mind with regards to this because I want to line up with scripture, not with my preference. Not with what I want to do. And I want to try as best as I can and as a church to observe this in accordance with God's word, not just with what I like or with what I would want. And I have met with the deacons a month and a half ago or so and said, Hey, I want you to know that I've been praying about this and studying this for several months now, and I want to get your guys' thoughts or opinions. Here is what I'm looking at. This is what I'm considering. I have met and talked with several other pastors who I believe to be very strong in their Bible knowledge and in in understanding of the scriptures. seek their wisdom and counsel. I've read books on it. I've looked at this in every way to try and make sure that I'm not just holding to my preference. Do you know you can have a falsely trained conscience? That is, you can have a conscience that's trained to think something in one particular way, and I had to deal with that in my own mind and say, okay, what is it that the Bible really teaches? How should we at Hunt Valley Baptist? Here's the thing. I told the deacons this too. I said the fact of the matter is I feel hypocritical. Because if the Bible actually teaches closed, Then I am dishonoring God by allowing the church to have close, by not policing it, right? If the Bible teaches that Then I'm being a hypocrite by saying, hey, I believe in clothes, but we're going to practice clothes. We're going to do something different than what I believe. I said, this is a problem. If it teaches closed, then as a church we need to be observing closed. Amen? Amen. Now, if it teaches close, then that's what we need to be teaching, and that's what we need to be observing. Correct? So I want to line up with the scripture, so I had to really dig in and look at this, and I want you to just to see kind of my thought process and as I walk through the scripture, uh the conclusions that I came to As far as I can determine from my study, there's really only one aspect that leads people to believe that it is supposed to be closed. That is Only members of this local church can be a part of it. And what that is, is that in this passage of scripture with regards to the Lord's Supper, that this ordinance was given to the church You'll see several times here in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, look at verse number 18 through 20, and watch the times where it says, when ye come together. We're just going to read verses eighteen eighteen through twenty. He says, For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you, and I partly believe it, for there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be manifest among you, when ye come together, therefore, into one place. So several times in verse number 17 he says, when ye come together, and in verse number 20, when you come together, and verse number 22, ye Have not your own houses, despise ye again mentioned the church of God. And verse number 33, when ye come together and eat. And so the idea is that it was given to the church. So from that we could infer that it should be The individu the the the local church, this one entity, just this one group, the church. It was given to the church. So it should be this church. You could infer that, but I want you to know that I do not see it implicitly taught that way. In the scriptures, I don't see that. Here's how I began to view this. It was given to the church, just like the ordinance of baptism was given to the church. That is that the church is to be the one administering the Lord's Supper. So you shouldn't be, you know, when I was a kid, I grew up in a pastor's home and I watched a lot of people get baptized. Can I tell you I baptized all my brothers and sisters? You know, we would get a sewing pool out in the backyard and we would say, I baptize thee, my brother, in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and we would put them down, you know, and then next, bring them up, bring them up, you know. I baptize thee, my sister, in the name of the Father. I mean, we all as kids did that because I mean dad was a pastor and we grew up in church, but you know that we weren't baptizing them, right? that we was just getting wet. We were just having fun. What what what I'm saying is that the authority to observe or to uh fulfill or administrate the uh the baptism or the Lord's Supper, those two ordinances is given to the church And so how I see this is that it is the church that is supposed to administer it. Does that make sense? That the church is given that. We shouldn't just be having the Lord's Supper all willy-nilly, you know, just whenever you want at home. I mean you can order the Lord's Supper on Amazon. Uh you can get your own little wafer and cup and and do it whenever you would like. But I want you to know that what I think is that that's not right that it is given to the church and should be observed by the church when they come together. So what I see here is that what the what I believe that the Bible teaches is close communion. That is that the Lord's Supper, communion, should be open to those who are saved, baptized And uh in right fellowship with God We can't leave that part off. We do, I believe, that saved and baptized is a requirement. If you look at the Great Commission given to Uh go ye into all the world and preach the gospel unto every creature, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. We see that progression several places. baptized, then teaching the observance of all these things. So the observance of the Lord's Supper would come after baptism when my kids were younger, they would get saved. And we waited six or seven or eight months before I baptized them. Why? Oh, they wanted to get baptized right away, but I wanted to make sure they understood what they did. that they made a right decision. They knew what they did, that they weren't going to come back in three months and say, oh, I need to do that over. I wanted to see that come to their life. And then we let them follow the Lord in baptism. But during that time they would say, hey, can I partake of the Lord's Supper? And I told my kids, no, not yet. you need to be baptized first. So close communion is to be observed by those that are saved, baptized, in a right relationship with God. And some people put it in a good standing with their church, but I think it's far more important that you be in a good standing with God. That we be in line and in right with God. Now, here's Here is the Bible. We want to line up with the Bible, and here is the Bible on why I was telling Pastor Gus Here, if I'm gonna look at somebody and I'm gonna tell them, you must be saved, baptized, and a member of this church in order to partake of the Lord's Supper. Then I want a Bible verse that I can stand on. And if I have the Bible, I will stand there. I don't have a problem with that You help me, I need to know, do we have a Bible verse that I can point to and say that's what's required? And I couldn't find that. And so for me I had to say, okay, that means I need to change what I think. Does that make sense? I want you to understand the man in front of you is not infallible. I'm a sinner saved by grace just like the rest of you, and sometimes we need to adjust our stinking thinking, right? So I had to adjust my thinking. And I want to line up with scripture. Here is the Bible I came to that allowed me to adjust, and I believe that I can make this change with a clear conscience before God and the church. Because the Bible, okay? Now I want you to see this. Look down in chapter 11, verses 27 to 29. Wherefore, what's the next word? Whosoever. That's a pretty inclusive word, isn't it? Whosoever I think the Bible says, uh, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen? That's a pretty inclusive word. So he says, whosoever, again, appointing to scripture, I want to line up with scripture, whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. Verse number 28, but let a man examine what does he say himself. Let a man examine himself. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthy eateth and drinketh damnation to himself. So here's what I believe. It is personal. It is the responsibility of the church to administer the Lord's Supper. But it is the individual who is to examine himself. You need to whosoever partaketh, it's whosoever partaketh, you need to examine yourself. That examination is twofold. First of all, are you in the faith? You don't want to partake unworthy. Have you been saved? Has your sin been covered by the shed blood of Jesus Christ? This Is a per i this is a picture of what Jesus did for us. Why would you even want to partake of it if you haven't been saved and put your faith and trust in Christ? And then secondly, are you in fellowship with him? Are you in a good standing with him, our Father, our Lord and our Savior Jesus Christ? It is twofold. Are you in fellowship? He says in verse number 18, there, for first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. He says, hey, there's a problem. When you're not in fellowship with one another either. So it's not just that we are in fellowship with God, but we should be in fellowship with one another What does he say about our prayers when you come down to the altar and begin to pray? He says, if you have aught in your heart against your brother, hey, first get up and go get right with your brother. And then come back and pray. So the Lord's Supper keeps the church pure because it brings us to a point of decision. Where we have to be sure we are right with God, that there's nothing between us and our Lord and our Savior, and that we're right with our brothers and sisters in Christ. We all know that things arise Familiarity breeds contempt. I mean, Bob used to think I was a good guy, but now he's gotten to go me, he didn't know me. He's really worried about me You know, the more you get to know somebody, the more you see their faults, right? The more you see areas where they're not all that you thought they were. And so we need to learn to how to function in the body of the church. And uh Care for one another and be in fellowship with one another. So are you in the faith? Are you in fellowship with God? Are you in fellowship with your brother and sisters in Christ? The last belief with regards to communion, which I don't believe there's any grounds to teach that, and that would be open communion. So you have closed that we talked about already, only those that are saved, baptized, and members of that church. Then you have close. That is those that are saved and baptized in a church of like faith that are in agreement with the doctrines, with the teachings, that you guys are He says there be divisions among you. You see, there's supposed to be unity. There's supposed to be fellowship. So you want to be partaking with people that believe the Word of God like you believe the Word of God. And so open is basically to anybody and everybody. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter whether you know the Lord is your Savior or not. Some would say, well, that's that's uh a given you you obviously need to know the Lord, but it it those that practice open tend to be just whoever, all are welcome, please come and partake And most people that practice open is because they believe that there is, that this is how you experience God. They believe that there is a measure of grace given. Through the partaking of these. And that's not so. That's what we want to teach on as well here. So we're going to talk about that just a little bit as we look at the practice of communion. the practice of communion. And what happens now that we're going to partake? Okay, first of all, what are the elements that we use? Obviously we use bread. There's bread, and that bread is to be unleavened. Would you turn back to chapter number five, First Corinthians chapter number five? I'm going to read for you Matthew 26, where he's talking about the Lord's Supper. He says, Now on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread The disciples come to Jesus saying to him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? So they were gathering together to eat the Passover. And uh they said, hey, we're going to eat this. And the Passover was to be observed with unleavened bread. Now if you're back in chapter number 5, verses 6 and 7. He says, Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. Purge out, therefore, the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are Unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. So beloved, I think everybody here knows and would understand that leaven is a picture of sin. And so we to have a true picture of Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior, who the Bible tells us very clearly that he was tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. We know that Jesus had no sin, and therefore to be a true picture, it should be unleavened bread. Okay, does that make sense? I know nobody has a problem with that. Nobody would argue that. Nobody would debate that. But if the picture is going to hold true, I want you to understand that not only is it to be unleavened bread, but it is to be unleavened. fermented grape juice. That's where, and I do not understand why, but that's where many people have a problem. There are many people that partake of the Lord's Supper and they use wine to do so. Beloved, wine is fermented. Things ferment when they go bad. Things ferment when they begin to corrupt. That is not a true picture of the pure blood of Jesus Christ. Which is what is represented by the juice that we partake of here. So not only is it to be unleavened bread, but it is to be unfermented grape juice. Now, I want you to know that nowhere in all of the references with regards to the Lord's Supper is the word wine used. The word is not even used. Now, many times in the New Testament, when the word wine is used, it is simply speaking of grape juice, fruit of the vine. can be called wine. It's not necessarily implying or stating that it is fermented alcohol. So I hope that you're in agreement that it should be unfermented wine. Unfermented grape juice, right? Just grape juice, not not fermented, not not wine. Um I don't know why anybody would want to or why they would desire to corrupt the picture by using wine in observance of the Lord's Supper, but many do. Beloved, there is over 160 verses in the scriptures that deal with uh not being given to wine, not drinking alcohol, all of the problems that arise from it. And the Lord certainly would not give us 160 verses that speak against the use of alcohol and then make it as part of an ordinance that we're supposed to observe in God's house. Does that make sense? Okay, so we see the the elements we're supposed to use. Also, how often should we do it? How often should we do it? Would you turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 11? 1 Corinthians 11, verse number 25. He says, after the same manner also the cup which he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood, this dew Ye as oft as ye drink in remembrance of me, and as oft as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. That word there oft is as often or whenever. It is as often as you're going to do this. So when you do this. So there is not a command in the scripture to a number of times that you're supposed to observe this. Some people feel, because in Acts chapter 20, verse number 7, it says, upon the first day of the week when the disciples came together to break bread. They say, well, we're supposed to do this every week. It says when they came together to break bread. If you study that passage, you guys know the breaking of bread is simply a statement of fellowship. There's not no reference in that passage of the observance of the Lord's Supper. There's no mention of the partaking of the cup. There is just breaking of bread, which is just fellowship. So when they come together, uh as fellowship, but listen, there's nothing in the Bible that says you shouldn't do it once a week either. So neither one is wrong if you observe the Lord's Supper every week or every month There are some people that only observe the Lord's Supper once a year. They do this in their their thinking is that the Passover was observed once a year and we want to follow the pattern of the Passover so we will observe the Lord's Supper once a year. Neither is wrong. Here is where we've got to be careful. Either extreme leads to folly If you get to the place where you observe it so often that it becomes just a ritual, it has no meaning, it has no substance, it has no life, it's just something that we do, then it's lost its significance. But if you do it so rarely that we forget what it's for or what it's about, then it's lost its significance. So in both extremes there is a problem, we need to try and have a balance with that As a pastor, I prayerfully asked the Lord to help me and I apologize for the last six months I think we've probably been since we've observed the Lord's Supper and that's because I've been doing this study and I've been praying and trying to ask the Lord what to do and I was not prepared or ready. to bring this to you clearly and articulately, and so I put off observing the Lord's Supper till I could do so. So it's been a while. But my desire is about every three months for us to observe the Lord's Supper. Every three months, maybe every four months, uh so that we're observing it four times a year. Uh that's kind of roundabout in my mind but what I start do try and do is if I like man it's been a lot when I'll look at the calendar and say, Oh wow, it's been, you know, twelve weeks, it's been fourteen weeks and and l let's observe the Lord's Supper. And the Lord burdens my heart about it. And so that there's there's not a particular right way. There's not a given you know, we don't do it the first Sunday of every month, we don't do it, you know, the first Sunday of every year. I don't know if we've ever done it the first Sunday of a year before. But It's kind of when the Lord provokes me. And by the way, sometimes uh you know the Bible says, provoke one another to love and good works. Amen. And sometimes the Lord uses you to provoke me. So don't be afraid to say, man, Pastor, I sure, I sure would love to have the Lord's Supper. That might be something the Lord's going to use. Just put it in my heart and say, yeah, you know what? It's been a little while. We need to do that. And and maybe I need to to to remind me of that. So don't be afraid to come and mention it to me. I think you guys know that I'm not beyond suggestion or or advice or uh wisdom from you. And uh we just want to keep it precious. We want to keep it something that's very special to us, that we do, and again, there's nothing sinful or wrong about somebody that does it more often. Nothing sinful or wrong about somebody does it less often because he says here as oft as you do it. As oft. It's just when you do it, do it for this reason. So what the Lord's Supper is I'm just going to try and teach this quickly because there could be some misconceptions with regards to this. I want you to know the Lord's Supper is not uh the Baptist answer to Mass. This is not, this is an ordinance given to us by God that we observe in obedience to Him. not in the keeping with tradition or the following or observing of some sacrament. We believe, beloved, that this is symbolic, not sacramental. Okay, the idea of a sacrament is that it imparts grace. That by observing this you are receiving Grace from God, that you are getting that. There is no special impartation of grace because you partake of the Lord's Supper. It's not sacramental, it's symbolic. It is done in memorial of what God did, not in a means to get grace. Okay? So it is a matter of obedience Now there's a couple of things out there, ideas with regards to the Lord's Supper that we want to just counter real quickly. First is it's not transubstantiation. Okay, this is the teaching of the Catholic Church whereby they teach and believe that the elements when the when the priest says Whatever words he says over those elements, they transform, transubstantiation, they transform into the literal body and blood of Jesus Christ. We do not believe that. These are elements that are pictures. They're symbolic of the body and blood of Christ, but they are not actually the body and blood of Christ. Transubstantiation, which is a doctrine that Pope Innocent III put into place for the Catholic Church sometime in the 1200s. is still practiced today and the idea um I mean they i it goes so far that they used to think and I don't know where they're at now but books that I've read they they would believe that if any of the element fell on the ground and a rat ate it that the rat would go to heaven. Okay, because the rat is now receiving Jesus Christ. That's the idea of the sacrament, that they are getting They're now receiving Jesus Christ, and so they could not, they had to make sure they put cloths down or whatever to protect the floor, make sure that nothing else received that. And so we we do not believe it's transubstantiation. We also do not believe it's consubstantiation. Consubstantiation is traditionally held uh by Lutherans or what would be considered high church And that is the idea that God is in everything. Therefore, when we partake of this, we are partaking of God, because God is in everything. Now, God is everywhere, but God is not in everything. We don't bow down to a pulpit because we know this is not God. God is omnipresent, God is everywhere, but God is not in everything. And so that doesn't hold up very well when you consider the fact that if that were true, then every time you eat lunch you're observing the Lord's Supper, right? Every meal you have you are partaking of God. If if that idea that God is in everything and so God is present in these elements And therefore when we partake of that we now that's my understanding of of those two doctrines. I want you to know that we we do not line up with that. We do not believe that. It is a matter of fellowship with God, of union, communion, communion with God. We're at union with Him, and it's just symbolic of what He has done for us So let me give you a couple things what it is. It is communion. That is his supper. We're fellowshiping with him. It also is a command. He says, this do in remembrance of me. Okay, this is a command given to us as a church, and so we need to do it. So here's what I'm saying is sometimes people will say, well, uh I know that I'm living in sin. And I know I'm not doing right, and so I'm just not going to partake. I don't believe that's really an option. Now, it might be better than partaking unworthily, because you don't want to be in danger of the body and blood of Jesus Christ. But the goal here, the motivation, is we need to get right with God. So we can partake. Because we know it's a command. We know it's what God wants us to do. And maybe you're in a position or a place where you say, well, I can't partake today because I have to get right with this brother, or I have to uh get this sin confessed before God or I need to stop doing this. I want you to understand that we are not to partake unworthily. Uh but it is a command. It's something that we know we're s we're supposed to do. So it's communion, it's command. It's also commemoration. It's a commemoration. That is in remembrance of me. So that's what it is, remembering what God did for us. Amen. And as we remember what He did for us, it ought to drive us to have a thankful heart. To be thankful for what God did. It restores us and keeps us in good, true fellowship with Him I don't know that I've ever done this on a Sunday morning and I don't know that I should, but I'm just going to ask quickly, does anybody have a question maybe that I did not answer or that I did not address with regards to the Lord's Supper here that we're going to observe today? I did try and give you as much scripture and as as thorough of a teaching on it as I could. Here's the thing. The Bible says there let a man examine himself. So it's a personal examination between you and God. You need to know, are you in the faith? If you're here this morning, you have not. Ask Jesus Christ to forgive you of your sins, to save your soul. Listen, you don't want to partake of this. The first step is you need to put your faith and trust in him. You need to let Jesus save you. And then this is a picture of you having done that, remembering what Jesus did for you. You're saved and baptized, you know the Lord your Savior, and you're in good fellowship. I would encourage you to partake of the Lord's Supper today. We want to do as God said. So we want to have a moment here of examination. We're just going to let the pianists come and play. We're going to let you ponder in your heart, think about where you are spiritually, if there's anything that you need to confess or or give to the Lord. Do so during this time of examination, and then we'll have the ushers or the men come and prepare to administer the Lord's Supper together. But as the pianist plays, we'll just have a moment of silence and quiet time where you can talk to God And make sure that each of us are ready to partake together