We're going to look this morning at a familiar passage of scripture for us. Would you turn to Matthew chapter number 14? Matthew chapter number 14. We're going to reflect this morning on uh uh this story which is uh as familiar, certainly familiar to those uh Hunt Valley Baptist Church, but anybody's been saved for any length of time. This is one of those stories that we heard as kids growing up. This is one of the stories we were taught in Sunday school and uh we just rejoiced in. I uh it is one it is actually the only miracle that is recorded for us in all four of the gospels. The only miracle of Christ is recorded in all four gospels. And I don't know if it's recorded in all four because of the impact it had on the disciples or because of the impact it's supposed to have on us. Uh maybe maybe both, but certainly if it's been repeated four times, given to us uh from the insight uh different perspective. Uh some people uh say, well, there is uh you know contradictions in the scripture. Look, these two stories don't match exactly. Well uh uh anybody that is a police officer will tell you that an eyewitness You can have ten eyewitnesses and you'll have ten different stories as to what happened. Uh and their perspective of what happened, their their place, their background, how they viewed it, it's gonna be different from everybody And so each of the gospels, and we'll be referencing some of the others as they give a little bit of more insight or a little more detail. You know, uh you asked me about a story in I'm gonna tell you that, well, you ask me about let's say how's Daniel doing and I'll say he's doing good. You say, yeah, well w what happened to him? Well he got sick Well, how did he get sick? I'm not sure. Um, you know, but you ask Mary how Daniel's doing and she'll say, well, two and a half weeks ago when he was on his way to the store, he started to feel a little bit uncomfortable and he wasn't sure what was causing this discomfort, but he was maybe a little bit concerned. But he went to the store and everything was fine and he bought uh milk and cheese and uh and uh And about 15 minutes later you'll get to the fact that uh he had an infection in his foot that created something in his body and he got a uh A fever and uh so what I'm saying is different people tell stories differently, right? How they look at it, and that's what you have in the gospels. But look with me if you would in Mark chapter Matthew, sorry, 14. Matthew 14. Are you there say amen Alright, look down at verse number 13. Follow along as we read this story here. When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place, apart. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. And Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place. The time is now past. Send the multitude away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victels. But Jesus said unto them, they need not depart. Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves and two fish. And he said, Bring them hither to me. And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass and took five loaves. The two fish and looked up to heaven. He blessed and broke and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude And they did all eat and were filled. And they took up the fragments that remained twelve baskets full. And they had eaten. were about five thousand men, besides women and children. I can't read that Verse number twenty without thinking about that skit where they say and they flung her down again. You guys obviously don't know this again. And they flung her down again. And they picked up the pieces that remained that were twelve baskets full. I I can't give you the whole skit 'cause I don't remember it all off the top of my head, but it's the skit where they take the scriptures and they mix all those Bible stories together and none of it really makes sense, but it's all just they're just reading they're just telling Bible stories that are not connected at all. It's a lot of fun. I guess you had to be there. Uh but we're gonna look this morning. I I labored over what to call this. I I considered calling it a simple offering But I decided on a compassion compassion in action. We see here our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ uh the compassion that he has and desire to meet the needs of his people. And it's not just compassion that's present in his heart that he feels, but it's motivated and brings him to a place of action where he brings change about in our lives. I hope that the thoughts here this morning are maybe encouraging to you if you need encouragement today. But secondly, I hope they're very motivating to you, uh challenging to you. To think about what you have been given by God and how effectively you're using it for His honor and glory. So I want you to see several things. We got three simple points this morning. First of all, a problematic situation. We see that this was a problematic situation that had arisen here We begin where Christ is looking for some time away. You know, Christ was tempted in all points like we are. I'm thankful that I have a Savior that uh is touched with the feeling of my infirmities. I'm thankful that I have a God that understands the the burden of living this life, that understands the struggles that we go through, that uh knows what it means to be hungry, that knows what it means to feel a burden, that knows what it means to be weighted down with the weight of the struggles and the battles of this life We know that Jesus Christ himself, looking for an opportunity to get away just for a few minutes, he needed some rest. He needed time to recover. For you see, he had just experienced or gone through the death of a friend. We know that John the Baptist had just been beheaded, the forerunner of Jesus Christ. His friend, and there is no loss, no grief so great as that of the loss of a loved one. Jesus was still ministering to people and trying to meet their needs and doing all this at the same time. He's carrying this grief from the loss of somebody that he loved. He had the death of his friend that was lay weighing heavy on his heart. We know that it's not long and he has the duty of the cross that he's going to have to face. He knows it's not long from now. I mean, he he you know he had a very short ministry If somebody came to you today and said, well, you've got a year and a half to live, you think that would weigh on you a little bit? You would start to think about, well, I wonder when that time's going to come. I wonder what it's going to be with Jesus Christ being all God and all man understood what his father was calling and asking him to do and He had the duty of the cross that was ever before him. And beloved, he describes it as a joy that was set before him. He endured the cross and despised the same. He did that why? For you and I That we might know the forgiveness of sin. He carried the weight of that looming cross, that duty that was before him. We see the demand of the ministry. Everywhere Jesus went, from the first time he healed a sick individual, from the first time he opened his mouth and began to teach unto them the scriptures, people longed to hear the voice of the Savior. They looked to be taught by him, and we see in this text here that Jesus looking for an opportunity to step away for a moment trying to just get alone for just a few minutes and set the multitude, saw where he was going and went after him. He was always on call. He was always in great demand. Mark chapter 6, verse 31 tells us. And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart unto a desert place and rest awhile. For there were many coming and going, that they had no leisure time so much as to eat Jesus and the disciples had been so active in ministering to others that they hadn't even paused to take time to eat themselves. They needed some food. They needed some rest. Josephus tells us that this region, the Galilean region, was vastly populated. There were numerous little towns one after the other in this region and and there was people everywhere you went. There was a place across the Sea of Galilee that Jesus saw as a place of seclusion, maybe a place he could get away for a few minutes, and of course You know, all those guys that ran with Jesus, they were fishermen. You know, they had access to boats. I don't think it'd be too hard for Jesus to recruit one of them and say, hey, get a boat, man. We gotta go we gotta get away for a few minutes. We need to step over to the other side. Now I've been on the Sea of Galilee, had the privilege of preaching on the shores of Galilee, what a privilege that was. But you know, the Sea of Galilee is not very big. I think it's eight miles at its widest point. And you can see all the way across that. Relatively easy. So Jesus wasn't hiding from anybody. He's gotten a boat and going to the other side and everybody's like, okay, he's going that way. Come on guys And they're all they says they came out from the cities from all over. They saw where Jesus was going and they said, oh, let's go. We got to go talk to Jesus. The multitude didn't want to give him an opportunity to rest. Mark 6, 33 says, And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and went unto went outwent them. and came together unto him. Jesus reaches the other shore looking for a few minutes alone, and there's somebody there. A whole bunch of somebody's. Ultimately we know at the conclusion of this it was 5,000 men, plus a number of women and children. Christ needed some time alone. He had planned it. He had prepared for it. But he was moved with compassion because of the needs of the people. He and the disciples hadn't eaten yet themselves. He and the disciples needed some rest. Yet he was moved with compassion. We see that Jesus hadn't eaten himself, but this wasn't the problem. The problem that developed was there was a development of hunger. In all of the people. We see in verse 15. And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past. Send the multitude away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victors. There's some 5,000 men and women and children who gathered here to be at the feet of Jesus They didn't want to depart, they didn't want to leave, but they were getting hungry and the nighttime was coming. They found themselves, the Bible says, here in a desert place. Have you ever been in a desert place? You ever been in a place where it just didn't seem like there was enough to meet the need? There there just wasn't uh it wasn't fruitful planes and it It it wasn't uh uh the enough to you know, I remember one one guy saying, I I have figured out that my goal in life is I want my life to end and my finances to end at the same time And after doing all the calculations, I figured out that if I die at noon tomorrow, uh that'll work. I mean, sometimes you've been there in a desert place, there just wasn't enough He says in this passage here that it was getting dark You ever been in a dark place? Been in a place where you just didn't see any light at the end of the tunnel? You were facing a problem, you were facing a struggle, and there was a burden that was heavy on your heart, and for you there was no light. You said, Man, it's dark, and you see it, and you say, Lord, like Job, where art thou? Lord, I need you. You get into a dark place. They were facing a desperate situation. Here's a lot of people that needed to be fed, and the disciple's solution was to send them away. As a typical human, you know, we look for a human solution. Here's what we need to do. This solves the problem. Send them away. And Jesus said, no, no, no, don't send them away. Give ye them to eat. Wow. Well, Lord, how are we supposed to do that? There's a lot of people here and the need is is great. You see they didn't know how it would be possible because they hadn't factored in God. They hadn't factored in who it was they were with. And so we see the powerful supply given to us by Jesus Christ. In verse number 16, he says, but Jesus saith unto them, they need not depart, give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves and two fish. He said, Bring them hither to me. And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass and took five loaves and two fish and took, looked up into heaven. He blessed. He break and he gave the loaves to his disciples and the disciples to the multitude. We see here a doubting servant in verse number 17. And say unto him, We have here but five loaves and two fish. Now if you've ever doubted, you're in pretty good company. The disciples doubted. They said, Lord, we believe, but help our unbelief. We we believe you can do it, Lord, but We need a little bit help to know how you're going to do it, to see our way through it. The disciples here knew that God was able, but they they looked and they said, well. Lord, we I don't see how this is possible. We've only got five loaves and two fish. From the human standpoint, from the example given, Lord, there's certainly not enough if you If you were to turn over to John, don't, but if you did in John chapter 6, verses 5 and 7, he gets a little bit more details. We talk here about Philip. He says, When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, he saw a great company coming to him, and he said unto Philip Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? And this he said to prove him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered to him, 200 penny worth of bread is not sufficient for them, for every one of them take a little. He said, if we had two hundred penny worth of bread, which we don't, but even if we did, That's not enough. Everybody would get the smallest little bite, or not even every little bite, and not even everybody would get a bite. This our ability does not match our need. Have you been there? Been in a place where your strength was insufficient, where your ability was insufficient, your capacity to see God do something or to come through was not quite enough. But can I tell you that God can? Can God make a table in the wilderness? God can. God can do that in whatever uh God's desiring to do, he can do, he has the capacity and ability to do, but he took a little boy giving him five loaves and two fish He had to have somebody willing to take however small of a sacrifice he had, at least he was willing to take what little bit he had and give it to God. Hudson Taylor wrote in his journal, our Heavenly Father is very experienced. He knows very well his children wake up with a good appetite every morning. He sustained three million Israelites in the wilderness for 40 years. Now I don't expect that God will send three mission three million missionaries to China, but I do know if he did, he would have ample means to sustain them all. And he closed with this very familiar statement. He said, God's work done in God's way will never lack God's supply. Beloved, God can do it. God can meet the need however great it is. When you find yourself in a dark, desert, desperate place, can I tell you this morning that you can trust God? You can trust God to find a way through to deliver you. We see a delivering Savior here. The Savior was on the scene, he was present, and he had a solution. He knew what he was going to do, but he needed a willing servant to give him what little bit he had. You might be here this morning you say, Well, I don't have much. That's okay. God doesn't need much. You might, well, I'm not very talented. That's okay. God doesn't need a very talented individual. He just needs somebody willing. Because he wants to do a miraculous thing. The delivering Savior was moved with compassion on them. I think it's amazing that he and the disciples had yet to eat and he didn't perform a miracle to feed himself, but he saw the need of the people. And he said, let's feed him. Let's meet this need. You can cast all your care upon him, for he careth for you. The powerful deliverance brought by our Savior. Let me ask you, do you need a miracle today? God can. God can. We see a presented surplus as well. In verse number 19 through 21, he says, and he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass and took the five loaves and two fish and Looking up into heaven, he blessed and break, and gave those to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitude, and they did all eat and were filled, and they took up the fragments that remained twelve baskets full. And they had eaten were about five thousand men, besides women and children. There was twelve baskets left over. Not only did everybody Eat, not everybody, not only was the need met, not only was everybody filled, but there was a surplus there. God, when he delivers, he delivers completely. When God supplies, He supplies completely God comes through for us. I want you to see that this miracle was made possible because they complied to God's direction. We see in verse number 19 that he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass. Now, if they were New Testament Christians. They would be saying, well, that's not a very good because they are New Testament Christians, amen. But uh well I would say if they were average American Christians, they would be saying, sit on the grass, why do I have to sit on the grass? I don't see that anywhere in the scriptures that we have to sit on grass to be holy Why why do we have to do that? I'm not sitting on the grass. I'm not going to demean myself or I'm not getting dirty. You don't have to, but if you want to be part of the miracle, you do. If you want to see God do something, you understand the miracle was made possible because these people they they committed to God's commands, they complied to God's direction In Mark 6, verse 39 and 40 he says, And he commanded them to make all to sit down by companies upon the green grass. And they sat down in ranks by hundreds and by fifties. God told them where to sit and how to sit. If they wanted to be part of the miracle, if they wanted to see the miracle, if they it would if they would not have complied, I don't believe that this would have happened. They wouldn't have been a part of seeing God do this. And what I'm saying, Christian, is if you and I want to see God do great things, we've got to comply to his directions. God is a God of order and He wanted a systematic way to be sure that everybody was fed And say, well, it doesn't really make sense, or what difference does it make if we're sitting down in hundreds or fifties or in a big old group? Doesn't make any difference. It really doesn't, but it's how God wanted it done. And you can debate and argue. You know, I'm I'm really weary of Christians trying to argue for why they don't have to do what God said. People that call themselves Christians and they love God and don't tell me what I have to do. Why do I have to do that? Who are you to say this or that? I'm nobody I'm very careful about what I try and say and I really try to be careful not to be dogmatic on anything that the scriptures are not dogmatic on. But the other side of it is where's your heart? Do you want to please and honor God or do you want to please and honor yourself? Said sit down in groups of a hundred and fifty. And we said, okay, where do you want me? Okay, great. That's that that's good. I'm happy here. I'm just glad to be here. I'm just glad to be a part. Yeah, I'm glad to do it, no problem. Whatever whatever. Because we want to please the master. You can't expect the Lord to supply all your need according to his riches and glory if we're not complying to his direction. We need to be following his leading. Doing what he wants us to do. Being obedient to his commands. You know, we could chase a lot of rabbits here. Could run down a lot of trails and I and and I'm tempted to because I'm just going to let the Holy Spirit touch your heart. Where is it that you're not complying to God's direction? We want to see the miracle. The feeding of the 5,000 to see God multiply such a small gift given to him in such a magnificent way Well, where is it that we're not complying? Because if we're going to see the miracle, we're going to have to comply to God's direction. If we want to see the miracle, we have to commit what we have to God. We have to commit what we already have to God. Just a simple offering. He was just a little boy. He had just a little food. He was just another nameless face among a great multitude. There were thousands in the crowd that day. He was just a youth. How could anyone have guessed how he would be used? A heart of faith, a little lunch, a willing, eager cat It wasn't much. It wasn't big. But it was all he had. And he gave it to God. What I'm saying is you and I we have to be willing to commit what we have to God. We're a people today that are consumed with what we don't have instead of looking at what we do We are so consumed with what we don't have. That's what fills our mind. That's what consumes our heart. What we don't have. Instead of contemplating, considering and taking what we do have and presenting it to God. Moses. You remember him God called him to set my people free and he he he he didn't want to do it. He said, I can't talk. And Moses said, I mean God said, what do you have? He says, I don't have anything. Just a staff. Just a wooden staff is all he had. But when given to God, it was turned into a powerful tool that was used to set God's people free. What do you have that God could use? That God wants to use, that God wants to multiply in such a magnificent way? Beloved, you can serve God with what you have. You say, I'm not that skilled, I don't have that much ability, that's okay. What do you have? What skill don't look and say, well I can't sing like so-and-so, or I can't play the piano like him, or I can't preach like him. But what can you do What skill do you have? What ability or strength do you have that you can say, God I can't do much, but here's what I have, and if you'll if you'll take it, I'll give it to you gladly, Lord. You've got to commit what you have to God. I can tell you as a young man, I mean I've been at this since nineteen ninety-nine and I still stand up here in awe and a little bit embarrassed and a little bit ashamed. We sat we sat yesterday morning And listen to a preacher preach a message and I thought in my mind, Lord, I can't ever preach like that I just look at it and think, man, I'm so uncapable, so uh untalented, so unable to do what God has called me to do But I said, Lord, if you're if you want me, if you have me, if you give me an opportunity to preach, then I'll do my best, God. And God's given me many opportunities. I just feel bad for you guys. I I don't understand it, but any of but anybody here, whatever you have, whatever rod or staff you have in your hand or a little loaf a little lunch with five loaves and two fish, whatever small capacity or bill, you say, I don't have much, but what do you have? You've got to commit what you have to God if we want to see the miracle. You can serve God with what you have because beloved a little is much when God is in it. Little is multiplied when God is in it. How can a small group meeting in a storefront out on Timonium Road Even dream about buying a place like this. A little bitty group of people out there, we were all sacrificing and giving like you. I mean we were giving everything we can, but as a church we had a theme an idea, a goal set beside that we can't do it, Lord. We have the inability. The need is so much bigger than us. But God, if you'll take our five loaves and two fish, if you'll take what we can do, then God will do the rest. And it's been the theme of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. If you'll do what you can do, God will do the rest. And what we need is a room full of people that are willing to submit their heart to God and say I don't know how much it is or what you can do with it, but God, here it is. Here's my skill, here's my talent, here's my treasure. It's not a lot, it's certainly not going to meet the need. Can I tell you the need's bigger than any of us? The need's bigger than any of us. People ask me all the time, when are we gonna build? I'll say as soon as you get ten million dollars. Amen. But here's what I know ten million dollars is nothing to God. It's nothing to God. I mean I looking out here in this world and seeing s some of these business people and what they what they make in a year Some of these sports players for throwing a piece of pig skin around what they bring home in a year, ten million dollars is nothing. It's a drop in the bucket. God could do it like that. But he's not going to do it until God's people do what they can do. You gotta take what you have and commit it to God. And you see a miracle like we see in the room we're standing in today. And you're sitting in. This building is a testament. To the miracle of God. What he can do with a small group of people that just said, okay, Lord, here's our small sacrifice, but whatever you whatever you want to do. And God performed a miracle. I mean we couldn't even get a loan for a million dollars. You know, a million dollars it's like seven and a half thousand dollars a month is what you need, probably close to eight thousand dollars a month for your mortgage But you know what? With what we were paying for rent over there We came over here to buy this building and and we couldn't get we we couldn't afford to buy this building. But see God already had a preschool renting the middle level And the preschool says, hey, well we'll pay you $2,500 a month to keep renting the middle level. And I don't remember the exact numbers, so don't quote me on that. But all I know is that it was only like $300 or $500 more a month From what we were paying for rent and we bought this building. Because the preschool that was renting this middle level, what I'm saying is God did that. I don't know what your need is, but I know that God can meet it if we take what we have and commit it to Him. Beloved, we don't manufacture the blessing, but we're distributors of it. You see, God gave to the disciples and their job was to give it to the people. Maybe part of the problem sometimes is we're taken from God and man, God, thank you. This is awesome. I got twelve basketfuls, but we're supposed to be taking that and giving it out, right? He's given to us that we might give it to others. Jesus worked through the hands of the disciples that day. It's God's plan to use men to minister to men. And God wants to use you. Maybe you have a need and Jesus wants to meet it. Are you willing to just give what little bit you have to him and let him do the miracle? I remember many years ago I came back from the dentist. I've always had a close relationship with my dentist. My whole life. I've spent tons of time in the dentist chair. And uh something had happened, it was going to be very, very expensive, thousands and thousands of dollars. It was way beyond my capacity. There's nothing we could do. We were on staff, we were making at that time, I think, $14,000 a year. is what we were making. And here here we are, there's still three or four thousand. I don't remember exactly what it was. But I remember coming home and standing in the kitchen looking at Mary and I said, honey what are we giving to missions right now? And she told me I I don't remember. I I think it was twelve dollars a week is what we were giving to missions. I don't remember. But I said, you know what, let's double it Let's double it. You say, wait a minute, you just got a big old bill from the dentist. Yeah, but I didn't have any capacity to do anything about that bill. But I knew God could. So we doubled what we were given the missions. You say that doesn't make sense. God took care of it. God did it. Can you trust God with what you have? Let God do the miracle? God can if you'll just commit what you have to Him This is kind of a practical note, and I'm going to try and wrap it up here, but I want you to know we also got to be careful not to waste what God gives us In John 6, verse number 12, he says, when they were filled, he said to the disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. That nothing be lost. He didn't say, oh, hey, there's a bunch left over, just throw it out. Christian, we live in a throwaway society. We live in a place and time when people just throw stuff away. Can I encourage you to be frugal, to be a wise steward of what God gives you Don't waste the surplus that God supplies. You know, it might not be bad to get back to the mentality that our grandparents had because they came through the Great Depression. They didn't throw anything away, did they? They used it all They use every bit of it. Now I hope we don't have to go through a Great Depression to get us there. But God doesn't want you wasting what He supplies for you. Can I get real practical for a second? Parents don't let your kids throw stuff away. You're teaching them how to live. You know, we have get togethers here and some people sacrifice and Buy cupcakes and you let your kid go through the line and take two or three of them and throw two and a half of them away. That's not right. Yeah, we have a have a potluck and you let your child go through the line and get a plate so full of people that so so full of food that an adult couldn't eat that much food. Now listen, if your kid's hungry, we want them to eat. We're not saying don't feed them, but I'm saying you're teaching them something by by letting them do that. And then they take over half of that food and they throw it in a trash can that somebody spent a bunch of time yesterday buying and supplying to bring to the event. And then you let them go through the dessert line and they do the same thing Now I know that's practical and I'm I'm running off running off trail here, but you're teaching them. We need to value and appreciate what we have. Don't let them do that. Beloved, if we'll do what we can do, God can do the rest. That's been our theme here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. It's mind-boggling to me that we are fast approaching our 20th anniversary It's right around the corner. Twenty years of seeing God do miraculous things here. And if we're going to continue to see that We've got to be willing to comply to God's directions. We've got to commit what we have to God. Listen, God loves you. You can trust him. He was moved with compassion. He sees where you're at. Are you in a dark desert place today? God wants to meet your need. He's a miraculo-miracle-working God, and he can do it for you. But these truths that we see or learn from this little lad who said, it isn't much, but you can have it, Lord. That's the challenge for you today. Whatever you have, just give it to God and let Him multiply it. The comfort or the encouragement for those that are discouraged is that you serve a God that loves you and wants to care for you. And as I close, I just want to say if you don't know the Lord is your personal Savior, that you need to trust Him today before it's eternally too late. He sent his son to die for you. It's not enough to know that. You must put your faith and trust in him.