John chapter 4, if you would turn there there, please. John chapter number 4. There's a selection of verses in John chapter 4 that I want to give you tonight as an introduction for the message this evening and pray that uh God will speak to us. I'm not going to read every verse of the chapter for the sake of time, but uh I'll just tell you whenever I'm skipping a verse or what verse I'm going to so you can follow. In John chapter 4, we'll start with verse number 4 And he, that's talking about Jesus, must needs go through Samaria. Verse six. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus, therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well, and it was about the sixth hour. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. And verse number nine. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God and who it is that saith unto thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him. And he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself and his children and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto him her, Uh, whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. Jesus saith unto her, Go call thy husband and come hither The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. In that saidest thou truly. The woman saith unto her, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. Verse 25. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he is come, he will tell us all things. And Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am He. Verse twenty-eight. The woman then left her waterpot and went her way into the city, and said to the men, Come see a man which told me all things that ever I did. Is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city and came unto him. Verse 39. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him, for the saying of the woman which testified, he told me all that ever I did. So when the Samaritans were coming to him, they brought him or besought him that he would uh tarry with them, and he abode there two days And many more believed because of his own word. And said unto the woman, Now we believe not because of thy saying, for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ the Savior of the world. In nineteen thirty-four, a man started writing a paper. Called The Sword of the Lord. It's still being published today, by the way. He is not the editor now because he has since passed away. But Dr. John R. Rice started that ministry and started the sword of the Lord. He was an evangelist way back in those days in 1934. And when he would go to preach, The altars were full, people were getting saved, God was really using him in a great way. However, every sermon that he preached He would weep. And he got embarrassed about his tears. And so he prayed. He said, God, take these tears away. I am embarrassed to stand before these people all the time and I'm weeping. God answered his prayer. But then he would get up and preach, and nobody was coming forward. Nobody was getting saved. Nobody was getting right with God. And finally he got on his knees again and he said, Lord, I don't care if I have to weep or cry or whatever, Lord, but I want their blessings back upon my life. Lord, give me the tears back. If that's what it takes to be used of thee, give me the tears back. And so God gave him the tears back, and people started flooding the aisles again. Years and years went by. And actually all the way up to nineteen seventy-two. And in nineteen seventy-two I went to Sheboygan, Wisconsin with my wife. to start a church there. And God really blessed our church. He really did. In fact, the first Sunday we had forty-six in attendance. Actually, that is a miracle in itself because Wisconsin is known as the graveyard of preachers It really is. And uh half forty six a preacher friend of mine called me that Sunday afternoon and asked how things went, and I said, God really blessed. today. We had forty-six in attendance today. He couldn't hardly believe it. After he picked himself up off the floor, he'd been in another city in Wisconsin and started that church and it was four or five years old and he'd never had forty-six yet. in his services. I was kind of embarrassed on the phone to make him feel so bad. But God continued to bless and That first January, we had a big day in our church. I believe in having big days periodically. And we had a big day, and God opened up the windows of heaven. And a hundred and eighty people showed up. God has blessed me more than I deserve. But I didn't know what I was doing. And I don't have time to tell the story and so on, but when I went to Wisconsin in 1969, I'd only been saved two weeks. And I started pastoring Bible Baptist Church in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. I was there almost three years, still didn't know what I was doing, but God had blessed our church there and was running uh over a hundred when I left. went to Sheboygan and uh Wisconsin and started that church and God was really blessing. The windows of heaven had opened and and uh but I was really green, to tell you the truth. I didn't know what I was doing. I knew how to knock on doors and tell somebody about Jesus. But I didn't know much about building a church. And so I needed all the help I could get, and and they were having a thought of the Lord conference in a town called Watertown, Wisconsin, at Marinatha Baptist Bible College. And So I thought, well man, I I'm gonna go to that conference and see if I can pick up a tidbit or two, something that I can use in the ministry to make me more effective for the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I went to that conference and And it was a big auditorium. It's actually a little bit bigger than this one. It was at Calvary Baptist Church in Watertown, Wisconsin. And uh there was uh Oh, I'd say close to a thousand people there at that conference. It was packed full. All the aisles were full. I mean it was just uh stand in room only. And uh there were probably fifty preachers there And Dr. Cederholm walked up to me before the service has ever started, and he said, Brother Botrell, he said Could you come over to my house after church for some fellowship? And I thought, man, I'd love to. I thought 27 years old, just a little pipsqueak. Don't know very much. And you're asking me to come to your house for some fellowship, I'd be honored. And so I thought Well, he must have invited fifty or seventy-five other preachers here. We're gonna have us a ball over at Dr. Rice's house after church tonight. And so after church I went over to Dr. Rice's uh Dr. Cedar Holmes' house. And uh when I got there There was Dr. Cederholm, the president of Marinatha Baptist Bible College, and his wife. There was Dr. John R. Rice, Dr. Jack Hiles. And Dr. Chell, a missionary to India. And I thought, I'm in the wrong house. What in the world are you doing here, Roger Batrell? I was thinking, man, Dr. Sederholm has really blown it tonight Inviting me with all of these giants of the faith. We went in the dining room and sat down around the table and had some refreshment. It was interesting that these big shots eat the same thing you and I do. We had some nice refreshments around the table, and then we got up and went into the living room. Dr. John R. Rice was seventy-eight years old. I'm seventy-five. He was three years older than me at the time. And he put his hands on my shoulders and he says, Stand right here, Brother Botrillo. And he took me over beside a little baby grand piano that was in Dr. Cedarholm's house, and he said, Sister Cedarholm, sit down and play this song. She sat down. It was a song that John R. Rice wrote. And he's about three feet from me. And she starts playing the piano, and John R. Rice starts singing that song to me. As he said, So little time the harvest will be over Our reaping done, we reapers taken home Report our work to Jesus, Lord of Harvard And I hope he'll smile and that he'll say, Well done Today we reap or miss our golden harvest. Today is given us. lost souls to win, oh then to save some dear one From the bird. Oh, let us go to bring some sinner in. All the time he's singing that song Big old tears are running down his face. And he's singing that as a solo to me. I can remember it like it was yesterday. And God has helped me to win a few people to Christ. And most everyone I lead to Christ, I think about John R. Rice singing to me and giving me a compassion for souls. I don't have near as much compassion for souls as I wish I had. But I do have some compassion for souls. You know, uh one of uh my friends in El Paso, Texas, when I went in nineteen 84 to El Paso, Texas, to start a church there and started this church, but one of my buddies there was a man named Dr. Carlos Demarest. Dr. Carlos Demarest was a great man of God He would talk to everybody. You could even ask my son Caleb. He knew him. And he would talk to we would go to the barbershop and he'd talk to the barber and he'd talk to everybody in the barbershop. And when he would talk to people, I'd look at him, and his eyes would be watering, and many times a tear would run down his cheek as he talked to them about our Savior. He was my soul winning buddy there in El Paso, and about twice a week we would go out soul winning when Dr. Demerist was in town and tell people about Jesus. So many people that want to win people to Christ have no compassion. They tell somebody about Jesus, well we got another one told. They go out soul winning and hand out a few tracts. Well we handed out a few tracts and we tried, you know, and But how long has it been since you shed a tear for a lost one? How long has it been since we really cared whether somebody went to hell or went to heaven? How long have we started thinking about the the the eternal destiny of lost people and how we need to do what we can to reach them? In uh the book of Luke, chapter uh sixteen, verse number nineteen, there was a certain man which was clothed in purple and Fine linen. And he fared sumptuously every day, and there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate full of sores, and desired to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. Moreover the dogs came and licked his sores and And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died and was Buried. And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy upon me and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivest my good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things But now he is comforted and thou art tormented. And besides, if between us thee and between this Bes besides all this, between us and you is a great gulf fixed, so that they which would pass from thence to you cannot, neither can they pass to us that would come from thence. Then he said, Well I pray thee therefore that thou wouldest Send him to my brothers father's house, for I have five brethren, that they may testify to them that they may come, and not come, that they uh lest they they also come to this place of torment And Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets. Let them hear them. That means they have the word of God, is what he said. And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto them, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe be persuaded, though one rose from the dead. Matthew 25, 41 says, Then shall I say unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye that ye cursed into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. Mark chapter nine it says that if thy hand offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter into life main than having two hands to go into hell into fire that never shall be quenched, where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Revelation 20. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged. out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works, and the sea gave up the dead which were in it. And death and hell were deli delivered up the dead which are in them, and they were judged every man according to their works And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Revelation twenty-one But the fearful, the unbelieving, the abominable, and the murderers, and the whoremongers, and the sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars shall have their part in the lake which burn the fire and brimstone, which is the second death First John chapter five. And this is the record that God has given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. He that hath the Son hath life, but he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. Charles Virgin is known as the Prince of Preachers. And by the way, Charles Vergin died at 57 years old. Did so much for God, but died at 57. He said, if sinners will be damned, at least let them leap into hell over our bodies And if they will perish, let them perish with our arms about their knees, imploring them to stay. If hell must be filled, let not one go there unwarned. And unprayed for. The closer we are getting to the second coming of Christ, and folks, it looks like it's close. Then the more trouble there's going to be. The battle's going to get worse. It's not going to get better. That's why we need to learn to trust in God no matter what happens. And no matter what difficulties we come to. The Bible teaches that we're going to have great trials and tribulations just before the coming of the Lord. Second Timothy chapter three, he says, This know also That in the last days perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. Unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure, more than lovers of God, and having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. And by the way, we could take a whole message and preach about any one of those Our nation and our world is filled up with that type of people. And he says, from such turn away. I believe we are in the last of the last days. He says in Matthew 24, Jesus standard and said to them, Take heed that no man deceive you, for many shall come in my name, saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in diverse places All these are the beginning of sorrows. Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations For my name's sake. And then shall ye many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another, and many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many, and because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. But he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come. Things are happening today in an intensity that has not happened before. I don't have time to deal with that subject of of uh things that are happening today in detail unless you want to stay a couple of more hours. But um, you know, corrupt behavior has become common behavior. Things that when a few years ago were thought to be wicked and ungodly are thought to be okay today. Christians used to be loved, and now we're looked down upon by many people. We need a compassion for souls in order to reach people for Christ. Folks, uh, I had a fellow that came to work for me when I was pastoring in Thong du Lac, Wisconsin. He called me on the phone. He said, uh, hey, this is Larry Stringfield, and I need to come and work for a preacher for a year. Or else I can't go on deputation and raise all my support to go to Africa as a missionary. He said, I'll come and work for you for nothing. I thought hey the price is right. And so I had him come on up to our church. And he worked for me for a year at our church. After the year was over, he said, Well preacher, I've been here a year and now I'm gonna go uh raise my support and go to Africa. He was going to go to Arizona and get married first and then raise his support and then go to Africa as a missionary. The only problem with Larry Stringfield is he was huge. He was fat. Not only that, but he was scared of bugs. You know. I mean he scared him to death. And I thought, you're gonna go to Africa? You're scared of bugs even. There's black Mambas crawling around over there, and you're gonna go to Africa And he goes to Arizona and marries this girl and she was the same size he was. No, he's never going to do anything in Africa. He's going to go out and spend four years at least raising support to go to Africa. And he's going to go over there and see a few bugs and get discouraged and come home. And all that money and all that time is all wasted. And so my church in uh Thong du Lac, Wisconsin did not support him. Because I thought it'd be a waste of the Lord's money. So he went to Africa. Took him four years to raise his support. I was right on that part. But he finally went, and in four years after he was over there, he came back and he called me on the phone. He said, Hey, can I come by and present my work? And I said, Sure, Larry, come on by. He came by and showed us slides. Today they have DVDs. Nobody has slides anymore. But back then he had slides. He put these slides on. It began to show slides of him baptizing converts in rivers that were known to have black mambas in them. That's the most poisonous snake in Africa, by the way. And uh his first tour in Africa of four years, he started four churches. And I sat on that front seat watching those slides. And I thought, Roger Buttrell, you stupid idiot. You were looking on the outward appearance. I even gave you a verse in the Bible that says, don't look on the outward appearance, but look at the heart. And we didn't support him. Because I looked on the outward appearance. Remember one time in El Paso, Texas, we had a soul-winning time. We had twenty or thirty people show up. I don't remember how many. Hey, we're gonna do it different tonight. We're gonna go out two by two, and the first person you see, you've got to talk and stop and talk to that person. Whoever you see. And so we divided up into groups of two each. And the last one left was a teenage boy, and he went with me. And so we go down a road and turn on another road and start down the road and we're looking for somebody that we can witness to. And All of a sudden, coming up was this man standing at the right hand side, leaning over his trunk. He's a great, great big guy, probably about 6'5. He had one of these t-shirts on that you could see through. He had tattoos from his head to every place I could see there was skin, there were tattoos on it. He looked like the boss of the Hell's Angels. I thought, I hope my buddy doesn't see this guy, you know And so we're uh uh driving getting uh almost by him and my teenage boy says, There's a guy I thought, oh man. And so I stopped the car and I think, I wonder if he'll preach my funeral. And so I get out of the car and walk over to that guy and I says, Pardon me, sir. He turns around. And I began to talk to him. Do you know what he was? He was a big giant teddy bear. He looked like a gorilla. But he was just so kind and so sweet. We had a great conversation with him. You know, we need to start having a compassion for souls. Stop looking at the outward appearance and remember there's somebody for whom Jesus died. I I went to Africa on a on a missions trip, well actually it was I was by myself. I went to Cote d'Ivoire, Africa to see a missionary. Landed and missionary picked me up at the airport at Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. The Ivory Coast. Côte d'Ivoire is Ivory Coast in French, so they changed their name to French instead of English I like better ivory coast is easier to say. And uh but anyway we get out of the off of the airplane and get in the truck and we're on our way to his work and it's about three hundred and fifty miles of driving, all the way up close to Liberia. And we're going down the road and all the people, not all the people, a few people are driving, but most of the people are walking down the roads between the cities, between the towns. And all the women have these big things on their head. They got th they're carrying stuff on their head, maybe t maybe a hundred and fifty pounds of stuff on their head. And it's all balanced up there perfectly and they just Walk straight down the road and it never falls off. I didn't see one of them ever lose their load, you know. Never did. And so but uh that's uh but but the men they don't carry nothing. I thought that was a pretty good idea. Just just teasing ladies. But um anyway, we're driving down the road and we go twenty, thirty, fifty miles down the road or something and people walking down the road the whole time and I say, Brother Johnson, every one of those people, every one of them, is a soul for whom Jesus died. And he said, that's right, Brother Botra. And we drive on down the road further, and about 10 or 15 miles down the road further, God convicts my heart. He said, Roger, how come you lived all those years and pastored all those years and In the United States, and you never one time have looked at the multitudes of people going by you and said Every one of those souls is a soul for whom Jesus died. Don't you care about the people in America? So you come to Africa, you know, and you care about all the people in Africa, but not the ones in In America. And I got convicted about what I had said. Do we really care? Do we really care? The Bible says they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. You and I should be soul conscious. And think about the condition of people that we run into. Andrew brought his brother Peter to Christ. Philip Led the Ethiopian eunuch to Christ. Guess what? Philip was having a great revival where he was. And God told Philip, he said, quit the revival right now and get over there toward Gaza. And he started over toward Gaza, and God said Hey, you see that black guy in that chariot way over there? That Ethiopian? Probably almost out of sight. He said, get over there and talk to him. And so Philip obeyed and went over there and talked to that Ethiopian eunuch and saw that he was reading out of the Bible. And he hopped up in the chariot and began at the scripture he was reading that and preached unto him unto him, Jesus, and if you're born again you'll see that Ethiopian in in heaven one of these days. But Philip led the Ethiopian eunuch to Christ, and Peter led Cornelius and his family to Christ. Peter didn't want to, but God told him to, and he did it. Paul led Lydia, the Philippian jailer, and Timothy to Christ, and Jesus led the woman at the well that we read about a few moments ago, and Nicodemus and Zacharias and multitudes of other people to himself. You know, a few weeks ago, my wife and I, we had to go down to Arkansas. My mother-in-law passed away. She was ninety-five. And she had some things down there and we had to go down there and take care of her things and and so on and all the last things to do when you have a loved one pass away. But I believe that when we're out of town we ought to live for the Lord wherever we happen to be. And uh so Uh I got a hold of the preacher that was a little bitty small independent Baptist church in Pocahontas, Arkansas. They were running about six or seven people in services. And I said, preacher, we need to get this church built up. And he says, well, how do you do it? And I said, come on, let's go. And I took him out soul won't it. And we went to a, I said, hey, let's, I I met this furniture salesman in a furniture store the other day, and I found out where he lives. Let's go by and see him. And so we went by and he wasn't home, but his 16-year-old son was. His name was Eric. And we went in and in a few minutes Eric prayed and asked Jesus into his heart to be his Savior. We left there, went over to another house and got inside and I happened to leave the mother to Christ. While the pastor was leading her 12-year-old son to Christ. And they too got saved. And we finished our soul building that day, and a few days passed, and Saturday came, and I thought, I gotta go back to that fellow's house that worked at the furniture store and see if I can reach them So went back and David Schneider, who happened to be the man of the house, the one at the furniture store, answered the door. But none of his kids were home. David Schneider, I found out, had seven children, but three of them were out of the home already, and his wife had gotten killed in a car wreck about five years ago. And so he was by himself trying to raise his family. Well, David Snyder was home, but none of his kids were. So went in and a few minutes later, David Snyder prayed and asked the Lord to save him. So we went out, but time had passed between those two and and uh things had gotten down to the wire as far as my mother-in-law's place is concerned, and We had uh had to get out of grandma's house because somebody else was going to be moving in. So we moved and got up early in the morning, about five in the morning, started working. We had been working all day. Getting everything out and cleaning the house and making it nice and got all done. It was in the evening, almost dark. And we were beat. Had my R V and My wife could we couldn't fit the RV in my treader because we had it all full of grandma stuff. So my wife had to follow me in the car as tired as she was. This is before she had her knee done. Knees plural. Done. And so we headed up started to head out of town. And God spoke to my heart. He says, So Roger Buttrell, you're You're gonna leave town. You may never be back to Pocahontas anymore, so you're just gonna let the rest of the Snyder family go to hell, huh? And uh God spoke to my heart and I said, okay, Lord, you know I'm tired, but okay. So we had little two-way radios, my wife and I, we can communicate, so I said, sweetheart, pull into the price shop or it was a closed grocery store. And let's park a moment. We pulled in there. And uh then uh I got him a couple of hamburgers and I said, honey, I gotta go back and talk to Mr. Snyder and his family So I got my car and the car she was driving, drove over there, and the whole family was home. First time I'd ever been there, everybody was home. And went in and It wasn't but a few minutes, and Camille and Michael and Edward prayed and asked Jesus to save their soul After church, if you're interested, I can show you their picture on my cell phone. But they all got saved. That verse that they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. became real. And as going down the road after that happened, forgot all about being tired. Just thought about rejoicing. Well, there's gonna be three more in heaven now. Praise the Lord. Shame on the devil. Isn't God good? And God is good. Do you know what we need to listen to the Holy Spirit of God. You know what's very interesting? In 1972, the church I told you about in Sheboygan, Wisconsin that I'd started, that first day we had 46 people. The last two people to leave the services that day was a young man and his girlfriend. The young man's name was David Schneider. Not the same David Schneider of Pocahontas, but David Schneider in Sheboygan, Wisconsin. And I said, Well, Dave, if you died today, would you go to heaven? He says, Well, I don't know. I'd sure like to. And I said, Come here. And so we went in with his girlfriend and sat down and wasn't but a few minutes. David Schneider got saved. And his girlfriend too. By the way, if your name's David Schneider, you better get out of here. But uh you know, God is so good. I've had the joy of leading several people to Christ in my life, and I'm not at all what you would call a great soul winner. But God has given me enough experiences to to let you know that it's fun. It's fun. And you know what makes it the funnest? Is when you listen to the Holy Spirit of God. Because God wants people saved more than you want them saved. He died that they might be saved. And God wants to lead you to the people that need to know Christ and that want to know Christ. And I have prayed and I said, God, somebody around here wants to know you. I don't know who they are. Lord, would you lead me to them and I'll talk to them, Lord, if you'll lead me to them or lead them to me You would be amazed if we had time tonight for me to tell you all of the people that God has led me to, or that He has led to me. They were already looking. It's very easy to lead somebody to Christ that wants to get saved. Anybody could do it. You don't even have to know much Bible at all. You say, Are you? and they say, Yeah. You want to get ja yeah. They want to get saved? Yeah. I've been thinking about it. I've been thinking about going to heaven or going to hell, and I don't want to go to hell. And you lead them to Christ to be easiest thing you ever did in your life. It's fun to do. I was thinking about Brother Seraphim. Compassionate man. And he works with a lot of new people almost every day. And I just wonder God would lead some people that don't even know the Lord to you that are looking for the Lord, Brother Greg And I pray that he'd give you the insight so that you could see which ones they are. It's amazing. You can go to a into a crowd of a thousand people And you don't know which one's looking for the Lord. But God knows. And he could lead you until he set taps you on his shoulder and see, see that ugly guy standing right over there? Man, he's one. Go talk to him No, it's not necessarily that they're all ugly. I you know, I just just making just preaching right now. But then you go talk to 'em and you'd be amazed. You'd be amazed They said, Well yeah, I was thinking about that just today. And uh could could you talk to me about it? And well no, I just want to find out whether you're interested or not. Of course I'll talk to you about it Of course I'll tell you about Jesus. You know when this started? When I was 13 years old, and I was in Brunswick, Missouri. I had a pastor named Carl Ryther. Carl Ryther was a Southern Baptist preacher. A good Southern Baptist preacher. He was a soul winner. He later went as a missionary to Pakistan. But he would call me up about every week. Because I had had a hard time learning how to say no, he would call me up and ask me to go soul building with him. So I'd ride along to keep him company. I remember one time we went out to Jimmy Swan's house. Jimmy Swan was a student, same age as me in school. And we went out there and went up to the door and Mrs. Swan asked answered the door. And s she uh uh uh uh brother Ryder he asked you, Well where's your husband? He says, Well he's out in the barn, but you better not go out there and see him. No, he he's not interested in seeing a preacher. And Carl Ryler said, Well that's okay, we'll just go say hi to him And so we started out to the barn. I was following. We get to the barn, and he's out there scooping manure with a pitchfork. Manure and hay mixed together. And Brother Ryder starts talking to him about the Lord. And the guy says, I think you said enough, y'all can leave now. And Carl Ryder said, well, I just wanna need to tell you about how to get to heaven first. And Jimmy Swan's dad took that pitchfork and jammed my preacher in the stomach with it. Deep enough that he was bleeding from his stomach. And I thought, uh, preacher, it's time to go, I think. And uh we uh finally uh Went went out to the car, we left. But he didn't move an inch. First he said a couple more sentences. Then I said, you know. Anyway, so we left. And on the way to town, Carl Reither says, Roger, don't you tell anyone about this Because we want to win Jimmy Swan to Christ. And if you tell anybody about that as this happened, we maybe will never be able to win Jimmy Swan to Christ. You keep your mouth shut about this. We stopped by a little emergency place on the way to town and he got all bandaged up and got a tetanus shot and stuff like that and and um He taught me about soul winning. Carl Ryder did. No wonder, do you have any compassion? You care whether anybody goes to hell or not? You all have a great church here. Every one of you need to be responsible for getting somebody else here. Tell somebody about Jesus. Tell your neighbor about Christ. But you know what you can do? You can first get in your closet. He'd start praying and say, Oh God, I want to win my neighbor to you, but Lord, I can't do it by myself. I've got to have your help. And you weep and you pray for that neighbor and ask God to give you opportunity. And then When the time is right and God touches your heart about it, go talk to that neighbor. Go talk to that person. Go talk to that fellow worker that you work with. Go talk to that individual that you saw. And you'd be amazed at who God will allow you to win to the Lord. Thousands of people would like to be saved if only Christians would take the time to tell 'em. Jesus was our example. When he was up on the hill, he said, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. How often thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent to thee, how often would I have gathered my children together, even as a hen gathereth her chicks under her wings, and ye would not? He wept over Jerusalem. Philippians chapter 3, Paul said, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Proverbs eleven thirty. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life And he that winneth souls is wise. For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of, for necessity is laid upon me. First Corinthians 9 he says, Woe unto me, or woe is me if I preach not the gospel. If you care, you'll talk to somebody. If you care, you will pray privately and weep for somebody. If you care, the Bible says you'll come rejoicing, bringing your sheaves with you.