Amen. Turn to Psalms chapter 19. Psalms chapter 19. The staff and I have been working very hard on next year's devotional And we'll give this devotional book out, something like it. It's obviously going to be prepared for this coming year. But we've been working very hard. Every single topic has been selected already. The titles have already been put into the book and we're working on getting it produced. So hopefully each and every day not only do we read the Word of God chapter of the Word of God together, but we email a devotional to you every morning. And that's there in line with the passage of scripture that you're reading. Now I know we've been reading the Chronicles, and that's quite challenging. Uh if you think it's challenging to read, try and get it emotional from it, amen. Uh but I know you're looking forward to, as I am, getting into some of the passages of scripture that are a lot more applicable. They really are more stirring to our hearts and You're like me, I'm sure you enjoy reading the Psalms. I'm sure you enjoy reading Proverbs. As we are writing those devotionals, it really is not a matter of what can I possibly say about this chapter of the Word of God. It was W what do I have to leave out? I mean w choosing from so many things that are applicable and could apply to our lives and uh what should we share and what should we leave out? But looking forward to that this coming year. We're going to give that book away on the 29th. So you'll want to get yours and be ready to start the new year with us. And uh if you haven't signed up to get the emails, the devotionals, you can email the church and get that. Uh the information is in the devotional book. But This morning we're going to look at Psalms chapter 19. Look at verse number 12, a very short verse. Psalms chapter 19 and verse number 12. It says, Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Would you read it out loud with me, Psalms 19 and verse number 12? Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Let me begin with a word of prayer. get started this morning. Lord, we thank you for this opportunity to be in your house. We thank you, God, for the privilege to preach your word. I ask you, Lord, that you would give me clarity of thought and liberty to speak. Lord, that you would You would be with each and every heart that's here. That Lord, you would challenge us, you would stir us from the principles that are shared this morning that we learn from this verse. And the others that will be shared. Lord, we pray God you would do a work that only you can do. Lord, I'm just a man, and sharing some thoughts and some words up here are Not like changing in any way. But your word and your power can bring about change in the heart of man. Lord, you can make the angry man kind and sweet. You can make the thief honest. Lord, you can change us. And Lord, I pray you would change us today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. After a particular tragic accident upon a US submarine There were two soldiers laying side by side in the military hospital. They were both mortally wounded and in excruciating pain. One soldier, because of his pain, was driven to cry out in anger for the situation that he was in, and even raised his voice in blaspheme against God for what he had to endure. There beside him laid his friend, and his friend tried to reach over to grab his hand, and he said, Hold fast, sailor, hold fast. For we've but little time to live. Let's be decent. He said, hold fast, sailor, we've but little time to live. Let's be decent. There is no doubt that every one of us here, our heart goes out to those two men and the pain that they were in. We even understand the one who was driven to anger and to cry out because of that pain. But I think that we also, every one of us, have a tinge of admiration for that second man who was able to overcome, who was made of stronger stuff, who moved beyond the pain and Said, hold fast. We've but little time to live. Let's be decent. You might wonder what would cause me to share this story this morning, or maybe you would look at it and say, well, what does that have to do with the text in which we read? The principle that I would like to bring forth from this man's actions are very applicable for us today, for we stand here just 16 days away from the close of another year. Hold fast, Christian. We've only a little time to live in this year. Let's be Decent. It's gonna come and the last day of the year is gonna come upon us and it's gonna pass Could I implore you this morning, don't do what is human nature and throw caution to the wind and eat and drink and be merry for the days that come ahead and think, well, I'll recover in the new year. It's going to take some extra discipline to keep from putting on those Christmas pounds. You know, we say, oh well, I'm just going to enjoy Christmas and I'll deal with it in the diet come January. Hey, don't throw caution to the wind. Live a disciplined life. Live discerning with the days that you have left. Maximize them to their fullest. Utilize them. Don't say, oh, it's only a few days. I'm just going to let it go. And then in January we'll start again. I believe there are many who would mock or make fun of the seriousness, the serious way in which I approach the end of a year and the beginning of a new one. I believe that it is only the shallow mind who would not take an opportunity to ponder. Or give much thought to the passing of our days. Many would look at the marking of time as wholly arbitrary There is no difference between December 31st and January 1st. It is not the turning of a page or the rounding of a corner. It is not the fresh start or a new chapter of life But I beg to differ. I believe that we serve a God that has put it in the heart of man and given us The most consistent example for every day with the rising of a sun is a fresh and a new day. We have each and every day a new opportunity to be decent The principle that God has given us through the entirety of the pages of Scripture, that praise Him, we serve a God of second chances. We serve a God of a that it allows us to start fresh. We serve a God that gives us another up to bat. Maybe you've stricken out in the past, but that's okay because God will give you another try. Through the Word of God in almost every book, you see principles like He hath put a new song. in my mouth. We see in Lamentations, he says, It is of our Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Something we get to experience and start fresh every day with the mercies of God. And Ezekiel says, A new heart also will I give thee, and a new spirit will I put within you. He says in Isaiah, Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things I do declare unto thee. What I'm saying is, we serve a God that gives us a fresh start. We should look with anticipation at that opportunity. And Corinthians, therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. With Jesus Christ, the life that we've lived and destroyed and torn up and uh and ruined on every front when we come to Christ All of that is passed away. Every day is fresh. Every day is a new opportunity to please him. And one day, dear beloved, according to the book of Revelation, there's going to be a new heaven and a new earth. I'm saying we serve a God that gives us. Bountiful opportunities to start fresh, to start over. Do you look with joy and anticipation at the road that lies ahead? Beloved, if we're going to, then we need the marking of time to remind us that our life is but a vapor, that we've but little time to live. Let's be decent. Life is a leaf of paper white, whereupon each one of us may write. His word or two, and then comes night. GREATLY begin, though ye have time, but for a line be that sublime, not failure, but low aim is crime. Beloved, if this new year is going to hold all of the hope that it should, then today must be a day of consideration. Today must be a day of evaluation. For we must take time to ponder where we've been and how we've done over this past year. And we must prepare and plan for the year to come. Can I ask you this morning, how are things going in your soul? Before you join in the merriments of a New Year's Eve gathering, I hope that you will have taken time to think about where you've been and where you're going. Beloved, long before the midnight hour we must lay forth with resolute purpose the path that we would follow come daybreak We must have prepared and planned. If the next twelve months are to hold for us hope of nobler achievements than the last twelve, then the call today is we've but little time to live. in this year, let's consider how we're doing. If we are going to evaluate where we are If we're going to consider where we're going, if we're going to make the most of the time we have left in this year, we've got to do it on purpose. There's some hindrances to viewing and evaluating truly. Our time. This morning's message is entitled, Comprehending the Crime. As our text verse says, Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. If we are going to understand our errors If we're going to comprehend the crime, then we've got to realize the hindrances to that. And the first hindrance to truly understanding where we are is the busy life that we live. The busy way that we live today, friend, keeps us from taking time to evaluate and to really think. About where we are. Where we've been, what we've done In 1 Kings chapter 20, don't turn there, and I'm just going to tell you the story. There's a story of Ahab, and Ahab had been given by God the enemy of God's people, Ben Ahad. Ben Hadad had inflicted pain on God's people. He was the enemy of God's people, and God allowed Ahab to capture him, and he had them in his grasp. Through conversations and political agendas, Ahab let bin Hadad go. The man of God, the prophet, he disguised himself and he went out into the field. And as Ahab came walking by one day, he called unto him and he said unto him, This. He said, as the king passed by, he cried unto the king, and he said, Thy servant went out in the midst of the battle, and behold, a man turned aside and brought me a man unto me. And said, Keep this man, if by any means he be missing, then shall thy life be for his life, or else thou shalt pay a talent of silver And as thy servant was busy, here and there, he was gone The man of God came before Ahab and he said, you know, I had a responsibility. I had a duty. I had a job. I was to watch this man. But I got busy. I was busy running here and there, and then all of a sudden the man was gone. And he said, What should I do? And the king, unbeknownst to him, pronounced judgment upon himself. In that passage of Scripture. Beloved, what if we neglected? Or failed to do, or let go, because of the busy way in which we live. Are you with me this morning? I can tell you this morning, today, and like no other time in history, our lives are filled with activity. Much of the activity is meaningless or useless and of no value. But my are our days and hours filled with activity. Every moment of every day is filled with some type of distraction. Gone are the days where men were deep thinkers. We have literally lost the ability to ponder and muse upon a thought for more than a few minutes. This is another message for another time, but children's minds are being destroyed by video games today. They're losing the ability to do any thinking on their own. Everything has to be placed before them. The demands of today is that one must be ever active. No time for quiet contemplation. or communion with God. Wasn't it Martha that was cumbered about with much serving when she should have been sitting at the feet of Jesus? One dear saint of God asked a well-known preacher, uh well-known poet, sorry, uh Robert Southey. She asked of him how he spent his days, and he recounted for her his very systematic expenditure of every hour of his day, to which she replied, But, sir, when dost thou do thy thinking. Every hour of the day was filled and packed with events and things that must be done But when did he stop and think? Beloved, with all that we accomplished in the busy running of our to and fro, we have unwittingly experienced a most dreadful loss. For isn't it true that haste makes waste? The great mathematician Pascal said, half the calamities of the world came about because men are not willing to sit still in a room. What I'm saying, beloved, the hindrance to us really thinking about understanding our errors Evaluating where we've been and where we're going, what we would like to accomplish in our days, what would be of most value in shooting for that, is the fact that we never slow down to think. About where we are. We must leave an hour in our day or a day in our week that is set aside for contemplation It has long been gone, but Sunday used to be that day Sunday used to be the day when life stopped, things were put on pause, and men would quiet their souls and think about where they are and where they've been and their great God. Satan too has now stolen Sunday from us. Beloved, can I ask you, is the busy life you're living keeping you? From comprehending the crime. The second hindrance I want you to see to us really evaluating where we are and understanding The where we've been and where we need to go is the blind way in which we look. The blind way in which we look. In Luke chapter 18 and verse number 11, the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican Do you understand, beloved, the Pharisee stood there in his self-righteousness, completely 100% blind to his own condition? He could see the need of the publican. He could see the sin of other people's lives. He could evaluate the errors of others. But he was blinded to his own need. This is really a bad example. But have you ever stood in front of somebody with some atrocious breath? I mean How it's I mean it was bad. And they're just standing there talking to you like nothing. And you are about to vomit. I mean you are trying to put some distance. You're like, great, okay, you're stepping, you're trying to get out from downwind, you know, like I do not want to be breathing this and you're moving and they just keep coming. They are completely blind to the fact that they need a mint I'll tell you what, the big red gave out a long time ago. You need some gum or something. What I'm saying is many of us, if we are not careful, we live our lives like that. Completely blinded, we we we are able to observe and look in every other direction, but we don't see our own need At a meeting of Christian workers in Scotland, the director asked Professor Drummond to stand and speak. He was there, he was attending the meeting, but he was not scheduled. He stood up and he said, I will speak for but a moment. He said, For I will state one fact and ask of thee one question. And then sit down. He stood before that great crowd and he said, I have observed this country over And in the movements that we are now calling revival, I have yet to see the deep and abiding conviction of sin. that was present in every revival of past days. And he said, that is the fact. The question I have for you is, is God changing his method? And he sat down. Men were proclaiming they had having revival, but they were still ignorant of their own sin. Our verse says, Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me. Cleanse thou me. secret faults. I asked you this morning, is God still a thrice holy God? Has he changed his view of sin and wrong? Has God modified his definition of a transgression of the law Has God reevaluated his consideration for what that might be? We today make light of every sin Oh, it's not that bad, preacher. Oh, you really don't need to get on to that so much. This is not that big a deal. Why would you talk about that or lift that up? The fact is, is we have just about removed every ounce of conviction of God from our hearts because we have come to the place where we view sin so lightly. We've dressed it up. We've reclothed it and made it so it doesn't look so bad. We packaged it in nice tidy little phrases instead of calling it what it is. We say, oh, he's sowing his wild oats instead of living in sin. Oh, he's a young man and he enjoys a fast life. Instead of he's destroying his life with sin. Oh, he's sometimes foolish. We rephrased it and repackaged it, we call it a mistake. instead of what it is. We call it an alternative lifestyle. Instead of what God calls it. We've made it so it's not so bad anymore. But I ask you, friend, how does God view it? How does God view it? Would you call the mnemonic plague a little cough? Would you call that cancerous lump a bothersome bump? I don't think so. We view it for what it is. and realize the destructive nature of it and we say we've got to do something about it. We've got to get this infection out. We've got to get this cancer out. We've got to kill those cells. We've got to address this. We look at it and we see it for what it is, but understand, beloved, human nature causes us to look at ourselves with blinders on. But we don't see ourselves for what we are. We view ourselves as pretty good. I mean What a thought, as Pastor Derek was preaching a couple of months ago, and he asked he asked the question. He says, How many of us are without sin? We have no sin. And of course we would all say, none of us. And then he asked, When was the last time you asked for forgiveness? When was the last time you confessed a sin? That puts it on another level. Because, beloved, most of us Christians feel that we've arrived, that we're doing okay, and we live day by day by day. Did you live yesterday without sinning at all? Did you live last week without sinning at all? Have you lived sinless for the last month? Well, can I ask you, in the last month, how many times have you acknowledged, recognized, and called it what it is and said, God forgive me? We're blinded to our sin. The world has opened his heart. To a gospel of love and joy where sin is rarely mentioned, the innate goodness of man is praised, and the biblical truth that man's heart is desperately wicked is out of date. And no longer of value. You can lie and say you're just not being clear You can be living in adultery and say you're just passionate. You can listen to filth and call it entertainment It's not a problem that I have. Oh, I know there's other men in the world that are truly evil. And yes, they need God. But I'm okay What I'm saying, beloved, is that our human nature causes us to look at ourselves with blinders on. We need to come before God and say, show me. See if there be any wicked way in me. The question comes to us in Psalms: who can understand? His error. Maybe we are like the Pharisee here, blinded to our own condition. For it is truly a hard task to give an evaluation of oneself. It's not easy to read the story of your own heart. We spend our days and we read the story of many others' lives, some great and some tragic. But how hard a task is it to look at the pages of our own life and read honestly the story that we are telling? We need to get the blinders off. This is a hindrance to really truly evaluating where we are The third hindrance I want you to see this morning is the brilliant way in which Satan lies. The brilliant way in which Satan lies. You understand, Satan? He is the enemy. The Bible says, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Beloved, you understand if we were in a dark room, it was pitch black, and then somebody came and turned a light on We are struck with the brightness of that light and it immediately hits us in the face. Sometimes it might even hurt our eyes because our eyes had adjusted to the to the darkness of the room and and that light comes on and it's like in your face and whoa, there's no sneaking up on you. Sometimes in the middle of the night you might get out of bed and you need to make your way to another part of the house and you don't want to disturb your mate, but you can't see where you're going, you turn on a small light and think, well, I'll just kind of do it secretly, just a little light here. And then you're walking out of the room, your mate goes, Where are you going? Uh you didn't that light was noticeable What I'm saying, beloved, it's not like when something comes on gradual and slow. When something kind of sneaks up on you. When it's right there, you see it and you're aware of it, and it's you can acknowledge it. But you know, when things sneak up on you, real subtle-like Like you've been wondering where that extra 10 pounds came from. I mean you didn't you weren't even eating that much. And then and then somehow it just snuck up on you. I mean if somebody handed you a 10-pound weight and said, here, put this in your belt, you'd be like, what? I ain't gonna do that. But it just sneaks up real gradual, doesn't it? That's how Satan works in our lives, friend. Satan doesn't come and hit you in the face with it. He doesn't come and Shine a big light on it. He doesn't say, oh, look at this. It's going to be amazing. It's going to destroy your life. No. He very subtly lies to us and deceives us. Take the growth of a child who in the eyes of his parent is still but a boy, yet somehow he is gone from that stage of an infant where he could struggle just to stand. And he's turned into a young man facing all of life's challenges on his own. He's out there doing battle, yet still in his parents' eyes, he's just a child. How can this man be my son? It sneaks up on you Satan lies to us in his very subtle ways. If he was to leap upon you from the darkness, everyone here would stand up and resist the devil. But he doesn't leap upon us from the darkness. He very subtly and quietly lies to us in the dark. As the chains of sin are forged about our neck, There is no beating of a hammer. There is no heat from the fire. Only the quiet calm of him wooing us into accepting his bondage There is an old bridge in the Highlands of Scotland. It was built by a general during a time of war so that they might reach the Highland clans much easier. It was a great and majestic bridge that rose high above the rocky crags that it spanned. The bridge was used for many, many years. Until one day it was pronounced unsafe and no one could drive across it anymore. They found what had happened is A small wind had come along and lifted a birch seed from the ground. It was so small and light it blew it all the way up and it landed there on top of the bridge. And then a rain came and the rain washed that seed down into a crack in the bridge. It soaked down into That moldy limestone. Over the winter months, that seed began to germinate. And there at the crest of that magnificent bridge in the spring, there a sapling begin to grow. That sapling there, so small and frail that any child could have gone alongside it and grabbed it and ripped it from its roots. Yet nobody did. That sapling began to grow and it wasn't long and it was actually a tree and people would drive across the bridge and really kind of in awe they would think my it's beautiful this this tree Up there, so high above all the other greenery, how is it living up there? How is it existing? It's amazing. Look at how beautiful and majestic it is And they drove by it day by day, not understanding that the roots of that tree were digging down into the very structure of that bridge. And the roots. Tore apart that limestone to where that bridge was no longer safe. It was but a few years, and the bridge fell, all because of a little seed. Just a little seed. So small and tiny a south wind blew it up there A little sapling that could have been dealt with very easily, but they were blinded to the destruction that it was causing. The Bible tells us that the little foxes destroy the vines. Beloved, Satan is lying to you, saying it doesn't really matter. It's not that big a deal. It's just a small thing. I want you to understand this morning That there is no sin so great that God in heaven can't reach down and pluck it out, root and all. God can do that. says Satan, be sober vigilant because your adversary, the devil, the Bible says, as a roaring lion. He's not a lion There's only one lion. That's the lion of the tribe of Judah. Satan can act like he has power. Satan can give falsehoods and lie and deceive. Satan can set up for us a facade of what we think it might be, but understand that Jesus Christ has already won the victory. He's already given us the victory, and greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And whatever it might be, whatever uh sin that might be in your life that Satan's blinded you to thus far, or you continue to nurture or hold on to Understand the destructive nature of that is growing down into your life, and it one day will destroy you, but God can pull it out. And today He could begin the healing of your life. He's already won the victory. You and I just need to call on him. We might be like Paul, who said, I was delivered out of the mouth of a lion. Beloved, we've but little time to live in this year. Let's live it To the glory of God. Don't throw caution to the wind. Evaluate where you've been. Have you succeeded in all that you want to this year? Have you accomplished all that God wanted you to do? Have you lived your days for the honor and glory of God to the fullest of your ability? We cannot do anything about yesterday but ponder and think about where we've been, but we can plan for tomorrow. And we've only got a few left. Let's use them. Well, we still can't. As we look to finish this year, look to finish it well. Look to the new year with the joy of a fresh start. Thank God for the opportunity to start fresh. How are you living your life? How are the stories you're telling If you today are bound in the chains of sin, you find that they're destroying your life, you can be freed of that today. You can come to an old-fashioned altar and talk to God and get forgiveness of those and get those. Hey, He's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and cleanse you from every unrighteousness. God can wash away it all. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, you've never come to Him, you've never asked forgiveness of your sin. God wants to forgive you today. But I implore you to come and take me by the hand. And let me pray for you and show you in the Word of God those biblical and amazing truths.