Colossians chapter number four. We got through the verse number six last week. We're going to pick up this morning in verse number seven, give you some concluding thoughts here. As Paul has offered a alternative to the heresies that were being taught, and they of course are rooted in the foundation that Christ is sufficient. And he is who we are to be relying upon. Then as we get to this portion of the book here, there's there's almost a shift where Paul begins his concluding statements. his final paragraph, as you will. He starts winding the letter up, getting to the end. And it's kind of recognizable if you read Paul's writings when he gets to that point because he begins to start to thank God and others for their service and tells people to say hi, you know, uh, like It communication used to not be as easy as it is today. Uh it was quite an effort to try and get a letter to somebody and uh you know now we can send a text everywhere and so on, but you know, just I think you probably have all done this in times past where you sent somebody a letter and you said, Hey, tell mom hi, and I love her, or tell tell Joe Hi. And kind of just extending the greeting, although you're not sending a letter to everybody, you you're sending it to one person in that that area or that church or Or maybe back back home and and you send a letter back home, but you say, hey, tell so-and-so hello for me, you know, and you kind of extend that. Well Paul does that. he concludes not just this letter, but many of his letters. That's because Paul never lost sight of the fact that we're not alone. In the ministry. Paul himself realized that there were others. There were people that worked with him, that served with him, that held him up, that encouraged him. Paul always took time to acknowledge those that surrounded him and that were in the battle with him. We all like to have portraits of people that we care about. We like to have on the wall a picture of somebody that has meant a lot to us or impacted our lives. And we reference that or look at it and Paul here, if you'd allow me, he basically gives us kind of a snapshot of these saints. Oh, not a picture like we have today, but He gives us who they are and a quick definitive statement about them, a defining characteristic, something that would tell us what kind of person that they were Winston Churchill is said to have been a master of giving a thumbnail sketch of people. He could very quickly sum up a man's character So it is with Paul here. One commentator put it like this. He doesn't use a volume of words. But the words that he uses speak volumes, as he quickly surmises these saints. And that's what we're going to look at today as we consider this concluding passage of Scripture. Look in verse number 7. And on down to the end of the book here through verse number 18. Is this on? Everybody hear me okay? Alright. Sounds like I'm talking to myself right here. I don't hear much out there, but alrighty. As long as you can hear me, that's what's important. So let's look first of all verse number seven and verse number eight. For the sake of time, we're not going to read it all because we're going to reread it and then uh We're we're going to be pushed for time anyway. So in verse number seven and eight he says, All my state shall Ticius declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, a faithful minister, a fellow servant in the Lord. Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose that he might know your estate and comfort your hearts. And With Onisimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you, they shall make known unto you all things which are done here. So these two Saints, uh I'm going to title this point here, Our Synergy. Our Synergy. Uh synergy is a is a is a really neat word. It's it's nice. It's it's what can be accomplished when people work together. The energy that comes when several people are involved, and I'm not going to teach on synergy. I don't know how many of you remember Pastor Augustus' message on synergy? Oh, a couple of you awesome. And he did a great job. And uh I still remember it to today. So uh And you know, I would encourage you to go back in the archives and and get a hold of that if you want to hear about that thought in itself. But what Paul here is talking about is what was accomplished in the ministry because of the others that are with him. And you can accomplish a whole lot more when you have somebody working with you. You know, it's it's not just like, okay, if I work by myself, I can get ten of these moved. And if Brother Glover joins with me, I could get twenty of them moved. We probably could get 30 or 40 of a moved with two of us because of the synergy. And that's what happens when the saints of God work together to accomplish the work of God. There's synergy, there's energy that comes, there's life involved, vitality. I'll tell you what it is important that you're here, that you're a part of it, that you participate. There's a synergy that comes, there's an energy that comes, a life that comes when God's people gather together to accomplish a goal. And that's exciting and it's fun. To see that happen when we gather together to do that. And that's what Paul is talking about here. First, he mentions Ticius, that believer who served other people. He calls him a beloved brother, a faithful minister, a fellow servant in the Lord. You know, his name means fortunate. Fortunate. And I think as we consider Paul, we probably Paul felt fortunate for having a friend like Ticus. I I wonder, does anybody feel fortunate that they know you? Do they feel fortunate that they have a friend like you? Are you that kind of a friend? Paul basically felt fortunate. He's like, man, I'm glad that I'm friends with Ticky, that I have his help, that he's a fellow servant in the Lord. They went through some great trials together. In five different places in the New Testament, in Acts and Ephesians and 2 Timothy and Titus, we see him mentioned. as laboring together with Paul. They had, you know, they went on, they went through some things together. And uh the Bible says that a brother is born for adversity. And when you got a friend that goes through some things with you, that builds that friendship, he was a beloved brother. It says that he was a faithful minister. You know, as far as I know, he's not recognized or acknowledged for holding any positions. He's not recognized or acknowledged for having any great skill or ability. You know, he he couldn't necessarily maybe he could, but it we're we don't know about it, but he couldn't captivate a crowd with his energetic speaking. His eloquence. Maybe he couldn't lift his voice and sing like the birds. I I re will today I still remember today and I'll remember for all my days. Listening to Ray Hart sing, very gifted vocalist. Just fill the room with song. He sang to the honor and glory of God. He was gifted. Some of us aren't gifted like that. But you know what Ticcius was remembered for? He said he was a faithful minister. If you don't have a lot of gifts, that's okay. You can be remembered for being faithful. For being a faithful ministry Minister. Because it's not based upon your ability, it's based upon your dependability. How dependable are you? How faithful are you? A faithful minister. Jesus Christ Himself set the example of faithfulness. Even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Christ Himself. I wrote this down. Think about this. Jesus Christ, the King of Kings, God in the flesh, made himself a servant. But by becoming a servant, Jesus took the position of service And exalted it to the highest position. God lowered himself and became a servant. But took the position of servanthood and raised it to the highest position. Anybody can be a servant. And following the example of Christ, I think we're in pretty good company here. Amen. He was a faithful servant, a minister, as Christ was. Onisimus, the believer who sought to correct things of his past. I mean, this servant of God, this man Onismus, that same servant who is spoken of in Philemon Who was a slave? He ran away from his master who had a debt to pay. We all know his story. And you know he fled from Colasse. That's where he fled from. From that church, probably. From that region at least, but it's possible that those in the church knew him. You know, isn't it a neat thing to be known? But isn't it a wretched thing to be known? I mean Yeah, it's it's kind of the idea of a prophet is without honor in his own country. You know, you come into a church and nobody knows you and you can put your best foot forward and and You can do whatever you want to do and and and nobody is holding your past against you and nobody's you know doing this. You can come and it's like a fresh start I think the people there, at least some of them, knew Onesimus past. And they were admonished by Paul not to hold it against them. You know, if you sometimes when you're people when you're known, people don't even let you do better. People don't even let you change. I mean, you all know that Brother Glover is always early for whatever. He's not as early as the Ailers. The Ailers are they're early. And I I I commend him for that. But you know, uh Let's say Brother Glover is always late. What happens the time that he shows up early? Everybody knows him is like, whoa, what's the occasion? Why are you here so early? You know, I mean everybody's like nailing him to the wall because he got here early one time, you know, and He was thinking, well, it's going to try and do a better job, but I guess not, you know, forget it. I mean, they were holding it against him. And I think Paul is telling the church there, hey Onesimus was a slave and he was a sinner. There's some things in the past that you guys know about him, but don't hold that against him because now he's a saint and he's a servant. And church, we can't hold things that people have done in their past against them. You might know something about a brother or sister in Christ here, and there might be something in their past that they've done or You've got knowledge of that. Or maybe they slipped up here in the recent past. And you look at that and say, boy, they messed up there. But we ought not hold that against the saints of God. The Bible says, restore such in one. We ought to help and encourage people to go further for Christ and to let the past go. But we like to hold it against people, don't we? It's amazing how we do that. Paul acknowledges this faithful and beloved brother, Bonissimus. What a testimony he had of turning his life around and doing what God wanted him to do. You know, he returned and he paid his debts. You know, being a Christian does not Getting saved or asking God for forgiveness does not negate your responsibility to pay for or to make right the debts you owe. Um if I took a hundred dollars from Brother Crane five years ago And I was supposed to pay it back and I never paid it back, right? And basically I I I stole it because even though he loaned it to me, I I never paid him back, so I I have that debt. Well, if I came down and got convicted about that and I confessed it to God, said, Lord, would you forgive me for stealing that money from him all these years ago and The Bible says God's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. He'll forgive you. I've got forgiveness from God, so But what does God expect? I I've got to still pay that debt. I mean God's forgiven me, but I still have a debt I've got to pay. There's still something that has got to be taken care of, and quite possibly, let's say I was a murderer. And I killed somebody, but during the trial I found Jesus. And I trusted Christ and I asked him to forgive me of my sin and to take me to heaven when I die. And I stand on the Witness stand and I say, but Judge, Jesus forgave me. Judge is going to say, I'm glad. But you have to pay your debt to society You got forty years you gotta or you got well how much every time for this this debt that you got to society you're gonna go to jail. You still have a debt you gotta pay. And just being a Christian doesn't remove that debt. Onisimus paid his debt. And by so doing, he changed his testimony to God's people. He was no longer a runaway slave uh escaping from the debt he owed, but he was a saint and a fellow servant. The these two men were commissioned with the task of communicating to the church Paul's circumstances. So they went there with that objective and did so. Then in verses 10 through 17, there's a number of people listed. Let's read this, follow along with me as I read it to you. And we're going to call this section the second string. And we'll talk about that in just a minute. But in verse number ten he says several verses I'm gonna put my glasses on. So he says, and Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, salutes you, and Marcus, sister, son to Barnabas, touching whom ye have received commandments. If he cometh unto you, receive him. And Jesus, which is also called Justice, who are of the circumcision, these also are my fellow workers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me. Epaphras, who is of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you always, laboring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. For I bear him record that he hath a great zeal for you, and that uh and them that are at Laodicea, and them at Hippolyos, Luke the beloved physician, and Demas Great uh greet you, salute the brethren which are at Laodicea and Niphas and the church which is in his house. And when the epistle is read among you, cause it also to be read in the church of Laodicea, and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. And say to Archipus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it. So he lists here a group of saints and some defining characteristics about them. One thing that I've learned. Uh over 20 years in the ministry now. I went into the ministry in 1999, and over 20 years of ministry I've learned that no one is an island to themselves. No one is fulfilling the work of the ministry on their own. There are many times that a pastor is acknowledged for what a church might be doing. A pastor is congratulated or encouraged or thanked or recognized for the success of a ministry. But I want you to understand this pastor acknowledges, and every pastor should gladly acknowledge that the majority of that really is not the pastor. It's God's people. It's those that are working alongside him, those that are the church family that's come together and supported the work and decided to invest and make it happen. It's not. the passer who stand no man is standing alone. The ball player who may be the one that's recognized as having caught the touchdown And made the winning score. We understand there are so many people involved in making that happen. He may get all the news coverage and all the accolades and be be recognized as the MVP. But if he didn't have a second string to relieve him for half of that game so that he didn't have to run for that whole time, he couldn't have done it. If he didn't have people blocking for him, if he didn't have a good quarterback throwing to him and so on, you understand, right? There's lots of people involved. And every one of them is just as important as the one that caught the ball Just because everybody wants to clap and give accolades and recognize the guy that caught the ball, every one of them is important There there's a story, uh old time, uh long time ago. Uh how many of you know that organs uh used to be powered by wind before all the digital technology. They were powered by air. And before they got the electronic motors that would pump the air, before that they actually the air was pumped by an individual. And one time there was a great organist who was putting on a concert. And he played his first song, and the crowd erupted. And he stood up, bowed. received his praise and said, and now I shall sit back at the organ and play for you Bach. Fourth opus in G minor, or whatever he said. And he sat down and he played another song. And then he stood up and received his praise. And talked about his years of experience and how he played this organ so well. And he sat down to play again. And the guy behind the stage, who was pumping the organ. was really getting fed up with this guy's all his his praise and how he's gonna do all this and and it's all him and and so when the guy sat down and said now I'm gonna play for you The guy in the back stopped pumping. And he got ready, you know, and and nothing came out. And the guy in the back stuck his head out from behind. He says, how about a little bit of us instead of all this mead? And then he went back and began pumping again. Because the guy in the front playing the organ wasn't doing it by himself, was he? And beloved brethren, there's a lot of us that are involved in making the ministry happen. And we gotta be careful that we we're not just talking about me and and I and and this. There's a lot of us involved in making it happen, and everybody has their part. And although I labeled this the second string, nobody is second rate or second place. There's everybody involved in making it happen. Everybody fulfilling their position, everybody having a job to do. He says, Aristarchus, this believer who stood as a companion in great trials. Him and Paul were fellow preachers. And as fellow preachers, that often made them fellow prisoners. They ended up in prison together several times. Do you have a friend like that? A friend that you can turn to in times of trouble? I mean a close friend. You know, I think that in today's world of People so consumed with their own lives. That kind of deep, abiding friendship is few and far between. There's really not much of it anymore. In a world that's so small and so easy to communicate, we seem to be growing ever further apart. There's not very many lifelong friends anymore. Just seems like for whatever reason we don't value that as much as we should. And thereby we don't invest as much as we should into it. As I was studying this and thinking about some of the closest friends I've had over the years and how I haven't heard from them in years and years, you know, I was disturbed by that. And then I turned that around and said, what about you, Caleb? Have they heard from you? Have you reached out to them? Have you kept in contact? Have you nurtured and kept that relationship that you said you valued so much? Are you are you a friend like that? Him and Aristarchus were attacked in Ephesus. The violent mob in Ephesus came after them. They were upset because so many were trusting Christ. that it was affecting their livelihood. You know, it's it's amazing, and here's here's a little principle I'm gonna throw out. You know, Paul and Aristarchus weren't out there picketing. Against the bar. They weren't out there throwing rocks through the the the front of the the buildings in the red light district What they did is they were winning souls to Jesus Christ. And businesses were shutting down. The bars were closing up. People's livelihood was threatened. Let me read for you a passage from the book of Acts talking about this. He says, moreover, ye see and hear that not alone in Ephesus But almost throughout all of Asia. This Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying that there be no gods which are made with hands. So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at naught, but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed whom all Asia and the world worshipeth. And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of Ephesus And the whole city was filled with confusion, having caught Gaius and Aristarchus. Men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theater. You see, so many people were turning to Christ, they preached there is no other God but Jesus And the sale of the little idols of the goddess Diana, nobody was buying them. The shops were being closed. Everybody was getting upset. Wouldn't it be exciting if we started seeing God do something and and people were being saved to the point Christian, d listen, these people that go out and want to stand in front of someplace and pick it against now listen, I'm not for the homosexual movement and I'm not for the places of ill repute, and I'm not for any uh bar that's down here that the alcohol is destroying the lives of of people in the community But the way to change that is not to go stand out there on the corner with a sign and yell and hurl accusations at them. The way to change it is to get a hold of God and get God's presence on our life and win souls to Jesus Christ and when we win enough souls to Jesus Christ, people will stop going to those places and those places will shut down. That's the way to change society. One soul at a time. And some churches are getting sidetracked with the mission. The mission is not to picket against those things, although those things are not right. The mission is to win people to Jesus Christ. And if we just do what God said to do, those places will shut down. It's happened many times throughout history. There's just no business. They're in it for profit. If people stop visiting, they're gonna c they're gonna shut down. Amen This servant of Christ was one with Paul that helped accomplish this, this companion who stood by him in thick and thin. He wouldn't think of deserting his friend. And as believers, we're to bear one another's burdens until fulfill the law of Christ. Then he says, Mark, Mark is there, but Mark, that saint of God, the one who redeemed himself, again somebody that At one point was on fire for God and was going strong, but you remember he turned back. He was with Paul and Barnabas on a missionary journey, and you remember he decided to quit. Now, I don't know. Maybe the journeys were hard. Maybe didn't he maybe he didn't like sleeping on the ground all the time. Maybe he didn't appreciate getting stoned He said, This is not for me. I'm not gonna I'm I'm not gonna go with you guys anymore. This this is a little bit too crazy. And he decided to turn back. But for whatever reason, he turned back. And actually Paul, for all that we see right here, there was a time when Paul Basically he said, I'm not going to have anything to do with Mark. And we're like that. You ever had somebody hurt you? You ever had somebody betray your trust? We kind of get like that. We kind of say, you know what? Fool me once, shame on me, fool me twice, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me Forget you, man, I'm not going to have anything to do with you. But over time, Paul confessed that sin and got it right, and here he recognizes Mark as a fellow servant, as a brother in Christ. Mark turned it around. His failure wasn't final. He is welcomed back and encouraged the saints there to welcome him. When men fall, we shouldn't look to keep them there. We should try and bring them back. Then Justice, the Jewish believer who turned from religious from religion to Christ. In verse number 11 you see there the word circumcision. He's acknowledging that these were Jewish believers. These were those that had at one time been circumcised as a matter of faith. They believed in the law and followed that, as did Paul. But he says, hey, they gladly gave up their religion to follow Christ. And religion has yet to take anybody to heaven. Religion doesn't do it. Self-imputed righteousness doesn't do it. As good as it is to be a morally upright person. And I am certainly for that. But as good as it is to be morally upright, it will not take you to heaven. As good as it is to go to church, it won't take you to heaven. It's turning from your religion. And to Jesus Christ. They gave it up. In Matthew five, verse number twenty, Christ said, For I say unto you that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into to the kingdom of heaven. Basically saying, hey, you can't. There's no way. You can't get there in your own righteousness. Only through Jesus Christ. And these believers did that. Then he talked about Epaphras, that believer who fervently prayed and worked hard for the saints in verse 12 and 13. He said, this believer, there's several things that are told to us about this believer, not just here, but in Colossians chapter number one. We see Colossians chapter 1 and verse number 7 that he was a fellow minister. in the church there, we see also that he was a faithful minister. And here in verse number 12, we see that he was fervent. A fervent minister, some some type of passion about him. He had purpose, he had direction. And as he served there as the pastor, we believe, of the Church of Colasse. It's an admonishment to any pastor. A pastor ought to be faithful. He ought to be fruitful. He ought to be fervent. He ought to work together with God's people to see the work accomplished. Baphras prayed fervently for the people of the church He worked hard for the church and for others. In John 4, 34 and 35, Jesus saith unto him, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish. his work. Say not ye there are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for their white are ready to harvest. We gotta be about the work. And Epaphras was about the work. He was fervent and getting after it, and we should as well. Then he talks about Luke, the beloved physician in verse number fourteen. Luke, the beloved physician. You know, Luke must have had a good bedside manner. He was he was beloved. Uh you know, some doctors uh I I, by the grace of God and praise praise the Lord, uh have not. had to spend much time in hospitals or haven't had to spend much time with doctors, but I know many of you have and I've heard the stories of one doctor over another and man this guy has no bedside manner I mean he is so, you know, this or that and and but some doctors they just they have a way about him and I'm guessing that Luke was that way because he was beloved. He was beloved I like that this man's here, this physician. You know, for some reason in our society today there is a mindset of those that are what we would call professionals. in different fields of expertise. Now a professional is anybody that gets paid for a job. If you get if you get paid, you're a professional. I learned that as a very young man. And I went to do was I was a drywaller, not very accomplished one yet, just kind of getting into it. One guy asked me, Are you a professional? And I said, Well not really. He says, Did you Did you get paid for doing it? I said, yeah. He said, then you're a professional. I said, oh, okay. But what I'm saying is there are people of physician and whether they be doctors or lawyers or they've achieved a level of education that have given them a job and they've earned a significant amount of money and sometimes it It's maybe even just based on wealth. Uh but there's a mindset today of people that have means that uh They don't really need to serve God. They can just give. Well, that's what I do. I have money, so I give. You know what? The woman who had two mites, she gave two. She didn't have much. And you know, the Bible says she gave more than all the rest. It was not the quantity, it was the sacrifice. And just because somebody a physician may put a lot of money in the plate, this person over here who doesn't have much money in the amount of sacrifice is above and beyond. It's way more. But this person is also serving. This person is also working. This person is also participating in the work of the ministry. And in the measure of sacrifice, they've gone far above and beyond. I like it that Luke, this man of position, this physician, was letting God use him. And we should never get so lofty in our position that we are not able to be used of God. That we're too good. To fulfill the work of the ministry, whatever work it might be, whatever job might need to be done, whoever we are, whatever position we're in, we should all be available for God. Amen? Luke, the beloved physician. Demas, that uh believer who slipped back. Here he's called uh faithful, a fellow laborer. But it wasn't long after that we know that he forsook having loved this present world. Could I encourage you this morning? Keep on keeping on for God. Keep on for God. I wonder who's here at church this morning. That next November will not be here. Why? Whether it's because we love this present world or because somebody said something that we allowed to offend us? Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them. Whether the pastor stepped on our toes one too many times, or you're tired of hearing his same old stories. I don't know. You know, a week ago or so I was out knocking doors and I told you about the Methodist that lady that I that I saw and I talked to her about Jesus Christ and tried to make sure of her salvation. But she told me she'd been going to the the Methodist church, the same church for fifty-four years. Now listen, seems like that kind of faithfulness is pretty pretty much gone today. Now, you gotta be faithful to the right thing. And I don't think she should be going to the Methodist Church anymore. The Methodist Church a long time ago has stopped following the Bible and began following what it what was expedient. What was politically correct and so on. They've embraced their own doctrine instead of the scriptures. And so now years and years ago the Methodist Church Listen, they preach the gospel. There's a lot of Methodist churches that would have made most Baptist churches today look bad. But today the Methodist church is gone. And I don't think she should be faithful to that. I mean you can be faithful to the wrong thing. You can be faithful to go to the same bar every Monday night. That's not right. Well I'm faithful. Well, you're faithful to the wrong thing, okay? You need to be faithful to the right thing. But listen what I'm saying, believer, is Why is it so many people just moving all over, just coming and going and coming and going? It's mind boggling to me. We like to get on the pastors who do that. Man, pastors went to this church and they were there for two years and they left and went to another church, and that pastor was there for four years and left and went to a different church. And and hey, I I'm on them too. That's ridiculous. The average tenure of a of a youth pastor is like a year and a half. That's ridiculous. I believe you ought to go where God wants you and stay there, through thick and thin. Do what God wants you to do. Don't just leave because it got hard. Because somebody got upset at you. You just stick it out. But church members ought to do the same thing. There's some there's some hard times. There's some struggles, but when you work through those things together, you're a stronger Christian because of it, and the church is stronger because of it. Nobody likes conflict, nobody likes dealing with the hard times, nobody likes dealing with that. And so our our our solution today, and by the way, we're teaching the next generation wrong as well, but our solution today is, well, let's just go. Let's just quit. We'll just go somewhere else. Find a different church. Don't forsake. You keep on for God. Then uh Nymphus, the believer who kept uh his house open, he was given to hospitality. There in verse number 15 and 16 uh He opened his house for the church. Let me encourage you to hospitality. To hospitality. Give yourself to the church and love the brethren and open your house up. Use what you have for God, whatever it might be Somebody needs a ride to church, bring them to church. Somebody needs a ride home. If somebody needs a place to go, I mean you gotta open your house. Be given to hospitality. Love people. And Archipus, a believer who was given a special task. We don't know what his position or his ministry that he was supposed to be given. We don't know what that was, but he was encouraged to be faithful and to fulfill it. And whatever ministry you've been given, whatever task you've been given, be faithful and fulfill it. Get it done. Week after week after week after week after week after week after week after week after week af Beat You expect me to be up here every week. And I'm glad to do it. I'm thrilled for the privilege and the opportunity. But come on, church. Whether it's singing in a choir or working in Sunday school or being an usher, I mean, how hard is it to be an usher? You're here in church anyway. All you gotta do is stand at the back and carry a plate to the front and come back to your seat. That ought to be a privilege. Well, I can't be an usher today because I want to sit. Okay. I mean we're not going to tell you anything. I mean you get to do what you want. This is all volunteer. It's all for Jesus. You're here anyway. Well, I can't be an usher because I ain't gonna put a tie on. Come on. It's a thrill to serve God. It's a privilege to serve the Lord. Let's just do what's necessary and please the Lord and serve God together, fulfilling that position Say pastor, you're getting. I know we need to conclude. Let me give you the last thing. We have Paul Sinoff. Paul Sinoff. He concludes in verse number 18 there. He says, uh my page turned here. He says it's s uh Salutation by the hand of me, Paul. Remember me, my bonds, and grace be with you. Amen. Paul signs off his letter. Just concludes it, finishes up. Written with his own hand. A plea to remember him and his chains and to pray for him and that the grace of God would be extended to them. Grace of God be with you, the favor and blessing of God on all those, on all of us. Who don't deserve it, but God gives it to us anyway. Many humble men and women who willingly serve the Savior, Just like these are listed here with Paul. They served as messengers, as comforters, as prayer warriors, as servants, as workers together in the ministry. And maybe they were supporting Paul, who was the one catching the ball. Maybe he's the one we know about, and we talk about him. We don't mention these others as much, but Paul couldn't have done what he did. without all of these supporting him. What you're doing is valuable. It's important in the eyes of God. You keep doing it. Take heed to the ministry which on you have received of the Lord. that you may fulfill it. The conclusion of this book of Colossians. Let's close in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we love you. We thank you for today. Thank you for these examples that have been given to us in the Scriptures. How they served and worked and were faithful and did what they were called to do and fulfilled the ministry that they were called. And even though some at times might have slipped, they continued on. And Lord, we've even been given the example there of Demas who ended up forsaking. Lord, would you give us strength and the courage to not forsake Not turn away, but to follow after you all of our days. We'll thank you for it. Lord, we love you. We thank you for this time in Sunday school. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.