Um we're launching into the conquest era. We have not only completed the patriarchal uh history, the Exodus Finished up this era here, uh, but now we're moving into the conquest area. Not only are we moving into a new era of time, but we're moving into a new segment or part of the uh scripture. So not only at this point we have completed the Pitate, which is the first five books there, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. those first five books. So then we're we're entering this new era of time, but we're also entering a new portion of scripture, the uh books of history. Uh let's say those together, Joshua, Judges, Ruth. 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. those books of history. And so I feel like we're we're starting to make some progress. We got kind of bogged down a little bit in in Genesis and and getting things the foundation laid and all that, but we are here and uh I'm glad that we're moving along. We're going to probably complete uh the book of Joshua today. And uh, you know, we move into this, these books of history. These books of history are history from God's point of view. As uh someone said many years ago, this is his story, and that's what uh really history is about. It's God's plan. And here we see the building of a nation. God called and provided for and protected this nation in their infancy. in a miraculous way, you know, remember we took them down to Egypt and said, hey, Egypt's going to care for them while they grow into a nation. And then he calls them out of there, brings them here to the bank of the Jordan River. And of course we discuss their their unbelief that held them there in the wilderness for forty years. And now that new generation has risen up. They're standing on the brink. They're ready to go in and possess the land that God has for them. His story is going to continue on in God's plan to bring to the world his word. And the word, Jesus Christ, is going to be brought through this nation that he's establishing. Well, the book of Joshua continues this story of the Old Testament There's also in this book some tremendous application for the Christian today. Things that we can really glean from, things that are beneficial to us and that we can take as encouragement or challenge to be what God wants us to be in the journeys that we're dealing with. For we too are in a strange land. We too have enemies on every side. And we need to, by faith and with the power of God, be victorious over those enemies and in the life that God has us to live as Christians. Now Joshua here was given a task to conquer the land of Canaan. He was supposed to go in, lead God's people to the possessing of the land of Canaan. He would overtake 31 kings. in establishing uh you know their nation, overcoming the strongholds that these thirty-one kings had. Then they were going to divide the nation up. We'll get to the notes in just a second. I'm just kind of introducing here, we're not quite there, but they're going to divide the nation. They're each going to get their possession, the land that God has for them, and they'll claim that territory, a God-given piece of land, a possession from them that was to remain in their family that was very precious and valued and appreciated. And uh we'll see some truths about that today. Uh but they were to overc overthrow and destroy the Canaanites that possessed that land. We want to begin here first of all with the crossing of the river. Crossing of the river, chapters one through five. We see this, the Jordan River stands as a as a line of demarcation. The Jordan River kind of was, they're they're hanging out on the side of that And it starts their journ their journey into the life or the plan that God had for them. Many times you and I might find ourselves in that situation where we're on a Jordan River moment, where we're at a brink, we're at a uh turning point, a changing, like okay, what am I supposed to do? How how am I going to overcome this? Or or taking by faith that step into the Jordan and moving forward for God in the life that God has for you. The amazing events given to us here by God in the book of Joshua are for our growing, our strengthening, our learning. The fact of the matter is, is God is teaching Joshua that, hey, I'm with you like I was with Moses. I'm leading you, I'm going to empower you. They come to the brink of Jordan, and they're to cross this. Uh you know, the old songwriter said, You got any rivers you think are uncrossable? Got any mountains you cannot tunnel through? My God specializes in things thought impossible. And that's what they were on the brink of the river and the new generation that had risen up are going to get to see God carry them across the Jordan River on dry ground and and let them know that He is with them and that they are indeed following and doing what God wants them to do. So we see first of all the commissioning of Joshua in Joshua chapter 1. These first eight verses teach us Some really powerful truths as God calls Joshua. He says, Now, after the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of Nun. Moses minister, saying Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan, thou and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. Every place that the soul of your foot shall tread upon, that I have given unto you, as I said unto Moses We see them, God instructing them. They're moving from the wilderness into the land that God has for them. And there's several truths that we can see. First of all, that God has promised here in verse number five, His presence, His blessing. He says There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life as I was with Moses So I will be with thee. I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. This is a promise that God was giving Joshua, but we see also it's a promise that's given to you and I, that God is with us. He said he'll never leave us. nor forsake us. There's a two-fold message in there. The idea of leaving somebody is actually uh departing from them, but the idea of forsaking somebody is even though you might be in their presence In your heart or mind, you've forsaken them. You've turned away from them. God says he's never going to do that. He's always going to be there with us. He has promised his presence to Joshua, and we of course know that he's promised his presence to you. And to I. He promises his provision. In verse number six, he says, Be strong and of good courage, for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land which I swear unto your fathers to give God was going to provide for them. He said, You're going into this land. I'm going to give you what you need. I'm going to give you what you need to possess in this land. But he says it's going to take a couple of things. Going to need some need some things. He gives us here in verse number seven. He says, it's going to take courage. It's going to take obedience. He says in verse number seven here, he says, only be thou strong and very courageous. that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee, turn not from it, to the right hand nor to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. That verse right there, a lot of things. Courage. Obedience. You know, God has a path that He wants you and I to follow And uh that he had a path for them to follow. And it was his plan, and he says, hey, you go in with courage. You go in with faith, and faith is obedience and action. That's what obedience and action is faith And he says, go in, be obedient, and follow the path that I've given you. Don't turn from the right hand to the left. And you and I can be assured of that as well if we will follow God's plan. His path for our life in fulfilling his will, we will have his provision, we will have his power, we'll have his blessing on our life. What a privilege that is. Amen? You guys are half asleep. You you you uh may feel like I feel this morning. I still I some I told somebody I ha I haven't recovered yet the wedding, all of this, it's uh I mean we it's over, it's done, but my body's still like dragging on dragging a little bit, you know. Uh and so I'm sure we'll we'll catch up in the days coming. Maybe you're kinda right there dragging a little bit. Just wanna make sure that we're together and awake. So we see here this, he says, you need courage, you need obedience. Joshua is going to serve the children of Israel here for 40 years. He's going to serve them as their leader and guide them through what God wanted them to do in accomplishing the possession of the land. Then we see in verse number 10, we see the command of Joshua We see it very clearly, he says in verse number 10, then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, He begins to give them instructions. He says, this is what God wants to do. Joshua said, I'm communicating unto you God's plan for you, God's will for the people. Let's go and do what God wants us to do. And He gives them that plan. and instruction, uh. And they take it as it is, words from God. Then we see in chapter number two, we reach chapter two, and we see the care for the spies. the care for the spies. Two spies were sent in to Jericho to check it out. We see, and Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shitham two men to spies secretly saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went in and came unto a harlot's house named Rahab and lodged there So Rahab gives care to these spies. She protects them. An unconventional uh individual, you would think, uh uh an unusual set of circumstances that brought them to this place where this lady who society had forgotten about or society looked at as used up and and wasted And and yet she somehow heard about the God of Israel. And she had faith. These spies were protected by Rahab. She had faith and believed in the God of Israel. Look down in verse number 9 and we'll see this faith in action. She says And she said unto the men, I know, we see that confidence there in the Lord, that the Lord hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us. And that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. and what he did unto the two kings of the Amorites, that were on the other side of Jordan, Shion and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things our hearts did melt Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. You see her faith there, her understanding, her acknowledgement of God, uh of the Israelites, the God of heaven and earth, saying she he is God. You know, they had their own gods they served. But she said, we understand that these are not God. You serve the true and the living God. And her faith is expressed, and because of that, we see that she is saved. She is saved because of her faith. She was to hang a scarlet line out her window as a uh testament of her faith. and as a marker so they would know not to harm anybody inside that home. Anybody that was protected. by that scarlet letter, which is a picture of the blood of Jesus Christ. Anybody who has come underneath the blood of Jesus Christ is protected is protected. You are sealed unto the day of redemption. The entire house was going to be saved and protected because of that and the picture that is there for us even unto today. Now, she was saved, we see, because of her faith in God. That was clearly communicated to us in the New Testament, if you want to make note of these couple of references in James chapter 2, verse number 25. He says, likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by the works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way. Now she was justified with that that is uh showing her faith That's what James is teaching there, that the faith that she had was shown by what she did. But Hebrews 11 31 says by faith the heart at Rahab perished not with them that believe not, when she had received the spies in peace. So we know it was her faith, and her faith was realized or made public uh by what she did, by her actions is what James tells us about. Now she was given the privilege of becoming the great great grandfather or grandmother, sorry, of David Great great grandmother of David and in the line of Christ. This is a powerful testament of the grace of God This woman whom society uh would believe is washed up and used in the basest and lowest person in society, uh they say, hey With the grace of God come, God lifted her up and gave her an honored position in the family that would ultimately bring us Jesus Christ. And so we see that God uh in His grace can use even those whom sin has uh torn up and ruined and destroyed their lives, but God's grace is sufficient. So we see not only do we have the uh commissioning of Joshua, the the command of Joshua, the care of the spies, but the crossing of the Jordan begins there in chapter number three. They're ready to cross the Jordan. In verse number one, and Joshua rose early in the morning, and they removed from Shittim and came to Jordan. he and all the children of Israel and lodged there before they passed over. So they're right on the brink there on the edge of Jordan, ready to go in. And uh Israel encamps there on the edge of Jordan, and instructions are given for crossing. In verses two through six, the instructions, what they're supposed to do. He says, Hey, God told us exactly what we're supposed to do, and it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host, and they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God and the priest and the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove ye from your place and go after it. Yet there shall be a space between you, and there's clear instructions. gives them that you're going to go, the Ark of the Covenant is going to enter before you into the Jordan River, and uh you guys are going to follow That is a picture of their faith, the following God. We see that they crossed by faith. Each step of this journey into this promised land is an exercise of faith. They've got the Jordan River and it it's rushing water and it looks to be impassable, but there they're standing on the brink and uh the Uh Ark of the Covenant goes before them as a testament to the fact that God was the one leading them. God was the one saying, this is time, we're ready to go. And the Ark of the Covenant stepped in and the people by faith began to follow the Ark of the Covenant. And the waters stood back and parted and allowed them to cross over on dry land, entering into this promised land. They get to the other side of the river and they construct some monuments. They construct some monuments as a marking of the what God had done for them there. So there's one monument in the river. And one on the bank of the river. By God's plan, they are to construct these monuments in chapter number four. And it came to pass when all the people were clean, passed over Jordan That the Lord spake unto Joshua, saying, Take ye twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe of man, and command ye them, saying, Take ye hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the priest's feet stood firm, twelve stones. And he gives them instruction for setting up this monument on in the middle of the river and on the bank of the river. monuments picture a couple of things. The monument that they set up in the middle of the river is a picture of that which they passed through, that which is dead and gone, that which has been covered over. Once the water began to flow again That monument was covered over. Like we have the baptism, which is a picture of the death, burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. The monument on the far side of the river stood as the the new life that God had given them to go into. And that that was stood there for them to whenever the children would pass by and say, What what are these stones? And they would say, This is what God did You know, another amazing thing to me that uh I think about these monuments that are down there in the uh middle of the Jordan River, you think, well what what good does that do? They're buried, they're they're covered up, nobody can see them You know, I think that uh the world then is probably not much different than it is now, and it was full of a bunch of skeptics. And there's a bunch of people that didn't want to believe and they want to deny that it happened Th you could have these stones, these monuments up here on the bank, and you could say, well this tells us about the time we crossed over on dry land and and the skeptics would be like, Oh, give me a break. That didn't happen. No, nah, nah That didn't happen. And they can deny it all they want. But the fact of the matter is, is God told them, hey, well the river's dry. You guys go down there and stack up a monument right down there in the middle of the river that nobody can deny that was put there by man at a time when the water was was not there and and uh it stood as a testament. It's amazing to me how The skeptics in all generations have for they may for many years deny some biblical truths, and then it's it's amazing the archaeologists begin to dig and then they find another thing that says, oh Oh that is that is what happened and and I think that those those stones there in the middle of the river stand as a monument that is an undeniable uh fact for the C that God brought them across on dry ground. I love the wisdom of the Lord in in doing that. We see here, beloved, that we need to remember what God does for us. They set up this monument to remember what God did. And listen, life gets busy and we get consumed with our daily activities, and sometimes we forget what God did. And we need to remember. We need to be a set up some monuments in your life. Um some things that are precious that kind of mark the passing of time for you and you're able to know and remember what God did. Because in the in the battle In the struggle, you're going to need to rely back on that past victory and say, listen, God carried me through the Jordan last time. He can do it again today. So remember what God does for us. We see the conclusion of the provision of manna. The conclusion of the provision of manna. This is done. God gives them there. Let's look at it in chapter number five at verse number eleven. This is because they're moving into the promised land now, he says in verse number eleven, and they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow after the passing, after the Passover, sorry, unleavened cakes. and parched corn in the same self day. And the manna ceased on the morrow after that they had eaten of the old corn of the land. Neither had the children of Israel manna any more But they did eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan. God's miraculous provision of his people, daily manna being present for them there on the ground that they could go out and get was done. You see, God was bringing them into the promised land. Now he says, hey, I've provided this for you, but you're going to have to go out and get it. There's going to be a little bit of work for you invested now. There's not going to be manna sitting on the ground outside your tent in the morning. This is no longer the way I'm going to meet your needs The fact of the matter is, is this is a land filled with milk and honey. This is a land uh that has plentiful uh there for you to take, but you have to go get it now. You know, sometimes Some of God's people are expecting God to to drop a a you know ten thousand dollar check in their mailbox miraculously. And God's saying, No, I'll meet your needs, but what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna show you a place that you can go work And you can get the money that you need to pay that bill. I'm going to show you a way that you can meet that need. I'm not just going to rain dollar bills in your backyard. You know, I'm not just going to do this. So a lot of times uh we are looking for the miracle provision of God, and God is saying, hey, there is some work that has to be done in order for this to happen. Yes, I'm going to meet your need, but you're going to have to get out of bed. You're going to have to go do something. And this is what God was teaching them here. Listen, you're going in to possess this land, and there's some work involved. I'm not just going to clear it all out for you. And so they uh they needed to remember that, and that's what God was teaching them as they began this. So they set up camp in Gilgal. And several things happened there. Brother Pastor Gus, can you give me a map, one of the maps there? If it doesn't have Gilgal on it, it doesn't matter. I can show it. Oh some this got put back backward. This is this is the wrong one. The wedding Alrighty, so um this one does have it here. So they they're here. This is um Shitham where they were in camp. They came up there to Shittim, they left there and came to the Jordan ready to pass over. They pass over the Jordan River right here. And they set up here is Gilgal, little bit uh north of Jericho. This is Jericho right here. And uh we're gonna see the campaigns here shortly, but here's Gilgal right across the river, just a little bit north, uh upward upwards from the Dead Sea there. And uh so In Gilgal, they set up camp and they do a couple of things. They observe the Passover. That's in chapter 5, verses 10, 11, and 12. It's been 40 years now since they left Egypt 40 years since they left Egypt. Now there's some commentators that believe that they did not observe the Passover at all during that 40 years, because the scripture is silent about it. We don't know one way or the other. It doesn't necessarily say they did not observe the Passover, but it doesn't tell us that they did. And uh so it's kind of uh you know, deductive reasoning. They assume that maybe they didn't. But w what we do know is that when they crossed over this Jordan, they began this walk with God and they said, Hey, we're gonna observe the Passover, recognizing Uh God's blessing on their lives and remembering what God did protecting them and bringing them out of Egypt. Uh and so just reminding them of God's redeeming grace. Then they observe circumcision and that is an outward sign. You know, we have a whole new generation of people that have come up, they've grown up in the wilderness, they've crossed over, and they say, hey, we're just going to show our commitment to God And we're this was a part of the Abrahamic covenant and they were saying we recognize we're part of that and uh we are submitting to it. So they have they observe the circumcision. And then Joshua meets with the commander in chief. Chapter 5, look at verse number 13. Joshua gets some instructions from the commander. Well, we need instructions from the commander, amen. He says there in verse number 13, and it came to pass when Joshua was by Jericho. That he lifted up his eyes and he looked, and behold there stood a man over against him, with his sword drawn in his hand, and Joshua went unto him, and he said unto him, Art thou for us Or for our adversaries. And he said, Nay, but as the captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and he did worship, and he said unto him What saith my Lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord of hosts said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoes from off thy foot, for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so. Uh you remember a time in Moses' life when he had a very similar situation at a burning bush Again, God uh meeting with Joshua and saying, Listen, I know you heard tell about that time. You heard Moses talk about the day where he met with me up there uh in in the wilderness and he came upon a burning bush and and he got to be in the presence of God and there I'm sure as a as a leader and as a young man Joshua kind of felt like, well, Moses was such a magnificent man and he met with God on a personal level and I'm just trying to do the best I can and I'm just here. uh swinging and and and you know giving it as the best you know up to bad as I can uh but then God came to him personally says hey Now you are meeting with God in a very powerful personal way, just like Moses did. Hey, you're on holy ground. Take off those shoes. And what I'm saying to you is sometimes you might look at somebody else and you might say, boy, They have such a powerful walk with God or oh boy they're such big strong Christians. I don't think I can ever do that. I want you to know you can God nobody has a corner on God. Nobody has more right or access to God than you. Each and every one of us can go into the very presence of God. dwell and and and uh abide with him and enjoy that presence and enjoy that that personal relationship with God if we desire to Don't don't stand in awe of some other man. Stand in awe of God and get in God's presence and you can experience personally that uh bountiful blessing of knowing God. And that it was a neat to me to see how God did that for Joshua and gives him instructions and tells him what they need to do. So we see secondly here the conquering the rebels. Conquering the rebels. They're going to move over into the promised land now. They're going to chapter 6 through 12. they they're gonna conquer. This covers about a five year period of this major battling, this conquering the re the rebels where they're all going together and working their way through the the promised land to overcome the thirty-one kings that I mentioned there at the beginning. In order to conquer the rebels, they they break this up into three campaigns, three different campaigns. You have a central campaign, a uh southern campaign and a northern campaign. Now note, beloved, that the land was theirs the moment they crossed the Jordan. It was theirs the moment they crossed the Jordan. But they had to go in and possess it. That's what God told them. Listen, this is your land. This is a promise that I've given you this, but you've got to go and possess it And what I'm saying, beloved, is that this book, we talk about how it is chalk full of the promises of God. And these promises are yours. But you've got to go possess them. You've got to do the work to take them and have them. I want you to see this this morning, make it part of your life. We see this campaign. There's a central campaign. Verses six through eight. First they cut the enemy in two. They kind of come right through the middle of the country and they divide the the two uh na you know, the whole Canaanite land and and split it in two so they can't all gather together at once. So they come through there. Jericho is brought down. We see Jericho is conquered. We know the story of Jericho, how they marched around the city. It's brought down in an unconventional way. The walls of Jericho, you might want to note. There was an inner wall and an outer wall. The outer wall was six feet thick and thirty feet high. Six feet thick and thirty feet high. The inner wall was twelve feet thick and thir And they were marching around these walls. Now victory is given to them through obedience and through an unconventional battle plan. We don't have time to look at it. The people got together and marched around the city and you're like, well, what good is that going to do? God was winning a victory for them, not just for there, but for future battle as well. You understand a typical siege of a city during that time would last anywhere from three to five years because cities planned on being attacked They had provision inside the city. They were ready for a siege. If an enemy came, they could button up the walls of the city. and they could uh set uh a uh you know they would be provided for ultimately the army outside the city just has to outweight the people in the city. So it could be three to five years. Well they had 31 kings that stood in fortified cities. If every one of those kings felt they were safe inside their walls. And they had thirty-one of them and each one of those could take three to five years, they would be doing this for a long time. By God giving them the victory this way in Jericho, that very first city, pretty much everybody there in the in Canaan said, Well I guess these walls aren't going to do anything for us. And you'll see over and over again the battles that they faced there in the Promised Land, the people came out of the city to meet and fight. with uh Israel because they said the city's not gonna help us. We need to get out on the battlefield. We need to we can't be cornered. They're gonna have us in the city, the walls are gonna fall down and they're gonna win easy. And so we th th they changed their entire plan And God expedited this process of winning victory in the land by giving them this victory right here on the offset. Now, we we know the story here of they go into air AI. God had told them, listen, don't Don't uh take anything from Jericho. Jericho was going to be the first fruits, the tithe as you were. They were going to they weren't supposed to They were supposed to utterly destroy every living thing, and then they were supposed to leave everything there as a first fruit to God, holy unto the Lord. And you know, of course, Achan, he sinned. He took some Babylonian garments and he took some silver and gold and and hit it in his tent. And uh Israel full of uh pride now uh they decided to go and uh attack AI which is A few men, and they ended up 36 men died. They lost because of the disobedience of Achan, and uh they they did not do what God wanted them to do. They conquered Jericho. Um But they were defeated at Ai. Now ultimately they found the sin, and we could read these stories, but they they found the sin And they God punished the sinner and they got right with God and then they went and they captured AI uh through a a plan that God had given them, a plan of deception, where they pretended like AI was strong and you know a few soldiers went up and AI ran out, let's get 'em and they ran out after 'em. And uh then the rest of the Israel army was there and they were able to take 'em. And uh so God giving them some w wisdom on how to defeat them. Here's what I want to just note for you here is that the nations in Canaan were idolatrous nations. They worshiped false gods. They they sacrificed their babies to Molech. Uh they would they would burn them alive. They were a very, very wicked people, given to every type of immorality imaginable. The Bible's clear, they were involved in bestiality. I mean every kind of immorality that you can imagine. And here's what I'm saying is people I was one day witnessing to a doctor uh and I was in his living room And was talking to him about the Lord and he says, I I've read the Old Testament. He says, I want nothing to do with that. You you talk about a God who would go into uh uh you know, a nation and just have every living thing killed. Like that is so mean and so unjust and and I don't want anything to do with with a God like that. Well listen, we do God doesn't owe us an explanation for why But I want you to know we understand that God's love is long-suffering, that his patience is immense, and God gives people a chance to repent and turn back to him. And we don't know the story, we don't know the history, we don't know what God tried to do to get these people to repent or come back to Him or to change. How many times He called them, or how many times he tried to reach them. We don't know what happened before that. What we hear is that they did not, and God said, Okay, I'm going to punish you. You're gonna die. Now we don't know we have to just trust that God knows uh what is best, and we it seems very harsh, but it's what we know. God is a loving and merciful God, God is compassionate. And he in his nature is merciful. And he would have given these people a chance to repent and turn back, but they did not. And so not just Jericho, but all these cities, they were not to leave anything alive. Then we see the Southern campaign. They go down the Gibeonites. deceive Israel into an alliance. They weren't supposed to make any alliances with the people in the land. They're supposed to utterly kill them all. But the Gideonites come and they deceive them. They they dress up like they came from a far country And they say, oh boy, we've come so far. Why why don't you help us? Boy, I hear about these battles going on. Maybe we could join together and we could help you and you could help us. And and they go ahead and make this uh agreement without consulting God And we need to be very careful about doing things without coming to God. It is notable, beloved, though, that God honors the agreement that Israel made Even in 2 Samuel, God judges his people for killing some Gibeonites. He's saying, wait a minute, you can't do that. You made an agreement with them. Now, initially they should have been killed anyway, but they made an agreement. What I'm saying is even if you made a bad choice, you still have to honor your agreement If you bought something and all of a sudden you decide, oh I don't really want it, you have to honor your agreement. You have given your word. And so it's a lesson that we need to learn from that that even in this situation God was saying, you promised it We're going to honor it and even to several generations later. Five kings of the south, they band together in an alliance against Israel. They hear about the Gibeonites. And the Gibeonites joined up with Israel and they thought, Oh no, now the Gibeonites are with them, they're already gonna beat us. And the five kings say, Well, we can't stay in our cities, they're gonna destroy our cities. So why don't we join together? We'll meet them out on the battlefield. And so God gives them a miraculous uh victory over five kings at one time. They come together. And uh we see in chapter 10 uh Can you guys tell I was trying to speed up? There's no way I'm gonna get done with this. I was trying to speed up like let's get through this, let's get through this, and there's no way. There's too much, there's so much good stuff in here. Um So we see in chat go ahead and turn to chapter 10. I was gonna just skip reading all these and just give you the stuff, but um we see in chapter 10 Uh I am I slid down my notes here, so I need to see where I'm at. The Southern Camp campaign um the Gibeonites I covered this already. Sorry, I'll be there in a second. Okay, so these five kings band together, uh led uh by Adonai Zidek. All right. Adonai Zedek, king of Jerusalem. This is the first time Jerusalem, the the actual name of Jerusalem, is seen in the scriptures. Look in chapter 10 and verse number 1. Now it came to pass when Adonizedek, king of Jerusalem, had heard how Joshua had taken Ai and had utterly destroyed it, and he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king, and how the inhabitants of Gibeon uh had made peace with Israel and were among them that he feared greatly because Gibeon was a great city, and as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty, wherefore Adonai Zedek, king of Jerusalem Sent unto Homan king and he lists off these kings. These five kings come together, and uh they join together up against Israel, and they think, here maybe we have a chance. Now Israel marches twenty-five miles And an altitude change of 4,000 feet through the night. They march to meet these men in battle. And God gives them victory through their persistence. through their willingness to go get her done, you know, that get her done kind of spirit. God gives them victory. We see in chapter 10, verse number 11, that he rained hailstorms, hailstones down upon the enemy. In verse number eleven, it came to pass as they fled from before Israel and were in the going down to Beth Horon, that the Lord cast down great stones from heaven upon them unto Ezekiah. They were cast down. These stones came. And the Bible says there that more people were killed by the stones than were killed in battle. These hailstorms Hailstones that God sent to give them the victory. They decided, hey, we need to get some victory uh and uh w the battle's still going on and Lord we need some help to complete this battle. Uh Joshua prays, and we see here the great miracle of the sun and moon standing still in Joshua chapter 10 verses 12 through 14. God is showing his power over Canaanite astrologers, over the Canaanite, you know, just like he did in Egypt with each of the plagues that he sent as a demonstration of power over the false gods that is Egypt worshipped. Well the these people worshiped a the the sun and the moon and these people worshiped the stars. And they had these men that served as astrologers and would uh talk about the stars and he says, Hey, we're gonna stop and we're gonna hold the sun still so that you can have a victorious battle. Now one commentator said the long this long day of Joshua must be explained. And I don't know if you've ever done any reading on this. They can track the calendar back and uh if they look at the sun, the moon and stars and the planets and they track it back that somewhere in the pattern of time. I mean you know they can tell you the moment the sun's gonna rise three years from now on a particular date, you can pick it and they can say the sun's gonna rise at this time Because the consistency in the planet movement is so precise, that there's no question this is what's going to be. And so when they track it back, they say there's a day missing somewhere. And uh it is the day that God held everything still. But what this commentator said is we need to have a scientific explanation. But the fact of the matter is it is a supernatural act of God And we don't need a scientific explanation for it. We need to just believe it because God said it. God did it. All of the miracles that we find in in the scriptures, they're supernatural acts. We don't need to try and define them or explain them. You know what's amazing to me, sometimes people say Well, I don't I don't believe in God, like a doctor that I was talking to about the and he says, Well, I this God that was responsible for all these people being killed. Okay, so they don't believe in God, but then they're gonna say, but he's responsible for all these people being killed There's two sides to that. They don't line up. And listen, we need to just trust and believe what God said in his word. And God cause the sun to stand still to give them victory. Um this week actually I was listening to uh a Okay, I'm gonna get carnal for just a second, okay? I'm I I was watching YouTube and uh there was some YouTube shorts that were I was you know clicking through just And uh um uh somebody was interviewing Steve Harvey, uh uh some c commentator, you know, and uh so they're like, Oh, so what do you what would you say about an atheist And Steve Harvey says, well, he's an idiot. And uh he says, what what? And he's like, I mean, come on, give me a break. You're gonna say that all this just happened? All this just just like appeared out of nowhere, came some some cosmic collision of of mess, and all of a sudden we had this organized universe. He said, that's ignorant. You know, he says, what what in the world? He says, we came from apes? Like who who in the world we came from apes? Well how come we still have apes and how come we don't have any more people coming from them? He said, there's so many holes in this this stuff that you guys talk about. He said, this is ridiculous. You know, but here here's what I want you to understand is people look at the Christian and say, oh, it's just blind faith. You just have blind faith. Praise the Lord for faith. But what they're what they have is willful blindness. That's how they're going through life. Because you have to be willfully blind to say that we do not have intelligent design That it just happened. I mean how how in the world would you think the you know the old illustration of of taking a Rolex watch and smashing it to pieces and sticking it into a bag? Do you think if you shake that bag for a couple thousand years that it's gonna make a watch? It's never going to happen. Never. It's going to wear down. It's going to disintegrate. It's going to be less of a watch than it was when you stuck it in. But somehow they willful bindness and say, oh, it must have just happened It it's it's mind-boggling, but you know the reason they're willfully blind is because Satan has blinded the mind of those in this world. And it is the power of the Holy Ghost and the power of his word that opens people's minds to see the truth of a of a God. And as a Christian, we have that God on our side that helps us fight the battles that we have. And there's more we're going to get into next week as we finish up this lesson on the conquest uh era here where God gives them this promised land. Let's close in prayer. And uh just we should conclude that today. You should be on page sixty-four in your notes, uh, if you're keeping notes with with us. Um Why don't we pick up right with conquering the rebels? Just quickly go down through that. We covered this last week. We got to the last point here, but Of course, you know they crossed the Jordan, they face that first big uh city, Jericho, God gives them a miraculous victory uh through obedience to a unconventional battle plan. But you guys know the story of what happened there. God gives them the victory. They go in and they conquer Jericho. By doing that, it sets a precedent It it opens the eyes of their enemies to see the power of the God that the Israelites serve. And it kind of uh it really paves the way for the rest of the battles that they're going to face. Except for the little city of Ai, but they think they're going to go in and whoop very easily. They go in and they uh they are defeated uh drastically. Thirty-six men die, lose their lives and Ultimately God informs them that there was sin in the camp. They lost the Battle of Ai because of sin. Of course, uh Joshua took of the accursed thing, of that thing which was to be uh wholly given to God. That city of Jericho was a city of first fruits. And they were supposed to leave everything there, not take anything from it. And uh Achan's eyes got too big and he was too drawn to the allurement of uh some possessions and he took of that, hid it under his tent, and of course They had to find that sin. They had to find Achan. God judged him. Once they did that, they were given victory uh over uh AI, and then they went on to uh that that divided the uh nation or the Canaanite land into a a northern and southern campaign that they were able to do. They entered the southern campaign right on the beginning of it. The Gibeonites came. And uh made they made an unholy alliance with the Gibeonites. They weren't supposed to do that with anybody in that Canaanite land. They were supposed to utterly destroy them all. But And they didn't seek God and they said, Oh yeah, well we'll join up with you. The Gibeonites joining up with the Israelites, uh there was five kings that said, Oh my goodness The Gibeonites are now with them and we're surely going to perish. Let's all band together. Let's let's everybody, you know, their strength in numbers. Let's band together and let's go out and fight them. But God uh gives them a miraculous victory They march through the night. God gives them victory through their persistence by providing a hailstorm and by allowing the sun and the moon to stand still. These five kings, they hide in a cave, the cave of Makita. And uh it's funny, they the story, when you read the story there, the the five kings are in their hiding and Israel knows it, and they come and tell Joshua, hey, these guys are hiding in the in this cave and Joshua says, Oh, uh just put a big stone in front of the her and uh we'll keep them there till we have time to deal with it. And so they they lock him in the cave and they go finish the battle with everybody else And they come back and get these five kings, and these five kings' lives are lost. God gives them a very clear and decisive victory. Then we left off last week, I believe, right here with the Northern campaign, the uh conclusion of this campaign is here. We see that they they came to the city of Hazor. The king there was Jaban, Jaban of Hazor. Uh Javin formed an alliance with many other kings, obviously trying to get some other people to come and to fight with him. And uh of course that was futile because God was on their side. Listen, you and God are a majority. And uh I know many times in this world we feel like we're all alone. The prophet uh felt like that as well. He went and climbed up under a juniper tree and said, Oh, it's just me. Well, it's never just you because God is with you But not only that, uh as God showed the prophet, there's four hundred that have not bowed the knee, and there are many other around the country. That's one of the fun things about uh being on vacation and going into another tr random church on a in some other city and you walk in and you you meet a group of God's people that love God and are serving him and and and trying to hold high the banner of the cross. And you say, hey, there's a lot of other good people around the country that love God and want to do right. I know sometimes we can get discouraged, but These five kings banded together, or these group of kings with Hazor banded together, tried to defeat Israel, but they were defeated because God was fighting for his people. The city of Hazor was burned to the ground. Now Jericho and Ai were also burned. My mind just went blank. The guys that go find the buried land, not architects, what's the people that Not a surveyor. Who is it that archaeologists, yes, the archaeologists, thank you. The archaeologists have uh turned over these cities and Um they have found uh these cities that that were burned. It was very clear I actually was in Israel and was able to see uh this city of Hazor, they found three feet, when they dug down they found three feet of ash. from the entire city having been burned, the stones and the rocks that were uncovered are are cracked and uh because of the intense heat It cracked all the way through the the different types of stone that are there. And I was able to see that in person. And uh the city was of course burned. Uh they fought for five years to gain control of the land. It was uh five years as a general uh period of time where they went into the land, they they cut across Jericho, they uh lost and then defeated AI, and then they started going to the southern southern and then they defeated the kings in the south and then they turned and started going north and they defeated the major kings in the north. And you know, we read it in a few chapters and covered it in about an hour, uh, but this was five years of history for them. It was not something that happened overnight. It was Quite a long period of time and continual battle and following the Lord and doing what God wanted them to do. And look in your Bibles in Joshua chapter 14 and verse number 10. We're going to be referencing now some passages of scripture as we continue down through these notes. We're going to back up a little bit, but I want you to see this in Joshua 14, 10, he says, and now Behold, the Lord hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, ever since the Lord spake this word unto Moses. While the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness, and now lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old. So Joshua here now, uh you know, eighty-five years old, he's fourscore and five years, and Uh his uh he they've been at this for about five years, but this does bring the major part of the campaign to conclusion. Now listen, there was a lot more to be done. They weren't completed their their task, their job was not complete, but the main battle was won. And now the plan was to divide up the land and each person or each uh tribe was going to get their inheritance. And when they received their inheritance, their job was to clear that land, the land of their inheritance of the Canaanites that were there. Now it is notable that few of them actually do their job. Uh they are always pestered by conflict or problems with the Canaanites because they didn't do what God told them to do. and that was to clear out the land. That would have protected them as a nation, would have kept them clean, and uh would not uh The the problems that come up over and over and over again would not have been there if they would have just done what God told them to do. As they were given their inheritance, they were to go in and clean out the land. Let me read for you In Deuteronomy chapter 20 and verse number sixteen, he says, But of the cities of these people which the Lord thy God doth give thee for an inheritance. thou shalt save alive nothing that breatheth. God said, hey, when you go in and possess this land, you need to clean out the Canaanites. Don't save alive anything that bel that that that breatheth. But by and large the Israelites did not do that. Once the major part of the battle was done and victory was won and uh like oh these guys are okay, they're not bothering us too much and these guys are okay and it's not bothering us too much. You know what? Sometimes uh God wants us to be a little more aggressive with the sin that's in our life And we we get real aggressive maybe at revival time and we say, okay, I've gotta get this right and I gotta get this right and I've got to get this right, and we we we m take those steps to uh do these few things But in our mind we're like, well, this over here is not too bad. This over here is not bothering me too much. Oh, I can I can deal with this right here. And the problem is is we haven't cleared out the land. And those little things that we hang on to or keep around for time going to end up haunting us in the end And uh so it's very clear what God's plan is, is total victory, and we can have that through God if we would do what he says to do. So we see them go in and claim the reward. Chapters thirteen through twenty-four is uh the balance of the story where they're going in and claiming the reward that God had for them this promised land, with the main opposition. Turn back to Joshua chapter 13. In Joshua chapter thirteen we see in verse number one the clear statement that there was more to do. Joshua 13, 1, he says, Now Joshua was old and stricken in years, and the Lord said unto him, Thou art old and stricken in years And there remaineth yet very much land to possess. He says, hey, I know we've won the big part of the battle. I know the major holdings are are knocked out and you guys now are in control, but there's very much land to possess. There's still a lot to accomplish. And you know in our Christian life There it doesn't matter how old we get or how long we've been in the battle, there's still land to possess. There's still ground that needs to be gained for God, and we need to keep uh track of that and keep Progressing in the right direction. God gave them the command to divide up the land. Look at verse number 7 there in verse number chapter 13 in verse number 7. He says, Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto the nine tribes and the half tribe of Manassas. You say, wait, there was twelve tribes. Yeah, it's because the Israelites didn't get it Sorry, the Levites didn't get a uh inheritance. They were given cities, which we'll talk about in a second, and then Jo Joseph didn't, but two of his children did. So we still have 12, and we'll see that in the in the graph here in just a second. Now, on the east side of Jordan, that's where the uh Allotments start start to be given out and this allotment was actually given a long time ago. Uh do you have the map, Gus, of the Tribes and if you have any of you have any type of a study Bible, uh this is going to be in there in some form. Um but on the east side, that's over here, uh the Jordan River, which travels right here, uh down through here Uh you have Manasseth, Gad, Reuben. It's Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseth. I've said it that way so many times it feels goofy to say it backwards. Um but you see Manassas then on both sides of the of the uh Jordan River there. Um a very large uh group of land with what they've in but Rumegad and the half tribe of Manassas there on the east side. Now that was under the direction of Moses. Moses is the one. If you'd like to see that back in Numbers 32. Um, I believe all the way back in Numbers chapter 32. If you remember, um They came into this region and they won some battles as they were coming up, you know, from way down here from the Sinai region. They came up, they went through Kadesh Barnia. Uh and then they made their way up here and they fought some battles, the Moabites and the Ammonites, and they they fought these battles and they won some battles over here. And uh Reuben, Gad and Manasseh said, Man, this land is pretty nice I know we haven't crossed Jordan yet, but this is pretty good. And you'll see that in Numbers chapter 32, in verse number 1, first, he says, Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad, and a very great multitude of cattle. And when they saw the land of Jezzar in the land of Gilead, That behold the place was a place for cattle. They said, Man, this is a good place. This is a place for cattle. Wow, we got lots of cattle. And we'll see in uh verse number six Or let's start in verse number five. He says, Wherefore said they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan. But Moses said to him, and Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here? So he says, hey, uh, you know what? You guys can have this land, but when we cross over and go to fight, you guys are going with us. And after we win, after the battle is done, you can come back and possess this land. And so that was the plan under the direction of Moses. That land was given to them. Then they went ahead and followed. On the west side of Jordan, then we see in chapter number 14, just going in order of what it shows up here in the Word of God, that Caleb makes a request. Caleb makes his request. It's notable, you know, Caleb at 85, he still had a lot of gumption. and uh was ready to go in and possess the land. He still had the strength of his youth and the vigor, and he says, listen, I want to go in. And he said And you know, forty years ago when we were coming into this land, there were some big old giants. And I had half a mind to go in and whip a few And the children of Israel didn't want to, we didn't get to do that. So I looked around and I found the biggest giants that I could. And uh Decided that's what that's what I want to go do. I don't know. Uh reminds me of a guy who was had a little step away for a second. This guy uh had a little too much to drink and uh he was he he he walked up to a group of guys and he says, What's your name? The guy gave him his name and he went to the next guy, he said, What's your name? And he gave his name he was a nice guy he says what's your name and uh there's this really big guy in this group and a big guy looks at him and he says What are you doing? He says, I'm making a list of all the people I'm gonna whoop. The man says, you ain't whooping me. He says, Well, I'll take your name off the list then. But K Caleb had a list of the people he wanted to whoop He he was gonna go up and uh he was gonna conquer this land. So we see in chapter number fourteen he he was gonna go after him and uh it's it's notable the ambition that he has. We see first of all his stand. Look at chapter 14 and verses 6 through 10. We just see this, the stand that Caleb had from the beginning until the end. He just maintained this. He says here, then the children of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Zepta The Kazanite said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the Lord said unto Moses, the man of God, concerning me. and thee in Kadesh Barnea. Forty years old was I, when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sat me sent me from Kadesh Barnea to espy out the land, and I brought him word again, as it was in mine heart. Nevertheless, my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people to melt, but I wholly followed the Lord my God. And Moses swear on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance and thy children's forever, because thou hast wholly followed the Lord thy God. And now, behold, the Lord hath kept me alive. And he said, These forty and five years since the Lord spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness. He says, Hey, we're going to go up, we're going to possess this land. He said, This is what has been promised me. And I'm ready to go in and do it. From the very beginning till the end, he still had that same level of commitment. His strength is noted in verses eleven and twelve. He says, And yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me. And my strength was then even so as my strength now for war both to go out and to come in. He says, I'm ready. Now give me this mountain. And he asked for that mountain. I want that mountain. The mountain that God has promised me. He was going to go in and possess it. But then we see in verses 13 and 14 his satisfaction. his satisfaction. And Joshua blessed him and gave unto Caleb the son of Daphne of Hebron for an inheritance. He gave them this land. Can I tell you that if you'll be faithful and do what God wants you to do, stay after it, that you will be satisfied in the end. You will experience God's blessing and God's reward. And ultimately, Caleb was rewarded for his faith and was given the land that he desired because he stayed faithful unto the Lord. So under the direction of Joshua, the other tribes are given their land allotments. Judah and Ephraim's portions are described and laid out. in chapters fifteen and sixteen and it goes into a bunch of detail laying out boundaries and all these and then Manasseh's portion is described and laid out in chapter number seventeen. Uh of course Manasseh was given land on both sides. of Jordan. Look in chapter 17 and verse number 14. You saw the size of the land that they were given It was quite a large allotment of land there. But notice what they say in chapter 17, verse number 14. And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast thou given me but one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am a great people, forasmuch as the Lord hath blessed me hitherto. They said, man, this amount of land is not quite enough. We're not, I'm not sure this is going to be enough for us. I like Joshua's answer. Joshua tells them, and Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee up to the wood country, and cut down for thyself there in the land of the He says, hey, there's a bunch of land out there, go get it. If if if the allotment that you've been given is insufficient, then go get it. Go up into the high country. Go up into the wooded country. Go up there where oh it's not convenient It's not easy. It hasn't been one for you already, but you want more land, go up and get it. Go after it, he tells them. So we see uh In chapters 18 and 19, the rest of the allotments are given, but first of all, at Shiloh, the last seven received their lots. is before the temple uh the tabernacle that was set up the tabernacle is set up at Shiloh chapter 18 and verse number one He says, And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there, and the land was subdued before them. So the land was subdued. They set up the tabernacle. They had some peace, and they said, okay, we're going to seek the Lord's direction on the allotment of this land and who should get what portion. We see that Joseph receives a double portion. And that is why there are still 12 tribes that I mentioned already. Of course, Ephraim and Manasseth as Joseph's boys. Joseph himself doesn't get a portion, but Ephraim and Manasseth Manasseh do, and the uh Levites did not get a portion, because they are given cities. We see that this in chapter number twenty, the cities of refuge are established. the cities of refuge. And this is a short chapter, but uh it's notable that God set up this city of refuge. It's amazing. Look in chapter number 20. The Lord spake unto Joshua, saying, Speak to the children of Israel, saying, appoint out of you cities of refuge. Whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses, that the slayer that killeth any person unawares And unwittingly may flee therein, and they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood. I don't know, was God expecting a lot of accidents? Uh you know, this is somebody that has killed somebody unawares. This is not talking about premeditated murder. This is talking about somebody who they were farming and the implement accidentally rolled over and crushed them or, you know, th they were cutting down some trees to clear some land and it It killed somebody, I mean somebody that unintentionally was killed and their family was coming after them for blood, you know. They they say, Hey Uh if you take a man's blood, your blood too shall be taken, and so we're going to take your blood. Well, you could run to the city of refuge. God had this set up as a place of refuge for them. I don't know that God was expecting a lot of this to happen, but it's notable, I want you to know, that God always makes a way. God established six cities. divided up around this uh promised land so nobody was ever too far from a city of refuge. What I'm saying is God's mercy is ever present. His provision for mercy is always there. It's not too far away. By God's design, he opens that up so that people can have a way to get to him and experience his love and mercy. This was a place where the guilty could run. It's not somebody that was falsely accused. He's saying, hey, if somebody kills somebody. I mean, they were guilty. They knew they were guilty. But they could run to a city of refuge. Can I remind you that you and I were guilty? Before an almighty and just God, deserving of swift and just punishment, but God became our refuge. Our place that we could run in our hour of need. Psalms 91, verse number two says, I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge. He is my refuge. God is our refuge. I think about how a sometimes a little brother, who is substantially smaller than his older brothers. Which I grew up that way and that's what I had to bear. Uh and uh you know, y y you look for opportunities to do something to your older brothers who are substantially larger than you, and those opportunities don't present themselves very often. But when they do, you must seize them before they pass. But the problem is, is because they are so much bigger than you, as soon as you have seized the opportunity, whatever it was, maybe you dumped a bucket of water on them or whatever happened, you must have a place of refuge to run because they are coming. Right? And they are a lot bigger than you. And what does a little boy usually do? He runs to mom or dad. He runs right up to mom or dad and says, Oh, he's going to and of course they're like, Yeah, he dumped a bucket of water on me Problem is my mom and dad were a little less sympathetic, and they're like, well, you got it coming, you know. But God is our refuge. We can run to him. Even though we deserve it. Even though we got it coming. Even though we know in our heart of hearts that we're guilty, praise the Lord, we can run to him. Our refuge. He's always there, an ever-present help in our time of need. And God established that for the children of Israel to have a place to go to be saved alive. We see the tribe of Levi did not receive a portion. Instead, they were given forty-eight cities to occupy. They were spread around the promised land so that they could serve and minister. to God's people uh and lead them in their worship and guide them in their lives. Uh the tribe of Levi, of course, given wholly to the uh tabernacle, maintaining and uh observing that. So They were given 48 cities to occupy. That was in chapter 21. Then we come to the concluding chapters here, 22 through 24. And Joshua gives the children of Israel some closing statements, a farewell address, if you were, some thoughts. He said, I want you guys to remember some things. First of all, we see that he encourages them, exhorts him to remember God's past protection in chapter 23. Look in chapter twenty three and verse number three. Chapter twenty three and verse number three he says, And Joshua called for all of Israel, and for the elders, and for the heads of their judges, and for their uh officers and said unto them, I'm old and I'm stricken in age, and ye have seen all that the Lord your God hath done unto all these nations because of you For the Lord your God is he that hath fought for you. He says, hey, remember how God fought for you? Remember what God did for you. You have seen it year after year. We've been through all of these battles. We've marched through this Canaan land and you've watched the hand of God direct in miraculous ways. From the crossing of the Jordan and defeating of Jericho to hail storms and the sun standing still, and he says, Remember all of what God has done for you. Can I exhort you, Christian, don't forget what God's done. You're going to face a new battle one day, and if you've forgotten what he did in the past, you won't have the faith or the strength to get through the new battle. He says, remember God's protection. protection. He says, remember God's present provision. And verse number four there. He says, Behold, I've divided unto you by lot these nations that remain to be an inheritance. for your tribes from Jordan with all the nations that I have cut off, even unto the great sea westward. He says, hey, God has given you this inheritance. Look at what God has given you. Not just what He did for you in the past, but how He is currently providing for you. Remember that And remember his promises concerning the future, God's powerful promises in verse number five. And the Lord your God, he shall expel them from before you and drive them From out of your sight, and ye shall possess their land. He says, Hey, God has promised to do this. There's still land to be won, there's still battles to be fought, there's still things that you're gonna endure, but hey, God has promised you the victory. You're on the winning side. He says, I'm going to be passing off the scene, but you guys go on for God. And let me encourage your church family to keep going on for God There's still more to be done. Yes, he has won some battles in the past, and he's currently providing for us, but he's given us some promises concerning the future. Amen And we need to continue to march forward for God as Joshua exhorts and encourages the people. He says, I want you to remember some things, and then he tells them, I want you to commit to some things. Commit to some things. First of all, he says to be courageous for God in verse number six. He says, Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses. In verses 8 through 13 he says, cleave unto God. Be courageous for God. Go fight for God. Do what God wants you to do. Stand on the things of God. Don't let this world pull you down. Go get them, guys. This is what God told you to do. He's encouraging them to a courageous life for Jesus Christ. And he says, hey, in the midst of it all, cleave unto God. Abide with him. Spend time with him. Get to know him. Be around him. He exhorts and encourages him to these things. Commit to this, if you would In chapter number 24, he reviews God's promises that God has given to them, and he asks of them to recommit. to their service. That very familiar verse in chapter 24, in verse number 14. In his closing words to the children of Israel, whom he had loved and served all these years. With all the authority and the importance of a man's final words, we hang on to those words. We say, This is the last thing that he said to me. Joshua tells him there, now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers have served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. He says there, Hey, and if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your fathers have served, which are on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell, but as for me and my house, we will serve Joshua closes it out. He says, guys, you are all individually accountable before God for what you do. I would encourage you to remember these things. I would encourage you to stand with God. I would encourage you to be courageous. You've seen all of what He's done. God's promised you all this. So, hey, follow God. As for me in my house, we're going to stand with God. We're going to follow God. And Joshua, in a testament of true humility, after leading the people and accomplishing what God had asked him to do, he goes to his allotted piece of land. Possesses it and lives out his years there on that piece of land. He didn't seek to have some big uh palace Where he was ruling over the people and dictating what might be done in the future. He says, hey, my job is done. What God has called me to do has been completed. You guys go on and serve God, you're individually stand before him and are accountable to him. Joshua goes, lives out the remainder of his days on his allotted piece of land like any other Israelite. And at 110 years old, he dies and goes to be with the Lord. One day, beloved, our race is going to be done By God's grace and with his strength, I hope to remain faithful until that day. Some days you feel like quitting. Some days you feel like, oh, it's it's it's too hard. I'm not sure I can do it. I asked Larry Brown, who pastored like for 40 years in the same place, I says, how do you stay so long? He says, you gotta stick it. Stick through, just just determine to stick through the days you feel like quitting. Don't ever quit when you feel like quitting. He said, just stick it in there. Just don't Don't quit when you feel like quitting. He said, if you're ever going to quit, feel like quit when you don't feel like quitting. He said, that's how you know it's God. If God moves you, you you he said uh a time when you're on the top. And he says if you'll stick it through the hard days, you can be faithful through the fun ones, through the high days. I'm glad we get some high days, amen. I'm glad we get some mountaintops experiences. We get to see some Jerichos that are defeated and some victories that we get to experience. But life is not all of that. We got some low ones too. And so Joshua exhorts us, just as he did the children of Israel, to stand with the Lord and be faithful to him.