Turn your Bibles this morning to the book of Jude. The book of Jude. And that's all the way right before Revelation there. And it's a quick One page, so you can miss it. Uh but We're going to look here at the book of Jude. Just reading the first three verses this morning in the book of Jude, the Bible says Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ and the brother of James to them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called Mercy unto you and peace and love be multiplied. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith. I read this week a story of Ethan and Marcus. They were the best of friends. They had served on the force together for over ten years. During that time, they had faced Death together. They had been in more scraps together than they could count. They had walked that thin blue line on the streets of the city. protecting one another in the face of all hardship. But one day Marcus was accused of misconduct. The rumor mill started, quickly spread through the force. People began to give him a cold shoulder. It was like all of a sudden he had no friends on the force. Even though the accusations were false, there was a move from the higher ups to strong arm Marcus for some reason. When it came time when it came time for the hearing, Ethan was told by his captain Don't get involved. This is happening. You don't want to let it ruin your career as well. However, Ethan knew the truth. He knew that Marcus wa what Marcus was being accused of was a lie, and he could not simply sit by and watch his friend be destroyed. On the day of the hearing he stood publicly and testified to the truth that he understood. With each revelation he removed the lies. That would destroy his friend's career. But he also ended his chance of advancement in the force. Yes, Marcus was cleared But within a few days, Ethan was asked to change departments He was sidelined from special task and was quietly pressured to just resign and leave. Years later, in a small community event, Marcus stood up before the crowd and he said, I'm here today because a true friend stood for truth. When everybody else walked away. He stood for me when it cost him everything. Ethan sat there smiling. He was not bitter. He was not broken because he understood that even though it cost him a lot, it didn't cost him everything because he still had his integrity. He still had a clear conscience. And I wonder, beloved, if you and I could be counted on in such a situation. I wonder if we are ready and willing to contend for what is right. I would like to speak to you this morning for a few minutes Are you contending or pretending? Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning and we ask you, God, that you would take your word this morning. And bring it home to the hearts of your people. Bring alive through the power of the Holy Spirit the heart of the message today. May we not look at others down the pew or across the auditorium, but may we gaze into our own hearts today and may we see if we truly are contending for the faith. Or just pretending. Speak to our hearts in Jesus' precious name. Amen. This idea of contending literally means to strive for or to stand for. When we contend for somebody else, we stand in their stead. We stand in the way. I if we had a number of young people, and there's a few more in here than I thought there might be, I thought about giving away a bunch of paper and uh having them throw paper at me. And then having Bob Gamble stand in the way. So he would be contending for me. He's standing in the way, so he's taking it for me I think of the Bible example of when Saul was ready and willing and wanting to kill David, when he was eaten up with a jealous heart and he was so despised David that he was ready to kill him. That Jonathan, his friend, stood for him. He stood in the way of the javelin. He stood against that which was wrong, and he he contended for him. Beloved, that's what it means to contend, and we are Challenged in our text here this morning in verse number number three that we should earnestly contend for the faith. Beloved, that word earnestly literally means to put forth agonizing effort The it has the uh implication uh from Greek scholars that know a whole lot more than me, but the idea is the effort that's put forth in what in this time would have been the Olympic Games, the idea of agonizing effort, of putting everything on the line to win or to be victorious in the battle. How many of you have seen a news media reel and they're talking to somebody before a game or before an event and they'll ask them, what does it mean to you to win this? You ever heard anybody say nothing really? I could take it or leave it. No. Usually what do they say? They say it means everything It means everything. They've invested time and energy and effort and they're they're ready there on that day to put it all on the line. They're going to give 110% beyond their capacities so that they might be victorious. The idea this morning, beloved, is we're to contend for the faith. And we're so we're we are to do so earnestly. That means being willing to put it all on the line. That means being willing to put forth an agonizing effort to stand for the faith of Jesus Christ. Oh, Ethan stood for his friend. But I wonder, would we stand for a friend if their back was against the wall? I wonder, are you and I, what are you and I willing to stand for? Who are we willing to stand for? They say if you won't stand for something, you'll fall for everything. I've heard said that You haven't really lived until you've determined what it is you're willing to die for. Then you're ready to live for something. Are you ready and willing to contend? I wonder how many here this morning would be willing to contend for our Savior. Contend for the faith that was handed to us. We see here. In the book of Jude, that we are admonished. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, the brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father. Have you been sanctified? Have you been saved and the process of sanctification began in your heart and life that you you he's starting, maybe you're not what you should be. But praise God, you're not what you were. Amen. That process of sanctification is being taken place. God is slowly conforming you into the image of his son. Beloved, we are challenged to earnestly contend for that faith, that faith that brought you to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Beloved, could I tell you that Christ did and still is contending for you? When you could not go to where he was, he came to you. He found you where you were in this whole world, and he uh lifted you up out of that miry clay and set your feet on a rock. That rock which is Jesus. Yes, he did that for you, but not only that, the Bible says that he is ever. Intercessing for you and I. Even today, sitting on the right hand of the Father, being an intercessor That one mediator between God and man, and standing in our stead, having imputed unto us his righteousness and took upon him our sin. Jesus did that for us. I wonder what we would be willing to do for him. There is described here in this passage, he said, I had in my mind to write to you of the common salvation. Beloved, if we have a common salvation, not common as in commonplace. Not common as in not special But common as in something we have in common. A saint from PNG, Papua New Guinea, he and I might have very little in common in this world. Our lives are so drastically different from the location we live and the uh what we get to do each day. But you know what? We have we have something in common. If he knows Jesus as his Lord and Savior, we have salvation in common. Because anybody who's ever been saved was saved through putting their faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the old rugged cross. If you're not here this morning you haven't done that, you can today. But the challenge today is for those that know without a doubt that Jesus has done that for you. I wonder, are you willing and ready to stand for Jesus? I'm glad today that we don't have to contend for our salvation. The salvation was bought and paid for by Jesus Christ. We don't have to earn it or try and keep it. We don't have to contend to stay saved. If that was the case, I wouldn't stay saved very long. But it's what Jesus did for me, so I know I'm saved. But what we're to stand for and contend for is the truth. That faith That was once delivered to the saints. Can I tell you it was the faith that was handed down to the New Testament Christians And has been handed to the next Christian after him, and to the next Christian after him, it is that same faith that we're supposed to contend for. Wonder, would you contend for him? In our day and age when everybody wants to join hands and sing kumbaya and act like everything's the same. Can I tell you, beloved, things that aren't the same aren't the same? You can pour me a bowl of cocoa puffs, but you can't tell me it's uh fruity pebbles. It ain't the same. I mean the things that aren't the same are the same. Amen? And I don't know why they they have a mindset today they think anything that has the word church on it is the same as any other location that has the word church on it. Or anybody that wants to talk about God, everybody everybody is a Christian, but the things That aren't the same, aren't the same. And and the Bible says there'll be many people that they're going to stand before God one day and he's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. What I'm saying, beloved, is you you you you can't stand on the platform or hold hands in hands with Satan and the and the devil and uh false cults and people that don't believe, listen, I believe that uh my Savior was born of a virgin. Through an immaculate conception that he never sinned, he wasn't given the sin of men like you and I are, that he lived a sinless life. That he uh sh honored his father in everything and then the t the day came where he was crucified on an old rugged cross but when he was put in the grave he didn't stay there. Three days later he rose again And he sits on the right hand of the Father, and that it is the shedding of his blood that has purchased my redemption. Beloved, when somebody wants to believe in something else, that's not the same. And so we need to be willing today to contend for the faith. And I know in a day and age where it's really popular for everybody to stand together and let's all hold hands Uh and you know what, there's big political movements today that it's about the political thing. Let's try and let's all try and join together to change Washington. We're only going to change Washington when we change the heart of men. And the only thing that's going to change the heart of men is Jesus Christ. And when they put their faith and trust in him, they're changed from the inside out, not from a political movement And I want you I want to just caution you today, we've got to be careful about standing up with everybody and their brother, and we're all going to hold hands and pretend everybody's on the same page because I'm not on the same page with a Mormon What we believe about Jesus Christ and about God and God the Father is not the same as a Jehovah's Witness or a Catholic or many people that have Baptists on the front of their church as well I want you to understand that we first should be Bible believers. We're to contend for the faith. In the name on the front of the church, I'm glad that we're a fundamental independent Baptist church. Praise the Lord But beloved, that's not what's most important. What's the most important is that we follow the book, that we follow the Bible, and we are to contend for the faith today, to stand for God, to stand for righteousness, to stand for the truth. There's always been a creeping corruption. Look at verse number four. The Bible says, For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation. Ungodly men, turning the grace of God into liciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, our Lord Jesus Christ Beloved, if corruption crept into the church when Peter was the pastor, when Paul was leading the church, when the apostles were directing the ministry, how much more do you think corruption could creep in today? We are by God's command admonished here through the message of Jude to earnestly contend for the faith. Ungodly men have no problem turning the grace of God into liciviousness. Liciousness is unrestrained lust. Doing that which they think is right. Following after their own lust. Every sinful pleasure and every purpose in life is now freely indulged in And we can say it's okay. But it's not okay. God still calls men to live holy, separated life. The Bible is still the standard for holy living. But people today want to justify every kind of sin and they want to say, well, it's because we live under grace. Beloved Titus says in 2, 11 and 12, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Amen? That grace is available for all. But then he says, What does the grace do? What does that grace accomplish for us? People want to say it's grace, so I can do whatever I want, but the Bible says that this grace that appeared unto all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. That is what grace is supposed to do in our heart. Beloved, the world and holiness do not go hand in hand. I know it seems ever more popular today for that to be the case. You have these great big artists. Who on Friday night were out getting slammed in in on the party scene in any big city. And on Sunday morning they're in church talking about Jesus. God's not pleased with that. And as Christians, you ought to be careful about buying into that. These men that live like the devil all week. We want to talk about the revival that's taking place in America today. When the prophet got close to God, he says, woe is me, for I am undone. I am a sinner. I am a man of unclean lips. Beloved, when God touches your heart and touches your life, it changes you. I wonder, would we be willing to contend for the Savior? I wonder this morning, would you be willing to contend for the Scriptures? We see in verses number 17, 18 and 19, he says, But beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before you by the apostle of our Lord Jesus Christ. How that he told you there should be mockers in the last time who should walk after their own ungodliness. These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit. But ye beloved, build up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost. He says, remember the words Remember what's been said. Remember the words that were spoken to you by the apostles and by Jesus Christ. Can I tell you this morning, beloved, that we have here the Word of God? This is the Word of God. We believe in the verbal prunerary inspiration of the Scriptures. That is, God breathed, that God has given to us the Word of God. Our belief here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is that the King James Bible is God's word for the English-speaking language today. That's what we believe. I know this under attack today. You'll see it all over. People are like, oh, you're one of those churches. Oh, you're a King James only church. Oh my goodness. You guys are extreme. I don't think it's extreme to want the pure unadulterated word of God. Just like in the Bible times, God miraculously in his provision, and we dealt with this when we talked about the Old Testament coming into the New Testament and how God had prepared the world with the advancement of Rome. with the spread of the Roman roads and the world trade language being Greek That God brought the New Testament into the world through the Greek language because that was the tree language. That was the language which would impact and be most readily available everywhere in the world. God's done the same thing today. The World Trade Language, the language that is taught in schools all over the world as a mandatory second language. English. The Word of God is more readily available around the world today because it was available in English And it should bother the believer when the word of God is corrupted. Can I give you a simple example of this? They have released a Gen Z Bible. Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 3, which reads, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The Gen Z Bible reads, those who have a humble mindset are blessed, because they got a hook up in heaven. It goes on. It says, those who feel down vibes are going to be uplifted, yo. They find some genuine comfort in the game of life. They happy and chill, because they'll totally score the whole planet. What does the Bible says, blessed are meek, what? For they shall inherit the earth. That's what that verse is supposed to be. In verse number 8, it says, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. But the Gen Z Bible reads, So like those who are genuine and have like no hidden agendas or bad vibes in their heart. They're totally blessed. Hashtag blessed. Because they'll love to get an experience with the awesome encountering God and stuff. And you say, well, Pastor Caleb, that's too far. Obviously, that's too far. Everybody knows that. I mean, that's I mean what well let me ask you this. How far is too far? You say, well I decide. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. You get to decide. You just choose. Choose whatever you want. Well, that's too far. There are Bibles that are way worse than this. Books that call themselves Bibles, that call themselves the Word of God. Do you want to know how far is too far? Let's see what God says about it. If you want to see, you're close to it. It's in the book of Revelation, chapter number 22. Just a few pages over from where you're in Jude there, if you want to see it, Revelation 22, verses 18 and 19. The Bible says, For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of this prophecy of this book. It says, here you go. I'm telling you, the words and the prophecies of this book, if any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. And if any man shall take away from the words of this book, of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things that are written in this book. God said to add one thing or take one thing away is too far. You know, I wonder, uh it just came to me, you know, we we want to individually decide what's too far or not. And that's because you're a Greek scholar. You've spent your life studying Hebrew, and you can discern if the scripture has been corrupted Is that correct? Obviously I'm being facetious. We know that's not the case. It just goes down to well this is what I like. But do we do what we like or do we do what God said? Beloved, are you contending or are you pretending? I want you to see lastly this morning that we are called to contend for souls. Not only do we contend for the Savior, for that faith that was handed down to us. Contend for the scriptures today because they're under attack. We ought to contend for souls, beloved. Look at verse number 21 through 23. 21 and 22. He says, keep yourself in the love of God. Look for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life, and of some having compassion making a difference. Can I ask you, beloved, do you remember who had compassion on you? Do you remember who it is that cared enough about you to pray for your soul or to present you with the truth of the gospel or to hand you a gospel track or to exhort and encourage you to get into a church where you would hear the truth. Was there somebody that loved you enough to tell you about Jesus Christ who died for you? So you could be on your way to heaven? Well then I ask of you this morning, who are you contending for? Who are you? We see in verse number 23 he says, And others save with fear. Pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. There's literally the the picture, the The idea as you're reaching over the gulf of hell and grabbing a hold of the hand of somebody you care about enough to reach and hold their hand and pull them back out of the fire Is there somebody you're contending for today? Somebody you're praying that God would get a hold of their heart and they would get saved before it's eternally too late. Do you have some friends or some family or some neighbors or some coworkers that are on your heart that you want to at least care enough to give them a gospel track? And yes, they may reject it, but beloved, at least you cared enough to give them the truth. So they could have the opportunity to go to heaven. There is that compassion that should take a hold of our hearts and compel us to be a witness today. We need to confront people with the reality of hell, but then it is our privilege to comfort them with the reality of heaven. The fact that heaven is there. And there are very few people Who are so hard-hearted and blinded that they do not think about or believe that there's some kind of heaven They may not know exactly what it is, they may have a different interpretation of the place, they may in their mind think it's, you know, paradise or a special place or just a place of bliss or who know who knows their their idea of heaven might be incorrect from the Bible, but they're looking towards that. But beloved, if the message of heaven that's found in the Word of God is true, then so is the message of hell. And the way that we miss hell is by putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And we ought to be burdened, have compassion, and be willing to contend for the souls of men. You know, the Bible tells us that we have a light. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. This is a light of mine. I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Are you letting your light shine in this whole wicked world? Do you know, beloved, that Satan is gonna try and do all he can? To blow it out. But the God tells us, wait, you're not supposed to hide it It's supposed to shine. And if we're going to continue to let our light shine in this world, then we have to contend for it. We have to contend for the faith. I could really draw this illustration out and light a candle and give it to Joe and tell him to come up here and then tell all those other boys your job is to get the candle out. He would have to contend pretty hard to keep that candle from going out with those guys coming at him Beloved Satan and all of the hell's angels are doing what they can to blow your candle out, to keep you from having a light that shines in this dark world. To keep you from contending for the souls of men. And if he doesn't care if you have a light You're already on your way to heaven. He's not can't do anything about that. But if he can keep your light from shining and winning somebody else, boy, he's happy about that. So I asked you this morning, are you contending or are you pretending? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed