This morning to the book of Judges, Judges chapter number 17. I fully expected to get to this point in our lesson this morning in Sunday school. Uh I was really planning to just kinda fly through Sunday school and and uh get that done and then we ran down some rabbit trails and didn't get all the way to the end Uh but I would encourage you to come to Sunday school. We're doing an Old Testament survey, a systematic look at uh the history of God's people, and uh at least those that have been present have d described how much of a blessing it has been. There is uh Some little books like this, three ring binders that are available in the bookstore. These cost us five bucks, so we sell them for five bucks just to replace the cost of putting them together, and then we give you all the pages inside for nothing each week We are currently just today we are at page 72 in the notes. I fully expect to be in excess of 200 pages of notes that you'll have by the time we get done. You're going to have a book on the Old Testament that you've gone through. And so I'd encourage you to come and be a part of that. If you miss the Sunday, uh it is available online. But uh You know, I hesitate to say that because then people are like, Oh, I could just catch it later online and and don't make an effort to uh be here and and uh you know how hard it is to go back and catch something up that you didn't that you didn't get when it was time because You know, you're busy next week too. And you're busy the week after that, just like everybody else. And so it's very hard to try and go back and catch up. So just make it a priority and be here and uh I know that you'll enjoy it. The Lord bless you We are in the book of Judges, and we began that this morning looking at the systematic uh uh seven stages of apostasy that took place there in the book of Judges and uh learning about those. But the book of Judges concludes with a very uh tragic set of events. I mean it kind of gets darker and darker and darker and then it it kinda comes to the end and it's like man what a mess this is and uh that's kind of where judges i i heads and So I want you to look in chapter number 17 where this time period begins. The stages of apostasy end in chapter 16. We get 17 through 21 as kind of a uh a list of events that took place that are really tragic and horrific stories in the life of the children of Israel. But we're going to look at one of these stories this morning. In Judges chapter 17, verses 1 through 6 is what I'm going to read for our text to begin this morning. He says here, and there was a man of Mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah. And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou cursed And spake of also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me. I took it And his mother said, Blessed be thou of the Lord my son. Kids, wouldn't you like a mom like that? You tell her, I just stole $1,100 from you, and she said, Bless you, my son. He says, Oh yeah. I don't know what his motivation for bringing it back was. Maybe because she pronounced a curse on whoever took it, I don't know. But he says, What you know, that money you've been talking about that I heard, uh I have it. And I'm going to return it. And she says, Blessed be thou of the Lord my son. Verse number three. And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver from his mother His mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto the Lord for my hand, for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image. And you notice the first part of that verse sounded really good. Boy, I had wholly dedicated this silver unto the Lord. If she would have stopped there, that would have been great. You know, sometimes people have what's called stinking thinking. It is they're not thinking straight. I was talking to Rich and Carol Asper in the back. Sometimes people's minds are blinded by Satan and they don't even don't even realize what they're saying or what they're doing. This lady says, Boy, I dedicated all this silver to the Lord. for my son to make a graven image and a molten image, now therefore I will restore it to thee, his sons her son said. Yet he restored the money unto his mother, and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to the founder and made thereof a graven image and a molten image. And there rose, and they were in the house of Micah. And the man Micah had a house of gods and made an ephod and a teraphim and consecrated one of his sons who became his priest. In those days when there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes. We see this story take place, and the time frame is given to us. The set of circumstances is given to us in verse number six. In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right. I'm going to preach to you a message this morning that I have entitled Content in Corruption. Would you ask the Lord to speak to your heart as I begin the message with a word of prayer? Lord, we come to you right now, and I ask you, God, that you would help me to step aside. I pray, Lord, that your word and your message would go forth, that God, uh, there would be nothing in what I say or in my personality that would hinder the work of the Holy Spirit among your people I ask, Lord, that you would take the scriptures and the story that you've given us here to learn from, that you would take it and Lord, open our hearts and minds, and may the Holy Spirit drive home the truths to each and every one of us, Lord, and make it what it needs to be for each heart present. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. This book of Judges, one of the saddest books in the story of the children of Israel, a book full of compromise and correction, it really is or becomes a picture of the depravity of man A time when men were without any leadership and there was no king and men just chose to do that which is what they wanted to do, what was right in their own eyes. Can I tell you, beloved, there's a problem when men just do what they want to do? The just do-it mentality of society today and the motivation of the heart of many people just to do what feels good to you. Can I tell you, the Bible tells us very clearly That the heart of man is desperately wicked. It doesn't matter how righteous or holy we feel, that there are times when our heart is going to desire or want to do things, it has no business doing. That we shouldn't be involved in. And when you have an entire nation or people that are given to doing whatever just their heart desires, you're gonna be headed for downfall Men will go the way of Satan. Just as we see here, this man, Micah, look at how far he goes. I know in the beginning, when you hear the story about this This boy, it actually opens and tells us there was a man. But then it introduces his mom, and he stole this money from his mom, so in our heart and mind, immediately we think a kid. But then the story goes on, you find out he was a man that had his own kids. And yet he was stealing from his mom Here's a bad situation. He stole this money from his mom, and his mom says, boy, I had set this money aside to make a graven image. Not only did he make a graven image, but he had established and set up a house of gods, plural, in his home And in this house of gods he had made an ephod that was a priestly garments that he had built or had put together for his son, and a teraphim. A teraphim is much like the Urim and the Thoman that the priests would use to discern the will of God. They would use these to know what God's will is and He was establishing and building something that he could have his own uh uh diviner, you might say. Just wanted to know, have his own way of finding what God's will is. And then he sets one of his sons up. As a priest. Now you know that he was not a Levite, he was not supposed to do that. You don't just get to do whatever you want You don't just you say, Oh well that's a good thing. That's uh admirable thing. His son's gonna be a priest. Well the problem is is that's not what he was supposed to do God had given that position and that job to the Levites. He did not have the authority or the right to do that. That was sin. It was wrong. And people say, oh no, but isn't that a good thing? He's gonna serve the Lord. No, because it was wrong. He was not supposed to assume that position. He had some stinking thinking. He wanted to do what he wanted to do Now look at the story. It continues on and it gets worse in verse number seven. And there was a young man out of Bethlehem, Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite. And he sojourned there. So he was sojourning in Bethlehem, Judah. This was his home. This is where he was from. He was a Levite in verse number 8 And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehem, Judah, to sojourn where he could find a place. And he came to Mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, and he journeyed. As he journeyed. And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem, Judah, and I go to sojourn where I find a place. And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest. And I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy vittles also. So the Levite went in. And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, content in corruption. Then the young man was unto him as one of his sons. And Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest. And was in the house of Micah. Then said Micah, Now I know, now know I that the Lord will do me good. See, and I have a Levite to my priest. He has done all of this These ungodly things directly against the Ten Commandments, directly against what God has told them to do, established his own priest, set up his own temple, built his own ephod and uh Teraphim, he established all these things, and then he gets a priest who was passing through and he says, Hey, why don't you be a priest? He says, Boy, now I know for sure God is going to do well to me Completely ignoring all of the wickedness that was there. It says now I have my own priest. And boy, isn't the Lord going to do well, do me good. This Levite was content in corruption. Beloved, the tribe of Levite was to be wholly, dedicated, and consecrated unto God. God had chosen the tribe of Levi to be his servants. They were not going to have an inheritance in the land because God was going to be their inheritance. He was going to be their direct inheritance. God had established them to be the chosen people that could minister and serve in the position of priest. They were the ones that were going to be able to go in unto the holy place, unlike any other members of the tribes of Israel. The only ones that were allowed to carry the Ark of the Covenant. But this man was content to minister to a family before graven images in a place that he was not supposed to be. How could he be content in such foolishness? How could he, a Levite? Who had the honor and the privilege to serve the nation of Israel? How could he be content? To be in this house before a little graven image. I want to give you three things from the text this morning that we see the reason that he was content, and sometimes the reason you and I are content in our corruption. First of all, I want you to see that he had no commander. In verse number six, he says, In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes. We're living in a time, beloved, when men don't know what to do A time when there was not direction, there was no leadership, there was nobody uh telling them here is what is right, this is what you should do, there was no king in Israel. It was a a a defining characteristic of that era that is they were without direction. They were without somebody saying, hey, this is the direction that we need to go. This is what God says. This is what the Bible says. This is how we should be running. And he Somebody pointing towards Jesus Christ or pointing towards God the Father saying, This is what we were doing. He had no commander. Can I tell you that Jesus says a people without leadership, a people without a shepherd are scattered? People need leadership. Matthew 9, 36. But when he saw the multitude, he was moved with compassion because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep. Having no shepherd. When the sheep have no shepherd, when there is no direction, when there is no commander or leadership, the people are scattered. He had no commander. He was content to just do what was right in his own heart, whatever he wanted to do How did this Levite end up at Micah's house? We see in verse number 8, he says, and the man departed out of the city of Bethlehem, Judah, to sojourn What's the next five words? Where he could find. Now he was from Bethlehem, Judah. He had a place. A place, an inheritance, a place that God had put them, a place that said, hey, this is where you're supposed to be. This is your area of service. This is your church. This is where you need to be, but this Levite said, oh, uh, you know what? I want to do what I want to do And I know that my family has served here in Bethlehem, Judah for generations. But who's to say I can't go serve somewhere else? I'm not saying I want to be in sin. I'm not saying I'm going to be a wicked person. I'm still going to serve God. I'm just going to go find my own place to do it. And he goes and begins to travel and just he he's just looking for what looks good to him I mean, am I stretching the text? Isn't that what he says? He says, I've gone to find a place to sojourn. Wherever I can he says it twice in there, wherever I can find a place. Micah says, uh, well, where are you going? He's like, oh, wherever I can find a place And so Micah says, well here's a place. How does this look to you? You see, he had nobody giving him Direction. He wanted to do his own thing. Beloved, too many of us think that we are in complete control of our lives and we have the privilege to just do whatever we want to do. That's part of our American mentality. The freedoms that we have have led us to believe and feel that we're completely free to live and do whatever we want to do, completely disregarding that there's a God in heaven. That there is a book that gives direction. And we we we want to just live our lives and do what we want to do like we have no commander. But we do have a commander. There is a God in heaven, and there is a book that tells us how we're supposed to live. We live like we have no Bible. Like the Bible doesn't have the answers Christians today think they can just do whatever they want. And what's even more mind-boggling is they're just like Micah. They're living however they want, and then they say, Oh, now I know the Lord will do me good. Now I know the Lord will do me good because I went to church on Sunday. I'm living like the devil all week, doing whatever I want to do, completely disregarding the laws of God. But oh, I was in church on Sunday, so the Lord will do me good. Come on now. That's that is that is good preaching, even if I am the one doing it. That's the the fact of the matter is that we've got way too much of that going on in in society today and in our churches today, Christians just live in however they want to live, completely disregarding the laws of God and what God tells them to do And they walk in on church on Sunday with their with their tie on or with their Bible under their arm and they think everything's okay. They're content to live in corruption. Running around in the hog slop of this old world every day of the week and then walking into church like they're crispy clean. We got men and women today living in fornication. Involved in relationship outside the bounds of marriage that they know God is not pleased with And yet they put a Bible under their arm and they come into church and act like everything's fine Everything's okay. The Lord's going to do me good. Men and women living in adultery, outside the bounds of marriage. The one that God had given them. Doing what they want to do in their heart, even though they know it's sin, they know it's wrong, and they're acting like everything's okay. They're content to live in corruption. Beloved, the world's full of people living that way. What I'm talking here is about this Levite who was supposed to be wholly consecrated unto God, living in corruption, and I'm talking about the child of God who wants to come into church and pretend like everything's okay, like they're all that in a bag of chips, like they're gonna sit down and sing the praises to to Jesus and and raise their Bible and say Amen while they're living like the devil all week. They're talking like the devil. They're w listening to the devil's music. They're watching the the devil's uh movies and partaking of so many things that that they know are not pleasing and not right, and then they want to come into God's house and act like everything's okay. They're content to live in corruption. Beloved churches today are using the church house like a confessional booth. When I was a kid, I don't know how many of you guys know it, but I learned a little song. Step into the confessional. See if your sins are original. If they're not, drink the wine and eat the wave. You gotta play it safe The church house people are using a church house like a confessional. It's always been that way. Like, oh, uh you can live however you want. As long as you catch a confessional booze once a week. You can go do whatever you want to do. Now listen, I praise God that He is uh faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. If we confess them, that's the fact and that's a promise from God. But you don't just get to live with however you want and and and pop into church at your convenience and and pop out of church and just you know just Do just do whatever you want to do and then act like everything's okay. We've got Christians harboring bitterness in their heart. Pretending to be holy. Pretending to be all that in a bag of chips. Boy, I'm I'm a spiritual, godly Christian. And you've got bitterness or anger or malice in your heart towards another brother or sister in Christ, the Bible says if you don't love your brother, you don't love God. That's just as much of a sin as adultery. It's just not as physical or not as as uh noticeable. That's uh we've got those Baptist sins. The sins that that we like, you know, that we can hold on to. We you know I mean we're spiritual as long as we don't do the, you know, don't uh drink and smoke and run around with those that do, as long as we don't do that, then we're okay But we can hold on to our our pets then. Living like there is no commander in heaven. Kids, you're dishonoring your parents. Doing things you know that your parents do not approve of? Involved in things that you know if your parents found out they would come unglued. You're you're partaking of or taking things in on your devices, whether those are handheld or uh table mounted or or you know your your gaming stations or whatever else you're partaking of things that you know That is not pleasing to God, and at the very least you know your mom and dad wouldn't be a part of it. You're dishonoring them, which means you're disobeying God, which means you're in sin. Then you come to church and you stand up here and you sing, Oh, how I love Jesus. and you're gonna go home and do the same filthy stuff you did last week. What I'm saying, Christian, is is we need to get serious about sin. We gotta stop being content to live in our corruption. You know, there's been several times in my life I've been involved in some really nasty jobs. I uh more than once have been involved in a fixing a clogged sewer line, digging down into that muck. Happening to clean the pipes out. And there's really those of you that have done that kind of stuff, you know there's really n there's no way to just like if you know me, I I don't like getting dirty. I don't like getting my hands dirty. But it's what you got to do to get the job done. You get down in that filth. In your mind you're like, man, I'm probably gonna catch some kind of disease. I don't know who who knows what's gonna happen, but you gotta get the job done. You're down in that nasty disgusting and and and it stinks and you're just oh and y y you get the pipe clean and then you gotta clean the pipe and and and get it fixed and put back together and and you know what you've got that that disgusting corruption all over you. You don't say, hey, guys, you want to go eat? Let's let's go let's run to you know Chili's and sit down and have a meal Uh no, as soon as the job's done, you're like, okay, these clothes are going in the trash and uh and I'm getting uh gonna take three showers and bleach. Uh How many bottles of s hand sanitizer do we have, right? I'm gonna you're you're like, I'm gonna get this stuff off of me. I mean you're just just filthy. You got it on you and you're like Man, I can't wait to get it off. I mean I just gotta get rid of it. When was the last time as God's people we were overcome with the corruption the sin that was in our life and we said, I've got to get it out. I've got to stop it. I've got to get it away from me because it's destroying my life When was the last time we were consumed and burdened with the filth that we have in our lives and said, I can't take it anymore? When was the last time the Holy Spirit of God came down and reached into your heart and grabbed a hold of you and said, I'm done with this, I'm done with this, and you cut it off. Parent, your kids need a commander. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. The kids don't need to do whatever they want to do. Whatever they feel like is good. They need a commander. They need somebody to tell them this is what is right. This is what you're going to do. They may not like it, but this is what they need. Parents don't have a problem telling their kids they're going to go to school. Yet today so many parents are like, well, I'm not sure if I can tell him that he needs to go to church. What? Why? Is church good for him? Tell them you're gonna be in church. By the way, you need to be there too, mom and dad. You need to be the parent. Beloved, when children grow up in a home without direction, when they're left to live and determine their own destiny. They never learn to follow leadership, and they do not learn how to yield to God. They will reach the place in their life when they will not receive admonishment. Ecclesiastes 4:13 says, Better is the poor and wise child. than an old and foolish king who will no be no more be admonished. Beloved, when we reach the place that we can no longer be admonished, We can no longer be corrected. We're in a bad place. Somebody called me a little over a week ago, one of the members of this church, and admonished me. I'm okay with that. I apologized. I said I will prayerfully and scripturally uh look at this and see what needs to be corrected. I'm saying I'm okay with that. But some of you get mad at me when I preach, thus saith the Lord. When we reach the place that we can no longer be admonished, we're in a bad place. I want you to see not only was there no commander, but I want you to see he had no crisis. In verse number 10. In verse number 10, we see that everything was taken care of for him. He was living high on the hog, and uh he was uh in a good place. Doing really well, we see. And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by a year, and a suit of apparel. And vitals. So the Levite went in. What I'm saying is the the the Micah said, hey, you need a place to sojourn? Here's a house. Here's a place to live. I'll give you food to eat. I'll give you clothes to wear. I will give you even some pay. But I'm saying he everything was taken care of. There was no crisis. So he was content. How many of you know that crisis drives us to our knees? One of the greatest contributors to America's downfall has been God's blessing. Because God has so richly blessed this nation that we have lived without crisis. And so we are content. Beloved, fullness leads to forgetfulness. The more blessed we are, the more okay we think we are. You would think the more blessed we are, the more grateful we would be, and the more driven to our knees we would be. But the opposite is true because fullness leads to forgetfulness, which you see with the children of Israel over and over and over again. God blesses them, God blesses them, and they forget God. When we're living in prosperity, we have no need for God. But when crisis comes, we're driven to our knees. Can I tell you that there's gonna be crisis in this country? There might be crisis in your home You're not content to live in your corruption when crisis comes. When crisis comes, you you you want to get a hold of God. A week ago Saturday we were up at Joe and Kim's house and we were uh doing what Joe and Kim do Marriage counseling? Uh no, just kidding. We we were shoot shooting guns and and having a good time, you know, uh enjoying ourselves. But Melissa got to feeling really sick She wasn't feeling good at all and it it was getting pretty bad where she didn't want to move and of course it was hot out and I said, Well why don't you go sit in the suburban, turn it on, and put the air conditioning on and cool down, drink some water, and see how you're feeling Well, uh one of the kids comes and tells me that mom said you need to go check on Melissa. Uh and uh mil she had gone up to the house to see Miss Kim help get dinner ready and She had stopped to say see Melissa. Melissa was in the car, and Melissa had lost feeling in her arms from her elbows to her hands, both of them, and the temperature in her hands dropped by about 10 degrees They were they were really cold. And her whole her whole body was shaking like this. She was just shaking like this. And she was in a lot of pain. And she she just her stomach pain was so much she didn't know if she could take it. So I went and checked on her. I said, Okay, I'll take you I'll take you to the doctor, we'll go to the ER, which is the first time she's ever been in her life. We don't go to the doctor much. And uh uh uh I brought her home. On the way home things calmed down a little bit, but we're in the car and Melissa looks at me and she says, Dad, I'm scared. I'm scared. And I said, you know what, hon? We don't have to be scared. I know you don't know what's going on in your body. I know you don't it doesn't make sense. We're gonna go to a doctor, and you know what? Maybe the doctors won't even know what's going on. I said, but we know God knows. God knows exactly what's going on in your body right now, and we can pray and talk to him because we know God. But I'm saying, beloved, as crisis comes and in that moment of crisis, you're driven to your knees. We're content to live in our corruption as long as there's no crisis, as long as things are going okay But when crisis comes, we're driven to our knees, we're driven to a place where we need to get a hold of God. Christian, we've got to stop being comfortable in our sin. We've got to stop being comfortable with missing church. We've got to stop being comfortable without a walk with God. We've got to stop being comfortable watching things that God is not pleased with. We've got to stop being comfortable with our bitterness and our anger. We've got to stop being comfortable with our worldly language and foul mouth. We've got to stop being comfortable with the gossip that goes on and from our from our lips. We've got to stop being comfortable with our sin because the moment the crisis comes, we need to get a hold of God. Too many Christians today are content in their corruption because they have a form of godliness. But they are denying the power thereof. There is power in living a godly life. And I would implore you and encourage you to Seek to live a godly nice life, not just an acceptable one. We see lastly this morning But the reason he was content is because he had a companion. Then said Micah, now I know, verse number 13. Now know I that the Lord will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest. So he had set up his son as a priest. Then he brought in this Levite, said, Oh, you can be a priest, and now I have two priests in my home. One is an actual Levite and one that's supposed to be doing this. He says, Now I know the Lord will do me good, but I'm saying, beloved, as he had a companion. How many of you know the old saying that misery loves company The fact of the matter is, is nobody likes to go down alone. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number 15 says, look diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up, trouble you, and thereby many be defiled Many are defiled. Why are many people defiled when bitterness is present at the heart? Why? Because nobody likes to go down alone. Everybody likes to go and find somebody else to go down with them They like to go find somebody that will listen to them, a sympathetic ear, somebody that they could talk to and say, boy, look at this, or did you hear about this or look at this problem They go and they seek somebody else that that can be bitter and angry with them because boy, two people see, you agree with me and you agree with me. Now there's three of us. We must be right And if we can get more and more people on board, the happier we are, the more content we are, even if what we're doing is wrong. He was content because he had a companion. Just a few weeks ago in Sunday school we talked about that group Cora. Korah who was upset with Moses. You know Korah was mad. You know Korah. He went and got himself 250 men of renown. He went and recruited 250 people to go with him. Korrah was the one that had an issue. Korra was the one that read, but he went around and got some guys with him and said, Oh, hey, look at this. Look at this boy. Well, don't you agree that Moses is taking too much on himself? Don't you agree? Look, he got 250 people to rise up against Moses because people don't like to go it alone You take our modern criminal system, it's largely built on this fact. You know they arrest one guy They take him in and say, well, you're going to be charged with twenty-two counts of fraud and and corruption. And uh the guy goes, wait a minute, I didn't do this alone. Oh well if you can give us the guy above you we'll we'll decrease your your punishment and he's like oh yeah there was five other people involved in this or you know nobody likes to go down alone. They're able to recruit all these other guys, go get the because people don't like to go it alone. He had a companion, he's content to do wrong because somebody else was there. You know, just like it's easier to stand if you're not standing alone. It's easier to sin if you're not sinning alone When I was a young man, I had a friend. His name was Brian Kufis. Brian and I got in trouble every single time we got together. I'm talking about from the time we were in the nursery at church together. Until the very last time I saw him, we got in trouble every time we got together. Now, Brian may not have been that bad of a kid. I know I wasn't that good of a kid. But you put the two of us together and we were bad news. We got in trouble every time we got together. I don't know what it was. But I can tell you the Bible says evil evil communication corrupt good manners, and we we got together, we had evil communication, and we talked each other into the most ridiculous things. There was actually one period of time where Brian and I hadn't seen each other for about six years. I was living in El Paso, Texas, and he was living in Sheboygan, Wisconsin. He came to our house for a couple weeks. Do you know while he was at our house for a couple weeks? Brian and I got in trouble. In just a couple weeks. And I'm talking about police trouble. I'm talking about like you're ready to go to jail. That kind of trouble. Here I am, a pastor's kid, carrying my Bible and wearing my suit to church. And on Monday, I got to go to court. Because of what I did. Because Brian and I got together. Because why? Because it's easier to sin when you're not alone. You might have some companions that you know are hurting you spiritually. They're keeping you from doing what you know God wants you to do. And they're a companion and boy You enjoy spending time with them and the relationship is so easy and boy we just hang out and have a good time, but they're hurting you spiritually. Listen, you're content in your corruption because you got a companion That's keeping you there. I just want to tell you that God is a loving God. God is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we'll just come to him and confess our sin. But I want you to know that God chastens whom he loves. Hebrews chapter number 12 tells us for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. He goes on in those verses, and he says, listen. If you're not chastened by God, it's quite possibly because you're not a child of God. So what I would implore you this morning is if you do not know the chastening hand of God, if you do not know that God is coming after you when you're doing s when you're in sin, Then maybe you need to look at the fact of whether you're a child of God or not. Because God chastens whom He loves. Every son He chastens. You better be sure. Because the alternative is an eternity in hell You're not on your way to heaven because you go to a church today, because you carry a Bible. Because you're acting spiritual. Because you're doing religious activity. The only way to get to heaven is to have your sins forgiven by the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Putting your faith and trust in Him and becoming a child of God. And when you become a child of God, He chastens you. when you're in sin. This morning as I preached, the Holy Spirit of God reached down from the portals of heaven and maybe touched your heart in some area and said, this is something you need to cut off. This is something you need to stop. This is something you need to let go. You've been content in this corruption for far too long. Would you let God have his way? We don't need to live as though we have no commander. We have a God in heaven. We have a holy Bible. We have the Holy Spirit. We have direction Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed