I searched for pleasures and earthly treasures in vain I thought you had him with me and offended me. I found the living way. In thee is the fountain of lay Lord. In the is a function of mine. I tell you that I thought while spinning that I was winning a light. Of fortune and fame, but when he saves me the life meeting. My ball was free, Turkey. In the mountain envoy. Is the function of Say wash that No more, no never will I never to walk the way back. That it's wrong. I'm on the highway cross the My dad donation lay In the Fountain of Lord. And believe in the mountain of life my faith In the potin of Turning our Bibles to Acts chapter ten. Acts chapter ten and I know these services become very unusual, but we're gonna make the best of it. And I was trying to think if um back to the days of COVID when we all became um all the churches seemed to become more automated and uh we even became fancy. We had somebody in the church that had an FM transmitter. And so we pulled all the cars up. We were in a storefront so they could kind of see inside a little bit. And uh those of us that were inside but uh would run this church service with barely just like this few people And then uh but I had a little bit of communication, because listening out in your car if you wanted to say amen, uh then we could hear you beep your horn. And uh at least we had some little bit of feedback, okay? And uh so and then and then when they wanted to say more than just amen, like Amen, praise the Lord, they would flash their lights. So and I could see that and I'd have some kind of feedback And uh, you know, we preachers that look forward to that feedback. We want to know that we're getting the message across and it's a little bit difficult, and uh so um You know, I'm assuming that you're saying amen at home, so uh but I have no way to tell, so I'm just gonna be real proud today and assume everybody likes my sermon. And uh really is enjoying yourself. Uh I hope that you don't enjoy yourself enough not to come back and you want to sit at home next week. Uh but uh I was thinking maybe you could text uh You know, uh pastor like during the service right now if he had his phone and then uh if you said amen you could like text him an Amen and then he could say Amen for you And uh Amen. Yeah. Yeah, right. And so uh anyway if he wanted to do that, he's got his phone in his hand. I'm watching and uh He can uh receive your amens through the text. And it's good to have a little fun. It's fun when things are out of the ordinary. I happen to like being snowed in. It's just no pastor likes to have it happen on a Sunday. And um I appreciate being able to stay next door and we had just to walk over and uh it's it's nothing for us to be here uh for the snow for us and we made it here before it came. So we had a good time yesterday traveling and um wanted to wish pastor's wife Miss Mary happy birthday. She told me late we were at supper yesterday and s today she told me it was her birthday yesterday. She didn't tell us yesterday. She didn't want to get embarrassed, but I'll embarrass her now. Happy birthday to you. So and then Alicia's birthday. When is it? Tomorrow or today? Happy birthday to you. And then uh some of the others. I don't remember names too well. I remember Brother Bob and uh and and so happy birthday to you. And then I was thinking about what Pastor was saying about how he turned slowly in his songbooks and his wife is always trying to help do that and and our thing with the songbooks is that I have to hold it because Debbie could never see it uh unless I hold it far enough away because her Even with her little readers on, she's like sometimes she's reaching over and pushing the songbook further away. She could never hold it, her arms aren't long enough, so Anyway, uh so I have to help her with that. So anyway, so that's a blessing. Acts chapter ten, I I want to remind you of some things. I know every church is in a church like this is very involved in the great community But I want to go through the Great Commission and using this particular event in the life of Cornelius, his salvation testimony, and uh how it is fulfilling the Great Commission. and to encourage you in your efforts for the Lord. But in order to get into this, I need to read a lengthy passage of Scripture. We're going to look at verses 1 through 20, and then before we pray, we'll just read those few verses and then go back in our Bibles. But let's read this together. Acts chapter 10, verses 1 through 20 There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian Band, a devout man and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God always He saw in a vision, evidently about the ninth hour of the day, an angel of God coming into him and saying unto him, Cornelius, and when he looked on him, he was afraid and said, What is it, Lord? He said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for memorial before God. And now send men to Joppa and call for one Simon whose surname is Peter. He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the seaside. So he says, you know, he's up in Caesarea by the sea. There's two Caesarea. But the one by the sea, the capital of the Roman government, and Joppa is just a distance down, and uh along the sea, another seaport city He shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do. Verse number seven, and when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household servants, and And when he had declared all these things unto them he sent them to Joppa. On the morrow, as they went on their journey and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up about the housetop uh to pray about the sixth hour. And he became very hungry and would have eaten, but while he made ready, while they made ready, he fell into a trance. And he saw heaven open and a certain vessel descending unto him as it been a great sheet knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth, wherein were all manner of four footed beasts of the earth and wild beasts and creeping And verse 13, and there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter, kill and eat. But Peter said, Not so, Lord, for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common. This was done thrice, and the vessel was received up again into heaven. Now while Peter doubted in himself what the vision which he had seen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon's house and stood before the gate. and called and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there. While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold. Three men seek thee, arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing, for I have sent them. And the story continues, and I trust that you'll read this. We'll go into a little bit of it Read this maybe a little bit later today, you'll find that Cornelius eventually listening to Peter once he comes up to Caesarea. And he preaches to the crowd that uh he receives the Lord as his Savior, he gets saved, there's evidence of that, and you can find that in the balance of the chapter. But let's have, for our purposes, let's have a word of prayer and ask for God's blessing and go into this. Lord, I pray that you bless today's message. As those that are at home sitting there, I pray that you would Lord, do a work on hearts to allow their attention to be uh undivided. I pray that you would also bless this message with your power, your Holy Spirit. That uh that will go forth and be uh accomplish what you've intended for it to do. So please bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen. One missionary once said and famously said, We are not in hell today because of God's great grace. Uh but we are also not in heaven today because of God's Great Commission. And uh I think it's interesting some things that we can draw from God's Great Commission if you'll Put something in your place there in Acts chapter ten. I would like to examine. Go back to Matthew chapter twenty-eight to the last chapter of Matthew and Notice how each of the Gospels present the Great Commission. The Great Commission is found five different times. But at the end of Matthew, it says in chapter If you'll get there, Matthew chapter twenty eight, verse eighteen through twenty. And uh Matthew is uh a tax collector. And he's he's a Jew, tax collector, he's one of the publicans in chapter nine, I think ch verses nine through thirteen of Matthew. you find the conversion of this man. And he goes on to be the author of what many have esteemed as the greatest of the gospels, in the sense that Every doctrine of the New Testament, nothing new past Matthew. Matthew introduces everything new that is then expounded on in the rest of the Bible. So if you're there, it says, and Jesus came in verse 18 and spake unto them saying, all power. Now that word power is excusia, it's the word for authority. Is given unto me in heaven and in earth. So the authority to do what we do in the Great Commission doesn't come from our government. It is not by permission if If it became illegal to go and tell people about Jesus, we would uh not that we would uh uh be be unwise, but we would find ways to do what God says, and even if it were totally illegal, we would still do it because somebody greater than our government has commissioned us and given us the authority to do this. And this is godly authority. Verse 19, here is the word, go. That's the action, go. We're supposed to go and do the Great Commission. Go ye therefore, and while you're going, these are the things that you're going to do. And teach all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Ghost. There you see that in verse 19. And then another thing is that you're teaching them in verse 20 to observe all things which have commanded you. So to preach the gospel, to tell people about Jesus, initiating their understanding and bringing by the power of the Holy Spirit to repentance and faith in Christ. And then afterwards they get baptized and then they're discipled. We call it being discipled. It's found in verse 20, teaching them to observe all things. So that really the great commission for many of the ladies who have children begins in your home, raising your children to obey the commands of God. And notice at the end of this the great promise that the Lord gives. He says, And lo, I am with you always, and that's awesome that you're never alone. No matter where you go, you can't go anywhere where God isn't with you If you're fallen. But not only that, even unto the end of the world means the end of the ages, it's the Greek word Aeon, to the end of time. Till so when is the Great Commission t to be repealed? It's not just given to these disciples that they did it in their lifetime and then it was over with. Actually, it's carried on by God's churches all through the present time until he returns. And then we say amen at the end of that. And this is the way that Matthew presented it. Now, compare that if you'll go to chapter 16 of Mark and make a comparison here. Mark is a man of action. He is the nephew of Barnabas, and he is used of God to record the shortest of the Gospels. And uh we have the words that he put it in verse number 15, and uh verse, yeah, verse 15 is the basic idea, verse 6, chapter 16, verse 15. And he said unto them And here is the man of action. Go ye therefore into all the world, go ye then to all the world and preach the gospel to every creature So it's shortened, it's concise, he's a man of action. There are more action verbs in Mark comparatively, and he says, go get the job done Really it's uh to every creature. So we can't preach to the wrong person. Everyone needs the gospel. Now Luke is where we're interested. Go to chapter twenty-four of Luke and Let me explain that it we believe that what we have here is the very words of God inerrantly translated, kept and and uh and preserved and And it's inspiration for us so that you can say this is God's word. Amen. So say amen. If you're at home, say amen. We believe that. I can't hear you, but I hope you did. So But uh one of the marvelous things about inspiration is that God did not ignore the the author. In fact is he created him He developed him. He gave him his particular background and his mind. Well, like I said, Matthew was a tax collector and Mark is a i is a man of action. And uh and Luke joins us, and he's the only, in the New Testament, maybe in the entire Bible, he's the only Gentile author of Scripture. And it's an amazing thing. He joins probably from Philippi if you watch what happens because he's the also the author of the book of Acts. That you get to chapter 16 of Acts and before that it's what Paul and Barnabas, Paul and Silas, this is what they did. And then you get to Acts 16, and this is what we did. It becomes involved in the author as well and then at some point he leaves again and Luke becomes a as a physician he's a doctor and he joins the missionary trail of the Apostle Paul. And can you imagine how awesome that is that God would prepare a medical doctor to go with a man who was beaten so many times and stoned to death and this was his companion At the end of his life in 2 Timothy chapter 4, it tells us there, only Luke is with me. And so God maintains that relationship through the life of the apostle recording the scripture, but he also uses Luke to record scripture. Now there's a controversy about who the author of Hebrews is, and I believe it's Paul the Apostle, but if uh Paul did not write the book of Hebrews If you add up the number of words that are written in the book of Luke and Acts, and then you add up all of the words that Paul recorded in everything but Hebrews, Luke actually supersedes him as the most prolific author of the New Testament. to be used of God in this particular way. And so if Paul wrote Hebrews, then of course Paul has written more of the New Testament. It's a very interesting study. But what's even more interesting is that in the book of Luke and in Acts, combine those two together, there are over two hundred words that are used by this apostle, this man Luke, the author of Scripture, and that are strictly medical terminology. So God uses this man's background in the scriptures to produce the very words of God. For example, in the first chapter of Luke, it says the word eyewitness and the Greek word for that is the word autoptase which is where we get our word autopsy. It was a medical examination. And he uses that word. Another word is found in Luke chapter number sixteen, where he says, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed. And he uses a Greek word chasma, which was used as the description of the t the the distance in an open source between one skin cell over here and the greatest distance over there. Isn't that really interesting? It's kind of gross. But anyway, uh it is it is uh all medical terminal now there's a reason I'm saying this. I want to point out how Luke uses this word And if you go down to the Great Commission, written by Luke in chapter 24, verse number 47 and 48, this is how he puts the Great Commission, and that repentance and remission of sin. sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. Now the interesting word there is that word in verse 48, the word witnesses. It is the plural of the word martus, where we get our word martyr from. And it means testimony. The martyrs were that word became to describe those that gave their life for the cause of the gospel or for any cause. But the idea is that they kept their testimony without recanting. all the way to the end of their life at the cost of their life. And they call those people martyrs. So whatever for whatever cause, but specifically here, we are called upon to witness of the gospel, to Now, if you're following along, you can go to John in John chapter 20. You find in verse 21 the way that this apostle the beloved apostle, how he recorded it in verse number uh 21, and Jesus said unto them, this is chapter 20, verse 21 twenty one Peace be unto you as my Father sent me, hath sent me, even so send I you. So you this is interesting, we don't have time to go into it, but how the How God the Father sent the Son, which goes back to Isaiah's account where he has said that I am the Jehovah, I am the Savior, and beside me there is no another. And then in 1 John, where it says that Jesus was sent to be the Savior of the world. And so as Jesus is sent and commissioned, So God has, by nature of this verse, sent us to the world. You compare that to Romans chapter 14. How shall they preach unless they be sent? And the answer is rhetorical. You've already been sent. God has already commissioned you. But anyway, there's more to be said about that, but turn over to Acts chapter 1. And you get into the last time we see the Great Commission. And again we have the author here, Luke, using the same terminology in verse number 8, but ye shall receive power Now that word is dynamis. This is interesting. Verse 7, the last word is power, and that's exusia. So one is authority and one is explosive power Where we get the word dynamite. But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses. There we have that word again, Martu. Plural of that word, witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. So he's actually mapping out A direction that we start right here in Hunt Valley and we go out to the surrounding communities and whatever they be and maybe into the county and then out to the state and yes, all the way to the uttermost part of the world. And that's really where missions comes in. Go back to chapter ten. And later as you read the book of Acts, maybe this year You can maybe record the times you see the word witness or witnesses and you realize that the rest of the books of Acts Is the record of their day and the fulfillment of chapter 1 and verse number 8. The Great Commission was a serious work for the New Testament believers. And Luke records it. He uses that word. Martus. He says, this is what we are. Now look at how he treated Acts chapter number 10. He was still working at that. And Peter is preaching in verse number 39. Go to verse 39. You'll see, and we are, here it is again, witnesses of these things, all things which he did In verse 39. Look at verse 41. And you'll find it says, not unto all, not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God. So you talk about his resurrection appearances. And he says, we are witnesses, we are martues, we are testifiers of this event. And then in verse forty-three, the prophets are called witness. To him give all the prophets witness. Certainly they are testifying of what they saw, the visions of God recorded in the Old Testament. And the way that Jesus fulfilled them in a literal fulfillment every time, not figuratively, gives us the understanding of how all the rest of the Bible should be interpreted But it's important to understand that what we're dealing with in this chapter is the fulfillment of the Great Commission, so that all witnessing. is the fulfillment of the Great Commission. So we as missionaries, one time we went to Belize, so we went to a foreign country, yes, fulfilling the Great Commission. But then we also went and started a church, as you would say, in a foreign state. in a state of confusion sometimes, but it was the state of Idaho and fulfilling the Great Commission. And uh now we go to Chicago to a large, massive group of people. and uh trying as we see it to see what God will do, because we cannot do it, but fulfilling the Great Commission. But it also means that every time you pick up a gospel track Every time you come on visitation, every time you pick up the phone or send an email to a friend to encourage them concerning their soul or church attendance to hear the message of salvation. You are doing the work of the Great Commission, and it should never be ignored. Now, we get finally to an outline here, and we go back to the beginning of chapter 10. And we're going to begin here with this first point, Cornelius' prayer. I thought, brother, that I could preach forever, because they're all comfortable Right. I mean we could have like a two hour preaching. Uh the people in here are stuck. They're here. Anyway, uh we uh we won't do that, but uh I I I know that's a long introduction. We get here to Cornelius' prayer, and it's an interesting thing that's happening here. You see, chapter 10 is the beginning of, it's the first of the Gentile people to come directly to Jesus Christ. Now I've heard people ask questions like, hey, you know, in In Acts chapter 2, at Pentecost, there were thirteen or sixteen different nationalities or languages that were represented there. Yes, but they appear to be all of the dispersed Jews that came back for the feast of Pentecost. And so when it talks about Arabians and and and all the different nationalities that I don't remember, they're all speaking about Jewish people. And Jews that got saved, then it was added to the church that already existed, added 3,000 souls on that one day among those various language groups. In chapter 8, we have the record of Ethiopian eunuch getting saved. And then he's baptized by Philip. And people have said, well, that wasn't he a Gentile. He was ethnically But we believe he was a proselyte. So a proselyte was a non ethnic Jew who had converted to Judaism And then Philip runs into this Ethiopian who had come to worship, reading the Old Testament, looking and, you know, as God would have it in his providence, reading Isaiah 53. And he says, Do you understand? And he said, How can I? And some man explain it. And he joins him in the chariot. They ride together. He explains to him about salvation. But he's talking to a In an Ethiopian who had converted to Jewish faith. And we call it a proselyte, like Ruth the Moabitus. Others would be proselyte Jews. But here is a man That had no connection to the Jewish faith. He's just a Roman. colonies, but apparently he's involved in the Italian band, and uh he is a leader among these people, but he appears to be a very sincere man, and he's actually crying out to God. Now, this is interesting because he is in verse number two called a devout man and one that feared God, and here's two things that he does. He is giving alms and he's praying And the Bible says that God saw that. Now, the Bible does not say that that's what saved him. He's not yet saved. You can't get saved by giving money. And giving of alms is different than tithe in a technical sense, that alms giving represented those that would take up their own money and give it directly to somebody in need uh uh not giving it to the temple. The tithe at their time would have gone to the temple and later to the local churches. But he's just giving to other people, very giving, generous man, and he's praying, and the Lord says, I see it. And um, you know, I remember when I was younger, I remember hearing preaching, well, the only prayer that God will hear of an unsaved person is the prayer of repentance. And that makes for good preaching, but the fact is that God heard his prayer and he's not yet saved. So God, on occasion, hears the prayers of unsaved people. And I think that's great because the Bible says that God is a God of mercy, and he's a God of love, and he's a God who hears. And he oftentimes hears the prayers of others. And I'll tell you there's promises in the Bible about God answering the prayers of his own people. And uh I was thinking about this and you know where we lived in Indiana, right next to us were one family that was on staff and Debbie's sister uh The Damrins lived in the nut next house and so I'd come home from work and any given day I could have some of the Armakost kids and some of the Damron kids over the house and And uh, you know, we might have uh with my three we might have t uh nine, ten kids in the house. And if they were there, I'd come in and Debbie would be in there pulling hot dogs out or finding something for them to eat and uh we would feed them. Uh there's a difference though. I would feed anybody that wants to be fed in our house, and but when it comes down to it, I am only obligated to care for the ones who are mine And in the same way, God can hear the prayers of unsaved people, but he's not obligated himself like he has to his own The promises of God concerning prayer, we call them superlative promises. They're awesome. God promises to do whatsoever in so many different passages of Scripture. But he promises that to his own, but he on occasion hears the prayers of people that are crying out to him. And I believe that God will do that. He will hear the prayers. He is a God who sees those that seek after him. If your heart is not if you're not saved, come and seek after God. Cry out to Him. He will hear your prayers, and He might do something like send a soul winner by your way. I've witnessed that in uh Belize. I remember uh when the Lord called me to preach or called me to sorry to go to Belize and uh where I was and what I was doing, I was it was a second Week of um April of uh 2009. And we didn't get to Belize until February of 2012. But one of the first people that got saved in Belize, she told us the story. She had had a stroke and uh she told us that when she had the stroke she was living in California, kinda living the dream. She was And she said that on the second week of April, and of course I was thinking about that week. That was the week the Lord spoke to me. But she had this massive stroke. She lost her ability to work. It was what sent her to Belize. But not just that, it sent her to bed where she only could lie in bed for about eleven months And during that time she said, unsaved, she cried out to God, simple prayer, God, help me God help me. And the Lord heard her prayer and in my heart sent us to Belize at the very same time that she was suffering and started that journey and she became one of the first streets that we went down and knocked on her door and I'll tell you she came to that grand opening and she was one of the first people to walk the aisle and she was the very first person we baptized. She said, if I can get in there dragging her left foot and without the use of her left arm, she said, anybody can do that. A witness to being saved. See, God hears those prayers. And he sent an angel. The angel said, Hey, go down to this town and you find uh Peter the apostle and he's gonna come up and he's gonna preach and and so The next point here is Cornelians' performance. Look at what he does. In verse number seven, we notice that The action that he took in verse number 7, and when the angel was which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them waited on continually And he declared these things and all these things and he sent them to Japan. I mean they sent right away. He didn't he didn't wait any time. He didn't say, hey, come on in, let's wait a few days. Let's chew on this for a few weeks. Let's kind of think about it for a while. He immediately, we find that word immediately in verse number 33. If you'll go there, it says he's telling uh telling Cornelius is telling Peter how this all came out on his side. In verse 33, he says, immediately therefore I sent to thee. So right away, without waiting, he says, I have done what I was supposed to do. So he did it immediately, and he did it completely. I mean you look at what he did in verse number 33, and it is a really interesting passage. He says, and thou hast well done that thou art come. So it's like he's applauding the soul winner. I wish that happened when I went to a door and knock on a door and somebody'd open up and say, I'm so glad that you're here. Right? Normally we hear other responses and various things are said. But uh in this case Cornelius rejoiced. But notice the rest of the verse. He said, Now therefore we all we are we all here present before God. So he said, uh all of us are here. Meaning he filled his house. I mean he apparently was a leader among the soldiers, one of the military leaders. He brings and he fills his house up and He, whatever the capacity of the house, he says, we're all here to hear words of thee from God, commandments of God. And so Cornelius, he did what he was supposed to do. Later in the chapter, it's going to record that the Holy Spirit comes on him in a way to demonstrate from the sign gifts that this is authentically God saving the Gentiles. My last point is Peter's preaching. Peter's preaching. And I'll tie this up and put it all together here in just a moment. But we find Peter coming and he preaches to them. And he emphasizes God's word. In verse 33, we read they wanted to hear all things that are commanded. Verse 34, he said, he opened his mouth. And he said, of a truth, I perceive that God is no respecter of persons. Verse number 36, the word which God sent unto the children of Israel. So he's emphasizing God's words. Okay? And uh Peter is faithful in his preaching. But Peter had to overcome some things In the text we find several things that he had to overcome in order to accomplish this. And first of all, If you go back in the chapter, you find him in verse number 9 that he went up on the housetop at the sixth hour. That means lunchtime. They started their reckoning at six. What we have is 6 a. m. And uh they would go down. So the sixth hour was 12 o'clock noon. And so he started to get hungry. Now notice what it says in verse 10, and he would have eaten, but while they made ready. So whatever his circumstances were, living in Joppa in the house of Simon the Tanner, a man who would tan hides, and so it was a place that part of the house was unclean and part of it uh was ceremonial unclean and then it probably stink real bad. And uh there he's there. But whatever the case is, he had some relative comforts in that other people were caring for his food. Maybe it was his wife. Unlike what the Catholic Church says he was the first Pope, but Peter was married. Jesus healed his mother-in-law, and I don't know what happened to you when I got married, I got a mother-in-law. Praise the Lord. Amen. I have a mother-in-law. Praise God. But apparently Peter was married and he had a mother-in-law. She got healed by the Lord Jesus. Maybe it was his wife. making lunch. So in order to go up to Caesarea by the sea, Peter was then going to have to leave his comfort He was going to have to get out of where he had people serving him, and to make a journey, he had to fulfill the Great Commission where it says, go ye farefore. And if you're going to serve the Lord, if you're going to get the Great Commission done, you've got to be active. You can't be passive. You can't say, well, I want my comforts. I want my Saturdays to take care of my lawn. It's not doing you a lot of good today. But you're thinking about all these things that we want to accomplish, but if you're going to do something for God and fulfill the great commission that God has given you, you've got to come out of your comforts. The second thing he had to overcome is found in verse number uh 17. Look at verse 17. Now, while Peter doubted in himself, Have you ever doubted when you go out soul winning and you're saying, I don't know what I'm gonna say? Or maybe you're ready to take a step like, hey, God's called me to believe? You say, how did you know you're called to believe? Just in prayer. Just God telling me in prayer, just that still small voice, speaking to my heart, and then we risk everything. We sell the house and and put everything on the line and go out there to start a church and we don't even know really what's going to happen And I have done that now. This is the third time that in prayer God is leading. And you say, Man, do you have doubts? Hey, doubts, I'm a doubting Thomas. Say, I don't think God will bless me. I think I will fail. And maybe I could, and maybe I'm certain that I could. But I'm going to tell you, God cannot fail his callings. And so notice what Jesus tells him. The Spirit speaks to Peter in verse 19. While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee. Arise therefore, get thee down, and go with them, and stop your doubting. Doubting nothing, for I have sent them. You are sent to go tell the gospel to your friends, to your relatives, to your neighbors, and to the people around in some kind of ministry capacity. God has already sent you. We've read it over and over and over again. So we need to stop doubting on our inabilities and trust in God that wants the job to be finished. He also had to overcome the disagreement. Man, you get up to do something for God with your life, there are going to be people that disagree. I remember when I went to Belize, I called to a pastor, said this man I know was a missionary in Belize. I talked to him on the phone and he spent 15 minutes arguing with me. It cannot be God's will for you to take your family to Belize. And uh people are going to disagree with you. I went to Pocatello and I called another pastor in a town right next to it, and the pastor started yelling and screaming at me about how I should never go down to Pocatello to start a church He was afraid I was going to take his people from his church. And uh so anytime you get up to go and serve the Lord People are going to disagree, and if you read the next chapter in chapter eleven, and we're not going to go into that, but it the whole next chapter, what Peter is doing here by going into the house of a Gentile and then telling him about salvation. starts one of the greatest controversies in the church in Jerusalem. They blow up at him and he has to go there and give account and he has to repeat the story. What I've called clean, call that now common, call not now common. What God had told him over and over and over again. You get up to serve the Lord, somebody's gonna not like it. And it's because there's such a devil in this world And he hates the Great Commission. He hates the work of God. He hates the church. He hates preachers. He hates so winners. And he hates if you're going to stand for him. But God wants this. God wants this to be done. He has commissioned us. Now, I want to wrap this all up if I can. Make it very personal at the end in this conclusion. But I have a question for you. If you go down to verse number, let's say verse number four, and when he looked on him, he was afraid, he saw this angel. And the angel says, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial. His prayers didn't save him, but they came for memorial. So I have a question for all of us here and for those that are watching on If you could just think it for a moment, wouldn't it have been easier if that angel just had a gospel track in his pocket? And handed it to Cornelius at that time? I mean, why didn't the angel just come with the message of the gospel? He could have said, uh now Cornelius, there's four things that you need to know. You need to know you're a sinner and you need to know that Jesus came through To die for your sins, if there's a penalty for your sins. Why didn't he just do the job? And the answer is pretty simple to understand, but it's related to that word. The word martus. There's something very important that makes this whole operation very personal, and the responsibility is not even put upon the angels, but upon us that are saved. I trust that some of you have had the unf uh unpleasant experience of going and testifying in a courtroom Has anybody here ever had to go and testify? Yeah, you're sworn in and you go up in that little box and you know, I grew up in a cop's home and my dad when he wasn't at work he was in court and he would talk to me about what he did. And uh then later I was uh involved in a custody battle helping some people had to go to court testify. And you know, when you're sitting in that booth, you're trying to be careful about everything you say. And then they ask you a question like, uh tell me the story of what happened. And you know what we have a habit of doing in life when we're telling a story? We tell what we saw. And then when when we need to, we fill in the story with things that we did not observe in order to make the story make sense. But if you do that when you're on that kind of stand, a witness stand, and you're talking about things that you have seen, and then you start talking about things that you add to the story, they start going nuts, the opposing counsel. We weren't even in a big room when I did it and I I was like, come on guy. I mean we're we can all hear you. I mean he just objection I mean, come on. And uh it was really something. It's kind of there to rattle you, I think, more than anything. And uh but they're but they're actually right. What you're there for is to tell of what you have seen, not what you suppose, what you have seen. And so you are there called to a to testify in a witness stand. They use the same language. And what we read in the Bible is like in 1 Peter 1, verse 12, after a verse that speaks about the redemption of Jesus, redeeming the lost souls, at the end of it he says this, which things The angels desire to look into. But they are not witnesses. Why? Well, in a basic way, they've never ever known what it's like to be a sinner. To read the Word of God or have it explained that there's a penalty for that sin and to feel the guilt of that sin weighing upon us to the point where it's going to take us down into hell and to watch the desperation of our hearts as we realize in in this despair that there's no answer. I can't even be good enough. I can never change my condition. I'm condemned I'm already condemned according to the scriptures, and there's nothing I can do about it. And the angels don't know what that's like. They also don't know what it's like to In the middle of that despair to hear the gospel message, and know that our Savior, who went to Gethsemane's garden and shed that great drops of blood and that he spilled his blood on Calvary and he absorbed all of that torture and and all of the things that the sinners did to him. And all of that went on in Gabbatha uh in the courtroom and then up unto Golgotha and he was hung there on the cross in nakedness and shame. And we as sinners realize the love of Jesus. And we realize that our sins have hoped to be taken away. We look to Jesus in faith and we repent and we say, Lord, I believe. Please come into my heart and save me. And then all the guilt of sin, the sin is gone. It's guilt is gone. The presence of that sin is gone. When God looks at us, he sees the righteousness of God. And we are free. And we are free from the penalty of sin. We are free from the power of sin. Hey, one day we're going to be free from the presence. of sin. Now listen to me. The angels don't know what that's like. But if you know Then you can be a witness. You don't need to be done with the the the the the uh classes on soul winning to be a winner of souls You don't even have to go to Bible college to be a good soul winner. You don't even have to finish the discipleship program. I'm telling you this. We find in scripture People like the woman at the well, who once she understood who Jesus was, he said, I that speak unto thee am He. And she believed in him. And she left her water pot and ran into the city and said to the man, Come, see a man that told me all things ever I did. Is this not the Christ? She didn't go get even time to get baptized To be a witness, to fulfill the Great Commission. You just need to experience salvation for yourself. And once you have, the responsibility is placed on you so that even the angels won't do our job. Even all of the heaven's hosts who sing together holy, holy, holy, cannot and will not do what the Lord has commissioned us to do. To go right here and to win the people to Jesus and to send people like sending Debbie and I where we're not able to go from right here. But you can send people to give and to go. See, if you're going to be the proper martuse, you're going to be committed to fulfilling God's great commission. And it involves telling what happened to you. So are you saved? Are you saved? Do you know that if you died, you've experienced this transformation through the redemption of Christ? You know that you're going to heaven. If you're watching today and you don't know Jesus, I I know we can't really give an invitation of such Like we would if you were here. But we want you as soon as you can to get on the phone and to call your pastor to talk to him about how your soul needs to experience this. But then I asked the Christian, are you being the proper Martus? Are you witnessing? Serious, are you telling others in fulfillment of God's great commission? Something that He has commissioned us, He sent us, He He He obligated us. And will not use the angels to do, and cannot. You say, Pastor, I'm busy for the Lord. The question is: are you doing everything that the Holy Spirit wants you to do? For God's Great Commission. There's a song that is, I don't think it's in your songbook. These are my favorite songbooks. I know that one But a song goes like this: there is singing up in heaven, such as we have never known, where the angels sing the praises of the Lamb upon the throne. Their sweet harps are ever tuneful, and their voices always clear. Oh, that we might be more like them while we serve the Master here The chorus says this, holy, holy is what the angels sing. And I expect to help them make the courts of heaven ring. But when I sing redemption story, They will fold their wings. For angels never felt the joys that our salvation brings. Are you the right kind of witness for the Lord? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that if there are those listening today that are not saved, that you have touched their hearts, make them realize that there's nothing There's nothing that can substitute a real salvation experience, and that one day we will stand before you in judgment. And Lord, those that are not saved will forever be lost. I pray, Lord, that if there are some like that, that they would be moved today, this morning. To call the soul winner, call the pastor, pastor's wife. Maybe one of the kids at the church needs to talk to their parents. And this would be the day of their salvation And Lord, I pray that you'd also touch Christians, that you'd convict us about our negligence, about our slothfulness. Lord, about our seriousness. We have a lack of seriousness concerning the Great Commission. And please help us to make the corrections. Be willing in our hearts. Say, Lord, whatever you want us to do. Please bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen, Pastor, if you'll come