And uh so really important. Well I wanted to find a a word here for us, and that's the word life change. Counseling for life change. You know there's a lot of counseling that happens. There's even a lot of Christian counseling that happens. That doesn't yield much change. I have people tell me all the time how many counseling sessions and counseling experiences they've had and they've walked away, none the better. Uh sometimes uh perhaps the biggest impact they felt is uh less money in their pocketbook and sometimes exaggerated health issues or spiritual issues or emotional issues And uh one thing I'm grateful is God's led us to start a ministry that doesn't charge a dime to help people. We never want money to stand in the way The other thing is I realize sometimes uh if we're charging by the hour, I can't get everything done in one hour's time, and that person is watching the clock while I'm watching their soul And uh sometimes there are things that just take some time, and that's been true for me. And so I just find when people are helpful, people give, and most importantly The biggest gift that's ever given is a changed life where they can turn around and help somebody else. And that's what we want to see God do so many times over. But I want to just define life change because this is what I'm uh not after and this slide captures what we are after. When we talk about life change, we're not talking about simply behavior modification. We can lead a person to new commitments and new resolutions that produces nothing of a lasting impact in their life. So behavior modification is important. But if we have behavior modification without heart change, nothing's changed. Uh we also aren't uh uh looking for new coping mechanisms to function You know, the a lot of people are navigating a lot of issues and they turn to a lot of different things and there are very unrespectable coping mechanisms. We might call it alcohol or drugs or pornography or or something else of that nature. But you know there's a lot of acceptable uh coping mechanisms. I'm amazed how many people are uh addicted to Facebook or addicted to social media, it's where their life revolves. It's what it's the roller coaster that their life acceptance rides on. How many people like them and how How many people respond to something they posted? There's a lot of different coping mechanisms. Sometimes our coping mechanism is spending money. Uh sometimes it's eating, you know, and it's not that these things are necessarily wrong but taken out of proportion, uh it can be the way we're coping with something. So when we're looking at at the life change, we're not leading people to exchange one coping mechanism for another. God's not called us to cope with life. He's called us to resolve the past so that he can redeem our future. And that's a big deal. He's also, as we talk about life change, we're not talking about acceptance-driven performance. That's a big deal. Many folks are uh can sometimes approach change in their life as a a list of uh things to do or not to do or certain disciplines where the primary motivation in keeping that list is is to somehow gain some kind of favor or merit some blessing with God. And by the way, God does reward a life wholly yielded to him. God doesn't take your surrender lightly. He doesn't leave your obedience unrewarded. That's a good thing for all of us to be encouraged by, something to be reminded about. But I'm grateful that the obedience God's calling me to is not to earn something from Him because I'm already accepted in the beloved. My obedience is simply the way I get to say thank you every day for what I've already received and who I already belong to. And then when we talk about life change, we're not talking about religious compensation. Sometimes if we're not careful, we can encourage people to find a way to navigate all the issues that they deal with internally and just Just encourage them to just get busy serving in some ministry and doing this or doing that for God. Some people just naturally try to find a place to serve in their community, whether it be charity service or social work or something like that. And by the way, I'd want to be quick to say the moment we can get an others focus, it's amazing how much it helps our own soul. I think sometimes the enemy gets us so fixated on ourselves that it paralyzes us from being able to invest and seek and meet the needs of others, and there's something to be said for that. But I do also realize that it's possible to serve, serve, serve, serve, serve that in a way that's trying to compensate for gnawing unresolved issues where service by itself doesn't solve anything. And sometimes in fact with unresolved issues, serve, serve, serve approach to life can lead to burnout very fast and in time make the most faithful server come to hate God, the Bible, and church. And so that's where I'm always concerned that I can help lead a person meaningfully to lasting resolution in their lives. So that they come to uh know God in in a deeper way and their life becomes a living demonstration of gratitude and their service for Him. So when we are talking about life change, I like to define it this way The supernatural transformation. It's not the reformation, but the transformation of my mind, my will, and emotions into the image of Christ as I live in the Word and walk in the Spirit. And my brother preaching this morning just reminded us of that, the twofold importance of living in the Word and walking in the Spirit. That's a powerful duo and so key to a life that's transformed. Quartrus that can really define our counseling model are these. And I mentioned these on Thursday. I just review these for us. Number one, freedom is available. Jesus is the answer. The Bible is sufficient. You are not a victim. Grace is abundant. Victory is a choice. The Spirit is the power. And the rewards are eternal. Has there ever been a day in your life you regretted obedience to Jesus? None of us have one of those days in our history That we regretted saying yes to Jesus. You know when I face temptations, whether it's to worry or to get discouraged about something or some other temptation. I love to remind myself, Ron, right now, remember this. You'll never regret walking in obedience to Jesus. Do you know how golden no regret is? It's an incredible thing. If nothing else goes right in your life, but you have a life of zero regret, that's a big deal. That's uh that's golden. And uh you know I'm so grateful too, because all of us are imperfect, all of us have at least one regret in life, usually a few more than that. I'm glad that God majors in redeeming regret working redemptively as we talk his language about those issues. And so these core truths really provide the framework on which our counseling ministry hangs And uh also just uh what we want to communicate uh as uh folks come in that we can be a help to. This morning in the Sunday school hour it took us to Psalm 139 And when I open up a counseling intensive, three days of counseling, I always start each morning off with a devotional because I want God to be the first one to speak to us, not to the individual coming in. with their crises. And so usually I start off with Psalm 139. Almost inevitably the devotional I gave you, I give them And it is amazing before I even know why they've come, usually because of a phone conversation before they showed up. I have a little thumbnail sketch of what brings us to the table. But uh inevitably God uses that 45 minutes opener from the Word to just break so many barriers and open their heart to God and decide And uh prepare the way for God to do a work of miracles in that day and over each day. And then the following couple days, if I'm doing a three-day intensive, which is mostly what I do, I start every morning that way because I want the Word to be the first to speak to us. In a couple additional mornings, I try to pick a devotional customized to the need. that's there at hand. And I want God to just work in their lives. I want to inspire people closer to the Bible because of their time. If all they've done is sat down to talk with me and me to be a sounding board for their problems, I will not be able to have taken them far enough. But if I can point them meaningfully to the Bible where the book that at least they have some respect for now uh has relevance to their lives. It always does, but sometimes people don't see that connection or its relevance If I can help them to see that, wow, I've just helped them to discover the place they can constantly go to find lasting answers. in their life. So I just want to encourage us that way. I want to draw our attention in these moments that we have to the ministry of hope in a world of pain. The ministry of hope in a world of pain. You know, pain comes in a lot of different ways, and I have captured just a few of them here. I apologize for the size here on the screen, but hopefully most of us And uh have sharp enough eyes, we can read these. I'll draw your attention to these. Do you know sometimes uh some of the s some of the things that hurt the worst is not uh Did you know silence can sometimes kill worse than words, or worse than anger? Now anger Yeah, and its volcanic explosion can do tremendous damage, but sometimes folks can walk away counting themselves rather virtuous that they didn't say a word, all the while their silence was like Like uh he just slaughtered. It was it was uh so filled the atmosphere, it did a destructive work. Silence Is uh so uh one of the manifestations in a world of pain. Uh manipulation, betrayal for sure, rejection. Uh conflict is an incredible means Satan often uses to wield so much fame. Sometimes that conflict even carries on such implications as abuse and By abuse, I'm talking about uh sexual abuse. I'm talking about physical abuse and verbal abuse. I uh come to realize perhaps the worst kind of abuse is spiritual abuse. And spiritual abuse is often coupled uh with uh sexual abuse. And that's not always the case, but I cannot tell you how often those two come hand in hand and usually the one uh is so cloaked you don't even realize it until fast come out later. Abuse is powerful in its impact uh on uh the uh uh on lives and is a huge uh cause of a world of pain. Uh divorce creates a lot of pain, and I know many have walked that road and God wants to work with Redemptively. Our ministry is always dedicated to preserving the sanctity of marriage and helping to cast a vision of how God wants to use each of us, especially in a very difficult relationship, to be the sanctifying influence, to be salt and light where it counts the most, sometimes to be salt and light where it hurts the most. And I'll tell you what, God is, I'm so glad for the long suffering of God and my And sometimes God's called you or the person you're mentoring right to the home where they find themselves in uh to be God with skin on to everyone in that They need a vision for that because our world is even our Christian world is looking for every excuse to run AWOL from a situation That's not that hurts so badly, and I completely understand that. We don't want to be insensitive to that need. We want to be very sensitive because it hurts. It's excruciating walking a road of pain Where we're faced with that every day, but God does want to work redemptively in those situations. World of pain can show up in the form of chronic sickness. You know, sometimes there are individuals who carry real physical issues that are a part of their life every day. And I'll tell you what, pain has a way, physical pain has a way of arresting your attention. It can derail your sanctification if you're not careful. It's amazing how those who deal with chronic pain or those Those who deal with terminal illnesses are walking through a furnace that really tests faith, like for you things do You know, physical pain's a big deal, emotional pain's a big deal, and all of these can be their own furnace that brings us uh face to face with the knee, our knee need for a wonderful counselor, the Lord Jesus. You know, sometimes that life is marked by trials and losses. And sometimes it's not because we've made the wrong turn in life. You know, Job was an incredibly righteous man, and yet God favored him, God gifted him with trials. And I love what Peter said, that the trial of your faith is much more precious than gold that perishes. I love the fact, I remind myself often, that my life is only as rich as the pain with which God gifts me. Back in 2019, I was just at the time we were getting precious stones off the ground, I was needing uh to also work another job to help facilitate uh life and and uh was not yet at that point able to work full time for from precious Stones. And so I was working for a Christian company. And while I was there, after three and a half years, I ended up ended up having a work accident where several hundred pounds of steel fell off of an industrial rack and an instantly knocked me unconscious. Uh my leg was broken, my spine was damaged, and I spent the next three months in a neck brace and a couple surgeries trying to be able to walk again and try It's a miracle that I'm not a paraplegic and I should have been killed by all of that. But it's amazing as God led me through a journey that doesn't compare to so many of the journeys of the lives of people I have. the privilege to touch that particular experience over that year in 2019 taught me so many lessons uh And you know what's necessary in the arena of healing for physical pain hardly compares to the journey that's necessary for healing with emotional And I'll tell you what, God used that experience in my life to, in a wonderful way, give me a new vision To come alongside with greater compassion for people God brings across our path. And sometimes there are people that uh that wear their pain actually quite well. And then the world of pain, you know, sometimes that comes by way of the death of someone, the death of a loved one. Sometimes the things that That hurt the worst are someone who ended their own life through suicide and now the the carnage that that leaves and so many things that stand unresolved because of that can some sometimes continue to bleed long after that loved one is gone. It can just simply be God choosing to take a loved one in his perfect providence earlier than we expected or under circumstances we didn't anticipate. And so all of these just punctuate different ways. Pain has a way of entering into our lives. And I think that perspective gives us an understanding. of what God wants to do redemptively. You know, I wish I could r uh erase pain right out of the script of my life. I know that's the case for so many others. I wish I could grab the pen out of God's hand as he's writing. thinking a lot and I think there's a lot of truth to that and uh great encouragement. All right, well here's uh a girl she's trying to ask the question what's my problem I work with a lot of men and they're asking the same question. And I have here on the on the top level, there's a lot of diagnoses Obsessive compulsive disorder. By the way, I'm looking for the most repeated word in this line. Can you call it out when I get done here? Obsessive compulsive disorder. Multiple personality disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety disorder, dissociative identity disorder, attention deficit disorder, gender dysphoria, eating disorders, narcissism Okay? What's the most repeated word there? Disorder. Now the fact is we are psychological beings And the fact is, uh we can certainly categorize certain behavioral issues into different categories, and that's what the secular world has tried to do, and then they've attached a label to it. But the problem is uh secular psychology kind of approaches uh the human being as simply a body uh with a with uh with a soul. It ignores the reality of our spirit. They would see us just as a as a uh chemistry experiment, okay? Um the where medications balance certain imbalances, chemical imbalances in our being. They would see us as a higher form of animal And uh that approach certainly impacts the way we treat people. And uh unfortunately most when you go to a psychologist or a psychiatrist, they are typically approaching uh your uh uh the resolution of your issue is treating a disorder. And I'm always reminding myself when anyone comes to uh our office I'm never here to treat a disorder. I'm here to reach a person. You know all of these labels have some legitimacy to them. Okay? I'm not going to ignore the legitim legitimacy of what these labels attempt to diagnose. But sometimes we can almost be shocked by a label or be paralyzed by a label Thinking, whoa, I have no idea where to go to help so and so. Do you know then we come to open the Bible and we try to find answers and we're looking for dissociative identity disorder and we never remember finding those words in the And some other disorder. And next thing you know, we feel like maybe science does have an edge on being able to treat people better than the word. Do you know all of these fancy label for a lot of people become the badge that they are proud to wear. It's their way to own a victim mentality. Sometimes there are others that aren't proud to wear that badge, but they feel forced to wear that badge, as this secular community has labeled healthy people to be sick. And so now they feel cursed by some diagnoses. Do you know I love to remind myself That we are image bearers of God. Satan himself is the master vandalizer. And he's done a great job vandalizing us from the inside out. But do you know for everything the enemy's done to vandalize, the Spirit of God majors in redemption. And from the Garden of Eden all the way To J Revelation twenty-two, we're seeing God do a work of redemption that starts from the inside out. He first is here to restore our spirit. That happens by way of justification, salvation in Jesus. And then he wants to work through a process of sanctification to rescue or redeem or save our mind, our will, our emotions. That's a process. It's c the process of growing and changing to be like him. And ultimately, he wants to give us a brand new shell, a new body. Aren't you looking forward to that? And so I'm so glad God decided to do his redemptive work starting from the inside out rather than from the outside in. And uh otherwise uh we'd never make it into heaven if we didn't have a changed heart, right? But uh I have here on the bottom of this, you know, an individual comes asking the question, what in the world is my problem? Depending on who you go to, will determine what kind of answer you get. And I'm reminded as we open the Bible, we find the Bible talked to us in terms of wound. Or woundedness, anger and bitterness, rebellion, guilt, broken trust, pride, selfishness, temporal values, slothfulness Passivity, impurity, and fear, and we could add a few more. And I'll tell you what, the Bible gives us a lot of help and a lot of answers on these subjects. And I'll tell you what, it's amazing that when we can provide help in these arenas, we'll just leave the label alone. If someone has an open open heart just to hear what God has to say and we can now walk through their life and hear their story and meaningfully connect to the issue In their life, they can find freedom in an awesome way, and you're going to discover that you have the power to help individuals way more than the local psychologist. Uh not because of who you are, but because of what your manual is, the Bible, and even more importantly, the Holy Spirit If we only approach biblical counseling by using the Bible like a textbook, we're going to fall woefully short of meaningfully helping people. Because I'm confident that we need the power of the person of the wonderful counselor at work We need him at one that the Holy Spirit at work in the Council Lee's life, and we also need the work of the ministry of the Holy Spirit at the I'm amazed sometimes I can sit down with people and hear their story and think, you know, these are some things I think can be a helpful From the Word. Lord, what's the Next corner we need to turn. This is everything I know. Is there something that you want to bear witness to to give direction for Jesus said to his disciples, when they could not cast the enemy, the devil, unclean spirits out of a boy, Why were we not able to help him? And Jesus said, This kind cometh not out, but by prayer and fasting. And you know, I do believe that for all of us, God's commission to be able to help hurting people God does use that duo in a powerful way to lead people forward to freedom in Christ. And we have to understand the foundation of the word. It's God's word in black and white to us. The Spirit's never going to work around that. Uh so that's our foundation, but the Holy Spirit wants to customize it. He wants to take his word and lead us exactly where we need to go and in a meaningful way touch the life of the one we're here to Well, I want us to put our thinking caps on. I want us to now, I want to do a case study, and we're going to come back and visit this right at the end of our time. And uh I want to just give you a little bit of a uh perspective of uh certainly one approach we use and uh hope it can maybe be an encouragement even in your own life. I'll try to read this for us. Haven. I hope no one's name in the room is named Haven. We got Haven and Arla. Haven is 42 years old. He's been married to Arla for 16 years. By the way, I made this story up. No one I worked with, I made this story up. They regularly attend a Bible preaching church and homeschool their children, but always seem very distant Haven is always angry, accuses Arla of not respecting his leadership. Arla struggles with anxiety over Haven's uncontrollable spending and job instability. Financial debt is over their heads, but Arla has no idea where the money is going. They recently discovered their two teen girls posting inappropriate pictures of themselves online Haven and Arla have confronted their daughters and limited their internet access, but last week their 16-year-old daughter attempted suicide. Haven and Arla are desperately seeking for help. And so we want to be able to meaningfully help them And I want us to hear, I'd love to just hear from you all that are in the room. Those who are viewing online can certainly Uh consider these same questions in your own mind as you watch, but I just wonder here, with this thumbnail sketch What are the issues that you see? And what is the help that is needed? Okay, well we have just enough in this thumbs and nail sketch. That kind of gives us a little bit of a perspective that maybe everyone needs help, okay? Maybe Haven has some issues, maybe Arla has some issues, but what's the issue that brings them to you? Okay. Someone just call it out. What is the issue that brings them to you? Pastor's got it. Sixteen year old daughter just attempted suicide. That's a lie That's enough to wake up any caring parent, isn't it? And so uh what's the best approach to be able to help her? I'm sure there's a lot of right answers. And because Haven and Arla aren't here, we can just talk about them uh without them even being here and we can make some really good guesses. And when we sit down we g it reminds us of the importance of asking some wise questions You know, I first want to remind us that when we when we have a thumbnail sketch, the first thing that should come to your mind is not what are the solutions that I need to provide this situation, but rather what are the questions I should ask to most meaningfully understand the right direction to go. Every counselor, God wants to make us first to the master of good questions, then the master of good advice. Now by the way, if you don't have solid good advice to give, you're no good. Um but it's Important if we're not careful, we can be a little bit like Job's counselors who had all kinds of really good advice. In fact, you can find all kinds of cross-references. in the Bible to what they said. But they misapplied it. They applied good advice to the wrong situation, and God even had some words to say. uh about them. So the first thing I want us to think about is what are some questions you feel would be really helpful To give us some perspective on where we need to go with this dear couple, okay, and their daughter, and uh what do you feel is the most important approach to be able to help them? I promise you Every answer that's given here is a right answer, okay? No wrong answers. We're all going to learn, okay? What's on your mind? Anything anyone at all? Any questions that you feel this would help me That's wonderful. Our sister said ask the girl who tried to commit suicide why? That's a very good thing. Now it could be her response is I have no idea. And you know, don't just walk away and think, well, I guess you know there's no answers there. You know, all of us are a walking w reservoir of thoughts and emotions and feelings, and many times we don't just come to the precipice or drop off of a precipice just out of nowhere. Whole sequence of things that led us to that place. So I love what our sister said. Ask the most important question, why? What else is coming to your mind? What's your relationship with your parents like? That's a really good question. Amen. You know, sometimes young people are bleeding out. And uh and so the way they approach life um is uh then to react in very bizarre ways. And so uh that's gonna be really important. Who's the first person you would want to meet with uh here in this situation. Yes. Wonderful. You know, I think there's a lot of wisdom there Obviously Haven and Arla are the ones coming for help, but I often do have parents. Well I shouldn't say often, I often am actually working with people who are forty years old and above. But every once in a while I get to work with someone who's a teen or or uh just in their twenties. I love catching young people that young. You know, you can save a lot of issues, being able to help issues early. But I um many times when I have parents come, you know, sometimes our mind can immediately run to, well, let me just sit down with them. Let's talk with your young person. But you know what? I've often been reminded that young people issues are often parent issues. And if we can help the parents, we can help our young people in a powerful, powerful way moving forward. Now that's not to evade the impon the responsibility to sit down with their the with their daughter. Because I'm sure there's a lot there that can we can uh see in her life to help her forward. Amen. I'm so glad for that wisdom. Yes. We need to figure out what it may be able to get all that maybe. That's exactly right. That's exactly right. So never assume that the crisis at hand is necessarily the reason, though it very likely is, but give people the chance I love to let people talk as much as I can possibly uh get them to talk because the more they share, the better perspective I have on how to help them. I can remember when I was first starting to counsel I was I would walk in circles anticipating my next appointment. This was when I was in my internship days, just worked over, you know, just beside myself. Thinking I've got to have answers. All I have is a little thumbnail sketch of why they're coming, and so I'm trying to prepare all kinds of answers. You know, what are some solutions based on what I know? And I get down and I sit with them, then I'm a shotgun. You know, here, this is what you need, this is what you need, this is what you need. And I quickly realized that I was completely missing the mark after the fact when his Too late because they had already moved on from the appointment and realized, you know what, we spent all this time and I never connected to the nerve of the issue. And what felt at that time trying to prepare for the counseling session is you know, what is the possible issue and let me build a whole arsenal of solutions. Um I found that to be uh just n it w it would lead me down a road of intense anxiety. And I found that the more I could learn to Now I had a lot of clarity on how to go forward without having Having spent hours just pacing and walking in circles. I will be quick to say though, every one of us prepare best for counseling by immersing ourselves in the Word. You've got to be a walking Bible. And uh not just read it and check it off as Something you've done, but your best preparation for counseling is actually having devotions every day and actually meeting with the Lord and being able to see cause and effect sequences all over the Bible. And I'll tell you what, if you can be a walking reservoir of Bible truth, God's going to put you right in line with people who have a need. And God's going to be able through the person of his spirit to just help you call to your mind exactly what's needed for this situation and it's a wonderful thing Amen. So much we could say, but we're low on time, and so I want to just give us a couple thoughts here, and then I'm going to come back and show us one approach to being able to help Haven and Arla forward. I first want to remind us that we are three-part beings. I I think I'm among friends here, and so when we think about that, I three-part, I'm talking about us have being a spirit uh that contains a control center of mind, will, and emotions. It's our mental health. It's our emotional health. It's our volitional health. And with that, then the shell that carries all of that. And that's our body. And so here I want us to think first from the outside in. When we think about our body, perhaps we're thinking primarily about the members that make our body up. Okay? That's our eyes, our ears, our hands, our every one of our members are very important. Romans 6 says they're so important, depending on who owns them, who whoever has power over them, uh the supernatural can happen through them. And that's why God pleased with us, yield your members. as instruments or weapons of righteousness in the Savior's hand, don't yield them to the enemy. So our physical members are a big deal. Here I've actually uh for this purpose called out uh seven different body systems. And uh you know our body often bleeds out whatever's happening emotionally. Whatever's happening. happening mentally. Whatever is happening by way of the choices that we make. And so there's our cardiovascular system and the endocrine system and the the nervous system and the digestive system and the immune system and respiratory system and musculoskeletal system. These are seven dominant systems. This is not comprehensive of all the systems of our body. But it's a fascinating thing that whatever happens in our spirit ends up having an effect on our mental health and our emotional health. And also influences the choices we make. That would be our volitional health, our mind, will, and emotions. God's given us a thinker, a feeler, and a chooser. And the choices we make or the things that we feel or the things that um or or or the lies that we believe end up having a profound effect on many of these body systems and I want to just illustrate this here I have here this diagram, and uh if we could capture the spirit of our being being the heart of our being Let's imagine a wounded spirit. The Bible says in ro in Proverbs chapter 18, verse 14. If I'm going to paraphrase the first half, if you ever have a broken leg, we figure out how to put up with it and manage and get along. But it says, But who but a wounded spirit who can bear You know, we can put up with a lot physically, and that doesn't mean it's easy. But uh nothing causes us to limp more than a wounded spirit. And left to ourselves, apart from exercising faith, like we heard about this morning, wounds often cause us to build walls, walls of bitterness. And our mind reacts to those wounds, our emotions react to those wounds, and our will reacts to those wounds. That's in the soul part of our being. Our mind often is vulnerable when we're wounded to believing a lot of lies. Lies we believe about God. Lies we now beg begin to believe about other people in our lives. And then lies we even soon own about ourselves. And the hardest thing about a lie is it feels true. That's why it's hard for us to diagnose them or recognize them because lies feel way too true. You know, our will is often affected by a wound where we make internal promises to ourselves or vows to ourselves that become ground rules by which we live life. They may be thinking We've never spoken, maybe we have, but they'll often sound like, boy, no one's ever going to get that close to me ever again. Or I'll always. No one's ever going to dot dot dot Whatever follows the dot dot dot becomes these internal unspoken vows or promises or ground rules. Sometimes we're on a mission to prove ourselves. We're on a mission to protect ourselves. And so internally, almost subconsciously, it becomes the way we make choices in life that are birthed out of this uh wounded spirit. And then our emotions are often also affected. And usually we go out of one of two arenas. Dominantly that's anger or fear, anger or anxiety. And anger taken all the way to its ultimate end will look like depression. It'll paralyze us. Fear taken to its ultimate end can also take us to depression. And so there are other emotions by all means. What I'm simply trying to capture for us is a wounded spirit affects our soul. It affects us mentally, it affects us emotionally, it affects us uh volitionally, and I want to be quick to say that it's not what happens to us that affects the trajectory of our life half as it as much as it is our response to what happens to us that affects the trajectory of our life And so it's so important. I love what my brother shared this morning on faith, where as we exercise faith, even in circumstances with that were outside of our control, it actually reverses of this natural course that happens in so many lives. And so the next realm here are just the way we end up bleeding. um out of unresolved uh wounded spirit issues. And that can start to look like insomnia, rage, paranoia, eating disorders, chronic fatigue. And depression. That's happening internally within us. And then on the outside are often addiction issues Uh perhaps I'm using that word too strongly, but they can look like social media, uh free occupation with social media, they can be a gaming as a coping mechanism, sometimes Sometimes prescription drugs, sometimes pornography, alcohol, shopping. I've just given some examples here. And most times when someone comes for help Sometimes they're coming here for one of these surface excesses or indulgences in their life, trying to really harness or bring some area in their life. right into focus. Sometimes they are somewhat aware of the of the inner layer, particularly chronic fatigue or depression or insomnia that they're dealing with. And uh they they kind of missed the coping mechanism. They've never connected the dots on how they end up coping with what's happening. in that next inner ring. But it's really important as we have the privilege to help people to not just throw the Bible at uh depression or chronic fatigue or eating disorders or a list of things that they can do, though probably some help in those arenas It would be a great important thing. But it's really valuable to understand when their heart got broken. What was it that broke their spirit? Uh what was it? What are the lies that have been birthed out of that arena? What do they believe about God? What do they believe about themselves? What do they believe about others in their life As we understand this diagram, I know it helps me being able to have a pathway forward to help people from the inside out. And so I commend that to us. The Bible says this, the wages of sin is death. That's Romans 6. 23. And so when we give place to envy or guilt or bitterness or fear, they're in the spirit part of our being. It ends up affecting the soul of our being and ultimately bleeds out all kinds of death in the physical aspect of our being. And so it's really, really important. When we think about our spirit, this is the core of your being, where as a believer, the Holy Spirit has united with, come in union with, his spirit has come to reside there. But he doesn't just want to reside there. He wants to fill us. And the degree to which we allow the Spirit of God to fill us is the degree to which we walk in freedom But the Spirit can be present without necessarily having been given the right to have executive power or influence over the choices that we That's why Scripture warns us not to resist the Spirit. Don't quench the Spirit. He's there. He's your best friend. And the spirit part of our being is the place where conscience is. It's also the place where communion happens. uh the the conscience part of our being where God has etched his law into our heart so that we know what is right and wrong. But it's also that communion part of our being where we have um have fellowship, we have relationship, and that can happen on the dark side or the light side. Uh as a believer, happening on the light side in communion with the Spirit of God, but uh we know individuals who've given themselves over to the enemy. And now they ha their spirit is incredibly in tune with the dark world. It's because we are spirit beings. And uh the Holy Spirit is a spirit and Satan and his cohorts are spirits. Now I love this verse in the Bible, Romans 8:2. The law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made us free from the law of sin and death. And when my spirit is filled with faith, love, and obedience, it ends up affecting the choices I make. It affects uh the the the truth I'm able to believe and grasp hold of and now uh set the trajectory for right choices in my life. It affects our emotional health and most importantly brings health to the rest of our our business. Now I'm so glad for doctors and nutritionists and all those that specialize in helping us here in that outer ring. uh the physical arena. I'm glad for those who do have an extra specialty in mental health. I'm also uh always cautious about uh their approach, but there are Christian psychiatrists and Christian psychologists that I think we can learn something from. I remind folks who have come to our ministry, we just major in soul care. We just major in soul care. Your relationship with God your relationship with people. And I just encourage folks, you know, let's just set medicine aside for a moment and let's set uh uh diagnostic labels that have been attached to you for a moment. And let's just let the Spirit of God have freedom to work in your life on areas of emotional health. Areas of the wounded spirit or areas of rebellion and past guilt that have had a plaguing influence in your life. And let's let the Spirit of God just bear with me. And it's wonderful to see God just work a work of awesome healing in the lives of people as had the courage to be able to do that. Deal with soul health. In this particular diagram, I've just outlined from another resource I had come across on how these different body systems are directly uh connected to these unresolved emotional issues And this is actually what doctors in the medical world have identified, 80% of psychosomatic issues they tell us. actually are connected to unresolved emotional issues. And so I think that's empowering for each of us here in the ministry of biblical soul care to realize the opportunity we have To be able to lead people forward in Jesus. I'd like to just introduce us to confessions of American Psychiatry. And if anyone is trying to grab some notes and would like uh slides from this presentation, we can certainly get that to you. I just am going to read a couple of these, but one is by Dr. Tom Insel He was the director of the National Institute of Mental Health from 2002 to 2015, and also the director of Verile's mental health team from 2020 twenty fifteen to twenty seventeen. He said this. He said, I spent thirteen years at the National Institute of Mental Health really pushing on the neuroscience. uh and uh and of uh mental health disorders and when I look back on that I realize that while I think I succeeded at getting lots of really cool papers published by cool scientists at fairly large costs I think twenty billion dollars. I don't think we move the needle in reducing suicide, reducing hospitalizations, improving recovery for tens of millions of people who have mental illness. And then I draw our attention here to this one. Peter Breggan says this, graduate of Harvard, psychiatrist in Ifaca, New York, and other Uh parts of his very colorful career, he says this, the only biochemical imbalances in the brains of people who see psychiatrists are the ones put in there by the psychiatrist We don't have any evidence that any routine psychiatric problem from anxiety to depression, even schizophrenia, has anything to do with a biochemical imbalance. I'm amazed that a doctor is telling me us that from the headwaters of Christian of psychology. Then one more I leave you with here, Dr. Alan Francis. Professor Emeritus and former chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science at Duke University School of Medicine. He says the best way to deal with everyday problems of living is to solve them directly or to wait them out, not to medicalize them with a psychiatric diagnosis or treat them with a pill, prematurely resorting to medication short circuits, the traditional pathways of restorative healings Seeking support from family, friends, and the community, making needed life changes, offloading excessive stress, pursuing hobbies and interests, ex Exercise, rest, distract, distraction, a pay change of pace, overcoming problems on your own normalizes the situation, teaches new skills, and brings you closer to the people who were helpful Taking a pill, however, labels you as different and sick, even if you really aren't. And so I just leave you with those. I know those have just been an encouragement to me. To just realize I have these books on my shelf, as those from the headwaters of psychiatry, certainly give us some perspective from their insider perspective. perspective on uh how how uh useful that approach is being to people. Those at the headwaters of psychiatry say that they measure their benchmark for success is keeping people from from committing suicide, how's that for the top level of success? It's just simply keeping people from killing themselves. And they say that they have a two percent success rate. So it just helps me to realize that the word God's given us touches the soul of our being, and such an encouragement. We just have a couple minutes here, and I want to just leave you with something I don't have the time to unpack, but I want to leave you with a model that I have found profoundly helpful. When Haven and Arla come to me along with their sixteen year old daughter, uh when they come to our ministry, I love to do a life history map where I think Okay. Perfect. Sounds good So in this uh life history map I love to not just ask questions, but I love to get a whiteboard where I've been marking the events, the significant pieces of their life on a m on a on a whiteboard. And so uh uh you know, I can uh and I find by doing this it causes the people there coming for help, in this case Haven, who's really burdened that he doesn't have to take his daughter to uh hospital again in the future, what can I do to possibly uh help her? He is so engaged and now as I'm now focusing in on his life, he doesn't feel like I'm accusing him or pinning him to the wall Instead I'm just trying to map out the pieces of his life. And uh I find folks usually get into it. I mean next thing you know they're almost ready to pull the marker out of my hand and start writing themselves. And I encourage them, you know, there's probably a whole lot more that belongs on this board than what we have the time to do here now. But let me just walk through Havens, okay? We discover, and by the way, I'm just making this up, but I promise you, this is not a far cry from most of the people in our churches today. And so if you feel like this is just off the chart, take some time to just work with a few people and we'll quickly realize we're all in the same boat. The enemy has a way of working the same way. Here we are. He is and I'll I'm going to read it right off of here, okay? So he is adopted at birth. And uh the family that adopted him ended up having a few more children of their own after they adopted him That's uh cueing me off to some huge rejection issues probably that he could be dealing with. I don't want to assume that without talking to him about it But that's certainly a caution flag, a red flag that's coming up, something that can deserve some discussion. Uh we're going to discover too with the fact that he's got four other siblings uh that his uh adopted parents had of their own. He's maybe feeling a little bit second class. I don't fit, and it could just be a lie that he's believing But uh that can often be the case, that can be setting up the trajectory of his life. Uh we have here that he was molested by a friend when he was age six. Uh he struggled with pornography and or came across pornography for the first time in his dad's garage. Um we have uh he says in the first nine years, actually eleven years of his life Thank you so much Pastor Well Wow. In the first eleven years of his life he was unchurched, okay, so it was an unsaved home. Um we have here that those years with his adopted father were marked by name calling and abuse. That's kind of how he Reflected back on those, angry dad, controlling mom. Um he remembers that his adopted parents got a divorce when he was age eleven. At age twelve, his mom ends up remarrying and he's raised by his mom until she remarries, but she remarries at age And uh I can't tell you how often that ends up being the case uh in um in many uh situations. At the age of 15, let's actually jump to the top here. He's really struggling in school quite a bit. And um his teachers ended up advising his mom to go to uh mental health and uh he ended up being put on psych meds and he was started psych meds when he was nine And he's been on psych meds. In fact we find he's on psych meds all the way to H forty two, which is where we're meeting him. Maybe that's been different levels of psychmeds and and uh different intensities, so uh we'll give um consideration for all of that. But that's been kind of uh an ongoing piece of his life. We find here uh that at age fifteen he actually attempted suicide himself. Well that's significant. Um we find at 18 he tried to make something of his life, so he joined the army. I was in the military there for four years, eighteen till twenty-two. And a couple of things happened, one really negative, one really positive. We find that at age nineteen While he was on deployment, he ended up hooking up with a prostitute, something his wife still doesn't know about, but something that uh was really been in his hall of shame, been a nagging issue in his life Age 21, though, while he was in the military, someone introduced him to Christ. Wow, praise the Lord. That was a bright day in his life. Brightest day in his life for the first twenty-one years. That's pretty easy to see. And uh what an incredible thing. What's even more amazing is it had such an impact that he's decided to wrap up his time in the military and go to Bible college, not because he felt like he was called to preach, he just wanted to learn the Bible And so uh Bible college for four years. And uh we find uh while he's at Bible college, he comes across a Christian girl whose uh whose name is uh uh we'll I've mixed up the names. We'll call her Arla. That's consistent with the rest of our story, okay? Arla. But uh she ends up in their dating years right there at the end, they end he ends up getting premarily involved in some degree with her. and uh such that um she ends up mm getting pregnant and so he kind of feels obligated there to to marry her and the first daughter is born. Her first her his first daughter is named Shana. her s his second daughter born a few years later uh is named Carla. And so uh that's their first uh four years, five years of marriage right there He wraps up Bible College and uh they're um moving on. Um let's jump to the top of the screen. We find when he jumps When he's out of Bible college, he ends up taking a job, in fact, from age twenty-five or so to forty-two, which is how many years any fast mathematicians? I think we're right around seventeen years or so. um that he's had ten jobs, twelve lose. So pretty unstable life. Um we find here that he had a one time emotional affair with a work associate at one of the jobs that happened when he was thirty four. And then things had gotten pretty intense marriage-wise from age 25 here to 35 after 10 years of marriage. His wife ended up walking out not because she didn't want him, but she just couldn't live with him and didn't know how to continue to cope with everything that was going on. She reflects back and he would be quick to say um that those years are really marked by an abuse of marriage. And so uh nine months, but after nine months, she ends up just coming back and resigns herself to um make a go of it. He's made some promises of change, but we can see from 35 to 42, uh very little has actually changed. In fact we found in the uh in the uh sketch that I just gave you, how that uh there were a lot of conflicts there between them. Uh we find at age forty that uh they have a home foreclosure. His father, his adopted father back here. The one had um had gotten a divorce back when he was eleven, but his adopted father ends up passing away. And then uh Now we have in the last couple years that's where his daughters have posted inappropriate images of themselves. And we have Carla who attempted suicide. She's the secondborn, the one that attempted suicide When we talk to him personally, we discover really over the last seven years he's really had an addiction to gambling. And so this gives us a little bit of a profile, okay? And uh we find his church history here on the bottom, unchurched and Lutheran there through his teen years and found Christ in the military, joined a Baptist church. I've made all of that up, but it very much parallels the kinds of uh stories that uh we have the privilege of helping folks through. Now doesn't this give you a lot of keys on how we might be able to help Haven and Arla with their daughter. Does it give us some perspective on some of the whys behind why their daughter might be struggling the way that she is? Now we haven't done our I'm sorry, we haven't done Shayna. She's the daughter or Carla, whichever. I guess both of them are daughters, and the one that attempted suicide is Carla So we haven't done her life map. She's only lived what did the we say? Something like a few years, so she's not going to have a lot to put on her map But you know what? There's a whole lot here going on, and I've color-coded some of this uh to um point out things that are in the moral arena, that kind of follow the moral uh issues of his life. I'm also I've highlighted some rejection issues kind of in what's read across his life. Um and I've probably not been perfect there and those color codings here, but I know sometimes as I'm doing this with folks Because I can't anticipate their story, I'm doing it all in one color, but then if I've got multiple colors, I'll try to uh put circles in other colors to try to map out Areas of wounds, areas of plaguing guilt, areas of d decisive rebellion in their life, areas of addiction and being able to track the the beginning and the sequence of addiction in their life And I'm always asking the individual that I've just sat down with them, what are you observing about your life? And inevitably it is astounding what individuals for the first time as they're seeing their whole life in one shot, what they're seeing It's like blinders come off. It's like, wow, I've they often will say, I've never seen my life like this. And almost every time I have just before we leave, the individual will say, Can I take a picture of that? I always encourage them, would you use this as a prayer list in your life? Because this shows there are whole narratives behind each piece of these. And these are all areas God wants to touch. These are areas God wants to heal And as we work in these departments, God's going to give you an ability to help your daughter in a way that's bigger than just cracking a heavier gavel. of of um boundaries and restrictions and disciplines, but you're going to be able to disciple her through the transparency. of your life and what God's doing in her, and as God sets the strong man free, wife and children are going to walk a whole lot freer because of what he's doing in you. Now I'm not going to take the time for time's sake, but I've also done that for Arla. I really love to do that just with uh mom and dad if I have a Haven and Arla type of situation Because I always feel like the more I can help them, the more I can help the the young person, and God can use that in a great way. Now, um I want to just leave you with these thoughts Actually, let me just jump to this slide. I just want to leave you with these seven keys to being able to effectively disciple people. And this is applicable if God's just given you children. Counseling people, these will certainly apply as well. Be a diligent student of the word. Be a diligent student of the word. The more you help people and the more you work with life maps. Uh the more now you approach your Bible following uh the life stories recorded there. And uh it's wonderful to do a life map of Jacob's life or of David's life. It's amazing how much you can learn uh mapping those stories out. Be a pure vessel for God to use. You realize that you're only as sharp helping people as you are pure. And so God wants to make our well very um Uh very clean and uh for that reason um I'm just uh I I just watch zero movies. I I don't uh I don't have social media at all. And it's not just in these departments, but I've just r I realize that in order for me to be able to effectively have discernment leading people through the delicate business of coming forward with the We all do. That's God's expectation. How God applies that to all of our lives may look a little bit different. I just realized this is Absolutely imperative. Make fasting and prayer part of your ministry. Establish a quiet and safe meeting place. I don't do coffee shop counseling. And every time I can possibly avoid that, I try to. It's not that that can't work in some situations. It's not that that can't be a wonderful first step. in some situations. But I always realized that in order for a person to feel safe enough, to open up wide enough, to really be able to give them the traction they need, they need to feel safe. And so um the other thing is I typically counsel around the table. Okay, I'm here to get work done. I want them to feel that same way. I'm not here, we're not here to talk about problems We're here to here to resolve problems. We're here to get to work. We're here to have a sense of direction. God wants to meet with us. God wants them to walk away with some key step. um to be able to go forward. I'm not here to just coddle them. I'm not here just to pat them on the back. Every encouragement certainly goes a long way, but we need more than just that. We've got to learn how to use questions effectively. Be a master at questions. Ask the Lord to just give you wisdom there. Always nurture hope. Nurture hope. That should be the first, second, third, fourth, fifth. Sixth and seventh one, nurture hope, and then protect trust by guarding confidential information. You know, we do have a sacred responsibility when someone opens their heart to you. Uh to steward that very carefully. Now I do think there are some situations and I'm very upfront with folks where n sometimes there are someone may be wanting to vow get you to vow to secrecy over things that deserve to be testified to to the circle of those who deserve to know. And so I'm always promising confidentiality with this caveat, and that is If there's something in your life that deserves to be declared in order for you to walk free, I'm here to help you, not do the talking for you, around you, but I'm here to help you take that bold step. And uh even if that involves going to the police or the authorities, and we've had to do that. Our ministry certainly helps on the legal front as well, and so that's always so important. Well, if this day has been an encouragement to you, and just a little snapshot that we've had together Thursday and then today. uh then I do encourage you to consider coming to our annual conference. We always do the Institute for Christ Life Counseling. It's a three-day counseling seminar that we do each year is a different theme. And in those three days, the goal is to train counselors. We typically have 25 to 30 folks that come to that. And we typically do that in the fall. We do that in the Midwest. We're looking to do that. is the Lord open the door. I'll do a West West Branch one somewhere out in the west, uh Arizona sometime, and uh definitely open to the Lord just opening a door or to do that out east. Here are just some of those counseling themes. And so we've taken this first one, counseling for life change. And I barely scratched the surface of what we do there, but I hope I baited your curiosity. Do another one called Vessels of Honor, or sometimes also called Passion for Purity, Dealing with Sexual Abuse and Sexual sexual recovery, sexual addiction, sexual bondage. Also transforming fear and anxiety. Another one we just did this year, spiritual warfare. and particularly its application to biblical counseling. And then also Ministry of Reconciliation, How to Restore a Wounded Relationship. When you're working with porcupines, you need a lot of wisdom and strategy in being able to mend those, and so the whole course dedicated to that. And then one that's more of a family focus, as for me and my house. We do a few others that are on our website, but these are our dominant ones. And each year we're adding to that as God just gives us direction. And so we're so grateful to be with you here today. Can we just bow our heads and pray? Thank you so much for your time here today.