If you want to get into the Word of God now, if you have your lesson downloaded, How to Stay Positive in a Negative World, a series that we've been studying and looking at this morning is Cultivate a Merry Heart. Proverbs 17, 22 says, A merry heart to is good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones. You know, it's become a norm in society today to medicate everything. It's more and more popular, somebody dealing with depression or anxiety or low energy or high energy. Let's give them some medicine to take some of that energy away. Let's give them some medicine to give them some energy. They're depressed. Let's give them some medicine to encourage them. Uh, you know, their their their anxiety is given some medicine to take care of that. There's things that people deal with today and it's become a norm. to medicate it. It's a process that uh has been accepted by society. Um they use some type of drug to stabilize their physical mind or to energize their physical body. I don't think that there's anybody in the world today that would debate the fact that stress, anxiety, or battles of the mind Have a profound effect on the physical body. I don't think there's anybody that would debate that. There's nobody that's questioning or wondering the fact that, hey, stress Impacts you physically. That's well documented. Well, what I want you to understand, that's because we are made in the image of God We are a trichotomy. If you've been in Hunt Valley Baptist Church, if this is your church, and there are many people streaming today that are catching our service, that maybe this is not your home church, but I've taught on this before and Hopefully you understand that. We are made in the image of God, a body, soul, and spirit, a trichotomy by God's design. And those three are inseparable. They're linked. They have a dramatic impact one upon the other. They're not completely separate. You can't just say, oh, my spiritual life is over here. and has nothing to do with the rest of my life. Or my physical life is over here and has nothing to do with the rest of me. That's not the case. The fact is, is they're connected. They're linked. As we've stated, poor mental health, stress, anxiety, depression, these things affect us physically. Nobody's going to debate that. Well, if that's true, then the opposite is true as well. The fact that good mental health equals good physical health. Poor mental health equals poor physical health. And This should not come as a shock to the Christian. The truth of this is stated clearly in the Word of God. And once again, the word of God was clear thousands of years before modern science caught up. And connected the two. Before modern science found that actually your mental health affects you physically. According to a study done on mental health and laughter, here's some facts Scientifically discovered that have to do with your mental health, specifically with happiness and laughter. Laughter relaxes the whole body A good hearty laugh relieves physical tension and stress, leaving your muscles relaxed for up to 45 minutes after. Laughter boosts the immune system. It decreases the stress hormones and increases your immune cells. And the body's ability to fight, providing antibodies, and improving your resistance to diseases because of laughter. What does our verse say? A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. Laughter triggers and releases endorphins, the body's natural fuel-good chemicals Endorphins promote an overall sense of well-being and even can temporarily relieve pain. There are studies, and I'm not going to read them, I have documentation of it, but there are studies On these pain clinics that help people manage their pain that have shown how effective laughter is in pain management. in dealing with the pain that people are struggling with. I could go on and give you other things here, one lum I'll give you one more. Laughter may even help you live longer, according to the study. A study in Norway found that people with a strong sense of humor outlived those who did not laugh as much. The difference was particularly notable with those who were battling cancer. And yet those who found the ability to laugh Live longer. So let's review. Mental health affects physical health. Okay, mental health affects physical health. Man is a trichotomy With our mind, body, and soul together. The word translated here, Mary, in this in the scriptures, comes from the Hebrew root word that means to brighten, to lighten A merry heart is to brighten, to lighten. A merry heart brightens your countenance. It lightens the load. It gives you something. It helps you. One of the greatest secrets to staying positive in a negative world is learning to cultivate within yourself a merry heart. We find this phrase, merry heart, three times in the book of Proverbs, and the ability to cultivate and to keep your heart bright. To have a gleeful and glad and joyful heart is important because of the well-being it produces within you and the opportunity it gives you to minister to others while you seek to influence them. So let me give you a few points this morning as we talk about this idea, cultivating a merry heart, to help you to stay positive in a negative world. First of all, it is the importance of a merry heart. How important is this? The importance of a merry heart. Well, as we said, there's three references in Proverbs to a merry heart, and we're going to look at those and and discern what we can from them. First of all, a merry heart nourishes Your soul. A merry heart nourishes your soul. Proverbs fifteen, fifteen. All the days of the afflicted are evil, but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. A continual feast. It nourishes your soul. The heart is the seat of your emotions. It is that place where your emotions dwell, and your the anger or the joy that you feel and experience. Comes from your heart. And a glad heart is always feasting. You see, the problem today is that many people feel that, well If I was feasting, I would have a glad heart. That's how it's viewed But you see, in the scripture here, the principle is told as in the opposite: that a gladheart Is always feasting. A glad heart is nourished, it is sustained. But somebody who is not of a glad heart does not have that. Daily as we live, we we could feast. I mean, the question is this how If that mentality is true of the idea of, hey, if I was feasting, I would be glad. Then let me ask you, how much of a feast would it take to make you glad? And here's here's the the even deeper probing question. If that was sufficient to make you glad today, let me ask you, would it be sufficient to make you glad Because the nature of man, if you had today, right now, a refrigerator full of ice cream And uh it was available to you to eat as much as you wanted, you would be feasting, right? But if you had that every day, if you had it available to you all the time. You would look there would be times you would look at that refrigerator, you'd open the door, and you'd say, you know what? There's nothing, I mean I got all these options and I don't really want any of them. You see, we we human nature, that's human nature. Fullness leads to forgetfulness. And you know the tendency to push the window, the envelope of our experiences. It even comes into the church house, where we need something bigger, better, more engaging, more interactive. Louder, stronger, more heartfelt to actually keep our attention because We've already had that. We already did that like five times. Like why do we need to do it again? That's the mentality. That's why somebody who uh you know these people that are adrenaline junkies, they they go and they maybe they they bungee jump off of a hundred foot cliff. And after they do that ten or fifteen times, they're like, you know what, we gotta find a bigger cliff. We gotta find a bigger cliff. And and and they they jump off a bigger cliff, and then a bigger cliff, and then a big What I'm saying is our tendency is to not be satisfied where we're at. And what I'm saying is if you need a feast to be glad, the feast that you have today is not going to be enough. To be glad, you're gonna have to have a bigger feast tomorrow and a bigger feast after that. But a glad heart is like it's feasting all the time. A merry heart produces a cheerful countenance. Proverbs 15, verse number 13. A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance. It maketh a cheerful countenance. Hey, an inward merry heart produces an outward cheerful countenance. You know, have you ever heard somebody said to you, are you happy? Well, tell your face about it. You know how you ever heard that said? Why? Because you know, an inward cheerful, an inward, glad, merry heart produces an outward cheerfulness. It brightens your face. And the idea, you got joy in your heart, it ought to be coming out. Our face should be a billboard for the joy of the Lord that's in us all the time. We as Christians ought to have a joyful countenance, a cheerful countenance. Yet many Christians walk around with sorrow of heart and a broken spirit. God wants to heal that broken spirit, wants to heal your heart, and cultivate in you a merry heart that will bring that cheerful countenance A merry heart also improves your physical health, as we said in the beginning here, Proverbs 17, 22, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine. It literally helps you physically. The condition of your soul will either have a positive or a negative impact on your physical That's the facts. It will have either a positive or a negative impact on your physical health. You can decide for yourself. You're going to be angry, disgruntled, discouraged, upset, deal with these problems all the time, and you're going to be impacted physically because of it. You have the joy of the Lord and peace and contentment and happiness of merry heart. It doeth good like a medicine. A study done by Professor Andrew Stepton, PhD and lead study professor of psychology at the University College of London. Found this. Older people are 35% less likely to die if they report feeling happy. 35% by their study done over a number of years. Absence of happiness may be more important than the presence of negative emotions. So it's not so much that you're dealing with the problem. You might be dealing with the problem. The greater tragedy is the absence of any happiness. That's what he says. That is what's most important. Regions of the brain involved in happiness are also involved in blood vessel functions. Clearly, uh the blood vessels flow, it it produces a stronger heart beat when you're laughing. And part of that is because of how it improves circulation in the body. This is scientific proof For the biblical principle that we've known for a long time. We would do well just to heed the Bible. Being happy doesn't this is a study, this is his words, uh Professor Andrew, he he says being happy doesn't just improve the quality of your life, according to this study it increases the quantity of your life. as well. In quotes, he said this. We had expected that we might see a link between how happy people felt over the day and their future mortality. But we were struck by how strong the effect was. He thought there might be a link But when they actually did the study, he said, man, this is amazing. The link is is not just there, it's quantifiable. It's able to be seen. It's definitely Connected. Beloved, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine. It improves your physical health. In the same way, we are warned here that a broken spirit drieth the bones. On the physical health of those who live around you and are impacted daily by your spirit. It has an impact on them physically as well. Have you ever met someone that the phrase is said about them? Maybe it was somebody you know, but you say, man, they just suck the life out of you. That person just sucks the life out of you. You know, you spend an hour with them and you feel like you need to take a nap. You know, you just you just wore out. And and that's the we have an effect on people around us. Not just us, but the people around us. So we see here the importance of it. It is vitally important. It has an impact on our life, but I also want you to see the impedance of a merry heart. And I'm not talking here this morning about the alternating current, which is the square root of the sum of the resistance. For the engineers in the room. I'm not talking about that kind of impedance. I'm talking about the hindrance What impedes, what gets in the way, what keeps us from cultivating, developing a merry heart that we should have? Well, there are three negative conditions given in the verses that we just looked at the positive aspect of. There's a negative aspect of it. First of all, The affliction of the mind, Proverbs 15, 15. All the days of the afflicted are evil. I know you guys have experienced this. You've talked to people that are in this state. If this is not cared for, if the idea of living in this afflicted state is not dealt with, it opens the door for Satan. To bring evil into your life. The word afflicted here in this verse means depressed. Depressed in mind or circumstance. Is not that the case? You find somebody that's depressed, and everything in their life is evil. It doesn't matter what you do for them, it doesn't matter how blessed they are, it doesn't matter how many things that they have, it doesn't matter what what good news they might have got, everything is evil. Everything is a problem. They can't find joy anywhere in anything. The Bible tells us that. It's the affliction of the heart. It brings continual evil. The condition of the mind is brought about by unbiblical thinking patterns This idea of everything being evil all the time and living in a state of depression, living without a merry heart, is the result of unthinking biblical patterns. Do you remember Pastor Allison when he c when he was preaching here and he preached his message on The world says, but God says, on worldly thinking or biblical thinking And he went through litem after item after item, and the world says, but God says. And the world says, but God says. You see, there's a way in which Christians should think that should line up with the Bible And the problem is we're spending too much time lining up with the world. We covered some of this in lesson chapter number two when we talked about the thinking on these things. How are you thinking? What are you thinking about? We also see the negative aspect of sorrow of the heart. Proverbs 15, verse number 13, back there. He says, that sorrow of the heart, the spirit is broken. By sorrow of the heart, the spirit is broken. Sorrow that's not dealt with will eventually lead to a broken spirit. It will lead to a broken spirit. Sorrow comes in if it's not dealt with. Biblically and understood and handled correctly, it leads to a broken spirit. The word sorrow in this verse comes from the same root word that in other places in the Bible is translated idol Translated idol. Well, something happens in the life of somebody that goes through great sorrow. They deal with great sorrow. They've got grief. They have pain. And In that, what happens if they don't deal with it, if they don't aren't able to get over it, it breaks their spirit. It cripples them from being effective for the cause of Christ. Beloved, everyone experiences sorrow. Everyone has sorrow in some measure, at some point, different places in their life. There's no question. Everyone deals with sorrow. You know, some are made stronger by the sorrow. And they're able to help other people Some are broken by the sorrow. What's the difference? What's the difference between the individual who was broken? And their life is defined by this one instance, this one tragedy, this one heartache. And the person who's taken that heartache And is able to use it to help other people. What's the difference? The difference is that one refused to make an idol out of it, and the other insisted on making an idol out of it. One refused to make an idol out of it, and the other insisted to make an idol out of it. You see, sorrow of heart becomes a little god. Little G, it becomes something in our life that people begin to bow down to, to protect, to worship. They have this tragedy, they have this heartache, they have this sorrow, and nobody can do anything for them They've come to the place where they find comfort in holding on to that sorrow. Their life becomes defined by that instance. They protect it. You can't even try and help them get over it Why would you want me to get over this? And they get angry at you for trying to help them get past it. Because they're protecting it. They're keeping that. They have made an idol of this thing and they they feed it every day. They cultivate it. That becomes a defining thing in their life. Sadly, we live in a time when the average person today has more of a desire to be a victim than a victor. It's a mentality, it's a spirit that is promoted today, the victim mentality. There are people who build their entire identity around this tragedy that took place in their life and they forever cling to it. In their minds, it has become necessary. It's needed for their daily life. In some instances, it's because it provides for them sympathy from others. And they enjoy that sympathy. And so they begin feeding and milking this particular tragedy because it gets them sympathy. And when these people have sufficiently sympathized with you and tried to help you pass it, Pretty soon they're going to get fed up with your little pet idol. And they're going to stop feeding you the sympathy. And what happens is that breaks the relationship. And then the person who is dealing with that takes that and adds that other hurt to it. They just keep mulling this over, and then they go and they find somebody else to give them sympathy. Instead of getting over with God's help, the problem, the tragedy, the heartache. I'm not saying the heartache didn't happen, but I'm saying God wants to heal the heartache It provides for them a lifelong excuse to not do or be what they should be, because after all, they had some heartache Everybody has heartache. Everybody has troubles. And yours is no excuse. You're saying God is not sufficient to help you through it. And He is sufficient Not everyone has an idol. But if you do this morning, you need to break it down. You need to ask, and it's going to be extremely hard if you've been holding on to something for years. If you've been cultivating, nourishing, and feeding something that happened to you years ago, it's going to be extremely difficult. You know how if you've been feeding it, let me ask you, how often do you think about it? Every time you stop and think about that thing, you're feeding it. God wants to heal the brokenhearted. And he can bring gladness into a sorrowing soul. Every day God turns former victims into present-day victors He offers to you beauty for ashes and oil for gladness for mourning, and garments of praise for the spirit of heaviness As it's found in Isaiah 61, verses 1 through 3. Let me read this to you. It's a powerful passage of scripture. He says, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. God wants to heal your broken heart. He wants to heal the sorrow that you're dealing with. He says, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to them that are bound. He wants to open the prison. Some people are locked in a prison of some former heartache, some former tragedy that they they can't let go. You're bound up in that. And God says he wants to free you from that. He says, to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for the other mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness. That they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified. God's goal is to help you heal so you can become a tree of righteousness for the honor and glory of God. A tree of righteousness. A tree of righteousness is going to provide fruit. We see also in the third verse here, the negative aspect of this is a broken spirit, a merry heart. I'm sorry, merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance, but a s but sorrow of the heart, the spirit, is broken. If we refuse to change our unbiblical thought patterns and Insist uncling to an idol of sorrow. The eventually the thing will come that it the time will come that it will break our spirit. A broken spirit begins to destroy you physically. This goes against everything that God wants for your life. As I've said, He wants to heal you of this broken spirit. One has to learn to let go of unbiblical thought patterns That would like the pattern we've already talked about, the victim mentality. We've got to learn to let go of that. We've got to learn to stop feeding it. The Satan's unforgivable sin mentality. This is Satan. He comes and he tells Christians that's unforgivable. And he begins to put it on your heart and your mind to say, that is so bad, God's not going to forgive you for it. Because I can't tell you the number of Christians that I've talked to, that I've dealt with, that have something that's happened in their past. That just keeps coming up. And they just say, I've asked God to forgive me, but I just don't feel like I'm forgiven. It's just it's too bad. And so instead of somebody falling on the grace of God for his mercy They fall on their own sword because they feel what they've done is so bad. It was such a travesty that God is not going to forgive them. And that, of course, is not true. God will forgive. But Satan tries to get you to think that you can't be forgiven. This spirit many times is a result of somebody that has experienced unforgiveness in their life from their family or loved ones. That's a whole another message for another time When somebody has been unable to get forgiveness from somebody they love or care about, they begin to start to think, well, maybe God is not going to forgive me either. So you've got to ask God to help you get over these unbiblical thought patterns. You've got to ask God to give you the mind of Christ. You get the mind of Christ by spending time in the Word of God, spending time in prayer and talking to God, being around God's people. You gain knowledge and understanding and wisdom to get on the victor's side. And that's where you want to be, not on the side of the victim. So how do we increase, increase our merry heart? How do we cultivate a merry heart in us? I think any one of us, myself included, anybody in the church, I believe that this is a lesson that is applicable to us. That we can and should work at cultivating a merry heart in us. You say, well, I'm typically a happy person. Yeah, but you can improve. You say, well I'm typically an unhappy person. We know. And you can improve. Okay? We can all improve. I I don't believe that there's anybody here that just doesn't touch. A merry heart, beloved, is a result of decision to trust God, to live for God above the circumstances of life. It produces joy in your heart, the joy of salvation, a life lived by faith and not by sight. It's a decision, not an emotion. That's part of the problem. We like our emotions. We like to live by our emotions, by how we feel. I feel good. I don't feel good. I feel like doing that, I don't feel like doing that. But that's not how a Christian should live. It's a decision. You decide to have a merry heart. It is a state of heart that's maintained for your benefit and for the benefit of those around you. It's cultivated by learning and developing a proper sense of humor. We had to put that word proper in there. I've only got a couple of minutes here to finish up, but listen, uh you need to learn to see humor in all of life situations. Learn to see humor in all of life situations. Things come up, you can look at it one of two ways. You can be discouraged about it, or You can see humor in it. Find the humor in all-of-life situations. Jerry Ross had a Bible teacher in college that often would say to them, Some of you are taking life way too seriously. Stop. You're not going to get out of it alive anyway. So you might as well enjoy it. You're taking life way too seriously. Stop. You're not going to get out of it alive anyway. Listen, at the end of it all, we're going to be in heaven. It's all going to be okay. Don't get so caught up and burdened and discouraged about one thing that happened today. Beloved, this too shall pass. Even COVID-19. It's gonna pass. The economy's gonna do what it's gonna do. We're gonna get through it. We're going to come out the other side and one day we'll look back and talk about the days where we all did this and this and this. The fact is you've got to learn to laugh in your old life situations And you need to learn to laugh at yourself. Learn to laugh at yourself. Get over yourself. Get the chip off your shoulder and just. Enjoy life. Develop a sense of humor. It is said that children laugh a hundred on average 150 times a day. Well adults laugh on average seventeen times a day. That's the difference. You say, well yeah, they don't have any cares. They don't have any burdens The kids, everything's funny to them. Yeah, but you're too burdened down with the cares and the burdens. You need to trust God. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you Trust God and enjoy life because God's in control. Hey, you can go crazy or drive someone else crazy. Option's yours. You can enjoy it. You can lose it or laugh at it. You decide what you're going to do. You need to learn to use humor as a way of ministering to others. People are naturally going to gravitate towards someone who enjoys life One of the reasons that uh you and I need to live on the victory's side is it influences it increases our ability to influence those people around us. You'll influence people a lot greater with a grin instead of a growl. That's the truth. Cheerfulness brings happiness to your home. Let me encourage you, man. You're at home, be happy. Husband, wife, children, you can minister to each other in such a great way by not being so burdened all the time. Used correctly, humor will amuse, not abuse. It will amuse, not abuse. And you've got to be careful about this because there's a pattern, a tendency to find humor at other people's expense Kids, children, I have a couple of my boys here, and they began laughing when I said that. I don't know why it's so funny to find humor at other people's expense. I n you say, Pastor, you just said they need to laugh at themselves. I know, but that doesn't mean they want you laughing at them. Okay? There's a difference. Use humor to amuse, not to abuse. Learn to avoid perverse humor, friend. Learn to avoid perverse humor. This is a pattern today, maybe it's always been a pattern, I don't know, but it just seems the more perverse, the more wicked, and the funnier the world thinks it is. And we've got to be so careful as Christians to avoid that. Don't even get close to the line. Just just stay away from that stuff that's perverse. That's foul. It's mind boggling to me. There's nothing wrong with being a comedian, with being and funny. There's young young comedians out there whose parents are promoting them and taking them around and they're working the night nightclub scenes. And these kids, 10, 11, 12 years old, just talking filthy. Filthy. Discussing things they shouldn't even know about. Using language that's not appropriate for anybody. And they're little kids, and the world finds it funny. It's biblical discernment that helps you to decide that's not for a Christian I need to stay away from that. I don't want to laugh at that. Don't want to copy it. Don't want to send it out on my Facebook channel. We want to leave leave leave that stuff alone. Don't pattern your humor after the world's humor. Truly a merry heart doeth good like a medicine. Most, if not all, people in the world want a merry heart. This is why they dope up and consume endless entertainment. In a futile effort to produce one, the moment of happiness is often quickly gone with a flood of despair that flows in to replace it. But the Christian should not live this way. It is not what God wants for us. Let Him heal the broken heart and lift the spirit of the downtrodden. As you try to live a biblical life, one in which you experience a continual merry heart, if you're not there today, may God bless you and make it possible for you to learn to cultivate a merry heart as a Christian.