As I study the Word of God and I read the Bible on a daily basis and I spend time looking at things and writing devotionals, I often jot down, I have a list uh in my phone of uh things to study in the Bible. Uh something will hit me and it'll just say, hey, take some time to look at this sometime. And often when I have an opportunity to to I'll go to that list and I'll just use it as an idea, a starting point. um you all that have been participating in the church's devotional uh emails. I've also written a lot of sermon uh ideas down for and sent them out as devotionals so I'm up to I believe almost 350 of those so I've got a long list of things to preach uh there, but um uh I was really going through that list of things that I would like to study over the last week, uh looking at what the Lord would have me to speak on today. And I just wrote wrote down in that um in that list Daily things to do. Daily things to do. So I began to look at the idea of what happens daily for us as Christians. This ties right into the last couple weeks. Pastor's been preaching a series on faithfulness. And being faithful and just doing what you're supposed to do on a consistent basis. And one aspect that he has stressed in that study and that I've actually had the opportunity to discuss with several people in recent weeks is the compounding nature of faithfulness. The fact that if you do something consistently over time, it's amazing uh how much that adds up over time. We could look at an example of investing You say, well, I I can't save money. Well, somebody will put out there, well, can you can you put aside a cup of coffee and put four dollars a day into an investment? And over so many years that'll turn into so many hundreds of thousands of dollars just by the nature of doing something faithfully And it works uh in in in in in any many other areas as well. That compounding nature of faithfulness. One example of this was something I was talking to my wife about. uh a few weeks ago. We were at after church on a Sunday night and we were discussing whether or not we were gonna w go get pizza. Um and uh we had just had pizza So we were going back and forth about it, we decided now we'll just go home, we'll eat what we have uh at the house. But as we were driving, I was still thinking about pizza. So I was still thinking about pizza and I was like, you know, it it's fun to have traditions. It's fun to have things that you do on a consistent basis, especially for kids. They like they like habits and whatnot. Wouldn't it be fun if we did something, set something aside maybe, uh like a Sunday night, to say, hey, we're gonna get pizza together as a family. That'd be would be a fun tradition Well that's w that's one direction that my brain went. But I'm also very uh I'm a I'm a saver, uh I pay very close attention uh to money and I really enjoy math, so I started doing the math on what does Pizza every Sunday cost. Oh, well it's not bad. It's $12 to get a large pizza from Papa John's and you can get $12. You get one of those. Problem is my boys are growing. Uh one pizza just barely, just barely makes it uh for our family. It really depends on how hungry I am whether one pizza makes it or not for our family. So we're getting really close to time to that being two pizzas. Well, that goes from twelve to That's not too bad until you consider doing it faithfully. If we do that faithfully every week, if we can stick with one pizza every week, that's over six hundred dollars a year. If I have to get two, that's over twelve hundred dollars a year. I asked myself the question, do I want to spend an actual percentage of my income on pizza every year? Not really. And so you look at something faithfully over time, that that adds up. And and you can look back and say if you do something in system Consistently, you end up doing a lot, even though it's only a little bit at a time. I would encourage you, just kind of as a side note economically, to calculate some of the long-term costs on those daily or weekly indulgences that are only a couple of bucks. But anything that you do consistently will grow over time. When we have a missions conference here at the church, we just came through that a few uh weeks ago. Uh I'm usually downstairs with the children and the children do faith promise uh as well at our church, and I'll put it out to the kids How many of you would like to give to missionaries? And every hand in the room goes up. We want to support missionaries. And I'll ask them the question, how many of you could give $50 to missionaries? And all the hands go back down. Can't give $50 to missionaries. So well how many of you could give one dollar to the missionaries? Then all the hands go back up. I said, did you know that if you give one dollar to the missionaries every week, that's fifty dollars by the time we get to missions conference next year? Even a little child will say, Wow, fifty dollars that's so much money. just a little bit at a time. And it all adds up over time. So this idea of having daily responsibilities, they seem small, but over time they grow. They get bigger. So as I was looking at this kind of principle of faithfulness and the compounding nature of it and seeing the idea of studying daily from my study list that I have. I wanted to see what God has in store for me on a daily basis. What does God require? What does God ask of me on a daily basis? And if I can do what He wants me to do today, I can do what God wants me to do over the course of my life If God was to put in front of me right now, here's what I want you to accomplish before you die. I say, there's no way. I can't do all of that. That's just too much. That's too heavy. But if God can put it for me, here's what I want you to do tomorrow You know what, I could probably get that done. I could probably do what God wants me to do today. So if you do what God wants you to do on a daily basis, over time, there's no telling what you can accomplish for God. Often when somebody gets saved, they they look at people in the church and they can get discouraged by saying, Uh you know what, I don't know if I'll ever be the kind of Christian they are I I'm saved and I look at these people to church and say, How could I ever know the Bible as well as Pastor does? How could I ever know as much Scripture uh as so and so does. How could I ever talk to somebody a witness the way brother brother Greg does? I could never know music the way the people in the choir do and those that sing specials do. I could never teach Sunday school the way the Sunday school teachers do. I could never talk as fast as Pastor Derek does. And we just feel overwhelmed as we look at other people and how much they can do for God And we just forget that God doesn't want you to be like Pastor. God doesn't want you to be like myself or Brother Greg or anybody else in the church. God wants you to be like Christ. Now that's a much loftier goal to be like Christ than it is to be like me. But the way you become like Christ is the same way that I do by doing today what God wants me to do today. He's called you to be like Christ, to become like Christ the same way every other Christian does, one day at a time. If I look over the course of my life, I've been in church services thousands of times. Why? Because I have been to church every week of my life I I've read through the Bible. I haven't kept track in my in my in my life, but I'd say at least ten times, cover to cover, maybe more. Um it's not something I kept track of, but why? Because I read a little bit every day. You just be faithful at little things, and it's going to grow over time. Have some patience with yourself and say, you know what? You're not going to be like Christ today. Because uh that's a lofty goal. You know what? I've been I've been doing this a long time. I've been saved. I was saved in 1996. I started preaching in 2003. And I'm not like Christ today. I'm more like Christ than I was yesterday, but I still have a long way to go. And that's the same case for any of us. And the way we become like Christ is by doing things on a daily basis. So I looked at this idea of dailiness in the Bible. What does God expect of us daily? The first verse that I came to in the Word of God is our text verse for today. That's Exodus chapter 5 and verse number 13. If you found your place there in the Word of God, I'd ask you to stand with me for the reading of God's Word. Exodus 5, verse number 13. Here the Bible says, and the taskmasters hastened them, saying, Fulfill your works, your daily tasks, as when there was straw. Let's open the word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. We thank you for your word and what it teaches us, Lord. We thank you for the clear instructions you've given us, Lord, that you don't uh, Lord, expect us right now to be all that you want us to be. Lord, but you do expect things of us on a daily basis. I pray we'd be willing to give those to you. Pray you give me clarity as I preach your word, help um your people to understand the message, uh, to get across from your word, and that we can be The Christian today that you want us to be today, Lord. I pray you bless this time we have in your word, and we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you. Maybe seated. Now, as we talk about daily tasks for Christians, daily duties for Christians, I believe I titled the message, that what do we have to do on a daily basis, this is kind of a strange verse to start out with. First of all, we're not talking about Christians in this verse. We're talking about the Israelites. And we're not talking about the daily tasks that they got from God. We're talking about the daily tasks that they had from the Egyptians. So what's going on here in this passage? The context is obviously when the Israelites were slaves in Egypt. Moses had come back to Egypt from being in exile in the wilderness. He'd come back to Egypt with the power of God to set God's people free. He marched into the capital, he went before Pharaoh, he demanded that he free God's people. And Pharaoh said no. And in fact, Pharaoh told the taskmasters who were in charge of the Hebrew slaves, said, You know what? I want you to increase their workload. Obviously they have too much time on their hands if they're thinking about getting away from me. If they're thinking about going and worshiping God instead of serving me. So let's let's give them more work to do. So what Pharaoh's taskmasters did was instead of providing the Israelites the straw necessary to make the bricks that they were using to build uh Pharaoh's cities, they did not give them that daily allotment of straw and said, you know what, you need to go out and get that straw yourself. But in this verse it tells them you're still required to do the daily task that you already had to do. So the the Egyptians here had an expectation from the Israelites, an expectation of what they were going to do on a daily basis I chose this verse as our text verse because it is the first time the word daily appears in the Bible. If you look through the Bible, this is the first time that this word shows up. It is actually mentioned, the word daily is mentioned sixty-three times in the Bible. Most of these references are in the Old Testament. Many of them had to do with the ceremonial laws that the Israelites had to do, such as the daily sacrifices. and the daily anointings and things of that nature that the Israelites had to do. There are some, and we're going to be looking at them today in the New Testament, of what God expects of us as Christians. on a daily basis. But when we look at this first use here of the word daily in the Bible, we see that everyone is under some sort of daily obligation. These people were slaves of Egypt and they had daily obligations. We also understand that after they were no longer slaves, they still had daily obligations. But instead of their service pleasing Egypt, their daily service would then be towards God. We understand, if we understand the biblical picture, uh illustration or type behind this story, we understand that Egypt is a picture of the world. Pharaoh would be a picture of the God of this world. And the Hebrew people were God's people that were in slavery to this world and to the God of this world. And God was going to redeem his people, was going to set them free, so they no longer had to serve the God of this world and this world and could instead give that service to the Lord. This is a picture in this story of what God does in salvation. God would save them and give them some new daily tasks to do. Some people look at Christianity and they say it's just too much work. They see all that is, quote, required of Christians and say, I could never do all of that. What they do not see is what is being demanded of them by the God of this world. We all have a choice. It's not whether or not we're going to serve. That's not our choice. It's not, am I going to serve someone today? You are. But the question is, who are you going to serve? The Israelites were had some daily tasks. What were they? Daily tasks in the service of the God of this world. But once they left, they had other daily tasks, so those were in the service of the God of heaven. So which service were they going to yield? The question is illustrated for us in Romans 6, verse number 13. It says, There neither yield ye your members as servants of unrighteousness to sin. But yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. He's saying you have a choice of who you're going to yield to. If you're saved, the beginning of this passage in Romans chapter 6 talks about how God frees us from the bondage to sin. He says, but now you have a choice. You have a choice. You have daily tasks to do. But in what are you going to do those daily tasks? In service to whom? In service to the bondage of sin, yielding yourselves, your members as servants of unrighteousness Or yielding yourselves as servants to the righteousness that is found in God? Where are you going to serve? We're going to desire as Christians, it should be our desire to serve God. Everybody has things to do. We're all busy. We live in one of the busiest times in history. We have so many conveniences that we've cluttered our lives with all kinds of extra busyness. And we have to choose what are we going to do with the time that we have. You have the same amount of time in your day as I have in mine, as anybody else has in theirs, where nobody gets extra time. We all have a choice of what we're going to do, what we're going to give those daily tasks towards. And we can set things up and say, well, this is something that I have to do, which means there's other things that I'm not going to be able to do. I've talked to parents who who can't make it to church uh during the midweek because there's so much going on with school and the and the other things that are that are required of them and their children, but I've talked to parents who have Two things every night of the week, extracurricular for their children, and they make it to all of them. They have daily responsibilities, they're just choosing that this is what I'm going to use that daily time for. And I'm choosing not to do it for these other things. There's so many demands that this world makes on our time and asks of us daily service. We have to make the choice if we're going to fulfill all the demands of this world or if we're going to see what God asks of us daily. So we're going to look today at four things, and then one bonus. Of things that God has asked us to do on a daily basis. So turn the Bible to Luke chapter 9. Luke chapter 9, what does God expect from Christians on a daily basis? Isn't that wonderful that God gave us four things to do? We look at my list from my wife, there's a lot more than four things on it. That other that the the world, my job's got a lot more than four things on the list. But God's given us four things in the Bible. He said, Here's what I want you to do daily. Here's a daily expectation for the Christians. I think I can get four things off my list. Here's a principle when it comes to time management. You always have time for the things you do first. You always have time for the things that you do first. So are we for as Christians it should be our desire to start with God. Let's get what God wants. Not to check it off and say I'm done. Not to say, okay, I've did what God wants to do, and now I get the rest of the time to myself. That's not how that works. But it should be a priority to say what does God expect of me as a Christian. As first one's going to be a little bit heavy as a task. You say, well, God's burden is easy and light. What does God want me to do today? Well the first point is daily death. Daily death. Luke chapter 9, verse number 23. I didn't turn there. Here we go. Luke chapter 9, verse number 23, Jesus speaking to his disciples here. That's in the wrong chapter, so here we go. And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. So this is one of the things that God has commanded us as Christians to do on a daily basis. Now it is conditional, he says, if any man will come after me, if you want to follow God, if you want to follow Christ, how does it happen? by dying daily. The first things we first thing we're going to look at here as the daily duty of a Christian is to die daily. You might be thinking, oh, is that all? Is that all God wants of me? Well, before we look at what is meant by this idea of dying daily, I'd like to look at the statement by Christ in the historical context. Think about the people he's addressing and the time frame in which he's addressing it. This is to the disciples, but it's taking place before the cross. Jesus has not yet died on the cross when he's telling the disciples to take up their cross on a daily basis and follow him. We understand more of what that means. Because we saw Jesus go to the cross. The disciples, when they heard this from Christ, had not yet seen that take place. The cross had not been romanticized in Christianity at that time the way it is now. None of the disciples were wearing cross necklaces or had crosses on the covers of their scrolls because Christ had not yet died. But here he was commanding them to take up your cross on a daily basis. To a person in the first century wearing a cross on a necklace would have been similar to someone today wearing a hangman's news as an ornament You say something that doesn't seem right. There's something wrong with that. Because it's an instrument of death. It's an instrument of punishment at the hand of the government To the disciples, for Jesus to tell them to take up their cross daily and follow him would have immediately given them a picture of a humiliating death sentence. It would have been looked at as a curse, because Deuteronomy says, cursed is the man that hangs on a tree. To take up your cross was asking them to shoulder the instrument of their own death. Not that you're going to be put to death, but you take it on yourself. You make the choice to pursue death. Now this is not talking about pursuing your own physical death. We're going to discuss what this means now. So what was Jesus? But that's kind of the historical picture. The disciples, this would have been very hard truth to understand. This would have been a hard pill to swallow. What do you mean? Take up my cross. You want me to to to to pursue uh capital punishment on myself? For what? What are you talking about here So what was Jesus asking them to do? It's defined actually very simply in the verse that we just read. In verse 23 it says, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself. Skip over the part where it says take up the cross. It says, and follow me. That's what Jesus was teaching. Dying daily means you deny self and follow me. That's how we die daily as Christians: we deny self, we follow Christ. That's what Jesus meant here. That's what he was teaching them now. We understand that Christ uh Christ's way was the way of the cross. And and that's the way way that he wants us to follow in In his steps and what God wants us, the way God wants us to live our lives and to mortify the members of our flesh, as is discussed in Romans chapter 6. But the essence here of dying daily is denying self And following God. That means if there's something I want that contradicts what God told me to do, I say no to me and yes to God. That's how I die. And you know what? I have to do that daily. Because every day. Every day my alarm clock goes off, and I want to sleep, and God wants me to read the Bible. And every day I have to say no to me and yes to God. No to me, yes to God. That's what I have to do if I want to die daily, if I want to follow Christ. If you want to come after Christ, you must say no to yourself. You must shoulder the responsibility for putting your own selfish desires to death, and then you can be free to follow Jesus. Did he not lay aside his any selfish desire and pursue his own death for you? Can we do the same for him Paul further explains this passage, I've quoted from it already in Romans chapter six. Romans six verses six through eleven, the Bible says, Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him. that the body of sin might be destroyed. That henceforth we should not serve sin. He's talking about a Christian here. If you're saved, what happened at your salvation is that God put your old nature, your sin nature, the desires of self, God put that to death. At the cross. And God has given you victory over it. And so we need to reckon we'll keep reading here, but God says to reckon yourself to be dead unto sin. And we'll keep reading now. He says we should not henceforth serve sin. That sin is dead. That master is dead to us. We don't have to follow its dictates anymore. Verse number seven says, For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now if we believe if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. A key verse here with our thought today, verse number eleven Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. At salvation, God gives you the freedom from the master that you previously served. He puts to death those old desires and gives you new ones. You become dead to your master of sin, he cannot rule you anymore. You are instead made alive unto Christ. Our example here is Christ. It says in the verse number ten that he died for our sin once, and death and sin have no more power over him When you get to verse 11, he says, likewise, meaning in the same manner, the same way that death and sin have no more control over Christ, they have no more control over the Christian. We as Christians, if you're saved today, death and sin do not have to have control over you. You've been freed from that. You've been freed from that sin. So, likewise, in the same manner that Christ was freed from the power of death You have been freed from the power of sin. And he tells you, likewise, reckon, that word means consider. Reckon, consider yourselves to be dead unto sin and alive unto Christ. Alive unto God. So we need to every day wake up and we need to we need to die daily. Meaning, you know what, today, when it comes to my sin comes knocking on my heart's door, says, Here's what I want you to do today, I'm going to respond like a dead man. And I'm not going to do anything. But when God comes into my heart today and he knocks and says, here's what I want you to do today, I say, Yes, sir. I'm alive unto God and I'm dead unto Christ. That's a daily process. A daily process to reckon, to consider myself to be dead to sin, that when sin comes knocking and tells me to get up and get going, I'm a dead man. It has no control over me. But when God comes in, he says, here's what I want you to do, then I say, Yes, sir, I stand up and I obey. That's what it means to die daily, to deny self and to follow Christ. God asks us as Christians to die daily. Paul did this in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 31. He says, I protest by your rejoicing, which I have in Jesus Christ our Lord, I die daily. We should be living on a daily basis, reckoning ourselves to be dead in the sin and alive unto God. We should acknowledge before God each day that our sinful desires are dead and have no more control over us. Instead, we live to see God serve God Last week at Anniversary Sunday, Brother Anthony gave a challenging testimony. And in his testimony, he got to a point, he was talking about how in his life, he got to a point where he realized that his time was no longer his was the testimony he gave. His time is no longer his. It now belonged to God. Well what what he's saying there is that when it comes to his time, he's died to self. That when self comes along and says, hey, you don't have time to do that stuff at church. He says, Self, you're not in charge anymore. My time belongs to God. And God says, Hey, I want you to come do this at the church. Answer says, I'm there. Why? Because he's reckoned himself to be dead unto sin and alive unto God. He's dying daily when it comes to his time. He gave that testimony just last week Once he was willing to die to self, he was free to live for God. And that's a daily decision that God asks every Christian to make. So when God comes to us and says, what do you want, we ask him, what do you want us to do on a daily basis? He said, number one, be willing to die daily. Be willing to, on a daily basis, say no to self and say yes to God. Secondly, this morning we find the next place where we're going to look at where God has given us a daily obligation before Him as Christians, and that's in Acts chapter 17. Acts chapter 17, verse number eleven. Again, another place that the word daily shows up in the Word of God. Number one, we're to die daily. Number two, we're to have daily devotions. Daily death, daily devotions. In Acts chapter 17, verse number 11, the Bible says these. Speaking of the Christians at Berea were more noble than those in Thessalonica. Noble, that's a position of prominence. And this is this is God's perspective. He says, These people had attained a higher degree of prominence in my sight. Why? What made this church stand out? What made this church so different? These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures Daily. Search the scriptures daily whether those things were so. So the second daily task we're going to look at from the Word of God is that we should be having daily devotions. This church was commended by God for spending time in his word on a daily basis. This is so important for us as Christians. It seems to be the simplest of tasks, yet it seems to be the easiest one to ignore. Even the last couple of years we we discussed it leading into this devotional reading plan we've been doing at church. Should we really just ask people to read one chapter a day? That seems so so simple, so so small. Is that really enough? Well Truthfully not, but it's something. Um and and I hope you're doing more than just just just spending the one time or reading through once and and then being done. But the uh purpose behind it was so you could spend more time with a smaller portion of scripture But there have been Christians who've been saved for decades that have not been built into their life the daily task of spending time in the Word of God. And we wonder why we're not growing as Christians. When we spend no time taking in our spiritual food. The Word of God is described in many places as being spiritual food for the Christian. It's described as meat. It's described as milk. It's described as honey. There's other things that the Bible described as in a food context because it's how we are fed spiritually. Let me ask the question, could you, as an individual, survive in a healthy manner for a long period of time eating four times a week? No, we couldn't do that. Our body couldn't make it on that level of sustenance. So how are we expect expecting ourselves to be strong, thriving Christians? When we only take in four meals a week. That's Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Thursday night. If that's all the time we have in the Word of God, we're getting four meals a week as a Christian. And that's if you come to all the services. But that's not enough. You couldn't make it on that physically. How are you expecting yourself to make it on that spiritually? The Bible gives us the instruction here in this passage and other places, the principles laid out as well, that we should be spending time in God's Word on a daily basis. As we spend time in God's Word, there's four things God has given us to do with the Word of God. He's commanded us to read it. He's commanded us to study it. He's commanded us to meditate on it, and He's commanded As to memorize it Spending time in the Word of God. That's all God asks of you. As a Christian, on a daily basis, what's God wants you to do? Spend some time in His Word. Such a such a simple thing, and I wrestled with this as a young person, I was saved as y I told you ninety six, I was six years old, and I got saved and I knew Christian And so I I'd get a a decision, I'm gonna I'm gonna read my Bible And I'd start reading God's Word and very quickly I'd get it I'd I'd read it for a week, two weeks, three weeks, and then I miss a day and I'd read it for and I'd miss two days and and then I'd get look up in church one day, you know, I haven't read God's Word in a month And I get back to it and say, I need to read the Word of God and I struggle and I struggle and I struggle trying to get that daily practice into my into my life. And that thankfully God has given me victory and I'm able to spend time on a daily basis. And I've been doing that for years at this point, and I'm so thankful for having that practice built into my life. But for you as a Christian, if you have not done this yet, built into your life, the practice, the habit of daily time in the Word of God, let me encourage you to do so So we've tried to help you as a church every year. We pass out Bible reading programs. And we give those out to people to spend time in the Word of God. And I've mentioned already this past two years, this will be our third year. Reading basically a chapter a day. I know last couple of months we've been trying to catch up so we're done by the end of this year reading two chapters sometimes. But reading a chapter a day and giving you that instruction and giving you some some meat out of the Word of God through the devotionals that we send out. Just trying to encourage people to I praise the Lord for the series that we've been doing and the emails seem to have been helping people be faithful at it that I've talked to adults who are telling me that this will be the first time by the end of this year it'll be the first time they've read through the Word of God. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord that they're able to do that and to say, I've been faithful in God's word for three years now and I've completed it cover to cover. I remember talking to. to Doug before he passed away and him in the hospital and and the excitement that he had the day that he told me that he read through the Word of God. He said, I've had so much time dealing with this cancer to spend time in God's Word that for the first time in my life I've read through the entire Bible And it meant so much to him. It meant so much to me to see that victory in his life, just to say, you know what, I've spent time in God's Word. And God wants us as Christians to do that. God wants us to spend time daily in the Word of God. I remember as a young person hearing a preacher give the testimony that they had read through the Bible uh entirely sixteen times. And I remember thinking that time as I there's no way. I could never read through the whole Bible that many times. But you know how he did it? He did it by having daily devotions. Having a daily time in the Word of God. If you read your Bible every day, every day, every day over a course of your life and over the course of years, you'll look back and say Wow, how much God was able to do in my life, how much of the Word of God was I able to ingest simply by spending a little bit of time in the Word of God. Spending a little bit of time in the Word of God. We're looking at it here through one chapter a day will basically get you through the Word of God in three years. Three chapters a day will basically get you through the Word of God in a year. Sixteen chapters a day, you can read it four times a year. Whatever your level of reading and the time that you have, spend time reading the word reading the Word of God on a daily basis. If you want to grow as a Christian, You need to have daily devotions. I mentioned already we teach our children the song. Read your Bible, pray every day, and you'll grow, grow, grow. Well, Pastor, why am I not growing as a Christian? Why am I not seeing fruit in my life? reading your Bible. My first question, anytime I counsel somebody, are you having daily time in the Word of God? And any Christian I've dealt with who is struggling, the answer to that question was no. Not saying that once you read your Bible, all your problems go away. But every Christian has come to me and said, my life's for wreck, and I ask him, are you reading the Bible? The answer is no So spend time daily in the Word of God. That was the testimony of this church. If you think about a church and the testimony they have when Paul looked at them, were they a church that sent out missionaries? Were they a church that took large offerings? Were they a church that had all kinds of preacher boys sending out to start churches? No, they were a church that spent time in the Word of God on a daily basis. And that's what they were commended for. They said, that church walks with God because they read their Bible every day. And he said they're doing better than that church over there because of it. If we want to be growing, if we want to be promoted as Christians, if we want to see growth in our life, it is important to have a daily time in the Word of God, to have daily devotions. Let me encourage you as parents, to those of you that have children, to help them develop that habit in their life. That habit of reading God's Word. on a daily basis and start from a young age. I actually have published three books uh on children's devotional reading plans to help young people read the Word of God and I did that because I couldn't find something for my own kids. So I took the time to write the materials to take and right now, every morning, Titus sits down with me and we read the Word of God and he takes notes and he writes things down and he answers questions. And then Andrew will come and he'll sit with me and he'll listen as I read the Word of God because I want them to do better than I did when it comes to reading the Word of God. It's my goal as a parent to have them go beyond what I was able to accomplish, to help them grow. Your children's walk with God is more important than their teeth. I would rather have my children read their Bible every day than have them brush their teeth every day. Now, of course, I want them to do both. But one is more important than the other, yet we're we're more worried about the one that's going to cost us money instead of the one that's going to cost them their spirituality. As parents, we have an obligation to help direct our children this way. So spending a daily time with the word of God. And you know what? It's not going to happen with them if it's not happening with you. Because more is taught than is taught. So if you can sit your kids down and ask them every day at breakfast for their other devotions, if you haven't done it, they're not going to either. But we need to spend a daily time in the Word of God. So we are to have a daily death, we are to have daily devotions. The third task we have on a daily basis, I've entitled Daily Dependence. Turn back to Matthew chapter 6. Matthew chapter 6. We looked at this uh passage of scripture back in January at the church. As we're taking time to discuss being on bended knee in January, we looked at the idea of the pattern of prayer found in the model prayer. But in verse number eleven We have this word daily show up again, and it's in the prayer that Christ gave us as an example, not something for us to memorize and repeat, but for something us to follow as an example. Verse number 11 says, Give us this day our daily bread. So this one has to do with prayer. Now, I would include prayer as a part of your daily devotions in Psalm 55, verse number 17. The Bible says, evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud and he shall hear my voice. I tell our young people downstairs that every day God wants to talk to you and you should talk to him So your daily devotion should be reading your Bible as God talk to you and you should talk to him. That's prayer. But here, this goes beyond just talking to God in prayer and cultivates an attitude of dependence. Our attitude in prayer. It is a reflection of whether or not we are relying on God. This, when Jesus said this in this prayer, it would have drawn his audience's attention, thinking about the historical perspective. Back to the time of the wilderness wanderings. When the Israelites were wandering through the wilderness, remember they left Egypt, and what'd they do? They ran out of food. And so they came to Moses and they murmured against Moses against God and said, We have nothing to eat, you brought us out here to kill us And Moses goes to God and says, God, can you provide for the needs of the people? And God says, In the morning there's going to be manna on the ground. It's going to be uh uh some some white things on the ground that they can go out and pick up, and he says, Here's what I want you to do. Tell the people Only gather enough for one day. Only gather enough for one day because God wanted to cultivate in his people an attitude of dependence. Because they were going to get to Canaan, they were going to get to the land of plenty, but God wanted them to learn to rely on Him before they got to the time of plenty. Because in times of plenty is not when we learn to rely on God. It's in times of need And but what happened with the Israelites? They went out the next day and they gathered as much as they could. They brought it in their house, they stored it up overnight, got up, and it was full of worms the next morning. And God judged them for their disobedience and said, I want you to have daily bread from me Except for on the Sabbath, there was two days worth that was there. But this picture, give us this day, our daily bread, would draw their minds to that time where every morning you had to get up and say, Did God meet my needs today? Every morning, did God meet my needs today? Is God uh supplying for me? Am I depending on God today? They couldn't skip a day of depending on God or they wouldn't have eaten. And Christ, through this prayer, he's cultivating that attitude within us that we should learn to rely and depend on God. We live in a time of plenty. We live in a time of surplus. In fact, we have so much food in America that it is estimated that we waste close to 300,000 pounds of food every day. in our country. 300,000 pounds of food every day in our country is wasted because we just have so much. So that makes it hard for us to have this idea of necessity. And saying, well, well, how can I ask God to give me my daily bread when I have two months worth of food in the cupboards? Uh I don't I don't need God to provide for me a day. And that's the danger of plenty, is that we stop relying on God So, this is an attitude that we have to intentionally cultivate in our lives and in our hearts, that we have to say, you know what, I need God to meet my needs today. We need to recognize our need for God on a daily basis. This starts with prayer. One way you can cultivate dependence on God through prayer is to ask Him for help. Asking Him for help humbles you and acknowledges your need for God. In every area of your life. You know, we can do so much on our own. I can Get to work by myself. I don't need God's help. I know how to drive. I can but you know what? I could cultivate an attitude of dependence by getting up and getting in my car in the morning and saying you know what God, I'm not in control of everything that's out there today. Would you guide me and lead me as I drive to work today that you keep Keep me safe and help me to get to the destination I want you you want me to be at. I know what I need to do for work. I can do work all on my own. But I could also take it on some time in prayer and say, God, I need your help today. Show me what you need done. Show me what I should do. Show me the best ways to do these things. I need help. And that cultivates this attitude of dependence on God. I've been preaching for a long time. I could put a sermon together all on my own. But it's not going to have the power that it would if I bathe it in prayer ahead of time and say, God, I can't do this on my own. I can't give your people what they need. There's so many people here and so many different needs that are represented, and I don't know where they're all at or what they all need, but you do. Can you show me, can you help me convey your word in a way that it helps your people. We we go to we go to God in prayer. This cultivates a dependence on God. Again, the testimonies that we had on every Sunday I really enjoyed uh every one of those. But but Brother Greg mentioned this idea of dependence and prayer in his testimony and how he he gotten he was good. He was good at soul winning. He knew how to do it. He done talked to a lot of people about the Lord. But God spoke to his Heart Missions conference about praying for God's help. And not relying on your own ability. And just the way he's seeing God work in him as he relies on God. We need to do the same. We need to be relying on God. We need to cultivate this attitude of dependence on God on a daily basis. Are we cultivating this daily dependence on God through prayer? Last uh the next point here, number four, is daily discipleship Daily discipleship. In Acts chapter 5, verse number 42 it says, And daily in the temple and in every house they cease not to teach and to preach Jesus Christ. This is talking about the Christians. Every day they were teaching and preaching Jesus Christ. This would be a daily witness. In this verse, Christians were taking time to be a witness for the Lord on a daily basis. Reaching the world with the gospel is not just the job of the preachers and missionary. Reaching people for Christ does not only happen during the invitation at church on Sunday morning. Reaching people for the Lord is not just a Saturday John and Roma's responsibility. It's very easy as a Christian, I myself find myself with this attitude where it comes time for Saturday soul winning, I put on my soul winning clothes, I put a smile on my face, and I'll talk to anybody about the Lord. Soul winning's over, I take off my soul winning clothes, I put my headphones in, I put a frown on my face, and I do what I have to do. And I I step out of that attitude of soul winning. But God says I want you to be a soul winner every day I want you to be telling people about the Lord every day, on a daily basis, to be a witness for God. Now understand, even though these church people were being witnessed on a daily basis, it was still God that was doing the saving in Acts 2 verse 47. It says the Lord added the church daily such as should be saved. The people were doing the daily witnessing and Christ was doing the daily savings. The daily saving. We as Christians should uh should make sure that we're always prepared, always ready to give people an answer for the hope that lies within us. So there's daily a daily witness, but there's also a daily exhortation that God expects of us. In Hebrews 3, verse number 13, it says, But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceit. Another area of discipleship that we've been called to is to exhort one another. As a Christian, you should be ministering to other Christians in spiritual matters on a daily basis. For a time in our church there was a group of young men that I was a part of that had a had a group chat that we would do on texting and it it was almost every day, maybe every other day or so, three or four times a week at least. that someone sent across that tack that that text. Hey, here's something God spoke to me about today as I was reading the Word of God. Daily exhorting one another. That's something that God wants us to do as Christians. Here in Hebrews, that we are told that doing this will help keep our Christian brothers and sisters from falling into sin by being discipling one another, by exhorting one another. It's this type of Christian-to-Christian discipleship that's actually the reason we're supposed to be faithful to church. If you've been around church any length of time, we talk about faithfulness to the house of God through Hebrews 10, verse number 25, not forsaking. The assembling yourselves together as the manner of sum is. But the next point is very important. It says, but exhorting one another. So instead of missing church, what you need to do is be in church ministering to other Christians It doesn't say come to church and be exhorted by the pastor, that's part of it. But it says your responsibility at church as a Christian is to exhort one another. That you you know what, is it is it so much for God to ask that spiritual people talk about spiritual things at a spiritual place? We could talk about anything else. Why is it so hard to talk about the things of God? Even while we're at church, we as Christians should be ministering to one another through the Word of God, exhorting one another. God said to do it daily. Exhort one another daily while it is called today. To conclude this morning, turn with me to Psalm chapter 68. Told you we have four daily tasks that God has given us to do. And we have one bonus, one blessing, Psalm 68 and verse number 19. Another place that the word daily shows up in the Word of God. Psalm 68, verse number 19. Says there blessed be the Lord who daily loadeth us with benefits. Even the God of our salvation, Selah. This is an amazing verse. Here God is described as loading us with benefits daily. Often when you see an idea like this in the Word of God, it comes in the form of a promise. That God will, or or that your your God will, or the idea there of a promise. And usually in the Bible, when you see a promise, there's There's some type of uh contingency there that if you do this, then God will. For example, the verse we're familiar with, In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. The condition, acknowledge him. The promise, he'll direct your paths. But that's not the case in this verse This isn't a promise. This is a description. Whether you realize it or not, whether you um you understand it or not, whether you're living in accordance to where you deserve it or not. God daily loads you with benefits because He's the God of your salvation. Have you ever had or experienced benefits that you didn't realize you had? When I was a teenager I had a job, I was working for a landscaping company. And we had this one series of jobs where I was driving over an hour to work uh in the truck that I had that was getting about nine to ten miles a gallon um and that was back when gas was three or four dollars a gallon and it was a lot of money. And I was talking to the coworker about just man it's it's so hard uh to to make it to all these jobs. We gotta figure out what a carpool or something 'cause This is just eating me up in gas. And he said, Well, didn't you know that the boss pays us one way? That you actually start your time from the time you leave your house and not the time you get to your job? No, I didn't know that. Nobody told me. There's a benefit that I didn't know I had. And as Christians, there are a lot of Christians who are walking around, they don't realize all the benefits they have in Christ. And they don't enjoy the benefits they have in Christ, and they don't take advantage of the benefits they have in God. But God daily loads you with benefits. When you start fulfilling the daily tasks He's given you, you'll start to see and understand His daily benefits so much more. Just like faithfully completing these daily tasks will lead to great accomplishments over time, God's daily benefits will add up as well. One last illustration, when I was a teenager, again, we were working on a landscaping job. and uh we were moving stone. Uh very hard job. We had stone that we're putting wheelbarrows. We were rolling down this hill to make a a river path for drainage down to a lake. Um and we started loading wheelbarrows. So just go up there every day, get a wheelbarrow, get a load, go and move it. Get a load, go and move it. Get a load, go and move it. And after a period of weeks that we were working on this job, we got done and said, finally, these stones are all moved. And the boss came over and said, You realize how much stone was there? We said, No, we don't. He said, that was 80 tons of stone. 80 tons of stone. Now I was I thought I was pretty strong as a teenager. I couldn't pick up 80 tons. But you know what? If I got a daily load over time, I look at that and say, look at how much. That load was. And that's the way it's going to be for you as a Christian. Right now you might look at your life and say, I don't, I don't know. I can't see what God's going to do. I can't see what God's done for me. If you stay faithful Years down the road, you're going to look back and say, wow, look at all that God did. The daily loads and how those pile up. The daily tasks and how much I've been able to accomplish just because I was faithful to do what God wants me to do. every day. As a Christian, God hasn't asked a lot of us. In the Bible, there's four things He said, I want you to do on a daily basis. These four things, to die daily, to say no to self and yes to God. To have daily devotions and just spend some time reading His Word on a daily basis. To have daily dependence, just pray and ask God for he wants to be involved in your life. Ask God for help. Ask God to be involved in your life. Have that daily dependence And have also to get the opportunity to experience his uh these daily discoveries, the daily benefits that we have from God. Uh everything on a daily basis that we have from the Lord. But also I skipped one there, having daily discipleship. Ministering to one another, reaching the lost world for Christ. These things that God's asked us to do on a daily basis. And I ask you tonight, how are you doing on your daily duties? How are you doing on your daily duties? God's given you a checklist to say, here's what I want you to do. Have you done them today? You still have time. Tomorrow's brand new. You haven't messed up yet. God's given you a list of things to do Let's have every head bowed, every eye closed. Can you stand with me as the Instrumentalist comes for a time of invitation. I know what the Lord may have spoken to you about. Maybe one of these four areas you can look in your life and say, you know what, that's something I haven't been doing every day. And I want to start. I want to start so that one day I can get to the point where I look back and say, look at what God did in my life. Maybe you want to take time and thank God for those daily benefits and you you haven't noticed or taken advantage of it and you want to start seeing God work in your life Whatever God may have spoken to your heart about, you come to a time of invitation. I'll close in prayer and then we'll have her play and you can come if God spoke to your heart. Lord God, we love you. God, we thank you for You've got these promises, Lord, that you're a God that loves us and that no matter what, you you pour on us uh who are undeserving these daily benefits. And Lord, in the midst of giving us these daily benefits, you have a couple things you've asked of us on a daily basis. God, we're going to choose who we're going to serve. Lord, are we going to choo choose to serve ourselves or are we going to choose to follow Christ? Lord, help us to take the time to look into our lives and ask ourselves, are we doing these things that God wants us to do on a daily basis? Pray use this message in the hearts of your people. We ask you bless this time of rotation, we ask this for Christ's name.