All right, uh would you turn your Bibles to 2 Samuel chapter number eleven? 2nd Samuel chapter number eleven. Amazing how God ministers to your heart. It's exciting. I feel like I'm in a valley this morning and I don't know how I don't know if there could have been a more fitting song than the song the stars just sang to minister to my heart in preparation for the service to this morning. I do have a lot of ground to cover, but I feel like I'm moving in slow motion. I want God to speak to our hearts, to use this familiar story. We uh have been talking about David in Sunday school, the second of the three kings that ruled over the United Kingdom of Israel. As we've been talking about the Old Testament history and timeline and what God's doing, we see David, this young man. As David comes on the scene, we're confronted with his faithfulness, faithful with the as a shepherd, faithful to do what God wants him to do. Then we see his fearlessness as he goes and he faces and he fights a giant and that amazing story of David and Goliath that we've all uh gleaned so much strength from and help through the years and As you study the life of David, the endless qualities that we are confronted with of his character that continues to rise to the top as he spares the life of Saul and he honors God over and over again. It is in the face of that that is truly hard for us to read and hear the story about this man after God's own heart. Who breaks God's heart in the story of David and Bathsheba? It is summarized in 2 Samuel chapter number 11. If you go all the way down to the end of the chapter there in verse number 27, Bringing this whole tragic course of events to a conclusion is summarized this way. When the morning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife and bare him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. We're going to walk through the set of notes that in in our habits. You're welcome to take your notes in there and fill in the blanks and whatever. We're going to walk through that set of notes. The point is, David. the sinner. David, the sinner. Would you pray with me and ask God to lead through the service? Or we come to you right now. We're grateful for your love. We thank you, God, that you did save a sinner like me. We thank you, God, that even in the valley you are good. We pray that you would take this time, this service, that you draw us into your presence. Lord, on my best day I'm an unworthy vessel. Lord, we pray this morning that you would take your word and your message and apply it to our hearts and draw us into your presence and lift the burdens of this world for a few minutes and speak to our hearts. Give me clarity of thought and liberty to preach. Use this, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. This stain on the character of this so prominent figure in the scripture is a poignant reminder to all of us That no matter how great the victory was today or yesterday, that we still have an enemy, Satan. And Satan is still our adversary that walketh about as a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. And although yesterday we experienced victory, although yesterday we were on top, although yesterday God's power carried us through, except by the grace of God we would fail today. We need the power of the Holy Spirit and His leading for us to continue to walk in success in this Christian life. We should learn from the tragedy that is the life of David, this experience in his life, that we might keep Satan from winning such battles in our lives. What will we learn here first? There's several things I would like to give you. First of all, we see that there was no caution around sin. For David, there was no caution around sin. We see in chapter 11, back up to the beginning, verse number 1. And it came to pass after the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all of Israel, and they destroyed the children of Amnon and besieged Rabbah, but David tarried still in Jerusalem. Can I tell you, beloved, to begin with, that he was careless concerning his responsibilities? This was a time when men would go forth to battle. It was a time when David had a job that was really expected of him. God makes that very clear here in this first verse. He said, it was a time when kings went to battle. It was a time when the expectation was that David wouldn't be at home resting, but he would be ruling. that he would be in the forefront of the battle, leading his men on to victory. But he said, you know what? You guys got it. I'm going to sit back and relax. Beloved, there is a time to rest, but there's also a time to work. You can be sure that when you neglect your responsibility, when you are not where you are supposed to be, you're opening yourself up for the attacks of Satan. When you're not in the battle where you're supposed to be, but you're back here resting, you're opening yourself up for Satan. You're putting yourself in harm's way. You're making provision for the flesh. That's what David did. One of our biggest problems today is people have too much time on their hands. You see, modern technology has made our lives much easier. And instead of allowing us or helping to us necessarily to accomplish more What it's done is it's made us more lazy. We can get the work we have to get done in this much time, and so we take every other bit of time and use it for rest and relaxation. It's all about, thank God it's Friday. It's all about getting done what I have to do so that I can play. I have a whole study I'm doing right now on work. Got several books that I'm reading published recently on the problem in America is the lack of workers. People just don't want to work. You know, there was a time when just putting food on the table was a full-time job. I mean, to start with, you had to go out and till the ground and you had to plant it. Then you had to water it, then you had to weed it, then you had to harvest it, then you had to process it, and then in order to cook it, you had to start a fire. But in order to start a fire, you had to go cut some wood I'm saying just just making a meal was a full-time job. As soon as you got done making breakfast, you were going to have to start on lunch. There was no microwave or ready-made meals. I was listening to a comedian recently from Africa. And he said, I came to Africa. I came from Africa to America and I went to the grocery store and I was shocked. He said, I saw in the grocery store there chicken He said, but this chicken was boneless. It was skinless. It was cut up into bite-sized pieces. It was marinated. It was fully cooked. Ready for the microwave. He said, I thought, my goodness, how lazy are you Americans? He said it for for me, in order to have a chicken dinner, it started with me running around the yard chasing the chicken That's the thing, is today we've got all these modern conveniences, and it's given us more time, and what that has done is it allowed us to rest and relax more, and now we're getting in a whole lot more trouble Because we're not busy doing what we need to be doing. Stop taking every chance that you can to relax and do what you're supposed to do. A faithful man shall abound with blessing. As the Proverbs says, a faithful man shall abound with blessing. Just do what you're supposed to do. I understand when you get home what we say is, man, I just don't feel like mowing the yard today. Do what you're supposed to do. Do what you're supposed to get done. If you're supposed to clean the house Get up and clean the house. If you're supposed to mow the grass, mow the grass. If you're supposed to be out sowing, go sowing. If you're supposed to be reading your Bible and walking with God, read your Bible and walk with God. If you're supposed to be Spending time with your children. Spend time with your children. What I'm saying is just do what you're supposed to do, and you would avoid a lot of the trouble that Satan gets you into But we're careless concerning our responsibilities. David was careless concerning the ladies In 2 Samuel chapter 3, you don't need to turn there, but verses 2 through 5 list his several of his wives. You know, at this time, David already had seven wives. I would say he was pretty careless concerning his responsibilities. He had seven wives already. What in the world? Not only what would he do with another one, but why would he want another one? Yes, amen. And I'm gonna leave that alone. The Bible, God had given them in Deuteronomy chapter 17, verse number seven seventeen, he says, neither talking about the duty of kings, he said, Neither shall they multiply wives unto himself. David knew that they were as a king he was not to multiply wives unto himself. He already had seven, as I'm saying he was pretty careless concerning the ladies. Men, we need to be careful concerning the ladies. You need to be careful about the relationship that you build and establish with ladies everywhere. I have one best friend in here, and she's sitting right over here. Lady, one best lady friend. Well I'd say other people that I would, ladies I would call friends, but there is a level of professionalism, there's a level of separation that has to be maintained. And you have to guard against that. Sometimes I think some ladies think I'm being rude or that I'm not being kind, and what I'm trying to do is maintain a proper relationship. I'm very careful. I try and be very careful about how close I get to ladies. Because I know there's a devil And Satan is out to destroy lives, and we've got to be careful concerning the ladies. David was careless concerning his eyes. We see in verse number two. And I need to get there myself. Second Samuel I'm sorry. He says I'm sorry. I was in First Samuel so it bothers my wife how how slow I turn to. Sometimes when we're standing together in a service and I'm turning the songbook to the right page, she actually tries to reach over and help me find She tries to help me find the number. 402. I know what four hundred and two is. I'll get there in a second, you know? She's like, here, let me look it's this way. I know the first verse is almost done. You know the chorus anyway. We'll be there in a second. Yes, but we love each other. So we see here in uh chapter eleven, verse number two, and it came to pass In the evening tide, that David arose from off his bed and walked up on the roof of the king's house, and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself. And the woman was very beautiful to look at. You see, he was careless concerning his responsibilities that allowed him to be in the place To behold this. He was already careless with the ladies and he found himself here in a place where there was A woman to behold, and he was careless with his eyes. When David looked down on this unsuspecting woman, he went down. An unholy desire rose up in his bosom that he did nothing to stop. He looked, and behold, the Bible says she was very beautiful. It is an expression of David uh in his mind and in his eye looking down upon this, he could have turned away at that moment and said, Whoa, wait, oh man, that's Bathsheba, that that's Uriah, the Hittite's wife. Boy, I I I cannot uh I cannot uh uh uh take her no he could have turned away at that point but he did not he looked and he lusted I can only imagine Solomon having his own father in his mind when he wrote these words in Proverbs chapter 6. Verse 27 through 29, he says, Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? So he that goeth to his neighbor's wife, whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. I think David probably was looking back in his mind's eye at his own father And how he looked upon a woman and that lust was conceived in his heart and it began to grow and he did nothing to squash it or put it out. He blocked out the leading of the Holy Spirit and the work of God in his life and he pursued her Instead of running away like Joseph did, he stared and he stirred up that desire in his heart. Those embers began to burn and there was nothing he could do. Beloved, to see something unintentional is not sin. But to stare with desire is. Now, I've heard preachers preach that Bathsheba shouldn't have been on that roof baiting, that Bathsheba shouldn't have exposed herself that way I don't believe that. Because I believe that God is honest And I believe God is very direct. He pulls no punches here. He lays this sin out in all of its wretchedness. And in all of that, he lays no blame at the feet of Bathsheba. I think if Bathsheba had sinned in what she was doing, God would have said something about it. It may have been very common for people to bathe on their roofs because it's up out of sight. She may have had, you know what, Gus Do you have that other picture? I didn't show it in Sunday. Do you have the picture of Israel? Of Jerusalem in David's time? So she may have had a a shroud around her. She may have been very protected in all intents and purposes. not realizing that anybody could even see her. The problem was is the palace was the highest point in the city. There is a picture here. that I was going to show in Sunday school and we didn't get to. Um I don't know how well you can make this out. Here's Mount Moriah. Here's David's palace. And if you've seen even look on Google Earth or anything like that. Jerusalem is built on a hill It's all up on a hill. And uh right here is the palace, the highest point in the city. The whole city falls away. It gets lower and lower and lower as you go down here. Here's the uh valley over here here and the Kidron Valley over here, the whole city kind of falls away both ways. And then the palace, of course, was much taller. David up on the roof would have been higher than all of the other homes. You can go back to the outline now. So David put himself in a position to behold or see that which he shouldn't have seen. Not only this, but David was careless concerning his inquiry. In verse number three, he he he saw and he lusted, and in verse number three, he inquired. And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Elam, the wife of Uriah the Hittrite? Beloved, do you hear the warning in that? Do you hear the servant of David coming to him and saying, Yes, the woman you asked about? Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Your mighty man Uriah, it's his wife. I'm pretty sure that's who it is, but David didn't take that warning. David didn't hear it. The alarm bells didn't go off in his mind. He continued to pursue her Can I tell you, beloved, that sin will make you stupid? Sin will make you do some of the dumbest things. I mean, you can't imagine. You'd wonder, how in the world could somebody be so stupid? Because of sin. Sin blinds their eyes. They go after it wholeheartedly. Until they come to themselves and realize what they've done. This, beloved, is where this temptation turns into a transgression. You see, he could have turned around at any time. He could have stopped and confessed and forsaken the look and the lust, and he could have said, Boy, I I cannot do this wickedness. How can I sin against God, as Joseph said? But he didn't. He called her. So we see there was a commitment of sin in verse number four. And David sent messengers and took her, and she came in unto him, and he lie with her, for she was purified from her uncleanliness, and she returned unto her house. You see, David knew full well what God said about adultery. He was not doing this in any question or doubt about the morality of what he was doing. He knew fully that this was wrong. He had been told that she was another man's wife, and yet he takes her and he lies with her. You see, at this point he is no longer under the control of the Holy Spirit. or of even rational thinking. Now he's under the control of a burning flesh. The flesh that wants what it wants. A white hot passion of desire that will not be satisfied. He pushes away anything that God wanted to do. He shuts down the conscience that God had given him in his own heart and mind, and he knew he was sinning against God. And yet he lied with her. Beloved, I don't believe that it was David's plan when he stayed home from battle to fall into this sin. I don't believe it was David's plan when he went up onto the roof to enjoy the breeze of the evening to see or behold a beautiful woman to try and end up in this position. I don't believe that many of those who end up lives ruined because of sin, that was their plan. But Satan is powerful. And he draws you in the next one. There was a commitment to sin. We see in verse number five, there was a conception from the sin. And the woman conceived. And since and told David and said, I am with child. You see, beloved, he thought he could just send her home and nobody would know. That only he and Bathsheba would know about this sin, and all the rest of the kingdom would be ignorant of it. But can I tell you the Bible still says, be sure your sin will find you out And when she sent a messenger unto him and said, Hey, David, I'm with child. What are you going to do? Faced with the reality of what he had done, David is once again at the point of decision. At this point, he could say, you know what? I've sinned. I've done wrong. Beg God for forgiveness Beg Uriah for forgiveness. Confess it. Forsake it. But instead, self-preservation goes into effect. Can I tell you that's human nature? Human nature is self-preservation. That's why when you have your child and you watch him Throw a rock through the window. And you come to him and you say, Did you throw that rock through that window? They will look in your face and say, No. They know you were standing there, they know you saw them do it, but there's something inside that says self-preservation I've got to protect myself. David, I can imagine him up in the castle fretting. Oh no, the whole kingdom's gonna know about this. Everybody's gonna know what I did. Boy, what are they gonna think of me as the king and what I've done? And oh, how in the world can I cover this up? Oh, I know what I'll do. I'll call Uriah. I'll get Uriah from the front lines. I'll have him come back under the guise that I need an update. I'll have him come back and I'll ask him for an update of the battle, and then he'll go home and lie with his wife, and nobody will be the wiser. So we see that there's a covering of sin. Instead of confessing it, he decides he would try and cover it in verses six through twelve. And David sent Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David, and when Uriah was come to him, David demanded of him how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered. And David said unto Uriah, Go down to thy house now and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed after him a mess of meat from the king. In verse number nine, we see a Uriah would not go home But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of the Lord, and went not down to his house. He didn't go to the house. You see, Uriah felt a weight and a burden of his responsibility. He couldn't go home and rest and relax when he had a job to do. He couldn't go home and take it easy and spend the evening with his wife and enjoy a good bath and a hot meal when the rest of his fellow soldiers were on the front line, when they were sleeping in a ditch somewhere, when their lives were in danger. No, his heart was heavy with the burden of the battle, and he said, I can't go home and relax. And he slept there on the ground thinking he would get up in the morning and head back to the battle. Yeah. Do you see the combined conniving nature of the human heart? How David connives to try and cover his sin here. This man, after the heart of God, is now conniving to cover his sin. His plan fails when the character of Uriah will not let him go and enjoy the comforts of home. You know, a man of character knows where he's supposed to be. He can't just go home and eat and drink and be merry And so David's plan to cover his sin fails. So we see a continuing of sin in verses 12 through 25. David had Uriah there. He could have confessed it. He could have said, man, this is what happened. I'm guilty and I'm sorry. But he didn't. We see, and David said to Uriah in verse number 12, Tarry here today also, and tomorrow I will let thee depart. What was the reason for him to stay another day? Uriah is ready to go back to the battle, but David says, wait, I want you to stay here another day. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day and the morrow. And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him, and he made him drunk. And at evening he went out to lie on his bed with his servants of his Lord, but went not down to his house. David thought, well, if I get Uriah drunk, if I get him just plastered. He won't be thinking with his right mind. He's going to go home. He's going to lie with his wife. Nobody will be the wiser. You see the continuing of sin? You see how sin begets sin? And it just progresses. David continues in sin. He says, boy, David knew what the law said about giving drink to other men, about getting your neighbor drunk. David again sins against Uriah the Hittite and gets him drunk and thinks he's going to send him home, but Uriah would not go. Even plastered out of his own right mind, he's still laid on the ground. At a time when David should have been rewarding Uriah for his faithfulness, David is trying to ruin him. Before this is done, David will be guilty of breaking five of the Ten Commandments. He coveted his neighbor's wife. He stole her. He committed adultery with her. He lied to cover it up. And now he's going to commit murder. He's going to have Uriah murdered. Again, in an effort to cover his sin. You see, David thinks, well, here's what I'll do. Uriah won't go home unto her. So I'm going to write a letter to Joab and tell him to put David in the front of the battle, and when the battle is at its hottest, back away, so that Uriah will be killed. David's thinking, well, I'll have Uriah killed, and then I'll take Bathsheba unto myself as my own wife. Everybody will think, wow, look at David. Look at how well he takes care of his men's families. I mean Here was this lady without a husband. He lost his life in a battle. And David, out of compassion and concern, is taking care of Uriah's wife, Bathsheba. In an effort to cover his sin, he has Uriah killed. Uriah carries his own death sins. To the front line and hands it to Joab. Uriah's put in the hottest part of the battle, and the men back away. What's amazing to me is they knew the character of this man Uriah. They knew that Uriah would not back away. until the retreat trumpet was sounded. They knew that Uriah was going to continue to fight. The men had been instructed to back away. And Uriah would they knew he was going to keep on fighting. He was going to say, come on, guys, let's get them. Come on. Wait, where are you going? Hey, nobody said retreat. Let's go, guys, come on. And he was going to keep fighting until the commander-in-chief called the retreat. Oh, to have some Christians that will continue to fight until the Commander-in-Chief calls the retreat. If we would just be faithful no matter what it's going to cost. No matter how hard it is, if we just stay in the battle, no matter how hot the battle is, no matter what it may cost us, Uriah probably saw them closing in. He saw his life on the line As we say that his life flashed before his eyes because he knew the end was near, but there was no retreat in him, and he kept on and lost his life. Because he was faithful until the end. David, thinking that all is well, I've covered it all, took Bathsheba. But we know, beloved, that the thing that he did displeased the Lord. And although we think nobody in this world knows, God knows. God knows. God knows what you did. It may be hidden and covered up. Maybe our own conniving has somehow flipped things around and it's all it's all okay. We think it's all alright. But beloved, I can tell you that God knows. And lastly this morning I would like you to know that there was a consequence, there was a cost for the sin We see in chapter number twelve that Nathan confronts David. In chapter twelve and verse number one, and the Lord sent Nathan unto David, and he came unto him, and he said unto him, And he gives to him a parable and he describes it and he says, hey, David, I have a problem. There was a really wealthy man. And this wealthy man, he had all kinds of lambs. He had so many lambs he didn't know what to do with them all. He could have had any lamb, the best land in the land, lamb in the land. He could have had anything he wanted. But When he had a friend come to town, he needed to kill a lamb to serve to his friend. And by him, close by, there was a poor man that only had one ew lamb One little ew lamb and this and this man that could have had anything he wanted. He went over here to this man who only had one. And he took that lamb and he killed it and served it to his guest. And David was indignant. He said, What? That is wretched! That man should be killed, and he should have to repay fourfold what he took. And then that fateful words of Nathan the prophet as he looks at David and we see in verse number seven He says, Thou art a man. And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. He describes to David what God had done. He says, David, you have sinned, but I want you to realize who you sinned against. He said, look. God of Israel said, I anointed thee. He said, I have given thee power. I anointed thee king over Israel. He says, I delivered thee out of the hands of thy enemy. He said, I protected you, David. I gave thy master's house and thy master's wives unto thy bosom, and gave thee a house of Israel and of Judah and all that had been unto been too little. I would moreover have given unto thee such and such things. He said, not only did I give you power, not only did I protect you, but I provided for you. And he says, more I would have given you way beyond that Can I tell you, beloved, that any time that we sin, we sin against a great God. We sin against a God that has given unto us salvation. Not only has he given us salvation, but he has promised that he would never leave you, that he would never forsake you. He has promised to provide for you. My God shall provide all of your needs according to his riches and glory He said that he would be with you and he would protect you. When we sin, we sin against a great God. David is now confronted with his sin, and we see that he confesses his sin. He finally confesses it. Unlike Saul, who hard-hearted continues to deny, at least Saul confessed it. I mean, at least David confessed his sin. And David repents. Here's the amazing thing. Look at verse number 13. Chapter 12 and verse number 13, we see And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, The Lord also hath put away thy sin. He says, thou shalt not die. You remember David's indignation and his declaration that the sinner that did this should die? God in his mercy said, David, you're not going to die. But you know what it was that quick when David came, Nathan said, God forgave you. Christian, whatever it is that we've done, if we would come, God would forgive. That quick, God forgives. And God is merciful. He said, You're not gonna die, David. But he goes on. He says, you are going to pay. He says, verse number 14, how be it? Because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. The children also, the child that is also born unto thee shall surely die. And Nathan departs. Can I tell you that although you've been forgiven, you may very well very well still have to reap. You know, if I go rob a bank, I can say I'm sorry But I still have to pay it back. I may still have to do jail time. I may be very sorry, and that may be the fact, but the fact of the matter is there's still a penalty. There's still something that has to be paid And so we see that the prophet pronounces this fourfold judgment on him that God heard from David's own mouth. I wonder. If David had been merciful in his judgment on this other person, if God wouldn't have been more merciful to David. God said, David, you're not going to die, but you are going to pay a fourfold return. Just as you pronounced. You know, God says if you don't forgive those that trespass against you, He's not going to forgive you. God was holding David to the standard that David wanted to hold others to. So David reaps the consequences of sin. We see let me see, let me look here. I need to find it in the text. Um We see the pronouncement here. Go back up to verse number ten. The pronouncement of this fourfold punishment. He says in verse number 10 and 11, he says, Now therefore the sword shall not depart from thine house. Because thou hast despised me, and thou hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be thy wife. Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house. And I will take thy wives before thine eyes and give them unto thy neighbor, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of this sun. For thou dost it secretly, but I will do these things before all of Israel and before the sun. Then David confesses and says, I've sinned. But we see a fourfold payment that he pays. We don't have time to turn and read these passages, but I want you to know that just as Nathan said, David and Bathsheba's son died. Amnon lusted for and raped his own half-sister Tamar, just as the prophet said, you're going to have this sexual perversion in your own home. Absalom, angry and mad about Tamar, his sister being raped, goes and kills his brother Amnon. He said the sword would not depart from their house. Absalom tries to steal the throne from David and sins against him. And David weeps in anguish. Over all of this. You know, again, I have to believe that Solomon was thinking about this tragedy in his own home When he wrote Proverbs 28, 13, He that covereth his sins shall not prosper. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. I can't help but think David was thinking back, or Solomon was thinking back at David and what happened in his father's life. When God gave him the words and he pinned, Whosoever covereth his sins shall not prosper, but whosoe confesseth and forsaketh him shall have mercy. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes