Well if you would, first Samuel chapter number thirteen. I'll tell you, um I'm not expecting to uh keep on this theme, although my heart was stirred with a couple of matters. Uh when we went last Wednesday, 19 of us went down and uh had the privilege of watching the production of David. uh by sight and sound and and as we watched that production there was uh a couple of truths that really just kind of stuck in my mind and I walked away pondering those and went back to the scripture and thought a little bit more about them. And uh on Thursday night I dealt with the idea of David's strength. And where did that strength come from? That strength that he had to go stand and to face a giant, the strength to continue to do what God wanted him to do and And I pondered and thought about that. I had the privilege of preaching on that on Thursday nights. You can listen to that on Sermon Audio or the Sermon app that we have through Sermon Audio from the church. if you uh are interested in it. Uh but this morning we're going to take the other aspect, the other thought that really rang through in my heart and mind that I walked away with deciding I wanted to study this a little further. I wanted to ponder this a little more And that truth was the actor who was playing David. I understand he was an actor and he was just playing this character that we find in the scripture. But he had a couple of phrases that he would say over and over again, and one of those phrases that he said over and over again is he said, I'm after your heart O God. After every challenge, after every struggle, at the quiet time of each night, he would sit down with his harp and he would begin to play, and he would say, I'm after your heart. Oh God. And I walked away with that, maybe changing my perspective on that idea. That man which we know to be David, and the Bible tells us clearly that he was a man after God's own heart. We see that in the book of Acts. We're going to be in 1 Samuel, that you're in the right place. But in Acts chapter 13, verse number 22, he says, And when he had removed him, That's talking about Saul was removed. He raised up unto them David to be their king, to whom also he had given testimony, and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after. Mine own heart. A man after mine own heart. This morning I would like to, for just a few minutes, draw our attention to the Word of God and ponder the thought. A man after God's own heart. A man after God's own heart. Would you join me in prayer and ask God to speak to our hearts this morning? Lord, we come to you and I need you to give me liberty to preach. I need you to give me clarity of thought. Help me to be able to step aside and God, what a what a joyous time we've had thus far singing praises to you and lifting our voices in song. And Lord, there your spirit's here, your presence is with us. There's no question about that. We're excited about the day and we're excited about your word. We ask you, God, that you would turn our hearts and minds to the Scriptures and that we might meet with you for a few minutes, that you might speak to our hearts through this truth that's given to us from your word. And we ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. In 1 Samuel chapter number 13, verses 13 and 14, we see this transaction taking place that I referenced from the book of Acts. In verse number 13, he says, And Samuel said to Saul, You have done foolishly. You have not kept the commandments of the Lord your God. Which he commanded you, for now the Lord would have established your kingdom over Israel forever. But now your kingdom shall not continue. He said, Saul, you messed up. God was on your side. God was with you. God had a plan, and he would have continued your kingdom forever. But Saul, you wouldn't do what I told you to do. Saul, you decided not to follow God and His will, what God wanted. Instead, you decided to follow your own will. Therefore, I'm taking the kingdom away from you. He says, you know what? I'm going to look through the land. I'm going to find somebody to rule this kingdom. He says, I'm going to try and find a man that can lead my people and lead them how I want them to be led. The characteristic that he described for the kind of man he wanted, he gives us here. He says the Lord sought for himself a man after his own heart. And the Lord has commanded him to be commanded over his people, because ye have not kept what the Lord commanded you. He said Saul, God took away the kingdom, and he's going to give it to this young man, a man after God's heart. You know, I suppose the direct way of looking at this, the way that in my heart and mind I kind of maybe always viewed it, and is probably quite common As I think about David, a man after God's own heart, you you you you think of it very directly and you think about, well Maybe it's not something that David really has control over. When I pondered it before, you think about, you know, like Maybe like like one one individual may find a uh a friend and and and his friend likes golf Oh, he likes golf. Like I like golf. But we we we have that in common. Or or maybe they you find somebody and you both enjoy uh uh the beach and and the the ocean and it's just You just love a vacation, you're going to go down to the beach. And other people are like, no, get me away from the beach. I want to go to the mountain. But you found somebody you had something in common with You know, maybe like David was kind of made after the manner of God and had some things in common with God. You know, I have on occasion been with somebody and said, man, that's something after my own heart. For instance, we were sitting down at work party, I think it was, and I was sitting across from one of uh the church members and uh they said their favorite pie was coconut cream pie. And I said, Oh. That's why I said, oh man. I said coconut cream pie. That's after my own heart. Coconut, you you just won me over right there, coconut cream pie, man. Marie calendars, coconut cream pie. If you haven't had it, stop on your way home. Wegmans has it. Less than 10 bucks, it'll change your life. Okay, so coconut cream pie. But here's the thing. They liked coconut cream pie, whether I liked it or not. What I felt about coconut cream pie had no bearing or no influence on the fact that they liked coconut cream pie. It's just we happen to have those two things in common. But as I watched this man play that part and he prayerfully sang I master thy heart, O God. I master thy heart, O God. I saw the heart that was on purpose in pursuit of God. It's like a child who Wants to be like Dad. The little boy who has yet to walk in his own shoes and yet to really develop his own life, yet, but What he wants to do is he wants to be like dad. It doesn't matter what it is, it's whatever dad does he wants to do and he puts dad's shoes on and maybe picks up dad's nail belt and it's dragging on the ground but It it doesn't it's not that he really likes Milwaukee tools. It's that dad likes Milwaukee tools, and so he likes Milwaukee tools. Why? Because he wants to be like dad. Or a young lady who standing in the kitchen is so thrilled because she's got an apron that matches mama's apron. You know, it's it's it has nothing to do with the fact that she's always wanted an apron. It's the fact that she has an apron that's like mama's apron. She wants to be like Mama and whatever they can do to try and line up with and be like mama, they want to do And that's what I saw, and the the the kind of change in my mind as I thought about David, it was not just arbitrarily he had some things in common with God. No, he looked at his life And he said, Whatever I need to do, whatever I need to change, whatever I need to adopt, whatever I need to wear, wherever I need to go, whatever I need to do in order that I might be My God, that's what I want to do He said, I'm after your heart, O God. I'm after your heart. And he pursued the heart of God and desired to make whatever change he could that he might be like God. The Bible says there in the book of Acts, chapter 13, verse number 22, it says that God had a testimony. The God of heaven gave testimony that David's heart was one that was after him. I walked out of that production and said in my heart and mind, I said, God, would you have that testimony of me? Would you say that Caleb is a man after my heart? Would he have to be honest that Caleb's heart is after things in this world Caleb's heart is after his own pursuits. Caleb's heart is after a lot of things, but not really after God. And I thought, I wonder what we could learn from the life of David and from the comments of David that might point to how his heart was after God's heart. There are many things we could look at or we could draw from, but I would like you to see a couple of them You mind using your Bibles this morning? We're going to turn to a few passages because I want you to see it. Turn to 1 Samuel chapter 17. A few chapters over, but 1 Samuel chapter 17, verse number 26. We read this passage just about in its entirety on Thursday night, so I'm not going to read it all again. It was a quite long reading, but you can read it, but I'm going to take for granted that many or most of you here know the story. But in verse number 26, We see that then David spoke to the men who stood by him, saying, What shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? Now you know the story here, and you know we're right here in the middle of it where we're David comes on the scene. He was sent to the battlefield with food for his brothers and completely innocent of anything, he he just doing what he was told to do, he shows up on the battlefield and He hears this Philistine standing over there mocking and defying the armies of the living God. And he he hears that and he says, What's going on here? And of course, you know his older brother Eliab says, Oh, I know the naughtiness of thy heart. I know how you just came to see the battle and get intermixed in here when you have no business in here. What are you doing? And David says, Hey Isn't there a cause? Isn't there something to stand up for? Isn't there something worth fighting for? Don't you hear this uncircumcised Philistine, this wicked and ungodly man, don't you hear him mocking our God? What I want you to see first of all is David protected God's honor. He protected God's honor David saw that there was something worth fighting for. There was something he was after God's heart. He loved God and wanted to protect God's honor. Listen, if any of you men were down at the grocery store today buying some coconut cream pie for Pastor, I mean for yourself, if you were buying some pie, if you were walking into the grocery store You had your beautiful wife by the hand and you're walking into the store and somebody in that parking lot began to say the most vulgar just disgusting things about your wife I doubt there's a man in here that wouldn't be man enough to stand up and say, Excuse me, but what are you talking about? You're gonna you're gonna talk about my wife while I'm standing here I'm going to protect her. I love her. You aren't going to you you you might do it behind my back, but you sure aren't going to do it in front of me. You there's a lady present You apologize to her. What I'm saying is David heard somebody mocking his God and he says, you aren't going to do that in front of me. It's one thing if I was out on the shepherd uh out on uh the back back 40 and taking care of the sheep and I didn't hear it, but I I I heard it. And you aren't going to do that. This morning I wonder how many Christians are willing to stand up for God. Willing to stand up for God. Boy, this world is sure happy to stand up for their filth, aren't they? This world is glad to promote and to to fight for the most vulgar and wicked lifestyles, and they're willing to just just raise their voice from the top of the mountain. And sometimes you think, why aren't you embarrassed? I mean, just look in the mirror, man. You think, how in the world can you do that? But there is no shame. There is no hesitation. They cry it from anywhere they can for the wickedness they want to live for. But where are God's people that'll stand up? Where are God's people that have a voice for God and are willing to stand up and say something against the wickedness of this world? For far too long, we've just let everyone do what they want to do. As long as they don't bother us, it's okay. After all, we're Christians and we're supposed to be meek and we're supposed to turn the other cheek. We've been doing that for several generations and slowly your freedoms have been taken away. Beloved, it's been said that all is needed for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing. And that's what was happening up till this point on that battlefield. All of the Israelites were standing back, they all loved God. They all uh knew the God of Israel The whole army, Saul and every one of them, were there, and they heard this man standing up there defying the armies of the living God. But none of them stood up. Where are the men? Where are the ladies that will stand up for God? Ephesians 6, 10 through 13 says, Finally, my beloved brethren, be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to Stand. Beloved, are we willing to stand? Are you willing to protect the honor of God? Are you willing to speak up? I mean you can't hardly go anywhere without hearing the the vulgarness of this world They're not ashamed about it at all. But are we ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ? Can I remind you this morning that Jesus stood for you? He stood before Pilate and was falsely accused. He stood before the crowd as they yelled, Crucify Him. He gave his life for you. I praise God that three days later he stood outside the tomb. And he is today standing for you. David says says in Psalms 35, he says Plead my case, O Lord, with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of a shield and a buckler, and stand up for my help God will stand for you, but will you stand for God? That is the question this morning Man, a man after God's own heart will truly stand for him. David said to Goliath, Goliath, you're going to die today. The Lord has delivered you into my hand. And why? That the whole earth may know that there's a God in Israel. That there's a God in Israel. Does it bother you that this world doesn't even believe there's a God? They don't even believe there's a God. Maybe it's because for too long Christians have not stood up. Ezekiel 22, 30 says, and I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land. That I should not destroy it, but I found none. I wonder if God looked down at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and said, I'm looking for a man after my own heart. A man that's willing to stand up Would he find one? Would he find one? I want you to see, secondly, not only did David protect God's honor, but I want you to see that he had a passion for God's house. David had a passion for God's house. You understand, beloved, that if you love God, you're going to love the things that God loves? That's just the way it is. Like the little boy who wants to be like dad. He he's gonna grab whatever tool dad has. He's gonna lift up and and try and do whatever dad's doing. He's gonna copy and mimic and and try and be like dad. Turning your Bibles to Psalms chapter 27. There's a number of verses in this passage that we will be looking at. It's a very powerful Psalm, but it in verse number four, the familiar verses. Psalms 27, verse number 4, he says, One thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To behold the beauty of the Lord and to choir at his temple. Can I ask you this morning if you had one thing? If you had one thing that you could have in this entire world, I mean, I don't want to be sacrilegious, but let's say like the genie in the bottle, you had one wish you could have out of anything in the world Would there be anybody in here that your wish would be to dwell in the house of God? See, David had a passion for God's house. He wanted to be in God's house anytime, all the time, as much as he could. He said, I want to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Some of you desires, if you had one wish, it might be for great wealth. Some of you here dealing with physical problems, your wish might be just for some good health. There may be others your ambitions maybe aren't so high. You say, boy, I just wish I had a car that ran. You know, I could if I just had a car that would run, you know, that could that that would be good enough for me. And you say, you know, almost like that's spiritual because I'm not wishing for too much. You know, I'm I'm content. If I had a car that ran or maybe a job that was just sufficient to pay the bills But I wonder if you were 100% honest before God today, would any of us say, what I want more than anything in this world is to dwell in the house of God? You see, David was after the heart of God. He wanted to be wherever God was. He wanted to go after God's heart. Trying to decide whether to tell you this or not. A few weeks ago, Ms. Amy came to me. She said, Pastor Caleb, I really need to get out of choir. I said, Do you need out of choir? She says yes. And I said, why do you need auto-acquired? She's like, well, with our schedules and the difference in time and the difference in services and so on. Um The only time that Michael and I can talk is steering choir on Sundays. And so I looked at her and said, why do you need to talk on Sundays? There's six other days in the week. Like what's uh she's like, well, we would like to talk on Sunday. And I said, uh listen, you're gonna be in a you know, a few more weeks you're gonna be gone anyway. You're gonna be going, you're gonna get married and and The choir can live without you for a few weeks. I guess we can let you talk to Michael on Sundays. What what I'm saying is She had something that she wanted so bad she was willing to adjust and change her life to make it happen. What are you willing to adjust to make it happen? To be in the house of God? It was so important to her You know, tell you I've told you this before, but it's very fitting here. Um about twenty-seven and a half years ago When Mary and I were dating, I saw this fine and upstanding young lady, this spiritual lady, this godly lady who who really had no business dating me And uh I didn't feel like I had much of a chance. So I got alone in my closet. I got down on my knees. And I said, God, God in heaven, Savior of my soul, creator of the world, oh Holy One of Israel. I said, Lord. Do you know I want to marry this girl more than anything? God, if you let me marry her, I'll never ask you for anything else in this world. I had to confess that sin about a month later. But what I'm saying is, there was something in my heart, there was a passion that was there that was so strong and powerful that I looked at it and said, I'm willing to sacrifice a lot that I could spend my life with this lady. But what are we willing to sacrifice to spend time with God? A man after God's own heart, you understand I wanted her heart. I wanted to have her heart. I wanted her heart to love me. I wanted us to spend our days together and to grow old together. And I don't know how, but it's happening. That's what I wanted more than anything And I was willing to sacrifice it all so that that could happen. But too many of us are willing to do anything else except be in God's house. If we're a man after God's own heart, we're going to have the a love for the things that God loves It's going to be something in our heart. There's going to be something driving us, something pushing us, something saying this is the priority. Listen, the church has lost its sacredness in the hearts of God's mind, people. It has lost its priority in the hearts of God's people. David was a man after God's own heart, and as I ponder and think about the idea of I want to be a man after God's own heart, Then I've got to love the things that God loves. I've got to have a passion for the heart of God. David says in Psalms 84, he says, For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I'd rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory. No good thing will withhold from them that walk uprightly. He says, Man, I would rather just be a doorkeeper in the house of God than anything else. Anything else? I'm gonna throw this one out. I'm not gonna spend much time here unless I quench the spirit. But I want you to see that his passion caused him to provide for God's house. Now you guys know the story, right? You guys know the Bible? The Bible says that David wanted to build the house of God. He really wanted to. And God said, no, you can't because you're a man of war, because you have blood on your hands. And David said, okay, well, I can't build it, but I can prepare for it. And David began to put together all of the things needed for the house of God. He provided for the house of God. And if that's something that's a passion of yours, you'll do the same. I want you to see thirdly this morning that God was his portion for heaven. You've got to see this in the scriptures. Turn to Psalm 73. Psalm 73. God was his portion for heaven. Psalm 73, looking at verse number 24 through 26. We see David describing the time when he'll be in glory, when he'll be in heaven. And he describes the fact that that's what he longs for more than anything else, that God is his portion forever. Look in Psalm 73, beginning in verse number 24, he says, Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel. He says, God, you're going to guide me day by day through this life with thy counsel, and afterward, receive me to glory, whom have I in heaven But the. You ponder that for a second. You know a lot of times, and and listen. We don't sorrow as those without hope. We have the joyous truth given to us in the Word of God that we are going to be restored with our loved ones once again. Do you believe that David did not have anybody he cared about that went on to glory? I think he probably did. But what does he say right there? Verse number 25, the first phrase, he says, Whom have I in heaven but thee? He said, God, who do I have in heaven but you? I know there's a lot of people we love and want to be reunited with. There's even some people I didn't even know that I'm looking forward to meeting, like Paul. I mean there's a lot of people that I I'm just looking forward to chatting with. But listen, a man after God's own heart is looking to be reunited with him. To be reunited with him. Yeah, I was telling Pastor Derek yesterday, I said, my son's gonna be home this evening. So you know back when uh when I was a kid and I left home? I really didn't give any thought to it. I just left home, man. I was ready to go. I looked at Derek and said, but you know what? I miss my kids. I miss my kids. And last night when Mary texts me, I was at the office here studying. She texts me and says, uh, your son's home. I said, Alright, I'll be right there. I packed my stuff up and went over to the house, walked in there, gave him a hug. Missed him. Wanted to be reunited with him. David said, Whom have I had heaven but the He says, and there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee. Wow. You talk about a man after God's own heart. There's none that I desire besides thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. My portion forever. God was his portion. I'm going to take a little bit of liberties here. This is not a direct interpretation of the scripture, and I have this is just application, but I want you to understand the truths, some truths that I can apply here. And that is, he says, My flesh is going to fail me. You understand that you cannot get to heaven any other way, except by putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and his shed blood on the cross. Your the hand of flesh is going to fail you. You can't be good enough on your own to get there. You need Jesus Christ. And his shed blood. If you're here this morning, you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and His shed blood, I want you to know that you're not on your way to heaven. Because it's not about how good we are. It's about what Jesus did. I want to encourage you this morning, let him be your portion for heaven. You can't make it on your own. But the way has been provided 100% free. Just confess your sin. Confess your belief in Jesus Christ, what he did for you on the cross, and that God the Father raised him, God the Son, from the grave for your salvation, for your forgiveness. Let him be your portion. The psalmist said, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Is the Lord your salvation, or are you dependent upon something else this morning? I hope not. Can I give you the last one this morning? He panteth for God's hope. You need to see this one too. Turn to Psalms 42. He panteth for God's hope. Psalms forty-two. I know you guys know the scriptures. You're there already in your mind. You you you heard the word and you're like, oh I know where we're going. This is good. I don't say a lot of profound stuff, but there's there's some pretty good truths right here. I'll tell you that. Psalms 42, look at verses 1 through 5. Familiar verses, but I want you to hear it. He says, as the heart panteth after the water brooks. So panteth my soul after thee, O God. My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my meat day and night Well, they continually say unto me, Where is thy God when I remember these things? I pour out my soul in me. For I had gone with the multitude. I went with them to the house of God with a voice of joy and praise with a multitude that kept holiday Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? And what's the next four words if you're there? Hope thou in God. Hope thou in God. He panteth for the hope that can only be found in God. To hope in God. He longed for it. There's a desperate need presented here in the description that he gives as he describes for us This panting after God, the deer panteth, in is brought to a place of need You see, the deer panting is not something that he does on an otherwise calm and cool afternoon. As Kenny Baldwin likes to say, it's not like he's sitting in the shade drinking pink lemonade. It's no, you know what the idea of pants it's after there's some distress, there's a problem, there's something that has arisen. It's not like you are sitting on your porch on a spring afternoon and it's a beautiful evening and the Sun is about to set and it's just it's just comfortable and nice and your wife comes up and says, hey, would you like a glass of iced tea? And you say, oh, that would be great. And she brings you some iced tea and you're oh that's that's good. That's delicious. But that's not what's being shown here. The idea of pantith is the idea of there is some great distress. There is a problem that has arisen. Something that has happened that's caused him to run for his life. Now I know you've all seen deer run for their life. Hopefully not at your car. But you see, we we have deer over on the property all the time. All the time. And sometimes it's amazing. They'll be as uh far as me to Christina. We can get that close to them. They don't even move. They're just sitting there eating. But other times like we'll we we're from here to the back of the church and we close the door, close the door, just a car door. And they just they bolt, you know, they take off, they're gone, running. And and I know don't don't throw rocks at me. But we have a four-wheeler and occasionally I can't help but chase them on the four wheeler. And I'll tell you what, they're all out in the yard eating and grazing. And uh I I'm on the phone with her and I just go towards them. Mmm and them deer just take off, man. Running, running, jumping, flying. They're they're they're taking off. Them deer are panting, okay? They're they're looking for some reprieve. They're like, what in the world is coming after me? Never seen anything like this before. They're they're running. They're panting John Gill, describing this passage, says that water provides safety It can be a means of escape for the deer. They very well may be able to cross a stream or a area of water that a pursuing animal can't cross They they look to that water. It's where they're going to head when little tidbit for you hunters, if you're looking for deer, that's where they head when they're in trouble. They go towards the water. Secondly, he said it provides sobruity. Now there's a word you don't read every day. I had to look it up. It means health. You see, deer are uh like dogs in that they have to be cooled off through their tongue. They pant, that cool water cools their body down, and it brings health. You see, David longed to be with God in the time of trouble. In his distress, he found himself looking for the living water. Jesus Christ. Dear friend, in your hour of need, do you long for Him? Do you come to the living water? Do you dive deep into the water of His Word? We see that not only was there a desperate need presented, but there was a deliverance provided. In verse number five, he says, Why art thou cast down? See, David was panting after God. He says, My heart is distressed, my the burdens are heavy, the trial is great, I'm panting as though as though I I can't catch my breath, as though I'm about to overheat, as though the enemy is right on my tail, and I I'm I don't know if I'm going to get away. I need something from you, God. And then he says in verse number five, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted in me? Hope thou in God. He says, You've got God. God is there, and He's with you in your hour of need. Come to the brook Come to the water that liveth, and you can have hope. Amen. Beloved, the deliverance that's found for the one who pants for him. As the deer panteth for the water, so my soul longeth after thee. You alone are my heart's desire, and I long to worship thee. You alone are my strength and my shield. To you alone may my spirit yield. You alone are my heart's desire. I long to worship thee You are my friend and you are my brother. Even though you are a king, I love you more than any other. So much more than anything. You alone are my strength and my shield. To you alone may my spirit yield. You alone are my heart's desire. And I long to worship thee. Question this morning I have for you. It are you and I like David. A man after God's own art