Alright, very good. We'll take your Bibles to 2nd Corinthians with me. 2nd Corinthians chapter 2. We're going to be getting a new series this Sunday. This is going to last, I believe, five weeks. from here on out on this series of lessons, and we're going to talk about dealing with devices. Dealing with devices. I uh wanted uh I went back and forth, I was trying to find the good title to kind of summarize what we're dealing with here, and I was really leaning towards teaching on tech, uh teaching on tech, but we're gonna we switched around, you'll see why in a minute to dealing with devices, but um And when I told someone a couple months ago that I was considering teaching a series on this, they're surprised. How are you going to teach on technology in the Bible? Didn't you know that it was written before there was technology? Um and yes, we understand that the Bible was written well before what we consider to be technology was ever even thought of. But how many of you would agree with me this morning that in this book, the Word of God, God gave us everything we need to know to understand how He wants us to live our lives? So regardless of whether the Internet existed when Jesus walked on the earth, he gave us principles to live by as Christians that apply in today's age. The Bible is not outdated. The Bible is a timeless book. And the principles we can draw from it can apply to every aspect in every part of our life. The truths in the Word of God are timeless because their author is timeless. God was not taken off guard with the invention of the internet. He was not surprised by radio, television, commun uh computers, cell phones or smartphones. When God wrote the Ten Commandments on a on a stone on Mount Sinai, he was aware that one day swipe type would be discovered. So God knew that we as Christians would one day have to make decisions on how we use technology in our daily lives. So He's given us instructions on how we live and principles to live by, and those can be applicable. to uh the decisions we make regarding our devices. God gave us timeless principles in the Bible that apply to our use of and our relationship with technology. What we're going to be looking at in this class is taking a look at some Bible principles and we'll be implying applying them to technology. Now, let me encourage you, I know there's a broad range uh of ages and uh a familiarity with with tech and what you use, you know, it's amazing that how young uh somebody can pick up my boys can can get a phone, they can figure out how to open the camera and do do all the that's why there's passwords on there so they can't do anything else, but they know how to work all that stuff at a very young age and um some that that are older they still, you know what I want a phone that only calls people Uh I don't want anything else on my phone. Uh my my dad was that way for a long time. I think he still would rather have that, but he couldn't find one. Couldn't find a phone that just called people Um because he wanted a uh well just a phone, that's what I'm looking for. I don't need a camera, I don't need a a computer, I don't need a uh a gaming system, I want something that can call people in my pocket. Um but that's the this broad range. So as I'm dealing with this these principles, don't tune off the section because you're like, well, that's not something I deal with. Uh I'm not on social media. I I don't use my phone to play games. I don't whatever the section is, because the Bible principles don't just apply the technology. So although um We all probably deal with this more than we think we do. It still is the truth that will apply to other areas of our lives. If we're listening to the Word of God as it's being taught, even if the application of the preacher's making isn't specific to us That's why we have the Holy Spirit, because he can guide us into all truth. And so when the truth is being presented and the preacher is saying, Well, this deals with your relationship on social media, you say, Well, I'm not on social media, but the Holy Spirit says, Yeah, but here's something you're doing in this area of your life That's the way the Holy Spirit works, if we're sensitive to it. So let me encourage you, even if you don't think you have a problem with this area of technology we may be dealing with, the principles of the Bible has here apply to many other areas of our lives. You know, there's many reasons why I wanted to study and teach this topic. I actually looked at the idea of teaching this back last October. I put it into my to teach in Sunday school list of I want to do a series on teaching on tech, and there's a lot of reasons for it. The primary reason I decided to teach on this topic is because technology affects so many areas of our lives and so much of our time that we need to know what God thinks about it. Things have changed very rapidly in the last 15, 20, 30, 40 years from what the way things used to be to the way things are now. and we've adopted something brand new to humanity throughout all of history and it's become almost instantly ubiquitous. Everybody is on these things and and we haven't had a lot of time to really develop What are some good Bible principles to put in place with this new addition we've added to our life when it comes to technology? Of all the things that we preach on in church, they are very important for us to understand as a Christian But there's likely nothing that impacts our lives more on a daily basis than technology. So we need to know it's good. I I believe in preaching on reading your Bible. I believe in preaching on church attendance. I believe in preaching on salvation. All these things are very important and we don't want to exclude these doctrines, but there's a very practical area of our life here that often gets neglected because we just kind of everybody does it, everybody has it, we don't give any thought to it. You don't really think about how it's affecting you. And we need that we need to take its time to step back and look at what would God say about the way we used these devices. If we exclude working on a computer, I know many of you work on your job and you're working on a computer, you're forced to use technology on a daily basis. But if we exclude work-related use of technology and just go to personal use, I did some research and this is uh data from twenty nineteen. So this is pre-COVID data, uh pre everybody staying at home data. And it talked about how much people use uh their phone. I had the general statistics for America as a whole, but I narrowed it down uh to Maryland and Pennsylvania so it hits us a little closer home because As Marylanders and Pennsylvanians, uh, we use our phones more than the rest of the country does. Um we are we are in the top top uh probably top ten states that use phones the most per person uh on average So those of us in Maryland, we are doing a little better than those in Pennsylvania. So we're doing a little bit better. But here's the numbers, some statistics on screen time use. This is personal screen time use, not your phone, not your computer at work But it what you just use for yourself. In Maryland, the average is 199 minutes a day. So that's about three hours and twenty minutes a day that the average person in Maryland spends on the ear on their phone. For Pennsylvania it's 213 minutes a day, so about three hours and forty-five minutes a day on the phone. This comes out to, for Maryland, 23. 2 hours a week. Almost a full day of our week is spent on our phones. And you go to Pennsylvania and it goes to twenty-four point nine or almost twenty-five hours a week. What does this come out to on a yearly basis a couple of years ago, or a couple of weeks ago, I'm sorry, a couple weeks ago, I taught uh the on the idea of doing something on a daily basis. So with this average in Maryland, they spend an average of 50. 4 24 hour days on their phone every year. In Pennsylvania, uh you guys spend fifty-four uh days every year on your phone. So this little things that we do uh adds up so much. I was talking to someone recently they're saying, well I don't do very much on on the computer or they're telling me about somebody they don't they don't do very much on their phone. I only scroll. I mean it's maybe like twenty minutes a day. Well 20 minutes a day comes out to a three, forty hour work weeks. uh by the end of the year. So this is something we need to be aware of, that's how much of our time goes into these things. So that was kind of the the premise of this is such ubiquitous technology and we all have it and we're not really paying attention to what we do. And even as I was studying this getting into there on your phone, if you have an Apple phone, you have this device called screen time. And I have most of my notifications turned off, but I turned on the notification for screen time because I want it reminding me how much time I've been on my phone so that I can make pay attention. So there's something to watch out for. These devices, they're with us constantly, and we spend more time with them than almost anything else outside of working and sleeping. If we're going to let a device have that much impact on our lives, we need to know what God thinks about it and how he expects us to interact with it. Another reason I really want to deal with this topic is for our young people. So looking at specifically to the teens, you guys, this is something that you're going to have to make decisions on that a lot of adults never had to make a decision when they were teens. That they didn't have this have this technology. I often joke with our teens about being old, but you guys are growing up in a different world in 2010, 2020 than I grew up in 1990. Different world, because I remember when there were no cell phones in the youth group Not because they weren't allowed to have 'em, but because they weren't around. Um when there weren't weren't cell phones in the in the in the youth group. And when we when we got cell phones as I was getting older and they were becoming more common and some of my friends were giving the youth group, the only music you could access on the cell phone was the fifteen preloaded ringtones. that you could get a hold of. And you couldn't hook onto the internet. You couldn't play games. The only games on the phone were the were the snake blocks where it moved slowly around and you had to connect the blocks. It wasn't this online gaming stuff. All that we can do with our phones. So You guys are living in a completely different world than all the adults here in the room and growing up in that. So you're going to have to make some decisions that we didn't have to make. It's amazing to see the difference. If you look at a young person growing up in 1850 He had pretty much the same childhood as somebody growing up in 1650. Not a lot of difference there. But here in 30 years, uh I have a completely different childhood than you do. And technology has such a huge impact on that, and you're going to have to make some decisions on how you're going to use it. I'm so thankful that I grew up before the internet and cell phones were ubiquitous. You know, I sent my I I said as far as no one in our youth group had a how a cell phone when I came to the youth group, the only music we could listen to were those re preloaded ring tones. I sent my first text message when I was about seventeen years old. Um picture message, I don't know if I sent one of those till I was nice or twenty um as far as just just not having that technology and not not having to deal with it. I didn't have a cell phone, could play games, access the internet until I was out of college. What I'm saying is you're gonna face dangers and temptations that I never had to face You're gonna have to make decisions to put standards in place that I never did. Every one of you have the opportunity to be exposed to more corruption in minutes than many of the adults had their entire teenage life. So it's something you need to be careful with. If you are not careful, and I'm not saying that I live perfectly and never dealt with sin or temptation, but they these things are so much easier to access today. If you're not careful and you do not set up biblical principles in your life, that computer in your pocket will destroy you. And you need to be careful with that. You need to be on guard for it. Some of you are already allowing it to do so. You're finding ways around protections that your parents are trying to put in place and you're making decisions that I guarantee you one day you're going to regret So I really want to teach this to be a help to all of us, but to you teens to try to give you some biblical principles. We are going to in this series look at or discuss, we're not going to look at it, we're going to discuss the wickedness that is available there through our devices. But understand that this idea of the wickedness that we are are always associate with, oh yeah, internet's bad because of all this stuff that's on there. That is one aspect of it, but there's other Bible principles that apply to not just the wicked things on there, but things that are kind of uh neutral. What about playing games on the phone? Is there a problem uh with that? We'll be talking about those as well. There are issues with the amount of time we spend, how they distract us from having real relationships, and the control they can exert over our lives and many other things. So today we're going to not actually look at some of those principles. We're going to get kind of an introduction to this idea of dealing with devices. If you found a replaced in 2 Corinthians, look at chapter 2, verse number eleven. Chapter 2, verse number eleven. The Bible says here, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. That would be why I went with the title, Dealing with Devices, instead of teaching on tech. But it says there, lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant. of his devices. Let's open the word of prayer and we'll get into this introduction today. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word. Lord, we thank you that the truths in it are timeless, that we don't have to have to wonder. about how you would want us to to live and behave as we face new things that were not faced by Christians of the past, Lord, that you've given us principles in the Bible that we can live by. Pray you'd help me to be clear as I teach these things. And that we would understand it and begin to implement uh them in our lives, Lord. We ask you, bless our time around you the word this morning. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen So you look here at this verse, what's the context? What's going on here? Well, this is actually referencing something that took place in 1 Corinthians. We just dealt with 1 Corinthians a little bit the last couple weeks in Sunday school dealing with the idea of overcoming knowledge in chapter eight. And you remember the Corinthian church was a very carnal church. They had brought a lot of those sinful baggage with them into the church, and something specifically referenced in chapter 5 was immorality that was blatant, that was uh somebody was living in sin and everybody knew about it, uh public sin, and Paul said, you need to separate from that guy Do not let that testimony destroy the testimony of the church you separate from them. That was the advice that Paul had given to them The church apparently followed Paul's instruction and separated from the man. We would call this church discipline. He said you're excluded from the fellowship of the church because of the sin that you're living in. Well, by the time we get to 2 Corinthians chapter 2, this man had apparently repented and come back to the church, which is the point of church discipline. Church discipline is not so we can kick people out of the church we don't like. Church discipline is so we can say, hey, you're doing wrong, and we can't associate with you because of that. But as soon as you're ready to do to do right, we're right here. And that's what Paul is addressing here in this chapter, is that this man had apparently gotten right with God, and now the church is saying, well what do we do now? Uh he's not living this way anymore. He's a Christian. Do we still include him? What do we do? And Paul here is talking about offering this man forgiveness and reinstating, restoring such a one as it says in Galatians. That's the teaching that he's giving here. Now in discussing this idea of forgiveness, that's where we get to this point about knowing Satan's devices. So he says there in verse number 11, or sorry, verse number 10, he talks about how you guys are forgiving this man because he sinned and he's getting it right. If you're forgiving him I'm forgiving him as well. We can reinstate him back in the church and welcome him again as a brother. And then he says, less or so that Satan can't get an advantage. Saying that, you know what, if we don't do this, if we have a wrong attitude, if we have a wrong spirit, if we're unforgiving, if we're bitter, if we're angry, Satan's going to get an advantage of us. Because we know his devices. We know the way he works. We know the things he does and what he wants to do. So we're aware of his devices. So we need to act in a way that would hinder him from having an advantage over us. So to rephrase what Paul is saying here says we don't want Satan to have an advantage over us in the church. We know the way he works, and we can act biblically to prevent him from gaining that advantage. So as we make application here, if we do not want to give Satan an advantage in our lives through our use of devices, we need to understand how he works and how he could use those devices against us. Let me say off the bat that technology in itself is not wicked. The wickedness lies in how the technology is being used. But Satan is looking for any way that he can to destroy a Christian's life. Can there be a more effective weapon than something that people are allowing to influence them on an average of three hours a day? If we're ignorant of his devices, we'll never be able to see the attack before it comes. So we need to understand what's Satan trying to do. How could he use these things in our lives to bring corruption? We need to understand his devices. If we do that, we can act biblically and keep him from getting an advantage over us. So starting this morning as we're trying to understand what are the devil's devices, what does he use to try to bring about somebody's corruption and downfall and destruction? We see what his desire is. What does he want to do? What does Satan want to accomplish? Now there's a broad range of things that he wants to accomplish. He wants to destroy the nation of Israel, but specifically when it comes to individual people, I want to look at three ways that Satan three desires that Satan has. The first is the sinner's damnation. The first goal that Satan has for any person is to keep them from getting saved. He doesn't want people to turn to Christ. It's the desire of God that all men be saved, and it's the desire of Satan that all men be eternally damned. He will do anything he can to prevent people from turning to Christ for salvation. So anything he can do to distract, to to give them satisfaction in other areas, to turn them away from the things of God He will do that. I can't tell you how many times I've been on the door with somebody, witnessing to them, and giving them a gospel presentation and the phone rings. Or I've been sitting in the house trying to talk to someone and the TV's on, and it's running constantly in the background being a distraction The devil would do anything that he could to keep somebody from getting saved, because that's what he wants. He wants to destroy sinners. He wants to take them to hell. He is an expert in substitute religion. See, mankind has within themselves the desire to worship, and there's a desire for spiritual fulfillment. It's been said that there's a God-shaped hole in every man's heart in this illustration given I've explained before in other lessons how man is a trinity. And when a person is born, he's born with one-third of his trinity dead. Man is body, soul, and spirit. Your spirit is that part of you that relates to God, the part of you that worships God. When you're born physically, you're born spiritually dead. That's why salvation is being born again because that spiritual part of you that is spirit is going to be made alive. But Satan, uh it is this deadness inside that causes men to look to God. So Satan knows if he can give people an alternative source of satisfaction, even if it's only temporary, he can give them a long go a long way in keeping them From turning to God. To show people you don't really need God, you have this instead, giving them that satisfaction. So his desire is for people to not be saved. So the sinner's damnation. Secondly, he also desires the simples' destruction. A simple's destruction. In the book of Proverbs, we read them out a man a couple times in the book about who is described as being simple. I beheld among the youths one who is simple. So this idea of simplicity. So what does simple mean? What is that idea? It's just somebody that doesn't know any better. Someone who hasn't learned, doesn't have wisdom, doesn't have knowledge, is in the Bible, it is really often talking about young people that just haven't had the years of experience to be aware of how life works. And the simplicity there. So what Satan's goal is, is I want to destroy them before they know any better. I want to give them my alternatives to God before they learn that they're worthless and before they learn they don't have any value. One of the devil's primary targets is young people. He wants to ruin their lives before they have a chance to learn better. In Hebrews 5 verse 14, he's talking there about somebody who's capable of handling spiritual meat. We talk about the meat of the Word of God versus the milk of the Word of God. But he makes an interesting point in this verse where he says, But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. So the ability to tell between good and evil, the ability to have that discernment comes with reason of use, comes with the idea of being full of age. And as young people, you you haven't had a lot of use of your discerning of right and wrong. You haven't had a lot of a full age to where you can look at things and say, well, I know that's good for me, that's bad for me. We have a you've got some of that And I'm not trying to disparage you at all. Simple is a natural state. And our goal is to bring you from simplicity to wisdom, but the devil wants to capture on that time when you just don't know any better to corrupt you as much as he can. That's his goal. Young people have not had the time to develop the discernment necessary to make good decisions, and young people are being exposed to this t technology at younger and younger ages. Working in junior church I hear all the time about young people getting cell phones with unlimited data at nine, ten years old. That they're getting access just given this thing that is all of the world's corruption in a box and you're handing it to a young person that doesn't know what they're doing. And that's dangerous. And it's something that the devil really enjoys, because he can take that simplicity and he can wreck destruction in their life. A few weeks ago a pastor talked about the idea of the roaring lion. And what does it say in that verse in 1 Peter 5 8? Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary of the devil, as a walking as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. It's his desire to destroy young people's lives. He wants to take them, he wants to use them, he wants to abuse them, and he wants to throw them away as worthless when he's done. So he desires as simple as destruction. He also desires the saints' downfall. A third goal of Satan is to destroy the testimony of the Christian. You know, if you're saved, the devil cannot do anything about that. He cannot destroy your salvation, he cannot separate you uh from God, he cannot do anything to you uh that God does not allow But he would love to see Christian's testimonies damaged. He would love to see you stop walking with God. He would love to see you be useless and fruitless as a Christian because you just don't have a spiritual mindset. If he can get a Christian to fall into sin and turn on God, he'll consider it a victory. He can't take away their salvation, but he can get them to destroy their testimony and their ability to have an effect for Christ. So as we're understanding I don't want Satan to have an advantage in my life, what are his devices? Well first of all we have his desires. We know that he wants to keep people from getting saved. We know that he wants to destroy young people, and we know that he wants to cause us as Christians to to fall into sin so we become where we can't serve God uh in it in effectively because we've allowed sin to take control of our life. So that's what he desires. What is his device? What are the tools that he uses to accomplish these goals? Turn with me to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. And then um you have your Bible. Tim, you got your Bible? You got a Bible? Close by? We get one there. Can you go to um Genesis chapter three and then uh Eli, can you go to Matthew chapter four for me? Alright, so we're going to I stop turning. 1 John. 1 John chapter 2. These are his devices. These are the tools that he used. Verse number 16, it says there, for all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh The lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. So when it comes to Satan's tools that he uses, yes he uses music. Yes, he uses pornography. Yes, he uses technology. Yes, uh he uses um sins and temptations of the world, but they all come back to these three tools he has in his tool bag that he applies in a different situation, the lust of the f flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Those are his devices. So looking first of all, what is this lust of the flesh and how does he employ it? If you could read from Genesis chapter 3, verse number 6. I think you're just going to read the first part of that. Go ahead. Okay, right there. You can stop. The woman saw the tree was good for food. So we know the context. Eve is being tempted by Satan to go against God. And she saw the tree was good for food. That would be her flesh saw, you know what, that would be really yummy. That would be really good for me. That would be something I would enjoy. That's the desire I have to eat that. She saw it was good for food. That's this lust of the flesh that Satan is offering In Matthew chapter four, verse number three, we have the temptation of Jesus by Satan. What does it say there, Eli? And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command Alright, so again we have a physical desire that Satan is tempting uh Eve, Adam and Eve with, and then Jesus with. That is this lust of the flesh. The first device Satan uses to accomplish his goal for the sinner's damnation, the simple's destruction, or the saints' downfall, is the lust of the flesh. This is the temptation that is related to our physical desires. Now when we hear the idea of lust, our mind immediately jumps to sins of immorality. That's the connotation we really usually put around it. But notice, however, both times Satan brought temptation against people who were perfect, people who had not sinned. That would be Adam and Eve in the garden, and that would be Jesus Christ. When he brought them the temptation to them who had not sinned, when he offers less the flesh, he doesn't offer immorality He offers them food on both chances. He said, I can destroy your relationship with God if you'll participate in this food, if you'll meet this physical desire that you have. There are physical desires of our flesh that are sinful and that God is forbidden. But there are also physical desires that are natural and necessary. Yes, we do need to eat And we need to have food, we need to have drink, we need to have shelter, we need to have clothing. These are physical desires we have that are natural, normal, and they're just fine. But there's a right way and a wrong way to fulfill those desires. I if I'm hungry, I can go to the s to the restaurant and buy some food. I can go to my refrigerator, I can get some food. I can't go to Pastor's house and get his refrigerator and eat his food when I uh when I'm hungry. Because there's a right way and a wrong way to fulfill a physical desire. Satan's goal is to get you to fulfill your physical desires outside of the will of God. And to do this, he uses his device of the lusts of the flesh. So lust of flesh, that's your physical desires that you have. Secondly, we have the lust of the eyes. In Genesis chapter 3, verse number 6. Go ahead and start at the beginning and keep reading that verse. Alright, right there. Pleasant to the eyes. So she's he's tempting her, saying, Hey, look at this. Look at this. Look at this and and create a desire for this thing that you have been forbidden to have. That's the lust of the eyes. Matthew chapter 4, verses 8 and 9. Again the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of it, and saith unto him, All these things will I give Alright, so he's saying, hey, look at all this that you could have outside the will of God, showing Jesus, look at all you could have, showing Adam and Eve, look at this thing. Just take your eyes and turn it on This is another tool that Satan has, and he cannot prey on your natural desires to get you to go outside the will of God. He will often put things before your eyes to create wrong desires. Pastor often quotes the verse, mine I affecteth mine heart. This is often quoted, he uses it often in the context of a missionary presentation. We saw the missionary, we saw his field, and our hearts are affected. We want to support the missionary. We want to give to that missionary. But it also works the other way as well. If we're looking at the wrong things, it's going to affect our heart that way as well. Our eyes will affect our heart. The devil wants to get you to get your eyes off the things of God and get them on the things of the world so that he can cultivate your desires. This is the whole premise behind advertising. Why does Subway put double meat on their sandwiches in the commercial? And why why do the burgers look so much juicier? uh on the compu on the on the screen than they do when it comes in my bag in the car. Uh there's a difference there because why? They're they're using your eyes to create desires. I didn't feel like having a burger, but now I want one because I saw it on there. If you get your your eyes on their product, they can get your heart to desire it. Companies will spend thousands and tens of thousands of dollars to have their logo be in a movie somewhere, even in the background. Why? Because they want your eyes to see it. They want your eyes so that they can begin to affect your heart. You know, it's very rare for me to watch a tool review, especially one about red tools, where I don't come away wanting the tool. Because mine eye affects my heart. Satan knows this. He wants to control your eyes. He wants to control the things that you are looking at. So if he can get you looking at his stuff, Take an effect what you desire to have. So the lust of the eyes. The final one here is the pride of life, Genesis 3. Back up to verse 4 and read all the way through then to verse 6. And the serpent is out of the woman. You shall not surely die. For God does know that in the day ye eat thereof, and your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. And when the woman saw us the tree was good for food, and that was pleasant to the eye And the trees we desire to make one wise. She took her the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also one to her husband with her, and he did eat. So we have this other temptation here where she he's offering her and said, Hey, you're not really gonna die. Hey, you could be like God. You could be as God. And she said as a tree desired to make one wise. This is the pride of life, stirring up those prideful desires to elevate yourself against the will of God. That's the temptation he's offering. In Matthew chapter 4, verses 5-6 of the temptation of Christ, he uh deals with this pride as well. Go ahead, Eli. Taketh him up into the holy city, and set it him on a pistol of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their Alright, so the pride of life, this is an exaltation of self against God. He tempted Adam and Eve with unlimited knowledge. He offered them that they could be as gods. He offered them the ability to know between good and evil. He offered them satisfaction outside of God without consequence. He told Jesus, you're too important for God to let anything after you. You could throw yourself off here. God would catch you because you're that important. That's who you are. You are the son of God? Well do this and prove it. And you can manipulate God by doing this because of how special you are. This is the pride of life. He told Jesus the rules don't normal rules don't apply to him You know, pride will accomplish all of Satan's goals. Pride will damn a sinner. I have seen and I've heard many people refuse to make a decision for Christ because of pride. Some were worried about what other people would think. Some thought they did not need salvation because they were good enough. Some thought they knew a better way than what God had set up for them to receive salvation. But it all goes back to pride, and through pride Satan can bring about the damnation of sinners. Pride will also destroy the simple. What's the stereotypical teenage attitude? They know it all. Alright? That's pride. You know, I remember many times in my teenage years where I would argue my dad with my dad about the best way to do something. We'd be working on a project and he'd say, okay, go do it this way. I'd say I think it'd be better It'd be faster, it'd be quicker, it'd work better if we did it this way. No, no, you really need to go this way. It's not gonna work the way you think it's going to. Oh, you know, I I've been thinking about it and looking at it and it's gonna and we'd go back and forth a couple times, and then my dad would say, All right, go ahead And when my dad said, All right, go ahead, I didn't do it. Um because I had learned that that pride would bring about destruction because whatever I was trying to do, if my dad finally gave me permission to do it, I knew it was going to get messed up Um so I learned that pretty quick that if I if I was ever discussing something with my dad and he said, Okay, go ahead, then like, well I don't want to do that anymore. That's not going to work out. So pride brings about destruction. It will bring about destruction in the simple because we think we know better than what we're being told. The older people don't understand as much about what we deal with. So pride will destroy the temple. It will also be the saints' downfall. You know, only by pride cometh contention. Christians' homes, marriages, churches, and testimonies have all been destroyed through pride. So those are the Satan's devices. The devil's desire is to destroy the sinner, is to destroy the simple, and to bring corruption to the Christian. We also have his tools, that's the lust of the flesh. lust the eyes and the prize of life. We're going to step into the realm of technology and talk about some of the dangers that come with these devices. What are the devices' dangers? Technology we have today are amazing tools. In this box There is more computing power than NASA had when they sent a man to the moon in this device right here. It's a powerful tool. This device can put me in touch with almost anyone in the world instantly. It has within it all the accumulated knowledge of mankind But just as with any tool it can be used for evil, just as it can be used for good. You know, nuclear energy can power or destroy a whole city While this can be a useful tool, it is also a great source of spiritual danger. How does Satan use his devices when it comes to dealing with a device? Well, let's look at his tools. We have the lust of the flesh. You know, I could satisfy any fleshly desire I have with this device. I could buy anything I want that I have enough money for, um, or that I can borrow enough money for. You know, there is a button on my phone that would deposit seven thousand dollars into my bank and so as a 2% loan. Right there, I can just push that button, it would deposit right in my bank. So I could I could have any fleshly desire that I want. I could buy anything I wanted. I can have access to all the entertainment that's ever been created. I can get food dropped off at my house in 15 minutes I can access any form of immoral content that my flesh desires. In a phone, Satan has put all of the lust of the flesh of the world that they could ever offer in the pocket of every Christian, almost 24-7. The lust of the flesh is right there. Satan can use that to get you to satisfy. His goal is to get us to live without God. You know, he offers counterfeit religion often, and your phone is a pretty good counterfeit. You know, from our perspective, this is pretty close to all powerful. You know, it's also pretty close to all-knowing. You know, it's also pretty much omnipresent. Because anywhere I go, pretty much this goes with me. So this is a substitute for God if you're not careful. So the lust of the flesh, we also have the lust of the eyes. Should be pretty obvious that technology is used to direct to direct our eyes to create desires Icons, notifications, advertisement, sponsor listing, social media, trending videos, searches, or content, all there to catch your eyes, to direct what you are looking at You know, I'm a little OCD about keeping my phone clean, not clean from dirt and germs. I hate the little red button that shows up on an icon saying, hey, you have something here that you didn't do. And what is that button there to do that when I open my phone, it pulls my eyes over there, look at this. Somebody wants you to look at this. That's Controlling my eyes. That's controlling my eyes. You know what my eyes do? They control my desires. So technology can be used as the lust of the eyes that's directing your eyes towards something that someone else wants you to see. Go back to our example of screen time, the world is controlling the eyes of most people for an average of three hours a day, deciding what you look at, what pops up as suggested content. What pops up as you might also enjoy? What pops up as, check this out, all your eyes are being controlled by the world for about three hours a day on average, controlling what you're looking at, and that's controlling your desires. This is the perfect playground for Satan to affect the hearts of every person. So the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Now I want to point something out about technology and understand I'm not I'm not don't take this to the to the conspiracy theory realm. I'm just giving you an illustration. I want to make an observation How did Satan attempt Eve when it came to the pride of life? He offered her knowledge. He offered her knowledge that only God had. He offered to make her like a God through this knowledge. You know, when I have a question and I need some knowledge, you know where I go, I go right here to this device because it knows things that I don't. It knows things that historically only God knew. How deep is the deepest point of the ocean? What does this chemical structure look like? Anything that we want to look up at, it's right here. I already mentioned the idea that technology could be a counterfeit God. Satan has offered the ability to live without God, without being dependent on God, through all the knowledge of good and evil. It's interesting to note that the place where most people go for all knowledge of good and evil is symbolized by a fruit with a bite taken out of it. The symbol of where all knowledge rests, knowledge of good and evil. Again, I'm not trying to make some kind of conspiratorial claim about apple products. I have one, an apple product here. I'm not saying that the device itself is Satan's, you know, created it and designed the logo and nothing like that. Knowledge of good and evil is right here. And it's a temptation for the pride of life. Satan can use any tool to bring about his goals of corruption, and technology is a powerful tool that has hit our society at an unprecedented rate We need to be wise in how we use them and the biblical principles we put in place to protect ourselves and our children. So those are the Satan's desires. So what does he want to do? His devices, how does he attack Christians? And what are some of the dangers that come with the devices that we use, the technology we have? And we're going to end here with just kind of a brief introduction to the doctrinal defenses. The word of God is our defense against Satan's devices. Adam and Eve failed to resist Satan's devices. Jesus was successful at resisting Satan's devices. How? Because he had biblical principles controlling his behavior. Whenever Satan said, you can have this, Jesus said, God said this. He said, Satan said, if you're the son of God, you can do this. Jesus said, it is written. It is written. He had biblical principles controlling his behavior, and Satan was not able to get an advantage. through his devices. Through this series, we're going to be looking at several biblical principles that can apply to our use of technology and how we should deal with these devices. Now we'll we'll bring up things here and there, but I'm not planning on giving you guys specific resources like here's an app you can use to control this part of your phone because we all have different devices and uh you need to find out but we're gonna go through just for the biblical principle What is a doctrinal idea that we can use to help protect us in these areas? I want to arm you with biblical truths that control the way you deal with devices. The first principle we're going to talk about, we'll be looking at this next week, is the power principle. God has commanded us as Christians to not let anything bring us under its power. This has to do with addictions. And we think of addictions, we think of um evil addictions, addictions to uh immorality and addictions to uh illicit drugs and and alcohol and things like that. But we can become addicted to anything. You become addicted to um caffeine You can become addicted to uh your phone. You can become addicted to a game. There actually is addiction research that goes into making those games so that they can addict you. And the Bible tells we're not supposed to be brought under the power of anything The second principle we'll discuss in a couple weeks is the priority principle. You know, we only have so much time in our lives. What are we choosing to spend our time doing? Is this really? So 20 minutes a day, three work weeks a year. If you're making fifteen hundred bucks a week, that would be forty-five hundred dollars worth of time on scrolling. for twenty minutes a day. Was that worth it? Was that a a valuable investment of time? The priority principle. We'll be looking at the purity principle. While there are spiritual dangers in technology, not specific to uh visual weakness, the visual weakness is a real problem when it comes to technology. We need to learn how to keep ourselves pure. The Bible says, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. So we need purity as well. We also have the presentation principle. Part of the nature of our devices is that it makes public our testimony. God has given us instructions on how we are to present our s present ourselves to this world, and most Christians aren't doing a very good job with their online testimony. Well, we could be anybody we want online. No, you can't. God has given us instructions on how we're to present present ourselves to this world, and there's some decisions we need to make on our presentation. And we have the protection principle. If we know that there's wickedness and dangers in these devices, what principles are going to put in place, what barriers are we going to have there in order to protect ourselves? And to protect others from these devices. So I hope this is a good introduction for you here on seeing what what is Satan's goal? Satan's goal is to get an advantage in your life Well the way to not let him get an advantage back from first 2 Corinthians 2 verse 11 says, if you know Satan wants an advantage and you know the way he works, we need to act biblically so he can't get that advantage in our lives. I don't want Satan having a stronghold in my life. And I give him a window to to come into my home right here, and if I don't control that window, can keep things locked in, locked out, well then I'm going to allow Satan to have an advantage I know the way he works. I know what he's trying to do. So because I know his strategy, I can put the right defenses in place. And hopefully through this series we can learn some biblical principles we can put into our lives to help us deal with our devices.