Last week we began discussing and looking at the dangers of discouragement. And I'll tell you what, um it is something that's facing Christians on every hand. Uh Satan loves to use this. It's been part of his toolbox since the beginning. It's amazing how many Christians and saints of God that you see through the scriptures that were great men of God, great women of God, that found themselves in a discouraging time in their life and needed to be encouraged. And this is not new, not new to us or to our day. It's something that Satan's been doing successfully to God's people. Many times Satan gets into our lives. and uh wreaks havoc, and the havoc that he wreaks is uh uh itself discouraging And so he's able to, as it were, to compound one thing on top of the other. To to take something that's already disruptive and hurtful in our lives and then add discouragement on top of that. and make it even more damaging and hold us back even longer. This is what has happened to David on several occasions. I want you to see in Psalms chapter 42, we're not going to read the entirety of the text. It's a great text to read, but I want you to notice some repeated phrases here. in this text, in Psalms 42 and verse number 5, he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. Look at verse number 11. He says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him. Who is the health of my countenance and my God. Look in chapter 43, chapter 43, just over the page or the next chapter there in verse number five. He says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? Hope in God. For I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance And my God. One of the times that David was most discouraged was when he was living in the exile city of Ziklag. He was in Ziklag and he was a place where he shouldn't be, but that's where he was at, and he had his merry bandit of men that uh the disquieted, disgruntled, discouraged uh debtors that he was living with. And they were out on patrol, or they were gone for three days, I believe it was. And while they were gone, there came in the enemy. The enemy came in and ransacked the city and burned it. It's amazing that the Bible is very clear that they did not kill anyone. There was nobody killed. But they were taken captive. All of their wives and their children were taken captive. David and his merry group of men got back into town and they weren't so merry anymore. These men were David's friends, and yet the Bible says that they spoke of stoning him. They had intentions to take his life. I mean you can imagine the level of discouragement. Not only has David been exiled from his kingdom, not only is David on the run, not only is he here with this group of men. But now these men, these men that he's been able to find refuge with for a period of time, are ready to kill him. I mean, it's bad enough when you have a friend that talks bad about you. It's bad enough when you have a friend that disappoints you. But can you imagine when your friends are ready to stone you? I mean they're and and this is a group of soldiers. I mean they're if they had a mind to stone David, he he I mean not much he could have done about it. They just started talking amongst themselves and said, look, this is all because of David's fault. David was very distressed. In first Samuel chapter 30 and verse number six says, And David was greatly distressed, for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his son and for his daughters. The Bible says there very clearly that David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. At a time when there did not seem to be any upside, at a time where really there was no positive way to look at the situation. David didn't look at the situation, he looked at his God. And tonight I want to talk to you about defeating discouragement. in your life. There are many dangers to discouragement. Discouragement is a dangerous tool of Satan. We talked about it last week, how when we let discouragement go in our lives, it It pulls us on a downward path, a downward path to destruction. It hurts us. We begin to think wrong. The way we are evaluating and viewing life is all incorrect. It leads us to even the wrong types of prayers, as we saw last week, where they prayed, Lord, it'd have been better if I hadn't been born. Or Lord, just kill me, because that would be a better solution than what I'm going through now. It leads to a wrong spirit, a spirit that's overwhelmed. It leads to wrong actions. I think about Moses when he was so frustrated with the people and They were wanted water, wanted water, and God told them how to get it, but Moses in his frustration went up and struck the rock It leads to wrong actions when we have a discouraged heart. So, what is the answer to discouragement? How do you defeat discouragement in your life? Well, some just want to get away. They they just that that's Southwest uh that's the Southwest slogan, isn't it? Get away Uh the getaway fairs, right? Uh that's they just want to get away. They just want to go somewhere and boy if I just took a vacation, things would be much better. Now a vacation's good. And a vacation and a break can help you How many of you understand when you come home, very likely the problem or the situation you left is still going to be there? This is only a temporary reprieve. It's not a solution to the problem. It might mask the problem for a little while. You might be able to forget about it while you're away. Sometimes we're worn down, and physically we just do need a break, and a vacation can help, and there's a place for that. We're talking about dealing with an overcoming discouragement, it goes deeper than just getting away. Some people, when they're discouraged, they they like to binge. Whether they binge, spend. Some people do that. They're discouraged, they spend money. I have to admit that is my problem. I it's confession hour and uh I I I just you know, I don't know when I'm discouraged, but why why does buying something make you feel better? If you see me driving a Tesla, you know what happened. Man, pastor butts have really been feeling bad. He just went out and bought a Tesla. Some people like to binge eat. They just eat and eat. Some people like to binge watch. They just feel like they can forget all their problems. They just binge watch TV or some shows or whatever and they could just be distracted from life for a little while. But how many of you know that doesn't solve the problem? It doesn't fix it. Some people like to use drugs or some type of other means to control how they feel. Now beloved, there's different levels of discouragement, and as I talked last week, discouragement I think is an is entry level uh that leads, if you don't take care of it, it leads to depression. In depression, there's actually levels of depression, there's mildly depressed Which is maybe just extreme discouragement. But it gets all the way to clinical depression. And I want you to understand that I believe that in some times there is a need, there's a place for medical treatment. This goes against what I was raised and the preaching that I heard when I was growing up. Bless God, if you had Jesus, you don't need anything else. And listen, there is a lot of truth in that statement, but there's also things that happen in the body. And sometimes there's chemical imbalances Sometimes there is problems that happen in the brain. There's things that take place that need treatment beyond just a pat on the back and hey, I'm praying for you, brother. And we ought not be so calloused or insensitive to those that are in that state. We are right now as a family reading the story and testimony of a l Who is in severe depression and her husband was raised up to believe, as I was, that hey, all you need is God, and he wouldn't let her seek medical help. And she got worse and worse and worse and was run down And this depression just kept getting worse, and the man just didn't understand it. And through God's divine leadership, they were put in contact with the right person, and she was able to get help. But there people in that state. And I'm not dealing tonight with that level of depression or that level of situation. Somebody might need medical attention. They might need some medical help to treat them And uh I'm not going to be so naive as to say that there's not a need or a place for that. But we are talking tonight about a much earlier stage that you might not get there If you address some of it early, if you deal with some of these things that start you on that downward path, if you are able to deal with the discouragement before it leads to depression, So what is the answer to your discouragement? How is it that you can defeat this? Well, I have the answer for you tonight. Are you ready? For this truth, the answer to discouragement is encouragement Amen. Did you write did you write it down? Did that just blow your mind? Just just just revelation? Just wow, Pastor! I didn't know that. I mean now you hey we could close up and go home right now. You've got it. The answer to your discouragement is encouragement. Hey, that's what David said He was greatly distressed, but what does it say? He encouraged himself in the Lord. He encouraged himself in the Lord. Now This word here in the Hebrew, which I'm not going to try and say, but this word in the Hebrew actually means to fasten upon To seize or to grab. The idea is uh Anderson, come here He's going to help me for just a minute. Let's say Anderson was just really discouraged and downhearted. And he's having a hard time making it through the day. And I said, hey, brother, let me help you. Let me help you. Come on. We're gonna make it. We're gonna make it, okay? I grabbed him. I'm helping him. I I seized him. I'm helping him through. Okay? That is a literal interpretation of the word. Now you can be seated. Now, David encouraged himself in the Lord. Could we say it like this? David got a hold of himself. Amen. David grabbed a hold of himself, and a lot of times that is really the heart of it. Because a lot of times discouragement is because we've let our mind wander down the wrong path. We've let our mind ponder and think about the wrong things. We've let the discouragement set in. We've continued to ponder how bad things are and how terrible the situation is. And we've just continued down that road, and every day it's just getting worse and just getting worse. But you've got to grab yourself, you've got to get a hold of yourself, you've got to seize yourself to encourage yourself in the Lord. David tells us actually how to do this Three times in the verses that we went that we read, very clearly David says to himself, he says, Hope thou in God. Hope thou in God. And tonight you might be like David If you're not there tonight, I can guarantee you, beloved, that everybody in their life reaches the point sometime when they're in Ziklag. The location, the place where you are greatly distressed. If you're not there this evening, the day's gonna come when you are greatly distressed When the burdens and the weights of life have you so pulled down, you're not sure what to do, and you may find yourself like David here saying, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? You know the truths of the Word of God. You know that God loves you. You know that God's ultimately in control. Yet you still in your spirit are cast down. And you're maybe asking yourself, why art thou cast down? And you're dealing with that struggle and that battle in your own heart. You're saying, hope thou in God. David was asking that of himself, saying, Why am I so discouraged? I know God's in control. I know God's on the throne. He's telling himself to hope in God. So, beloved, briefly tonight, let me just give you two points about how to defeat discouragement. First of all, you need to return To God. Return to God. In Psalms 42, there in verse number 6, he says, Oh my God, my soul is cast down within me. Therefore will I, what's the next two words? Remember thee. He says, hey, my soul is cast down. The burdens I have are overwhelming. The struggle I'm facing is too much. The circumstances I'm under are overbearing. Therefore will I remember thee. Hey, return to God. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Remember, he is your God. What an amazing truth. He is your God. He's not just God out there, a great being somewhere, but he's your God, the Savior of your soul, the sustainer of your life Beloved, you need to seize yourself. You need to grab a hold of yourself, get a hold of yourself, and get your mind off of your circumstances. So many are brought to the pit of despair because of their circumstances. The lack of money, the struggle at work, the problems they're dealing with with this person or that person. It's the struggle Circumstances. And they're just brought to the pit of despair because of the circumstances. Whatever it is Stop dwelling on your circumstances and start dwelling on how good God is to you Sometimes I evaluate it. I look at things when I start feeling discouraged and I think Man, why did this happen? Or why am I dealing with this? Or why did why does, you know, I got this problem? And you know, it could always be a lot, lot worse. And sometimes we get discou so discouraged about how it is right now, but you understand it could be a lot worse. God has been so good. And I'm dealing with this this problem and I don't want to make light of it. I mean I I myself have faced discouragement or times where I was discouraged or downhearted because something I was dealing with. But you've got to stop looking at that and look at how good God is. What God has done for you. Psalms 126 and verse number 3 says, The Lord hath done great things for us, whereof we are glad. The Lord's done great things for us whereof we are glad. You know, only a fool says God's done nothing for him. God's done nothing for me. Hey, but the man of faith knows what God's done for him. knows how much God has blessed his everyday life. Every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above Remember that your God is still working for you in your life today. In Psalm 63, verses 5 through 8 He says, My soul shall be satisfied as with morrow and fatness. My mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. When I remember thee upon my bed and meditate on thee in the night. Because thou hast been my help, thereof in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. My soul followeth hard after thee, thy right hand upholdeth me. Hey, he says, on my bed at night, when I ponder and think about and remember my God, I'll rejoice. I'll be glad. My soul followeth hard after thee. In the shadow of the wings of the Almighty, you can rejoice. You need to return to your God. Behold the works of God in your life and what he is doing. The prophet told God's people in Joel chapter 2, verse number 21. He says, Fear not, O land. Be glad and rejoice, for the Lord will do great things. God's going to continue to do great things in your life. A Christian shouldn't be we face discouragement, but we shouldn't stay there. We should be able to get a hold of ourselves. Don't let Satan pull us down that path. Don't let Satan pull you down and continue to feed your mind with the with how bad life is. You're letting Satan win a victory. You need to get a hold of your heart. Pull yourself back. Encourage yourself in God. Return to your God. We need to get back to spending quality and quantity time with our Lord. How many of you know that it's necessary if for any relationship to grow both quality and quantity time is necessary. I know sometimes, and there's been in the past, and I've heard some teaching Well it wasn't much, but it was quality. Amen. Well you can spend hours with somebody. It was a lot of time, but if you weren't talking the whole time, nothing was achieved Just because you happen to be in the same room, you spend spend a bunch of time doing something, but not communicating, not engaging one another, just just in the same place. There's some people that are married and they live together, but they have little relationship. Sadly. It's not the way it's supposed to be. So it's not just how much time you spend with God, although you need time, but it's the quality of the time that you're spending with Him. Are you talking to Him? The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Putting some effort into it. Are you letting God talk to you? Are you talking to God? Are you listening and reading Reading his word. That's what is effective in building the relationship. So the quality of time and then the quantity of time, it does take time. Not just a minute or two. It's one of those things the more you put into it, the more you get out of it, right? That's that's the way it is. As we saw last week, one of the major causes of discouragement is lost communion with God. That relationship's been broken. So get in turn encouraged, we need to return to him. Spend time with him. Psalms 37, 4 and 5 says, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. And he shall bring it to pass. Not only do you need to return to God, but you need to return to good. Beloved, nothing discourages like failure. Nothing discourages like failure. When we fail. And nothing encourages like victory. When you're successful, when you succeed at something. Beloved, too many of us are lutting the devil win. And it's no wonder that we are going through life so discouraged. Why do we keep Why do we keep not having the victory in our lives? You need to stop it I'm saying you need to get a hold of yourself. You need to stop going down that road. And I know we make excuses and we say, oh, I just can't get to victory. Why? Just get the victory. You say, well, it's not that easy, but the the fact of the matter is is you're not that committed. Because if you had purposed in your heart and determined that bless God, this is Not going to happen. I'm going to spend time with God. I am going to get God's strength. I am going to achieve victory in this area of my life. And when you achieve victory, I can guarantee you, beloved, you'll experience Joy, satisfaction, encouragement. One of the reasons so many Christians are so discouraged because the devil is winning all the time. And it's no wonder we're discouraged. Because the Christian life is so hard. Because we can't get on the winning side. Beloved, we sing the song, I'm on the winning side. But why don't we start winning then? But come on now. You're a child of the king. Let's act like it. Your attitude determines your altitude. We're on the winning side. God wants us to have the victory. I can do all things through Christ that strengtheneth me. It's still in the book. Then why is it Satan keeps winning in our lives? Why is it Satan keeps pulling us down? Why is it we can't have the victory? I can do all things through Christ except get victory in this area. I can do all things through Christ except let go of this sin. I can do all things through Christ except stop living in discouragement. God wants us to have the victory, and sometimes I believe it just boils down to good old-fashioned grit. And just saying, I'm going to do this, I'm done letting Satan have the upper hand, I'm done playing footsie with sin, and Satan, I'm going to get a hold of God and make this happen. Stop thinking about it. Make it happen. You want to experience encouragement Start winning. You ever see somebody winning and be disappointed? Can I tell you a blonde joke without getting in too much trouble? There was a blonde lady at a soda uh machine and she was putting her quarters in and Getting Pepsi's and she had all these Pepsi's and mountain dews and Cokes all around her. Somebody came up and says, What are you doing? She says, I'm winning She was excited. She was winning. When you're winning, man, you're excited. It's it's it's it's fun How discouraged have you seen somebody when the machine ate their 50 cents? Man, this dumb machine just ate my 50 cents. You know nobody likes losing Christian, we need to get on the winning side. Amen. Return to God and return to doing good. Letting God give us the victory. We'll stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. That's the piano is to come and play a moment of invitation this evening. Beloved, Satan loves to use this tool in our life. He loves to discourage God's people, to pull us down, to keep us from being Victors. Don't let him do it. God's too good for that. God's blessed us too much for that. Let's return to God and see and behold. His handiwork in our life. Let's return to winning and experience a victory through the power of God