Step and we as a church want to hold them up in prayer and ask God to uh keep them safe and help them in their studies and preparation for life and what God has planned for them. So Well it's good to see see John back there. Uh turn your Bibles to the book of Philippi Philippians. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. Uh so Turn to Philippians chapter number four. Some familiar verses, I'm sure, for for many, if not most of you. In uh Philippians chapter number four. Begin reading in verse number four, you follow along with me as we read Uh verse number four through verse number nine. He says here, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say, rejoice. Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely. Whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things Those things which ye hath both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the peace and the God of peace. Shall be with you. I almost read that backwards. The peace of God. You know, you have the peace of God, but you know it isn't amazing that you actually have the God of peace. You have the God of peace. You know, we live in a fast-paced, ever changing world. advancements in technology are so uh uh exponentially pushed forward that we couldn't possibly hope to keep up. Gas prices are on the rise. According to uh Money Magazine, they're at a four year high right now and expected to continue to move up as the price for oil creeps over $100 a gallon, $100 a barrel by the first of the year. Interest rates are on a rise. They say we'll never again see three percent. Interest rates are on a rise. Many of these things you and I can do nothing about. We face difficulties on a daily basis. However, these economic challenges that I've mentioned are nothing compared to those who maybe face the loss of a job. Or even the security. Sometimes people that have been in a job for fifteen or twenty years find themselves facing the fact that that job might no longer be available. The security that they once had because of that, and they were planning to retire in that position is no longer going to happen. The difficulties that they face Hopeless to change it. But those difficulties even take a back seat to concerns and difficulties That we deal with with our health. Whether it's for us personally or for those that we love and care about When this body that was once strong and capable and able to do has stopped cooperating with us. And we find that that doctor's visit is necessary, or that phone call brings the bad news of our failing health. Concerns that we are powerless to do anything about. The fact is that everyone in this room today is dealing with some measure of difficulty in their life. They're faced with and dealing with the frustration of being unable to change it or fix it. This morning I want to give you four things. That you can do in any difficulty. It doesn't matter the difficulty that you face, it doesn't matter what comes in your life, according to the author of this book, Paul. There is four things that you can do that you have control over, that you can determine to do in the face of any difficulty Nobody can take it from you. It's within your power and within your grasp, and you are able to do it no matter the challenge. These four things have in them the power to disarm. Any difficulty. Some are torn apart by their troubles. Some are destroyed. By them. Well, others are not. Why is that? Why is it that some people, even though they're going through something terrible, seem as though they're able to hold it together? Seem as though they're somehow able to continue to function and to move forward. And others are torn apart by their troubles or destroyed by their difficulties. Why? I believe it's because there are some Who have determined to do what Paul tells us to do here in the midst of their difficulties There are four things that you as an individual can determine to do in the face of any difficulty, and I believe if you do it, it has the power to disarm the difficulty. And give you the strength to go through it regardless of the level of the challenge that you're facing. Let me pray and ask God to bless our time together as we bring the message determined in the difficulty. Lord, we pray that you would be through with us in and through this message. Lord, would you give me liberty to speak and clarity of thought? I pray, God, that every heart here would be uh encouraged by your word this morning. That our hearts and minds would be turned towards heaven and strengthened through the power of the Holy Spirit. Lord, we pray that you would lead in everything that's said and done. in the balance of this service. And may you be honored. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Determination In difficulty. You see, Paul here at this time, we find him writing these words to us, and he was in the midst of great difficulty. As a matter of fact, probably one of the greatest difficulties, he was in prison. He was facing The real possibility of the loss of his life. You see, Paul himself used to be a persecutor of the Christians Paul himself used to go in the guise of maybe justice or of doing what was right. He felt he was pursuing these heretics, and now he himself was a Christian. and receiving this persecution. He found himself in prison, quite possibly facing death, and yet he pins the words that we read this morning. He was determined, in the face of all difficulty, to do these four things. The first thing is that you have the ability and the power to determine your disposition. It is in your control to determine your disposition. It doesn't matter what you face in life, how hard the challenge, nobody can make you change your disposition. You do it. You are the one that determines that. See, Paul says, rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say rejoice. In the face of whatever difficulty comes into your life, you have within you the power to determine your disposition. You get to decide what you're going to be. What is your attitude going to be in the face of that challenge? No matter what is happening in life, you are the determiner of your disposition. Dr. Viktor Frankl was a victim of the Nazi brutality during World War II. They came in and immediately killed his mother and father because of their age and they weren't worth keeping around and they wouldn't provide any labor in the work camps. Then they were stripped of all their goods and they were taken and shipped off to one of the death camps. Their children were stripped from them and taken away. His wife was ultimately taken away. And Dr. Victor Frank was one day in the yard, and a German soldier saw that he still was wearing his wedding band. And this soldier came and beat him down and took something and cut his wedding band off. And Dr. Victor Frank there said, as the wedding band was being cut from his hand, He said, You can take from me my family. You can strip from me my clothes. You may rob me of my freedom, but there is one thing no person can take away from me. My freedom to choose how I will react to what's happening to me He understood, he came to the realization that in the face of these difficulties he was a man of such great moral character that he said, I'm the one that determines what my attitude is going to be. Some of you want to blame your attitude on somebody else. You want to blame your attitude on the circumstance or the situation that you're facing. Well, I wouldn't be like this if But you're in control of your attitude. You're the one that gets to determine what that will be Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. How many of you know that song? You know it singing with me. Rejoice in the Lord always and again I say rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always and again I say rejoice Rejoice, rejoice, and again I say rejoice, rejoice, rejoice, and again I say rejoice Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice, no matter the frustration. You have the admonition to rejoice. And you are the controller of your disposition. You get to determine what will you rejoice in and when your attitude will be poor. Why do we rejoice regardless of the difficulty? Because this is the day. that the Lord has made, I will rejoice and be glad in it. We understand that God is in control and that He has a purpose and a reason for anything and nothing that came into our lives caught him by surprise and we understand, regardless of what we might be facing today, that there's a God in heaven And the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and that He's in control, and that I can trust Him because He only has my best at heart for me. He wants what's best for me, and therefore I can rejoice because This is the day, this is the day that the Lord has made, that the Lord has made I will rejoice, I will rejoice, and be glad in it, and be glad in it This is the day that the Lord hath made. I will rejoice and be glad in it, for this is the day This is the day that the Lord has made. We can rejoice Because we know that God is in control. You get to determine your disposition. He said, hey, be happy. Not because of your happenstance, not because of your circumstance, but because of the joy that we have in the Lord. There's always something to be joyful about. I know that sometimes you're facing the most miserable of days. I know at times it may be cold, it may be hot, it may be cloudy, it may be rainy. I know your eyes don't work as good as they used to, and the arthritis acts up at times, and sometimes you feel like you can't accomplish what you want to, but this is the day that the Lord has made. You can rejoice that you have the sense to feel the warmth around you. You can rejoice that even though it's raining the flowers are gonna come. You can be glad that you're saved and you know Jesus Christ. You can rejoice that in the midst of your trial you can talk to Him as a friend that sticks closer than a brother. You can have joy. That you can rely on him. But you're the one that determines this. Not just at the start of the day, but as you progress through the day You see, from the first moment that you put your feet on the ground and you hit the off on that alarm, you ought to determine in your mind, I'm going to have a good day today. I'm determined to have the right kind of disposition because why? This is the day that the Lord hath made. This is your choice. And with God. All things are possible. You are able to rejoice. You can determine your disposition. Not only that, we are given the admonition here to determine your level of desperation. You get to determine your level of desperation. You see, he says in verse number six, be careful for nothing. You know what that means, right? What does that mean? Be careful for nothing. What is he saying? Don't worry. Don't be anxious. Don't fret. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God. He says, hey, be careful for nothing. Don't worry about it. Pray about it. Do you understand that prayer and worry directly and proportionally are converse to each other? I believe that somebody that's spending a lot of time in prayer is really not spending much time in worry. But the person that's spending a lot of time in worry is not spending a lot of time in prayer Because they are proportionally converse. When we spend time in prayer, the worries go away because God is in control. You get to determine your level of desperation when the challenge comes, when the storm comes. You get to decide if you're Oh no! What am I gonna do? That that that anxiety rises up and that you that you're overtaken with worry and concern and you get to decide yourself how much of that of your life is going to be lived that way. Do you find yourself in the constant state of desperation? Well, let me ask you, how often do you find yourself in the place of prayer? Because that'll ward off the state of desperation. They are connected. I know you've heard the statistics But a psychologist and researcher named Walter Calvert did a study on the phenomenon of worry. And the conclusions that he came to are these: 40% of the worries we have never happen. 30% of the worries and concerns are things that are of the past, that have already happened. And it doesn't make any difference anyway. You can't do anything about it. It's already done. 12% of the worries are concerns. They are matters of our health or that are beyond our control completely. Nothing we can do about it. You're worried about whether it's going to rain tomorrow? You can't change that. Nothing you can do about it. Might as well not worry about it. Ten percent of our worries are just plain petty and insignificant, and eight percent of our worries are legitimate and involve things that we could do something about. So 92% of what the average person worries about, he can do nothing about. But do you know what? God can. God can do something about them. Those things which you cannot change you worried about the rain tomorrow? You can't change it, but God can. You worried and concerned about that report from the doctor? You can't change it, but God can. You're dealing with anxiety and stress over a financial situation or a burden in your life, you're not sure what's going to come of it. There's nothing you can do about it, but God can. We've got to get back to spending time in prayer and stop living in a state of desperation. We've got a purpose to be in a state of prayer and let God do something about those things. There's a story about a businessman who was good friends with a stockbroker, and the stockbroker was well known for having ulcers. And and uh high blood pressure because of the stress of his jobs. The the the you know, worried about all this money and where it's going and is he gonna lose it all and and all of that? He's gonna lose all these people's money that invested in him and And he just distressed him was so much he was tearing down his health. Well one day the businessman came to his friend, the stockbroker, and he says, Hey, how are you doing? And this stockbroker said, wow, you wouldn't believe it. I'm doing great. My blood pressure is normal. The ulcers are gone. I'm doing fantastic And the the businessman said, well how how'd that happen? He says, he said, I hired a professional warrior Anytime I have a concern or a worry, I just tell him about it and he worries for about it for me. And he's like, wow, that's pretty neat. He says, you know, I would be interested in something like that. He says, what does it cost to have a professional work? He's like, oh man, it's expensive. He said, it costs $100,000 a year. And the businessman said, Wow, how are you going to pay for that? He says, I don't know, I'm letting him worry about it Here's the thing. God said he would be your professional warrior. And he's not even going to charge you. He said, casting all your care upon me, because he careth for you. Anytime you have a worry or a concern, you can bring it to him and he'll worry about it for you. Why? Because he loves you. He'll be your professional worrier. I want you to understand the choice you're making when you determine to worry or when you determine to pray You see, when we commit ourselves to worry, worry does to us like we get caught like a deer in the headlights And you're worried about it and you're stressed and you're stuck, worry creates or causes in activity. And does not solve anything. But prayer creates activity. You see, when we begin to pray, God and the power of His Holy Spirit begins to give us direction. About what we need to do to get through this, about what we need to do to solve this, about the steps we need to take to be able to exist or live or make it through this Prayer invokes action and worry invokes inaction. Through prayer, we get, as he said here, the God of peace. With you in the midst of that difficulty. You might not be able to control the difficulty, but you can determine to not live in a state of desperation. You can determine to pray about it. You know, you also, here according to our text, have the power to determine your declaration Your declaration. He says, Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. Don't worry about anything. Pray about everything and thank God continually. Thank God continually You know, many times when we get in the midst of a storm, we we fail to see all of the sunny days that we've enjoyed. And we begin to stress on that thing that's in front of us. But if we determine to declare God's goodness, We can make it through. How many of you have been present or seen a child's birthday party? Where the child is having this party and they all of his friends are over and they're all running around and playing and having so much fun. They're having such a great time. And then they get to have cake and ice cream, and the kids are all eating cake and ice cream, and they're all blowing their horns and having a blast and singing happy birthday, and it's all fun. And then they bring the presents out. And the child gets to open the presents, and they open the presents. And the child didn't get exactly what he wanted. And instead of being thankful For having a party, and having all his friends over, and eating cake and ice cream, and for getting something. He's unthankful for what he thought he didn't get. You see, I know as parents and as adults, we look at that and we say, man, uh he should be thankful for what he got. He should be thankful. I mean look at all he got that he got to do. Yeah. I agree. But us adults are like that too Because God didn't do for us or allowed something to come into our lives that for us we look at it and say, that was not fair. That was not accepted. That was not what I was planning. And we failed to recognize all the sunny days that God has given us. And all the benefits that we've had up to that point, the untold blessings of God upon our lives, we forget about those. And instead of declaring God's goodness. we declare his deficiency in this one area. You're the one that determines what you're going to declare. In the circumstances that you face. You need to determine to declare the goodness of God, regardless of the weather outside, regardless of whether the sun is shining on your life, in particular right now, God is good. All the time, God is good. Regardless of the individual circumstance or the current situation that you're facing, we serve a living and a powerful and a good God. I remember Don Wilson talking to me about as a young man he lost his father. I think it was either eleven or fourteen. Fourteen years old, he lost his father. And for years, he was upset that he didn't get to have a dad through his teens years. For years he was upset. Until he came to the realization, he said, I came to the place where I realized I've got to be thankful for all the years I did have a dad. You see, you get to determine what you're going to declare. And he decided to make that change In the way that he was looking at it, and say, I want to be thankful for all that God, the way that God did bless me. You get to determine. Regardless of your circumstance, what you declare as the goodness of God. The fact of the matter is, if we made an honest evaluation of our lives, I'm saying an honest evaluation of our lives, We would be overwhelmed with the goodness of God on our lives When you declare God's goodness, you bring him glory and make him happy. And you make yourself happy because you realize how good you really have it It's a win-win. God's happy and you're happy. But when you declare the opposite, you're discouraged. This last point is very closely tied with the others because this is the determining factor on whether you're going to make the other choices or not. And that is you get to determine what you're going to deliberate. What is it that you're going to spend time thinking about? You get to decide in the midst of whatever heartache or difficulty or challenge you're facing what you're going to think about. You see, he says in verse number 7 and 8, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things Report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. You see, in the midst of the difficulty, you get to determine what you're going to think about. What is it that you're going to invest your time and energy and effort in contemplating? You know, we are habit-forming creatures. And we typically, uh, if we get set on something, we begin to think more and more about it. And we begin to think more about it, and that creates the habit to think more about it. And when you get to the place where you concentrate on one particular thing enough, it becomes a habit, and that becomes a thing that you dwell upon and that you continue to think upon. Some of these young men up here on the front, they may get to the place where they find a young lady that they're attracted to. And it'll get to the place where they'll say, I can't help it. I go to work and I think about her. I go home and I think about her. I'm in the car and I'm thinking about her. Everything I do, I'm thinking about. I can't hardly go to sleep. I'm thinking about her. I dream about her and I wake up when I'm eating breakfast. I think about her You know what? Some people do that with their problems. Some people do that with their difficulties. Some people do that with offenses. That have come. They just continue to dwell upon it. It doesn't matter what's going on in their life, what good things they might have going on, the blessings. they might be having today, they can't help it. Everything they do is all they think about is that problem, that guilt, that that situation, that offense that rose. But you get to determine what you're going to deliberate upon You get to decide that. You're in control of what this mind does. You get to determine whether you're going to think about the goodness of God or the deficiencies where you think they are. You get to determine what you want to dwell upon. We all face and deal with difficulties. We have enough difficulties of our own. We don't need to dig up somebody else's. I don't know why anybody cares about some movie star's fourth husband. I don't know why that's news. Or why we go digging to try and find it out. I mean you know, so and so is on his third DUI, second night in jail, or whatever I got enough of my own dirt that I got to deal with. I don't need to be thinking about and putting mind and effort and energy and thinking about those things. You get to decide where you're going to invest your mind. The Bible tells us here to think upon things that are good. That are wholesome, that are encouraging, that are challenging, that are uplifting, that are spiritual. Things that are going to help you. The other things just pull you down It'd be like continuing to hit your finger with a your with a hammer. Say, man, that really hurts. And you do it again. Say, boy, I really don't like that. That really disturbs me. And you do it again. Say, man, every time I do that I feel pain. And you do it again. Every time you dwell upon that past hurt, or you dwell upon that challenge or you dwell upon, you say, Man, it makes me sick to my stomach when I think of that. Then why are you doing it? When I was a kid, I would go to my dad and say, Dad, it hurts when I push my finger like this And he would say, Then don't push your fingers like that. Some of you are dealing with some of your thought life and you're saying, Man, it I I've got ulcers or I'm dealing with this pain or I'm dealing with this and it's killing me. Well stop doing it. It's pretty simple. You are in control of what you're going to think about. Think on these things. Think about the beautiful world that God has given us. Think about the blessings. That you have and get to enjoy in your life. Think about the family that is close to you. Think about friends that you get to enjoy. Think about your church that's there to pray with you and strengthen you and to hold you up. Think about these things. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. You get to determine what you're going to deliberate on. Would you stand with me and continue to look this way just for a moment? I'm gonna wrap it up here, but I know some of you feel like things in your life are spinning out of control. Some of you are in the places that you feel like every day brings a new challenge. And you don't know how you're going to face it. And there are people in the world that insist that things are going to get worse before they get better. But I want to encourage you this morning that you serve a powerful God. I can do all things through Christ. Romans 8:37 says, Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Regardless of the difficulty, you can conquer. You can be victorious through it. Regardless of the trouble, the calamity, the persecution, the hunger, the danger, the loneliness, the threats, you can overcome by taking control. of these four things. You can determine your disposition, what it is your attitude is going to be. You can determine how desperate you're going to get or if you're going to turn it over to God in prayer. You can determine to declare the goodness of God and to think about God's blessings instead of the challenge. And the God of peace shall be with you if you do these things. I'm going to pray, and then if God spoke to you, you do what God wants you to do. Lord, we thank you for today and opportunity to be in your house. We pray, Lord, that you'll be with every heart here, and I pray, God, that They would be determined in their heart and mind through the power of God to think on these things. To face the difficulty and the challenge that they're going through right now and determined to have the right kind of attitude and determined to turn things over in prayer and to not Allow worry and anxiety to overtake them. To declare your goodness, to show and express gratitude for your things that you've done in their lives, and to think upon those things which would lift. them up. And I pray you would walk with them. As you said, the God of peace will be with us as we all go through different difficulties, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.