Would you turn your Bibles to Psalms 119, that passage of Scripture that uh deals with the Word of God that uh place in the scripture that uh really is an exposition upon this great book that we have and hold in our hands. We today, that first Sunday of 2022, I got up today and was thinking about uh the fact I thought, you know, old Slewfoot is winning a victory today in a lot of people's lives because of this stupid sickness. I think it's a worthwhile goal and an ambition To set as a goal, to be in God's house every time the doors are open. I think it's important, and you ought to set as your goal. Listen, I'm going to be in church every Sunday of 2022 Well, old Sloughfoot already took some people out of church the first Sunday, man. I thought, what a rat, what a bum. Somebody that wanted to set that as a goal, and now they've missed it. But hey, don't let that stop you from the rest of the days. I would say, unless you're providentially hindered, unless there's something out of your control You set as a goal, as a plan, to be in God's house every time the doors are open for this year. I think you'll be blessed because of it. God's people will be encouraged because of it, and growth will happen in your life because of it It's growth that you don't necessarily see on a day-to-day or week-to-week basis, but is part of God's plan for strengthening and growing his people, is the fellowship of the saints together in God's house. And you I hope our those of you that were able to be here in Sunday school or those that are watching via online today, we want you to know that it's a worthwhile ambition and you started out right So keep on through the rest of this year, keep on being in God's house every opportunity that you get. I hope you're excited about this year, about the possibilities, about the the ability to start fresh, the ability to kind of Purpose again to start anew, to go after the things of God and it with new vigor. This year brings many possibilities. We don't know what the days are going to bring We don't know this time next year where exactly we'll be, what heartache we've endured, what joys we've experienced. We don't know what's going to hold between now and then, but we know God knows. So our goal and endeavor this year ought to be to be close to God. This morning, as we start out, I want to talk to you for a few minutes today about developing your devotional life. Developing your devotional life. This is one area of your life that should take a front row seat in your level of priorities If there's anything that you're going to purpose to do this year, if there's anything that in your heart and mind you say, oh boy, I really want to lose some weight this year, or I want to Start running or jogging or boy, I want to get financial freedom, or I want to accomplish this or that. If there's anything that you set is a goal this year, it ought to be to strengthen your devotional life Your time with God. This is something, an area that's talked about a lot, yet literally remains one of the hardest things for God's people to consistently perform. Even though it is literally vital to a successful Christian life You cannot maintain a successful Christian life outside of a personal, intimate relationship with your Heavenly Father. With that personal walk with God, that devotional time where your spirit is one with God's and He works on you and changes you. Yes, God uses church. Yes, God uses preaching. Yes, God uses your friends and your family to help motivate you and to point you in the right direction. But there is nothing else that will it is more singularly important to your walk with God or being the Christian God wants you to be than your devotional life. Developing a strong devotional life is the single greatest asset to your victory in spiritual matters. Any good devotional life is going to include a time of meditation. This is the area that I want to focus on today with regards to our devotional life. We of course know that devotional life really consists of anybody you ask anybody that spent any time in church or any time with God, they would say, well, it consists of reading the scriptures and praying. Talking to God. The scriptures are how God talks to us, and prayers how we talk to God. And anybody that has thought through these matters, that would be their their pat answer. I want to take this a little bit deeper today. I want to try and motivate you in the idea of meditation. Of allowing God to truly get a hold of your heart in this quiet time that you have It is through meditation that we begin to know God, and thus we know His will. One who seeks after God early will not only begin to see Him, but will soon find that He begins to be like Him. One writer wrote about meditation haste and worry are anything but helpful to that pursuit of devotion. And the loftiest thought, which are essential in the making of our character. He who sees God's loftiest mountains From the window of a speeding train, or from the throngs of a busy street, will never see their true glory One must stand alone in the vast solitude, surrounded by its snow-capped peaks. Let the mountains grow on him In order that his soul may experience their majesty. And he who would know God must be much alone. It is going beyond just a simple reading of a text or simple uh statement of a prayer or asking of a request. of this or that, although that is part of our devotional life, but it goes into a heartbuilt desire to know God and who He is To try and sit in his presence in a quiet way where he comes and communes with you, and you begin to learn of God and really let God teach you about yourself. In times of old there were religious leaders, and I suppose there are even some today. But they try to Teach the idea that somehow they had special access to God. They tried to import the idea that it was uniquely gifted to them to have a a communion with God that taught them things or gave them special insight. And thus that gave them authority with the common man, with those who couldn't commune with God so directly. But I want you to understand this morning that that has always been false and it's false today. Every single one of us have access to God. There is nobody here that has a corner on God, not in this church or in any church. There is nobody in the world that has special access or they have been gifted in a unique way to commune with God. If there's anybody that has greater access to God, what it really is, it's just a matter of that God has greater access to them. For your limitation in communion with God is not a limitation that God has put on you It's a limitation that we put on ourselves by not being willing to take the time, not being willing to get rid of the sin, not truly wanting to commune with Him. So although we may look at somebody else and say, oh, it would be wonderful to have God's power that way. Oh, it would be great to experience this or that. You can if you were willing to take the time, if you were willing to know him that way. First of all, this morning I want us to ponder or think about this idea of meditating in the Bible, the Word of God. Yes, our time of meditation should incorporate some reading of the scripture, maybe some memorizing of its verses. But I want to go deeper as we ponder and think about the idea of meditating. I'm not talking about seeking for an out-of-the-body experience. The poets, although anonymous, said, I ask no dream, no prophet's ecstasy. No sudden scending of the veil of this clay. No angel visitation. No opening of the skies. But would you take the dimness of my soul away? He's saying I'm not asking that the heavens open up and great glory be shined down from the skies. I'm not asking that angels come and visit and sing to me in the cool of the day. I'm not asking for something like that. I'm just asking God that you would take the dimness of my soul away. Give me sight to see. Allow me to know and feel your presence. The man who does not know God intimately will never possess true understanding of this world. True understanding of this life. The Bible is that book which gives light and life. It is the book that gives us understanding. The Bible, the Word of God, is what expounds or explains science. The Bible is what gives meaning to psychology. It's what gives understanding to social problems. The Word of God is the source of knowledge. Psalms tells us that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of Knowledge. Any education, beloved, void of God is deficient in every way. When this country 50, 60 years ago decided to remove God out of the education program, they removed the very foundation for education They remove that which gives understanding to the truths that are being taught. Trying to teach science without God. is like trying to teach etymology without definitions. It's it's misses It misses it to mark. It doesn't have that which gives its meaning. It doesn't have that which gives us a foundation. Therefore, the Bible, the Word of God, has got to be our text for life. Our text for what we live and do is not just to be read over, it's not just to be memorized, but it must be meditated upon. Let the word of God marinate in your mind. Let the scripture grow in its fullness, in its truth. Let it develop in your heart It is here, beloved, that we begin to truly delight in God's word As often as possible, you need to find time to meditate. I know life might not allow you to do it every morning. I know the busyness of our days will not allow an extended time for you to meditate, but you ought to try to purpose this year, say, you know what, I I Saturdays are a little more free for me, or maybe Sundays are a little more free for you, or what whatever day it is, a on once a week, or or once every other week you say I'm gonna take a set amount of time, I'm going to meditate on the things of God. I'm going to allow the Word of God to sit in my soul and soak for a while. Set that time aside. The greatest, the brightest men this world has ever known have been men that cultivated a habit of withdrawing from the world and getting alone with God. Letting God speak to them in their quiet place. Only when the world is hushed do we hear God. Still small boys. Meditation, beloved. This thinking upon the word of God, this letting it marinate and develop in your heart and soul, letting those truths grow. It will stir within you praise and thanksgiving. So, what will meditation do for you? We've got several things I'm going to give you, but first of all, meditation will stir in your heart praise and thanksgiving. As you begin to meditate on the things of God and the goodness of God. You begin to count your blessings, name them one by one. You begin to think about how good God is as you meditate on these truths Your heart and mind will become overwhelmed with the goodness of the God that you serve. Your heart will be filled with praise for Him. Your lips will be full of thanksgiving for Him As you meditate on those things, you will become overwhelmed with praise and thanksgiving for God. Boy, that's a whole lot better than meditating upon your problems. Nobody has to teach you how to do that. You're real good at meditating on your problems. I know as I'm talking about meditating on the Word of God in some people's hearts and minds, it's like How how do you do that? W what does that entail? But it just hit me right now. Listen, we meditate on lots of things We just need to take the time that we're spending meditating on our problems and meditating on this life situation and meditating about the coronavirus and start meditating on God Meditating on his word. You'll be a lot less overwhelmed if you'd meditate on God and His goodness instead of on your problems. Well meditating on God's word will give you understanding and direction for your life. Not only will your heart and mind be filled with praise and thanksgiving, but you will get direction for your life. It'll give you you you're you're wondering about what to do about a situation. You might not even be thinking about that, but as you're meditating on the truths of the Word of God, God will give you insight. God will give you direction. He will give you understanding into a certain problem in a way that you hadn't seen before. And you say, Wow, this is what God wants me to do That's exciting when you see God teach you that way. And that you have direction for your life, not just a shot in the dark, not just a hope this works out. But you have God's leading in your life and know that this is what God wants you to do. Meditating on the truths of God will open your eyes. John Milton said, it was only after he lost his eyesight that he truly saw God. You don't have to lose your sight to see God. You can take time Get alone. Get away. Turn the devices off. Turn the screens off. Spending some time alone and meditating on God. You begin to see God and who Meditation will produce conviction in your soul. Conviction John Stuart Mill said, one man with conviction is worth a hundred men with mere opinion. Conviction in your soul. You know what you believe and why you believe it. Because God has Solidified and set those truths in your heart. You've pondered and thought through them at length There's no greater benefit to man than that of meditating on the words of God. So how do you meditate? Are we talking about getting alone into a quiet place and sitting down in a lotus position home? Mm. Are we talking about emptying your mind of everything? Listen, no, that's that's Satan's game. You you you read about meditation from the world and that's what they're talking about. They want to empty you empty your mind. And I want you to understand you're opening yourself up when you do that. That is not what meditation is. Meditate to muse, to think Meditation is to is thinking, it's pondering, it's considering, it's engaging your mind. As you desire to meditate on the truths of God's Word, first of all, let me exhort you and encourage you to realize the presence of God. You need to know he's present. You need to know that he's there. Oh, that song. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. I can feel God's mighty power and his grace. I can hear the brush of angels' wings. I see the glory on his face. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. You need to begin to recognize when God is present. And I know that it's special when God comes and meets with us in a church service When there's no question that God's presence is in that place. When the songs that are sung prepare our hearts and the prayers that are prayed bring us into God's presence and the Word of God is opened And God in His mercy and grace comes and meets with us and touches our very soul with something that we needed. What a joy that is in God's house. Amen? But beloved, we can be in that place, in the quietness of our own home. When we are alone, we can sit. And gather. I think we've grabbed a hold of the old saying, the pro biblical principle, but where two or three are gathered together, there I am in the midst of them And we think, well, I've got to be with God's people to know God. But God wants to know you personally, wants to have a relationship with you personally. You can be led by Him personally. In the quietness of your home do you experience his presence. The verse says, there's a holy hush around us. As God's glory fills this place. I've touched the hem of his garments. I can almost see his face My heart is overflowing with the fullness of God's joy. And now I know without a doubt That I've been with the Lord. Surely the presence of the Lord is in this place. Beloved. As you begin to muse and think about the principles of God, first be sure that you're in the presence of God. I'm not going to take time to dissect this particular aspect of it. But the Bible says your iniquities have separated you between you and your God. If you don't feel or know God's presence in the privacy of your own devotional life, there's something that's hindering that relationship. There's something that's put up a wall or a barrier. There's something that makes it so you don't have sweet communion with Him He's there for you. He wants to do that. And most of the time you and I know right away what it is If you want God's presence, and that's where it starts, you need to be sure there's nothing between you and the Savior. You confess your sin, he's faithful and just to forgive you your sin every single time. And at that moment, your relationship Can be restored. You can gather once again into the presence of God. You can with confidence know that He's hearing your prayer and directing your life. Know that you are in the presence of God. Know that He is there. And then ask him to guide your thoughts in the truths that you're pondering. Beloved, it is the Holy Spirit that guides us unto all truth. It is the Holy Spirit that we need to be able to muse and think upon the principles of the Word of God. It's not just abstract thought. It's not just opening your mind up to whatever. We need the truth of the Word of God as it as taught to us by the Spirit of God. To try and read the scriptures without the Holy Spirit is like trying to read a sundial without the sun. You need that Holy Spirit's direction. Charles Wesley said this. Come, Holy Ghost, our hearts inspire. Let us thine influence prove. Source of the old prophetic fire, fountain of life and love. Come, Holy Ghost, far moved by thee The prophet wrote and spoke, unlock the truth, thyself the key, unseal the sacred book, expand thy wings, celestial dove. Broad or nature's night, on our disordered spirit move, and let there now be light. God through himself we shall know. If thou within us would shine And sound with all thy saints below the depths of love divine. Show the rest of the saying, Holy Spirit. Teach me. Let me know God. Ask God to give you understanding And as you're meditating, picture the passage. Picture the passage as you're reading. Picture the scenario that was there. Think about the characters that are present. Think about those that are involved. Think about maybe move yourself into third person and look at the scenario that's being described in the scripture. And think about who else might be there. Think about the situation and ponder and think about the context of what is happening The more you know about the Word of God, the easier this becomes because you'll begin to know the fact that, oh, maybe that these are Jewish people, and so they're coming from this background of living under the law. Or maybe these are Gentiles and they're just now being introduced to the truth of the gospel. But as you begin to get a working knowledge of the scripture, then you start to know who it is that's talking, a prophet from the Old Testament or an apostle from the New Testament. And what it is that they're trying to teach, but begin to think about these things, who it is that's speaking, what is the message that they're trying to impart, and then at that time you're asking God, Lord Show me what you want to teach me today from this passage. And beloved, the truths that can come from one passage of Scripture are limitless. It's mind-boggling how many times you can dissect another passage of Scripture and God give you insight from another way that'll open your eyes and give you light for today. Reflect upon the words that are used in the passage. This is the inspired word of God. It's one of the reasons why we're We believe the King James Version is so important. If these are inspired words, if these are God-given words. And it makes sense that I ch I can't just change them. I can't just make it say whatever I want. I can't just move it all around and no God has said something for a particular purpose For a reason. And so those words have meaning. If you don't understand or know what a word means, look it up. Ponder and think about that truth. And ask God to give you insight into practical application for your life. Dearly beloved, you're doing all this with a resolve to obey what God shows you. If all you're looking for is an experience, I don't think God's real interested in giving it to you God wants to meet with you. And it is an experience. It is a precious thing When the God of heaven communes with your heart. Oh, it is an experience. It is something that you will value and appreciate. Come to be thankful for. But God does that that He might change us. And if we approach that just from the aspect, oh, I just want to experience, but I'm not planning to change. How would you know God's not interested in that? If you come with a submitted heart, saying, God, show me your will, and I'm ready and willing to do it. God says, okay, I'll show you my will. Not only do we meditate in the pages of Scripture, but But let's ponder and think about the idea of meditation and prayer. Oh, we are often encouraged, think before we speak, you know. be slow to speak and swift to hear. I think oftentimes in the matter of prayer we've made it a quick, one-sided conversation. A quick shooting off of our request instead of a dialogue with God, where God can commune and talk to us Meditation is essential to prevailing prayer. The greatest man in the Word of God, whether by choice Or by God making them, you'll see that they got apart, that they got away You think about Moses forty years on the backside of the desert. It's only then that he got But to see God, it takes time. When he came down from the mountain, his face shone with the glory of the Lord in such a way that people couldn't even look at him I wonder when you've been with God, is it evident? Is it evident in your life? If people know that you've been with God, can they tell That God's presence is there. Jesus Christ himself often invited the disciples to come, to get apart Often to go into a desert place, to get alone, to get away, to pray. Meditation and prayer will bring our heart to a place of true reverence. Beloved, where there's little reverence, there's little prayer. Our prayer lives are often shallow because we do not take time to dwell on the majesty of the one whom we are talking to. We are to come boldly to the throne of grace. We can come to our Lord and Savior, to our God any time, any place. Beloved, it's maybe a little troubling how little preparation, how little thought, how little effort sometimes is put into coming before the King of Kings. Our prayers are so casual and so nonchalant and so quick and passing, we haven't the time to let God talk back to us. It's through meditating that thinking about who it is that we're talking to That we're begin to realize it's God. And we're seeing Him for who He is, and our hearts begin to reverence Him When we approach him as the King of Kings, as the Lord of Lords, as God of our life, in a reverent and holy way Meditation, beloved, that brings a true reverence, brings also a sensitivity to sin. I believe this is one of the reasons why we don't like spending too much time. Because you know as well as I do that as we spend time The light of the Word of God, the light of Christ, the Holy Spirit, begins to shine down into our life. And begins to point out that sinful attitude we had, that sinful spirit we've been carrying, that sinful appetite we've been feeding. And then we're faced with the dilemma of doing something with that, of confessing and forsaking it, or turning the light off And sadly, many Christians turn the light off. They block it. And that's why they don't have that communion with God. Why they don't have that fellowship with God. They just want to block it. Oh, I don't want to I want to keep doing this, I want to keep having it, I want to keep nurturing that, I want to keep Beloved, when we are in the presence of an Almighty God, we cannot help but see our heart. Richard Braxter, a preacher of the last century, said this about meditation and prayer. He said, you can never know the evil of sin or the desert it brings into your life. Until you know the excellency of the soul which dethroned it. Until you know the excellency of the holiness which obliterates it Until you know the excellency of the law that it violates, until you know the excellency of the glory that it despises Until you know the excellency of the office of reason which it treadeth down, until you know the excellency of the Almightiness. of the holiness of the God against whom it's been committed. You understand, beloved, he's saying you you you can't you don't even realize how bad it is? Until you realize how good God is, until you realize how holy God is, until you begin to truly commune with Him When be when we begin to commune and meditate with God, we begin to see a holy God, we begin to see the Creator of the universe, we begin to see the Savior of our soul, we begin to meditate and and spend time with him. in that presence. And with that understanding, we begin to get a picture of how vile and how wretched that sin really is. But until we begin to get a picture of the excellency and the glory of God, this doesn't look too bad. This hit over here that we've been nurturing and baby to keep it along. Oh, it's okay. It's not that big a deal. It's not that bad. I can do this and still love God. Beloved, the preacher could get up here and preach on a particular sin until he's blue in the face, but if you just got alone with God and got a picture of the God that you serve, the preacher wouldn't have to say anything You yourself would look and say, how could I do this wickedness against the God I love when we're in his presence? We see how vile and wretched that is the sin against whom The God we serve and that has committed. So, beloved, I want to exhort you, encourage you today. In your devotional life, yes, read the pages of scripture, yes, spend some time in prayer, but try to find time to meditate, to go beyond the surface, and let God do a work inside of you. The greatest need of our day is for men and women to walk in true devotion with God. Not just formal activity, but a time where they know God's presence. I hope this morning, maybe in a small way you've been inspired, been encouraged to try and get into God's presence in your private devotional life.