Turn your Bibles this morning to 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. We are embarking upon a new year. We're taking off and have the chance and the possibility for success this year. Each and every one of us here has the same opportunities as anybody else in this room for success. Inside of your situations, inside of your life and where you're at. You can take the opportunities that come to you and do something with them, or you can let those opportunities fall by the wayside. One of the dis distinguishing characteristics of whether this year is a success for you or a failure is going to be based upon the character that you as an individual have when those opportunities come about. Look with me if you would in 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter number 5. We're going to read verses 12 through 28 as we bring this to the conclusion of this chapter here. He says, And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and esteem them very highly in love for their works' sake. And be at peace among yourselves. Now we exhort you, brethren, warm them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. See that none render evil for evil unto any man but ever follow that which is good both among yourselves and to all men. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit, despise not prophesying, prove all things, hold fast to that which is good, abstain from all appearance of evil. And in and the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. Brethren, pray for us. Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss. I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. You know, you read through these closing verses here of this chapter, and There's the Apostle Paul gets real practical. He just gone through and talked about, you know, the coming of the Lord and and his return and the exciting theological things that Paul digs into throughout this, but then he gets down to some practical aspects and he kind of just he lays them out. He just gives them one after another And if you're looking at this list of things and you put it out under bullet points or point one, two, three, four, five, you're like, man, I got a lot to do. I got a lot to keep track of. There's a lot of things that that Paul's telling us, hey, we need to do here. Now he encourages us there at the end. He says, hey God, faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. I want you to know that you're not in this battle by yourself. You have the Lord's help. But there is an aspect where each and every one of us are responsible for ourselves. And that we need to have a right character that will carry us through and provoke us to do what we should do when we know what's right to do. Amen? We need to have sound biblical character. We're living in a day when Excuses are prevalent and a lack of character is not only accepted but praised. Uh the idea of you know people just missing work, people uh just not showing up for work, people uh just wanting to get paid to do nothing at all, uh the the lack of character that's in in society as a whole today is is just it it's running rampant. And that's not how the Christians should be living. It's not really how anybody should want to live. We should desire to have good character. Now you guys know that my ambition when I was young was to make a lot of money. That's what I wanted to do. But here's what I understood, even as How old are you, Stephen? Fifteen. Fifteen. All right. When I was when I was his age, I just started thinking about the realities of life. Until then it was pretty much all about just having fun. I didn't want to do anything else but have fun, do what I wanted to do, right? But when I started reaching his age, I started thinking about the realities of life. And I was preparing, I went to college at 17. And I wanted to go out and make a lot of money. I wanted to be filthy rich. But here's what I knew. The guy that is filthy rich is not sleeping in until 10 o'clock in the morning. The guy that is filthy rich is getting out of bed. He has character. He has discipline. And I knew that I myself, as a young man, did not have the character to reach or to accomplish the dream that I had. Now the dream was not God given. That was definitely worldly. It was carnal and it was not, but there was there was something inside of me just from me personally. I said, man, I want to be rich and I know that if I'm gonna be rich, I gotta be disciplined. I gotta have character. I'm gonna have to get out of bed in the morning. I'm gonna have to work hard. And I wanted to go after that. And so that's why I went to what at that time was known the boot camp of fundamentalism. uh, you know, Fairhaven Baptist College. I went there for one reason at that time, and that was to get the character I needed to go out and make a lot of money. Now praise the Lord God changed my heart, my ambitions, and all that. We don't need to get into all that, but the the the idea, what we're going to talk about here for a few minutes, is developing character in your life. We all need character, and we all can have the right kind of character. The fact of the matter is, is everybody has character Mom used to say you are a character, but everybody has character, some kind of character, whether it's bad or whether it's good character, you do have character. Character is what you are. Character is what you do instinctively. What you're just going to do instinctively. The measure of a man's real character is what he will do when no one else will find out. There have been many people, they've done studies and asked questions, there's been many people that have said they would happily murder somebody if they knew they could get away with it If they knew they wouldn't get caught or wouldn't get in trouble for it. That is their character. That's who they are. That's what they would instinctively do. The only thing hindering them from doing that horrendous crime is the fact that there is a government and the government's They are supposed to punish evil and protect the citizens, and so that's the only thing keeping them from doing it. You see, they got bad character if they would do that. Even if they could get away with it. Beloved, today too many people are worried and even consumed about the outward, that is what other people see. That is what's determining or driving what they do or don't do. It's all about what somebody might see instead of who they really are. Their internal person, they're they're they could be as as wicked as Satan himself on the inside But on the outside, they're putting on this representation of something that they're desiring to please those people around them. Well the Bible tells us very clearly, be sure your sin will find you out. You know, it's been said, hey, it all comes out in the wash, right? Uh the fact of the matter is, is the that internal person who it is is ultimately at some point it's gonna come out. It's going to be revealed This is one reason why we as a church, when we have our interns come in, why I have a 10-week internship program opposed to three weeks. Or even four weeks. They're like, why don't you do it just for a month? I said, well the reason is my goal is to really help these young people. And anybody can put their best foot forward for a week or two. Anybody can just really put forth a great effort and and try and and and put on airs or or m make themselves look good for two, three, four weeks. But you know what? We get into that fifth and sixth week and then we find out which ones I gotta go in and get out of bed in the morning. I gotta go wake them up because they haven't been taught to get up by their alarm. Uh they they they worked real hard for the first few weeks but then all of a sudden they they they start slacking off and oh I I I'm done with this now. And the goal is trying to help them to build character, and that starts to expose itself the more time that you're with somebody. And so That's why we have a 10-week program. Beloved, we need to get back to not worrying about so much about what people see on the outside and start worrying about what we are on the inside. Character is developed over time, regardless if it's good character or poor character, it's developed over a long period of time. And most people have their character instilled in them when they're young. We can and we should continue to develop character, but as parents, it ought to be our goal and ambition to try and help our young people develop. and have right kind of character. Just yesterday in Griefshare we were talking about how in today's society it's kind of amazing excuse me that there's Very little particular people are consumed with their own lives today. And I'm seeing this more and more and more, that especially with funerals, People just don't have time to show up for a funeral. They just don't they just don't show up. They've been lifelong friends with somebody. And they don't make it to the funeral. For one reason or another, you can make whatever excuses you want, but I remember the day when you know a wedding or a funeral in the church house is going to be packed. Everybody that knew or had any association with the family was going to be present because they're showing their love and their support for that family. But nowadays people just don't, no, I'm busy today. I've got to do this, I gotta do that, uh, I'm not gonna be able to make it to the funeral. That's just the day and age in which we live Character. Webster's 1828 says that the it is the peculiar qualities impressed by nature or habit upon a person. that distinguishes them from another. The character that you have, those qualities, those habits that were either impressed upon you by parents or authority in your life that said, yes, you have to do this. Or that were developed by habits in your life to have that kind of character. Oh, uh just an online dictionary describes it as the aggregate of features and traits That form an individual's person. It is the moral or ethical qualities of a man of fine or honorable character. You know, sometimes you can tell uh almost by looking at somebody, you say, boy, uh uh they have questionable character You know, have you ever gone and parked somewhere and then you start walking into the store and you're like, you know what? I think I better lock the car where where where where we are right now. You guys down in DC this week, you're probably gonna lock your car. Uh well let me just tell you, you should lock your car. Okay Uh my brother Dan's car was stolen in DC. He he lost it and everything he had in it. They were on vacation and and they lost it all down there. So, you know, you get into those questionable neighborhoods and Yeah, people of lower moral character and and they will do what they think they can get away with. You got you you you just y you see people with questionable character. When I uh purchased my wife's ring, uh her wedding ring. Um I bought it at a pawn shop. And that's because I like getting a good deal. I would much rather spend the $700 on the $4,800 ring that I bought than spend $2,000 on a $1,800 ring. Because I like getting a good deal. So I was shopping. I I had to learn a lot about them and and uh I I of course I was a little apprehensive. You know, you go into a pawn shop and you're like, uh I don't know, are these guys trustworthy? They're gonna sell me a chunk of glass. I don't even know what I'm looking at. I mean and anyways the pawn shop dealer he says here's here's what you're gonna find out. If you continue studying, if you continue getting educated on these things, you're gonna find out that the pawn shop dealers are trustworthy And K-jeelers are the thieves. K-je jewelers and all those jewelers in the mall, they're the ones that are ripping people off left and right. People are giving them an exorbitant amount of money for something that's not even worth it. He says, You're gonna find out and you're gonna come to trust the uh the pawn shop dealers because uh they have to be honest to stay in business. But them big corporations don't necessarily You see, reputation, beloved, is what people are consumed with today, and reputation is what men think you are. But character is what God knows you are. So your character. So how do you develop character? This is what we want to talk about. Proverbs chapter 11, verse number 3 says, the integrity of the upright shall guide them But the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them. The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the transgressors shall destroy them. Both character types are described in this verse. He who lives and functions inside of a realm of good moral character, integrity, and just, we're going to do this because this is right to do. And we ought to live that way. We ought to live and function inside of not what we can get away with, not what's just going to make me look good, not just what am I going to be perceived by, but what is right. And we do what is right because it's right to do. That's what he says. The integrity of the upright shall guide them. It's going to guide you. A lot of things that we're making decisions about, we don't need to make decisions about. The decision's already been cited. Because it's right to do, we ought to do it And if it's wrong to do, we should not do it. Bob Jones Sr. said, you can be saved in a second. But it takes a long time to develop Christian Christ-like character And that's the thing. People in today's world, churches, they love to talk about how God loves you and He will take you like you are. Amen. He will, won't he? God will save from the uttermost. And the gutter most, and any other most that you can think of. God will save anybody right where they are. But the problem with the secret-sensitive church today is they want to leave people there. And God loves you too much to leave you there. God will save you right where you are, but he loves you enough to say, okay. Now there's some rough edges here. There's some sin that's got to be taken out. There's some character that needs to be developed. Okay, you used to not pay your bills. As a child of mine, you need to understand that you are a testimony to the saving grace of God and his life-changing power, and therefore you need to pay your bills. You know, on occasion, we have bills that come into the church here, and we have, praise God, we have money in the bank. Isn't that good, Lucas? It's always good to have money in the bank, amen. We have the money in the bank. So it's never a matter of uh that we don't have money to pay it. But occasionally because so many bills come in and of course we no longer have a secretary and so things get shuffled around and whatever And I'll find a bill that's two weeks overdue. I'll find it in some random stack of mail or something. I'm like, what is this? And and all that bothers me. Because we're a church. We are preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ and we're preaching that you you ought to do right. And then as a church, everybody in that office like, oh, there's that church didn't pay their bill. And and I called Gus and said, man, we gotta get this right away. And and I mean he didn't get it. I I I get all of the mail, I collect it, and I put it to help keep things organized so that they can that they know there's a spot. If a bill needs paid it gets put in that spot. And then the guys that do that they they pull it out and they get 'em paid. And uh it it just bothers me when something gets oversight More than once I've called the company and said, Man, I apologize about this. This is just an oversight. We got the money in the bank. If you would like, I'll pay it right now over the phone Or we can send you a check like we normally do, but you know, just so sorry about that. And uh, you know, of course they're like, don't worry about it. It is something, sadly, that they deal with all the time. All the time, and it shouldn't be that way. But it takes lifelong to build character. Developing character takes time. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 1 through 5. really the whole of the chapter you could read, but 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Listen to this. He says, And brethren, I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk, not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. For yet are ye carnal, for as there is among you envies and strife and divisions, and ye are ye not carnal and walk as men. For while one saith I'm of Paul, and another I'm of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Who then is of Paul? Who is of Paulus? Be ministers by whom ye believe, even as the Lord gave to every man. And he goes on and he says, Listen. The fact of the matter is, is when you get saved, God is expecting you to start to grow, to start to develop Christ-like Christian character. And so we have to take those steps. We're not supposed to be saved for 20 years and still be as a babe in Christ. You know, Megan, in about four or five years you're not going to want to be carrying that child in in that little thing anymore anywhere, right? Yeah, you want the the child to grow and to learn and to develop. Well God expects us to grow and to learn and develop spiritually. We're not supposed to be saved for 10, 15, 20 years and still be dealing with the same things we were dealing with 20 years ago. You're supposed to be getting stronger. You're supposed to be developing Christ-like character. It does take a lifetime to do it. We're supposed to move from new babes into Christ to mature believers, from new tender plants to plants that are now producing and bringing forth fruit. Not only does developing character take time, it's not something you understand that's going to happen in one day. You're not going to just wake up tomorrow and all of a sudden have character. Wouldn't that be nice Just wake up and say, okay, I decided last night that I'm going to have good Christ-like character. And you wake up tomorrow and you got it, boy, that would be awesome But it doesn't work that way because we still have a sin nature. We still have the old flesh which is lazy and it's contrary to all things that are good and right, and so we have to battle against that Developing character takes time and effort. It also takes great tenacity. That is, you have to be on purpose. You have to work towards it. Don't give up. Sometimes you're going to step back, sometimes you're going to falter in the direction that you want to go. And as you look at your goals and ambitions for this year, and you say, boy, I want to do this, and here's my goal. I'm going to read through the Word of God. And you may have already missed a couple of days. Okay, don't let Satan discourage you and say, man, I already missed the day. We might as well forget it. No, don't forget it. Just pick right back up. And also don't Don't say, man, I gotta read 72 chapters tomorrow to catch up. Don't do that to yourself because you will not read 72 chapters tomorrow. Just read your chapters you're supposed to read tomorrow. If you have some time one day and you have some effort, go back and pick up the chapters you've missed as you have time. Just read what you're supposed to read tomorrow. Go grab that other stuff later. If you say I gotta get 72 chapters tomorrow, you're not gonna do it, and you're not gonna read tomorrow's three chapters either. And now you're gonna have 75 chapters to read And then, you know, 78 and so on. It's just going to keep growing. So you've got to just pick up where you're where you where you're at. It takes tenacity. Be consistent all the time. Do you know why you're afraid when you have an important meeting, why you're afraid that you're going to sleep through your alarm? Because you use the snooze button too much. And it all is too much. You need to set learn to set your alarm for what time you're supposed to get up And then get up. You know what happens is we've gotten so used to to hitting that snooze button, and we the thing is we had this happen all the time in college. Guys would sleep right through their first class. Like, oh, they wake up and you know that fear of like, oh no, I slept through. Like, oh my goodness. Uh why? Because you've been hitting the snooze button. If you just don't ever hit that snooze button when your alarm goes off, you wake up, you get out of bed, then tomorrow morning when your alarm goes off, you wake up and you get out of bed, uh you won't be afraid that you're going to sleep through your alarm. You know when that alarm goes off Your body wakes up. Not that you like getting out of bed. I despise mornings. I don't know. God made some of you people morning people, but I am not one of them. But you know you got to get out of bed when you got to get out of bed. And it takes character to just say, okay, am I supposed to be up at 810 tomorrow or am I supposed to be up at 6. 05 tomorrow? Set your line for 6. 05 and Get up at 6. 05. Don't hit the snooze button. You're training your body with that snooze button to ignore it and you're hitting that and you're sleeping right through it. Change what you do instinctively. By the way, let me just throw this out. Parents You should not be going in and waking up your 15-year-old son like he's three years old. You want to train character, your kids need to get out of bed on their own. I would say by the time they're 10 years old, they need to have their own alarm and they need to be getting up on their own. They need to set their alarm and get out of bed when they're supposed to get out of bed. No, if you're if you have to go in there and oh it's time to get up, time to get up, hey, wake up, what do you think is going to happen when they go to college? They're going to sleep through their class because they don't have their mom there to baby them and and slowly wake them up. Build character, make them get out of bed So change what you do instinctively. Before you do something without thinking, you must do it on purpose thousands of times. You do it on purpose thousands of times, and then it becomes instinctive Some of you here are very proficient with guns. And you know what's amazing? You go out to a gun range and right away you can pick up somebody that does not know how to handle guns. Why? Because they have no muzzle awareness. They are not conscious of where that gun is pointing You give somebody that's proficient with guns, it doesn't matter what gun it is or where you're at, they they don't even they're not even thinking about it. But that muzzle awareness is always present. That gun is never pointing at anything they're not planning to shoot. They're aware. They're not just carefully like, oh, what what? Oh, you know, no, they're not randomly pointing that thing around. They understand. And they over thousands of times at the range and thousands of times of shooting that gun, they've become m their muzzle awareness is is just instinctive. And then when they begin to shoot, you take somebody that's never shot before and you you you have them shoot and they they can't figure out where to get and how to line the sights up and all of that But o when they've shot three or four thousand rounds through that particular gun or at guns they they get back there and now it's it's like, man, how do you do that? How how how can you shoot that and and and hit all those targets in a row like that and and do that time test and how do you do it? Because I forced myself to do it thousands of times. Here's another example. How many of you remember how arduous it was when you were a kid to try and tie your shoes? It's like, oh, wait, wait. Now do you think about tying your shoes? I mean do you have to consciously No, you can do it without looking. You just tie your shoes It's something that becomes second nature. It's something that you do instinctively. And you can develop character in your life that way too. If you will do what you're supposed to do on purpose, it will become habit and you will develop good character in your life. Jeff Owens, in his book titled Character, says, before any person will subconsciously do right, He must program himself to consciously do right. That is, you have to think in your mind, okay, this is what's right to do, so I'm going to make myself do it. Hey, you want to have a walk with God every day? You have to force yourself to do it for a long time before it becomes second nature, before it's something you do subconsciously. Before it's something that you just, it's a part of your life. It's just something that you're going to do. You have to do it on purpose. You know, you want to be faithful to church? It's something you have to force yourself to do because you know it's right to do. I don't have to force myself to go to church because when I was a kid, I didn't have an option. Every Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, every revival service, every mission service, e every single time the doors were open, we were there. Just last week Melissa was working for somebody and uh they asked her about church and she said, Well I have church tonight and they were like, You go to church on Thursdays? And she said, Yeah. And she's like, Really? Well how how often do you go to church? And she said, Well my dad's a pastor, so I go every time the doors are open. And she's like, Wow. Uh it's a different kind of life. I've never known any different I don't, it's not anything I think about or wonder or decide whether I'm going to do or not. But do you know there are many people that come to Hunt Valley Baptist Church that every week it's a decision? Am I going to go to church this week? You know it shouldn't be a decision. It ought to be if this is what God said, if this is what God wants, then this is what we're gonna do. And it becomes second nature. It becomes something that you just do and you don't think about, you don't have to decide. Some of you take vitamins. You you eat healthy and you know you had to force yourself to do that. You say, not me. Well you might be the exception. Uh, you know, to you have to force yourself not to eat the ice cream and to eat the broccoli or to take those vitamins. And there are many people you take vitamins on a r religious like systematic, you know, because you you know it's good for you and you you want to take care of your body and you you feel better when you do it and some of you exercise consistently and you know praise the Lord for you. Uh I wish I had a little more of that. That would be good for me. But you do that consistently. Why? Because it's good for you. You forced yourself to do it when you didn't want to do it. If you do something consistently for long enough it'll become habit and you'll do it without thinking at all. You know our world lives contrary to that. Our world says just do what feels good. I don't feel like going to work today. I don't feel like being honest about this. I had uh just last week I heard a guy say, a Christian comedian, he says, I'm just trying to decide between a test and a blessing. He said, because the other day I was at the restaurant and my bill was $11. 95 and I gave the lady a $20 bill. She came back a few minutes later and gave me sixty-nine dollars change. Now is that a test or a blessing? He said, I I I'm thinking it's a blessing. Amen. Bless the Lord. Praise God. Oh, look at what God did for me. Look at how God blessed me today. Yeah. That's the question. Oh, I don't feel like giving that $69 back. I don't feel like being honest with regards to this. What character does what's right Every time. That's how you develop good character. Do right when you feel like it and do right when you don't. Because it's not about how you feel. This world functions off feelings. They avoid discomfort at all costs. And that has produced a people with no moral compass. Doing only that which is right in their own eyes, what they feel like doing, and it's okay. When you do what you know you're supposed to do, Although it is hard, over time it becomes enjoyable. Why? Because you have the satisfaction of a job well done. You have the satisfaction of having done what you know God wanted you to do. You might not enjoy it at all right then. Got lots of young people right up here. How many of you enjoy having a nice clean room? Everything's put away, the room's spotless, I mean looking sharp, yeah. Now how many of you enjoy cleaning your room? Nobody. Yeah. Obviously. We don't enjoy it, but when it gets all done, you stand back and you're like, man, that's awesome. Everything is there. Just wish it would stay that way, don't you? That would be awesome. If it just stay that way. It's so much work to get it that way, and I don't know how it gets messed up so quick, but it does. But you get that sense of accomplishment You know, years ago my kids are older now, so don't have this as much anymore, but uh I need to wrap it up, of course. There's nothing else still going on today, right? So uh years ago my kids would ask me, Dad, how come we gotta work all the time? How come we've got to work all the time? We're working all the time. And I said, well, because it's good for you. I said, not only that, you you don't realize what it's doing for you. You are gaining things that you don't understand yet. And here's the thing, kids. And I remember one particular night in devotion, I sat him down. Here's the thing. If I literally just let you do what you want, if I let you just play all day And you could just play games and and play on the computer and and go outside and play whatever. If you just got to play all day and do whatever you want, the fact of the matter is, is given a few, three, four, five days. Doesn't matter what toys you had, you would be bored out of your mind. Because you're not accomplishing anything There is no sense of accomplishment. There is no effort being put forth. When you go out and you work hard and you accomplish something, then you can enjoy the break. You can enjoy the little bit, the the the rest. of a working man, the sleep of a working man is sweet. Why? Because he's exerted effort. He's accomplished something. He's done what he knew he should do that day. And so you get the satisfaction of a job well done and doing what you know God wants you to do. Someone said, happy is the man who's dreams a dream and is willing to pay the price to make it come true. When I started, I said, man, I had a dream I wanted to be filthy rich, but I knew I didn't have the character to be rich. And so as a young man at 16 years old, preparing to be 17, ready to head to college. I said, here's what I need to do. I need to go somewhere where they're going to kick me in the seat of the pants if I'm not out of bed at 6 a. m. Where they're gonna kick me in the seat of the pants if I don't do what I'm supposed to do because I know right now I'm a glorified bum. I don't have the character that I need to do what I need to do to be successful in this life, and I needed to go somewhere where they were going to make me do it. And now a lot of us were older and we don't have anybody making us do anything, and so we need to uh kick ourselves in the seat of the pants occasionally. And say, you gotta stop being so lazy. You gotta stop being so careless. You gotta stop being so forgetful. You gotta change these things. Let's build some Christ-like Christian character so that we're not ten years from now the same babes in Christ that we are today. Let's continue to grow and to mature as believers and to develop in our Christ-like character. You have any goals this year to develop character in your life in one area or another? Whatever it is. I think you ought to set some. I think you ought to desire to have some character. You know Many dream about success, but you've heard Zig Ziglar's statement, you know, success happens when preparation meets opportunity. They did a study in a school for violinists, and I'm going to wrap this up and be done. But in the school for violinists, they did this study. They took the entire, everybody that was there, and they they broke them into three groups. And they said, okay, if you're exceptional violinist, you are very, very skilled. I mean, you probably are going to play on a professional level someday. They had that group over here. They're very, very talented. And then if you're mediocre, just average, you might play in a local symphony or you might, you know, teach violin or something. I mean, you you know, you're you're an average violinist in this group And then they had those that probably are going to end up working in a high school somewhere. Uh, you know, they had those that probably are gonna give up the instrument and never play again. They had those that just really showed no talent at all. Then they took them and they asked every one of the students, describe your practice time from the time you started playing. Tell us when did you start playing? How much did you practice? Well they found that all of them began playing somewhere around the ages of five to seven years old. And those beginning years, their practice time was dictated by mom and dad, and most of them practiced on average a couple hours a week For the whole group, everybody, across the board. But when this when the people reached eight years of age, there was a big change. In each group. This group over here, their practice time went to seven, eight hours a week. This group, their practice time was less than five hours a week. This group their practice time stayed at the just a couple hours a week. They tracked that all the way through until they were 20 years old. At 20 years old They added it up. The people in this group right here that were professional level players that people look at and say, boy, they just got skill, man. They had accumulated over 10,000 hours of practice time. And you could track the same in the next group. They had less than 8,000. And in the group over here, those that probably weren't going to ever play again had less than 5,000. Ultimately, it was this group over here just did not do the work. I know there's some level of skill that comes into these things, but you'll find more often than not, you have one prodigy. But the other 30 people just put in the effort. And here's the thing, if we want to have character in our life, it's not just going to happen because we wake up and decide to tomorrow. It's because we are making the change day by day. to discipline ourselves to do what we know we're supposed to do. And as we do that, that character will be developed. It's not just going to happen, but it can be developed through time and tenacity. To make it happen. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, thank you for this time in Sunday school. We pray God you would help us to develop Christ-like character in our lives and that it would we each individually would be the better for it, and that we also would be better servants. for the kingdom of heaven because of it. We ask this in Jesus' name, Amen. Alright, thank you are dismissed. We have the morning service in about eleven minutes