And uh it's just been a blessing to be with you. Take your Bible this evening, if you will, please, and turn to Titus chapter two. Titus chapter 2. We're going to read two verses this evening. Titus chapter 2, beginning in verse 11. And there we read, for the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust We should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Our Father, tonight, as we would consider teaching our children To live soberly, godly, and righteously in this present world, Lord. Give us wisdom tonight. And I ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Many a Christian family sadly have seen their children turn their back on how they were reared, and some have gone back into the world. And it's sad. And it's not easy to raise children, to raise a family. In fact, if we would search the scriptures tonight, we'd find that there is a litany of Children or offspring from what we would call Christian homes who went sour. Let's start at the beginning. How about Cain? Had godly parents, Adam and Eve, but he, you know what he did? Or Adam, I'm sorry, Noah, and one of his sons, Ham. We read about what he did. Samuel's son was not exactly an example of the believer. Most of David's son, the man after God's own heart, didn't amount to much spiritually. And Solomon, though he started out in the first half of his uh his tenure, the the last half was not very good, and his son Rehoboam certainly uh certainly wasn't living for the Lord. And it seems that second generation Christianity usually does not have the fervor of the parents who are saved out of the world. Some of you have been saved out of the world and you want to serve the Lord. But it often dims a little bit when the next generation comes And I have watched over the years missionary kids and evangelist kids, deacons' kids, and sadly some pastors' kids, who've not gone the way they ought to have gone And convictions in our young people must come from the home. You know, they will be preached from the pulpit. But mom and dad, we're back to where we were at in one of the sessions here earlier on these last several days. You have to teach it at home. And the Bible clearly teaches us that we should live soberly And there's a number of implications to that, righteously and godly in this present world. That's not only mom and dad, that's the kids. And so let me just share some thoughts tonight. Now I I used to tease my people with this and and I'd I'd I'd say th this may not go as long as normal. But it usually didn't work out that way. But uh let me share with you several tips here tonight on on this matter of of developing convictions in our young people. First of all, we need to understand some basic biblical principles. James chapter 4 and verse 4 says friendship uh of the world is enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be the friend of the world is the enemy of God. Folks, we need to understand that the world, and again like I said This morning in the Sunday school hour, when the Bible talks about the world is not talking about planet Earth or terra firma. It's talking about the culture and the society of the unsaved people, and that's all around us And we need to understand that the world is corrupt. According to 2 Peter 1. 4, we read the corruption that's in the world through lust. And all too often, parents are not all that convinced of the wickedness of the world. The fact of the matter is, the world is the devil's program. He is called the Prince of this world in John 16. He's called the God of this world in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. It's his program. And we need to understand that. Now, the world is often attractive to youth. And Christian kids likewise can be enticed by the world. When I was a youth pastor many years ago working with my father, uh I would tell our kids about a place in Peoria, which was the bigger town just up the road. And there on Southwest Adams Street, there were a number of very bright uh marquees of nightclubs and night spots that looked very attractive, but they never tell you about the alley out and back. And you go in the front door of the world and you come out the alley on and back when the world's done with you. And we need to help our kids understand that. The devil is skilled at packaging the world as cool and fun and exciting. And Christian kids are deceived by that. But we are called to purity of life. Holiness, in fact, the Hebrew word for holiness, a kodesh, literally means separated From sin or separated from impurity. And we go on to say separated unto God, but the very concept of holiness in the Old Testament, in its etymology is separation. We touched a little bit on that this morning. We're going to touch a little bit more on it here tonight. Separating from the world. And that's the the the the the the principle of separation is taught throughout the Word of God. Incidentally The basic line of demarcation between the fundamentalist movement and the evangelical movement, and there is a distinction. But the basic line of demarcation between the fundamental movement and the and the uh uh the evangelical movement is the concept, the principle, the doctrine of separation. And the founders of the New Evangelical Movement back in the 1948 and 50, which included, incidentally, Dr. Billy Graham, uh along with uh Harold Ock and Gay and and And Daniel Fuller of Fuller Theological Seminary and several others, but they categorically rejected the whole idea of separatism, of separating from the world and separating from apostasy. You'll never hear that doctrine preached. In evangelical churches. But we need to understand, it's a very practical principle. And I might add that it's never been popular. Look, it was not It was not popular in Moses' day. You look at the troubles that Moses had with a mixed multitude there within Israel. And Paul deals with it on numbers of occasions. In the New Testament. Coming into more recent history, going back a hundred years ago or so, uh churches uh well, first of all, as preachers who who were tired of the liberalism in the American Baptist Convention uh which is headquartered just up the road in Valley Forge, uh Pennsylvania, they were tired of the liberalism and the apostasy and finally it came to them separating from the the American Baptist Convention. Well it was called Northern Baptist Convention back then. And they separated in first in 1932, and another group of uh churches came out in 1948, of which my father was a part. And uh separation has become part and parcel of the fundamentalist movement But apart from the history and apart from philosophy and doctrine, folks, it's very practical. In Exodus chapter thirty-three and verse sixteen, Moses said, For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? Is it not that thou goest with us? So shall we be separated? I am thy people from all the people that are upon the face of the earth. Now, as you read the rest of the Old Testament from Exodus chapter 33 onward, we find that Israel for the most part ignored that precept. You get to the book of Judges and what happened immediately. They started flirting with and messing around with and and and uh accommodating all the idolatry of the Moabites and the and the The the Canaanites and the Hittites and and the Ammonites and all the ice there. And the rest of the Old Testament is God pleading with his people to come back. But it is a biblical principle. 2 Corinthians 6 and verse 17 says, Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, and touch not the unclean thing. Folks, that's not out of the book of Sorensen, that's out of the book of God. Romans chapter twelve and verse two. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. First John chapter two and verse fifteen Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. For all that's in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, is not of the Father, but is of the world, and the world passeth away in the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever. Separation is taught clearly in the in the scriptures. But again, it's very practical, and folks, it is practical for our children. In Deuteronomy chapter four and verse forty we read, Thou shalt keep therefore his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee this day. Now notice this that it may go well with thee And with thy children after thee Now, there is not a parent in this room tonight who does not want to see things go well for your children. We want to see God's best for our children. And keeping God's word, keeping God's commandments, which includes the principle of separation, folks, it's well for us. Uh I I grew up in a Christian home, I told you that. My dad is a pastor. I uh I was a preacher's kid. And uh uh and and uh for a while a rebellious one, but God got a hold of my heart and I I grew up and and And graduated from seminary and and we got married and and I knew all the standards, you can't do this and you can't do that, because they're worldly. But one day, children came to our home. And it all started to have another perspective. I wanted to see God's best for our children. And it started to occur to me and the dawn on me that if we allow the world into our home and the world into our family, it's going to influence my children. That it may be well with thee and thy children. Deuteronomy chapter five and verse twenty nine. Oh that there were such an heart in them Now this is God speaking himself directly. He said, Oh, that there were such a heart in them that they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them and with their children Isn't that interesting? When we follow the Word of God, when we obey the Word of God. And that includes the matter of separation. God said it's going to be well with thee and thy children. It's never been popular, separation. But it is crucial, particularly if we'd have to see our children uh develop as they ought. And so number one tonight Have biblical principles or absorb biblical principles. Number two tonight, have biblical convictions. Mom and Dad, you must have convictions. You want your young people to go straight and fly right and and and and turn out as you would have them to be. We need it to to have the convictions before they do. If one parent has strong convictions and the other does not, the kids will gravitate to the Lower I mean they'll all always go to the lower common denominator. I've watched this over and over and over again over the years. Sometimes it's dead uh who has Sometimes it's mom who has the stronger convictions and dad is weak. But the kids will dra gravitate to the lower the lower common denominator. We cannot lead where we have not already gone. It's almost impossible to teach young people proper convictions if mom and dad don't have the convictions. And one reason that that uh preachers get frustrated is they preach and they preach, and and and yet the kids go sour because the home they're coming out of is is weak and soft on convictions. And so, number three tonight, we need to teach our children biblical convictions. We need to teach them about the world. And what the world is, and who is behind the world. One of the sessions we had at the retreat, I was teaching things which we did in our family altar, and as I said We had a twin purpose, one to teach our children how to get saved, and then two to teach them godly character. We also then began weaving the matters of the world into uh our our daily devotions, teaching our young people about holiness. And purity. I'm talking about at home. Teaching our children about righteousness. We talked about that yesterday. Our kids need to understand the principles rather than just a list of you can't do this and you can't do that. Now there are the things we ought not do, but our children need to know why that they're not supposed to do such and such things. I am thankful that that uh and I'm not bragging folks or boasting here tonight, but I I'm using this as an illustration to express my gratitude to my parents. I have never tasted a cigarette And I am thankful. My parents taught me and and would not allow me anywhere near such. I have never tasted beverage alcohol. And uh I'm so thankful for that. My parents taught me. I've never gone into a dance hall or a Hollywood motion picture theater. My parents taught me that. Now when I was growing up I didn't much appreciate that. In fact I chafed at that. I couldn't do the stuff all the other kids. I was in a big public high school. There really weren't Christ many Christian schools back when I was in in in high school. And uh And I didn't much like it. I went went to a Fundamentals Bible College and good night. I mean they had more rules than West Point and I just went together. And I chaped under it, particularly the first year. Now I started to understand a little bit more. But after I got out of Bible college and and had a few years and uh to reflect, I look back at those years at that fundamentalist Bible college, Pil Pillsbury Baptist Bible College, and if they instilled one thing in me, they instilled in me a an understanding to have convictions about separation from the world. And we need to help our young people understand that. We need to teach these godly convictions with grace and truth. Grace and truth in that order. By the way, we read there in John chapter one that our Lord was full of grace and truth. And notice in that order. The teacher, young people. Now, sometimes it's all discipline and no grace. And that often leads to rebellion. In other homes, I've washed it's all grace and no discipline. And that usually leads to compromise with the world. There needs to be a balance of love and discipline. And love coupled with family discipline is a powerful combination. We need to teach our children that there is corruption in the world through lust. And I'm so thankful that when God saves the person, we become a new creature. If any man be in Christ, he is a new Creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things have come new. And sometimes children growing up in a Christian home, they don't see that like mom and dad did when you got saved out of the world years ago. We need to help our children understand that the world is a corrupt place. Now, here and this is where it really the rubber uh hits the road tonight, here is where it really gets down the brass packs. Mom and Dad, we need to be a consistent example at home. A consistent example. Parental inconsistency invariably breeds rebellion. And how we need to be and and I'm I'm here to tell you it's not easy to always do what we're supposed to do as mom and dad. But nevertheless, to work at it. We need to be so careful about the music we allow in our home. I was teaching the men this morning that music is is a a I'm going to use a A technical term, a physics term. Music is the wavelength. Music is the frequency of which the old nature operates. Well, let me put it that way, our spirit. And the world's music is on the wavelength and the frequency of the old nature. And you allow the world's music in your home. And uh maybe you don't like the current rock and roll or the current uh flavors of rap music or whatever is going on in the world today, but you listen to the music you liked you l you listened to forty years ago. Oh, we need to be so careful. The programs that you allow on the television set, and folks are very little good on the television set. I mean Between the weather channel and and maybe one or two news channels, that's about it. Oh so careful about what you watch. And what they see. Folks, we need to be so careful about how we dress. We dress nice when we come to church and follow the church's dress standards, but at home maybe we're not quite so concerned. And I'll tell you what, there are pairs of little eyes watching that. And they pick up on the inconsistency. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. I remember a a uh family in our church, and I'm going back now twenty-eight years ago maybe. Nine years ago, it was a long time ago, the early days of the church. And we had a a family in the church, and he had been in the ministry, had been a pastor, and wanted to go back into the ministry, and eventually he did. But his wife was very weak on this matter of separation. Now Some of you older than the young generation here remember a guy by the name of Barry Manilow. I mean remember a guy with the name of Barry Manilow, right? Numbers of you did. He was not a hard rocker. He was a soft rocker. But folks is still the world's music. And Barry Manilo came to Duluth one day, one one Sunday, by the way. And put on a big production, a big concert downtown. And so this lady and her sister. She's a has been a pastor's wife and is going to be another pastor's wife again in the future. They skip the evening service. to go hear man bury manilow. Well, sadly, they had two children and folks they both went off the deep end into the world. How sad. How sad. We need to be so careful about being inconsistent in front of our children. Talking about first generation Christians. I was telling the pastor about this story. There's a couple in our church. If you were to come to North Star Baptist, church next week there in Duluth. You very likely be met at the door by a gentleman. His name is Tyrone Walker. He is a black gentleman. But folks, Tyrone Walker is a convicted felon. Tyrone Walker has done time in the Minnesota State Penitentiary. Tyrone Walker is plastered with tattoos. He was a a gangbanger and a drug dealer. He was just a bad dude. His wife is an American Indian. She is plastered with tattoos. They both are. Folks, one day, first Samantha and then Tyrone got saved. And folks, when they got saved, they got saved. And they never miss a service. I mean, uh the the Since he he learned welding in prisoning he has gone and the men of the church helped him to get into the iron workers union and uh and uh he sometimes works on the road, but it all the time that he's home, they're there for everything I mean he's there as an usher at the door, he's there uh every time they go out, uh the church has visitation, helps on the bus route, uh helps in junior church, uh the the church has an extension chapel across town He sometimes preaches there. Anytime and everything, anytime there's a going out of the church, Tyrone and Samantha are there. She sings in the choir, helps coordinate the nursery Uh uh a summer ago we we had a baptismal service and and that that service, as my uh as I recall, six adults got baptized that night, four of which the walkers had led to Christ And they live a consistent life with their children. And my wife has become very close with Samantha, the the lady, the young woman. They're only about thirty years old now. Several years ago. And homeschooling those children. And we are so impressed with the godly character in that home. He knows that you don't mess with the world. He knows it all too well. But I've watched Christians who are so sloppy and casual about the relationship with the world. Years ago in in in uh the church in which I grew up in central Illinois And then went back and worked with my father. I was uh the associate pastor there for ten years. And we ran a lot of buses. And uh one particular weekend we had a a a big Friday night youth rally. I wasn't in charge of it, but I I was involved to the degree of getting you know, the transportation for the kids to come and so forth. And uh one kid was brought in and uh had a he had black hair and a ponytail down his back almost to his waist. His name was Curtis, that's all I'll tell you. He doesn't live very far from here now. But uh, and that night Curtis got saved. Well, Saturday came and went, Sunday morning comes, and I, as my custom was, I'd often stand out on the sidewalk in front of the church as the buses pulled in and unloaded and And this guy got gets off this particular bus and I says, Hi, what's your name? He says, My name is Curtis. Don't you remember me? I got saved on on Friday night. Well he'd gone and got his hair cut. I mean nobody had said anything to him about that. He just knew he ought to be different now that he got saved. Went off to Bible college and and is been in in a part of the ministry in in New Jersey, which I don't think is very far from here. Not too far anyway. God changed his life. And there's been a consistent change there. But let me tell you another story, and this is a true story, it's a tragic story. Of a Christian family who at least the dead was not consistent. As I said, we had a large bus ministry there in in central Illinois. And as the the the director of the bus ministry, I was like a broken record. Now you teenagers don't know what that is. You say something over and over again. But I would get up in the pulpit to make announcements. I said there's a need for help in the bus ministry. Because there always was a need for help in the bus ministry, and we always needed helpers and workers. Well, there were there was a couple who'd sit in the back row. Now I don't know you folks sitting in the back row, but they'd sit back there and he'd sit there like this. And uh, you know, just kind of stare. But after one service one day They came to me and said to Pastor Dave, that's what they called me there, he said, we would like to get involved in the bus ministry. Oh wow In fact, we are going to give the money to buy a new bus, not a brand new bus, but another bus for the church. Wow. And he said, I'll drive the bus, and the lady's name was Iola, and she'll be the bus captain. I've never in in in all the years had someone make an offer like that. And so they did. They gave the money to buy another bus, and she would go out and spend all day Saturday knocking on doors and and And then on Sunday he would drive the bus. They ran up to a little area, a town about five miles away called Criefcourt, Illinois. Criefcourt in French means broken heart. There's some history there with with the cell, but but I I digress. And uh But they had a teenage son, the last one at home, and I could say that there had been inconsistency over the years. Mom had been fairly faithful in trying to look for the Lord, but Dad was the guy who was dragging his feet. And one Saturday morning we had a workers meeting, a bus workers meeting every Saturday morning at nine o'clock. It was kind of an inspirational meeting, a devotional meeting, a practical meeting dealing with whatever problems had to be dealt with. And by a quarter to ten, the folks are heading out to knock on doors on their bus ride. It was winter, I think it was about this same year, February. There was snow in the ground there in central Illinois. And Iola, the lady, Iola Preston was her name. Came into the workers' meeting that morning, and I could tell she was dragging anchor. I could tell she was down. And I said, oh look, what's the problem? Well, she had already told me part of the story, and I'll share it with you, their 14-year-old son, along with a cohort in crime. had broken into a a local middle school and and tried to rob the place and of course they got caught and went before the juvenile court and the juvenile judge and the judge said look Tommy or Thomas I can do one or two things. I can put you under house arrest. You're going to go home and you're going to be grounded. You're just going to go to school and to church and that's all. Or if you don't want to do that, he said, I'll put you in the juvenile jail Juvenile detention center. You make up your mind. And he said, okay, I'll go home. But he wasn't a happy camper. And he gave his mother fits. And so she came to the bus workers meeting that morning Down and discouraged, and I said, Ilah, what's the problem? She said, Oh, it's Tommy. He calls me his warden. And uh she was very discouraged. Well, she went out that February day and spent six hours knocking on doors uh for her Sunday school bus rock. Got home about four o'clock that afternoon and plopped down in a a easy chair there in the living room of their house on Sheridan Road and peeking. Illinois and promptly fell asleep. Meanwhile, Tommy's cohort and crime I don't remember the kid's name. And the judge had forbade him to have any contact with him. But nevertheless, he came and scratched on the screen, they had a one-floor ranch style house, and scratched on the screen on the window of his house, and And so Tommy opened opened the window and began talking to his buddy outside. And Tommy said, I'm so mad at my mother I could kill her. And his punk Fred I you don't said you don't have the guts to do it. He said, Yeah I do. And his so-called friend says, I'll bet you. Was it $20? $5. I'll bet you $5 you don't have the guts to do it. He said, you're on. And so with his mother sitting out there in the chair in the living room, asleep. He went down into his parents' bedroom and his dad had a rifle there in the uh the closet, took a beat on his mother's head, pulled the trigger, and shot her. And of course, she woke up screaming. And Tommy got scared. And so he dialed 911 and said, Somebody broke into our house and shot my mother. Well, meanwhile, one of our deacons was driving by and saw all the emergency equipment there and and stopped and asked what happened. He said the the lady of the house got shot and he knew who lived there. Called me up and said, Pastor Dave, you need to get to the hospital. They've taken Iola to the hospital. And called my father as well, and he went, but because I worked more closely with him than he left, kind of left it in my hands. And so I went to the emergency room there at the local hospital. And they were working on her, and the family was there, had already accumulated there, and the police were there And one of the uncles said to the the the detective, you know, officer said, I think the kid there did it. Just knowing the context, Tommy, I bet Tommy did it. And so they pulled Tommy off into a little room there at that in the ER uh department and and one of the officers, it was not that large a town and we had connection with the police departments, with uh on our law enforcement days and so on and so forth. And they knew who I was. One of the officers said, Reverend, do you want to come in and sit in on like this, like like as if I was his attorney? And so I went in there and sat and listened as they began to work on him. And his story was not consistent. Meanwhile, the medical people determined to t go from the the local hospital to a regional trauma hospital, and so she was put into an ambulance and away they went and everybody else followed the ambulance up to Peoria to the bigger more uh uh extensively prepared trauma hospital. And along with the police, and we sat down again and they began to work on Tommy. And he was a 14-year-old punk, and these were veteran investigators. They knew what they're doing. And a note came in and one of them said to the kid, he said, We just got the ballistics report. That bullet came from your room, the doorway of your room. Well then he said it was a mistake. It was an accident. The gun just went off. Well, you know, that didn't fly very well to police Why now it was getting on to the evening hours of Saturday night. Nine o'clock, her uh Ayola's husband Harry was working at Caterpillar Tractor Company of the second shift at uh the Mossville engine plant up the road. And they finally tracked him down and got him there. And so we're there in the the the the the ER of of the the larger hospital and the surgeon comes out and so she's she's gonna be all right she's gonna pull through uh we've taken her up to the intensive care unit and if uh Mr. Preston if you'd like to go up and see her you're welcome to and so Harry Preston said, Pastor Dave, come on along with me. We went up to the ER, or I mean the the ICR. And uh walked in. And what had happened is as Iola was sitting in a chair, asleep like this, head back, mouth open, the bullet went in here. Came out there. Basically went through the mouth cavity, took a tooth or two out along with it. But other than that, she was alright. But her face was swollen up like a purple grapefruit from the trauma of it. How sad. But now it's 10 o'clock on Saturday night. And the first thing out of her mouth was, and she saw me there, what about my bus route tomorrow? And I said, Ayola, don't worry about the bus ride. We'll take care of that tomorrow. And I didn't tell her this, but we just canceled it that next day. It was too late to do anything about it. Well, she succeeded, or survived, I should say, and went on to uh uh heal and and uh uh convalesce and and and went on and later forgave her son for what he had done But Thomas was charged with second-degree murder, or attempted murder, I should say, second-degree attempted murder. And the day came when he stood before the Illinois District Court, and it was Judge William Heipel, and it came sentencing time. And the judge said, Reverend, do you want to stand by this young man? And so I went and stood beside Tommy Preston. And the judge said, Thomas Preston, I hereby sentence you to ten years in the Illinois Department of Corrections, and he collapsed on the floor. I think he thought he was going to skate. But he was sent to a youth prison up in northern Illinois, St. Charles, Illinois. And I could say his mother forgave him, his father forgave him. They've since gone to heaven. But what a tragic story of a home where there was compromise and and inconsistency. And it usually doesn't end that traumatically and dramatically. But folks, there's corruption in the world. And when we mess with the world, there's often bad circumstances that come thereafter We read here tonight that we should live soberly, godly, and righteously in this present world. God knows what he is doing. It's for our own good, that it may be well with us and with our children after us. Let's have convictions. Let's teach our children separation. Let's endeavor to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this presence. world. Our Father tonight, thank you for the opportunity to speak to this good church and these good people. Father, may we be people who seek to train our children to live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world For their sake, for your name's sake, for the gospel's sake. Now bless as we draw this hour to its conclusion tonight. And I Ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand, please. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed