Genesis chapter 26. I'm sure you all remember, but in January of last year I wrote a devotional out of this chapter. Just kidding about the remembering that part. Uh some people have commented to me about the structure that I'm using to write my devotionals. Part of the reason that I'm doing that is because I'd like to one day go back and preach these as messages. So I have an outline that's already done and a thought that's there. Obviously needs some development to do that. I've only managed to do that, I think, three times since we started writing these preach three times of these uh as actual sermons. Uh but as I was preparing for the message tonight, God uh brought me back to this passage uh having to deal with this devotional that I wrote and that we're going to be going through that thought that I shared with you in Jesus January of last year and I thought it was not quite fresh enough that it wouldn't be repetitive for everyone to hear that again. But we're gonna look at this idea of digging again in Genesis chapter Chapter twenty six and verse number eighteen. So if you found your place there, if you'll stand with me for the reading of the Word of God, we'll read just this one verse. We'll get into some more historical context here in a minute. But just reading this one verse, Genesis chapter twenty six and verse number eighteen. The Bible says, And Isaac digging the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father. For the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham. Abraham. And he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for today. We thank you for for your uh word and what we can learn from it. Thank you for the good time we've already had in your house this morning in the Sunday school hour in the morning service. Lord I pray you meet with us again tonight. Thank you for the time We've had to praise you through song, Lord, and hearing the ministry of music. I pray now as we gather around your word that you speak to us through uh these pages and these thoughts, Lord, to challenge us with where we're at and where you want us to be. We ask the same In Christ's name, Amen. Thank you, maybe seaton. So the history of what's going on here You have to kind of backtrack all the way to Genesis chapter twelve, um, and you'll find there God calling Abraham out of the city of Ur, Ur of the Chaldees. He's getting called out of that place to go, we learn in Hebrews. I want you to come with me. I'm going to send you to a land. Leave your father's house and you go to a land that I'm going to show you. So Abraham obeyed by faith. Abraham, uh he went and he sojourned in this land, and he came to the land of Canaan, and it was there that God met with him and promised this land. That would be in where modern day Israel is, although God intended to give them much more land than uh is currently currently occupied by Israel, but God promised that to Abraham and Abraham's descendants. Now while Abraham is there in the land of Canaan after God makes this promise to him, here, this land is for you. It's for your descendants. I want you to stay here. I'm giving you this land. A famine comes, and in the midst of the famine, Abraham leaves the land that God just gave him, that God just told him to stay at, and goes down into Egypt. Egypt and he sojourns down the land of Egypt during that time of famine. In Egypt he lies about his wife, uh being his sister. We ran referenced that in science school. this morning and he gets them in trouble uh and God uses uh the pagan king to get Abraham back in the will of God. Uh Abraham was reprimanded by the king King of Egypt for having lied uh about his wife and ended up sending him out of the land of Egypt with much uh with much wealth the king of Egypt gave him uh to appease God's anger against his house But then Abraham wait, go back to where God told you to be. This is a reprimand coming to God's people from a pagan king. So he goes in t back to the land where God had called him to be. Now Abraham was not unscathed from his sojourning in Egypt. Egypt. When a Christian decides to take a break from the things of God and go spend some time in the world, they don't get to come out of that untouched. There's a story told of a young lady who was was going to go to her coal mine and with a s with a school class. There was a high school class, they were going to go to her coal mine. And she decided to wear her favorite white dress that day. And uh with a coal miner said, You're not going to wear that want to wear that down here. And He she said, Well what's what's wrong with or what can you can't keep me from wearing a white dress down into there and he said, You're right, I can't keep you from wearing in But there's going to be a lot of things going to keep you from wearing a white dress out of there. And that's what happens when a Christian sojourns in the world. The same thing happened with Abraham. in the land of Egypt. He went down to Egypt and he he came out with wealth, but he also came out with having uh a rift in his relationship with his wife that we see He also came out with his nephew Lot having developed a love for the city and a love for the world that would cause great uh trouble uh to Abraham He also came out with a handmaid named Hagar that would that is still causing trouble today because of Abraham's sojourning in the land of Eden. So Egypt. So he didn't go and make that trip and come out unscathed. But once he was back in the land, he and Lot end up splitting up. Lot's love of possessions, the love of the things of this world causes him to go and sojourn in Sodom, and uh Abraham gets alone and God's able to Well once again, um Abraham, or at this point, Abraham ends up in the land of the Philistines with the king or the leader there named Abimelech. And in the land of the Philistines he did the same thing that he did in the land of Egypt, and he lies about his wife saying He was his sister, to preserve his own flesh, to keep himself safe. And once again God judges the king there, and Abimelech reproaches Abraham and Sarah for their lies and deceptions It's at this point, as Abraham lives in the area around where Abimelech rules, he digs some of these wells. A lot of the areas around Canaan in this time in history, it wasn't a nation. There were there were individual cities and those were ruled by what were called kings of the time, but it wasn't a king over a country. It was really a king over a city. So Abraham was in the city where Abimelech was and Abimelech ended up kicking uh Abraham out. So Abraham lived kind of in the outskirts in the wilderness where God had called him to be, and it's there that he settles down and he digs some of these wells, one of them being the um well of Beersheba. Which is where we find Isaac here in our passage today. One of these wells results in a confrontation with Abimelech because some of his servants had stolen it from Abraham. Abraham. Abraham uh gets it back from Abimelech and strikes a deal with Abimelech as the result. Well after Abraham dies, um his son Isaac is obviously leading the family in his stead, and his son Isaac has his two sons. Jacob and Esau. And while Jacob and Esau when they become young men, uh there is a famine that takes place in the land. Well God preemptively comes to Isaac and says, So he was going to prevent Isaac from making the same mistake Abraham did. So instead of going to Egypt, Isaac returns to the area of the Philistines with Abimelech. This is a different Abimelech than uh was met with Abraham. The word Abimelech is more of a title than an actual person's name. Um so but he goes and he sojourns in the land of the Philistine, comes into the area ruled by Abimelech. Now Isaac didn't make Abraham's mistake ever trying to be able to do it. And it's this uh lie that leads to a confrontation with Abimelech, and Abimelech ends up asking Isaac to move because he's becoming a Becoming richer and more powerful than the people of Abimelech City. So Abimelech again kicks them out of the city and says, Go back in the land where God wants you to be. And Isaac ends up at this place where Abraham had been before, where Abraham had dug and named. Now when he gets there, he finds the wells that Abraham had dug had been filled in. by the Philistines that lived in the area. If we look back in our chapter here to verse number fourteen, we see that the reason this was done was because of envy. For be the verse says, For he had possession of flocks and possession of herds, and great store of servants, and the Philistines envied him. So the Philistines were jealous of the wealth of Abraham and Isaac, so what they did is they went in the middle of the day. And they filled in these wells. When you look on it on the surface, this is a desert climate. This is a desert area. Why would you destroy or fill in a well? Well, a well was marked by the person that dug it, and it was And if they could cover up that well, they could cover up the fact that Abraham used to own this land. This has been done in Israel by um the Muslim nations by trying to erase Israel's history and land to say that Israel has no claim. The same thing was happening here, erasing the history of Israel, so that they could say that Isaac had no claim to this area. But Isaac comes back and he finds these wells that Abraham had dug, and he makes the choice to redig these wells that had been dug by his father, and he renames them according to our passage, the same way they have been named by his father. So that's the history of what's going on here. What what Isaac is doing. choosing to go back to where God had sent his father, back to the land that God had given him, back to the promises of God, back to the Word of God, and go back to the places where Abraham and had met with God and dig those up and remember them to put some memorials up of what God had done in the life of his father. Now Isaac in our passage he's reclaiming a portion of his family's history that had literally been buried by their enemies. There are many reasons why you would want to redig a well that had been filled in as opposed to just digging a new one. One of these would be because you know it works. Digging a well in a desert is a risky business. You dig a hole, there might not be water there, there might not be. But if there was a well there before, you haven't you know that when you go dig, there's gonna be water there again. Um so he knows that it works Another reason to redig a well is because the work's already been done. Now these wells that were uh dug in the desert, they were dug, they were cut into the earth, the sides were lined with stones to keep the sand from collapsing in and often there would be a set of steps that would go down to where they could get uh to the water at the bottom of the well. So a lot of structural work had been done. So when you fill that in with dirt, it's going to be easier just to take that dirt out than to start from scratch and bring stone in from somewhere and fill in the sides. So a lot of the work had already been done and you can go back to that same place and find water again. Another reason to redig a well is because there was a reason I dare say that Abraham had more knowledge than Isaac did about establishing a uh settlement In a desert. And so Isaac said, you know, there's a reason Dad put this well here. And instead of moving over there, where who knows what's going to happen, I know it worked for Dad here. I'm going to move to this place because he knew more than I did. And so Isaac was relying on the sacrifice and the wisdom of those who had come before him by redigging that well. Another reason he would redig the well instead of digging See, Isaac could have gone and said, If I'm gonna establish my own family line, I'm gonna s uh pretend that I'm the one who started all this. So he could go to a new area. He could dig the wells, and these are the wells of Isaac And he could establish a name for himself, but he chose instead to honor the sacrifice of his father who left his land, the comforts of home. in order to follow God and came to this land and established something, Isaac was choosing to honor that by choosing to redig the wells of his father. And another reason he would redig these wells is because these wells stood for something. The names of the wells signified events in the life of Abraham and things that God had taught Abraham at these places. When generations of Israelites walked, walked by those wells, and heard those many names, they were reminded about where they had come from. See these wells stood for many things in Isaac and Abraham's life, and Isaac wasn't about to change their meaning. So he was going to go put in some effort, saying I'm going to re-establish these memorials. I'm going to re-establish these wells, dig them back in that had been filled up. I want to preserve our family's history. because it's important. And there were some reasons for that there. Now I'm not going to take this and go into there was room here to definitely go into a cultural application. uh political message. I'm not going to do that here, but I want to want to remind us that it is important to realize that in our country right now there's an effort to tear down history. There's an effort to tear down uh our past and where we come from as a country. Everything that I just said about redigging wells can just as easily apply to not tearing down and re-establishing monuments of history. Are there sins in our country our history as a country? Of course there are. There are also sins that were tied to the history of those wells that Isaac redug too. If we were only going to memorialize perfect people, we could only have images of Jesus. And that was forbidden by the Ten Commandments. So we couldn't do that either. Those who tear down history do much more harm than those who made history. And history is worth preserving. It's how we know where we came from, how we know how we got here, and how we know what mistakes not to repeat as a country. So history is important. So we see there's some historical application from the Bible, the context there. There's some cultural application. But I want to bring it into the spiritual realm, obviously, for our message tonight, and give us a spiritual application. You see, Isaac went back to some old things. He went back to some old things that worked because he knew God had blessed those things. He knew that God had worked in those things. He went back and redug those wells. These wells represented things that had happened in the past that Isaac was going to return to. This is an idea that's brought up many times in the Bible, and it's that idea of returning to old things. In Jeremiah chapter 6, we are familiar with the passage, seek the old paths. We're supposed to go back to the old things. There's another place in Jeremiah when that thought is We also have the idea in Proverbs 22 and also I believe it's in Proverbs 26 where it says, remove not the ancient landmark. There's things that were done in the past and it was done for a reason. And we need to hold on to and preserve those things even in our spiritual lives. In Revelation chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, Jesus is addressing the church in Ephesus. And he tells them, he says, Rem nevertheless I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. Remember from therefore from whence thou art fallen, repent and do the first work. She's saying going back. Go back to what worked. Go back to where you started. Go back to the old things where you knew I blessed, where you knew I worked. Go return to those things. And the idea of the message tonight is going back to some old things that worked and redigging those and re-establishing them in our lives. Just as Isaac returned to the old wells that had been digged by his father because they work, because the work had already been done, because there was a reason they were there, because he wanted to honor his father, and because the wells stood for something We as a believer need to get back to the old paths. There's movements. It's always ongoing to find something new. Something new, something, something better, something better than what I'm not saying that it's wrong to try something new. New. We have new things in our church. We have screens. We have Facebook. We have uh Facebook marketing we did for our BBS. These things it's not wrong to use them, but it is wrong to f forget and forsake and neglect what God's done in the past. And to say, well that doesn't work anymore. There's a movement today in our circles that's called young fundamentalists. It's the young men that are my age who are rejecting the teaching of the pastors that have gone before them, rejecting holiness, rejecting doctrine, rejecting um the practices of of churches and of Baptists and of our history to say we've got something better that we want to offer. We've got something new that we want to offer. And a lot of people are falling into it. I have some some that I listen to to keep track of where they're pushing uh this movement. They want to um they're not just refusing to dig again. They're actively filling in wells that our forefathers had died to dig. As believers, we need to dig again where the Christians of old found the power of God. We need to dig again where Christians of old found revival. We need to dig again where Christians of old learned to walk with God. Maybe like the church at Ephesus, we don't need to go back to Christians of old for our pattern. Maybe you have some first works that you used to do that you need to Did you have a concern for souls when you first got saved? Has that well been filled in? Were you excited about coming to church when you first got saved? Has that excitement been filled in by the cares of this world? Do you remember when your devotional life was real and God spoke to you on a daily basis? Has that well been filled in? Do you remember what it's like to see God answer your prayers? Has that well been filled in? Maybe it's time for us to dig again. We're look at five ways that these are things that we can look at these wells stood for in the life of Abraham that Isaac was going to return to. The first of these was that these wells were a place of devotion. A place of devotion. See, Abraham was a sojourner. He didn't have a home. He didn't build a city. He dwelt in tents in the land of Canaan. He traveled from place to place. He lived a nomadic life. He never got a chance to build up any cities or set himself up in ease. There were two things that Abraham built during his life. He built altars and he built wells. And these were usually constructed around an event where God intervened in Abraham's life. When Abraham built a well or he built an altar, it represented a time of devotion in his life. We know from the Bible that Abraham was called the friend of God. We look at life of Abraham and see what he did. We see that he walked with God. We see that he talked with God. We see he listened to God. There were times when he negotiated with God. He sat down and ate meals with God. He received promises from God. He slept. With and was devoted to, Isaac Doug goes back in and said, You know what? I want that kind of a relationship. I want the relationship with God that my father had. I want the relationship with God that my forefathers had, where God was real to them, and I want him to be real to me. Abraham knew what it meant to be devoted to God. He made his share of mistakes. He had his moments of unbelief, but he lived his life as the friend of God. When Isaac returned to these wells and re dug them and renamed them the same way Abraham did, he was reminding himself of Abraham's devotion. These wells represented what Abraham had given up for God. That he had left Ur of the Chaldees, where he was a wealthy man, and lived in ease. He left it all to follow God. And these wells were a reminder of that. These wells represented what Abraham was looking forward to. We read in Hebrews eleven how he openly declared by doing these things that he sought a better country. He was looking forward to not the life that God was going to give him here on this earth, but the promised land that God had for him. These wells were a direct connection to Abraham's devotion to God, and Isaac thought that was worth getting back to. So what is your devotion like tonight? I think back to Christian of old Christians of old who are willing to give their all for the Lord. People who are truly devoted to God. You know what Dial Moody said about his devotion to God? At his death, Dial Moody said, the world has yet to see what God will do with a man fully consecrated to him. We look back at a man like that and say that man had some devotion when he established he evaluated himself. He said, Well, I didn't give it all to God. There's more than I could have done. These are some men who did great things. The missionary William Borden, who left a family of wealth to travel to be a missionary in the Congo, who died in In his twenties, if I remember right, or early thirties, uh he wrote in his Bible, no reserves, no retreats, no regrets. Jim Elliott, who died as a martyr to the Indians in the Amazon, he said he is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain. There were countless men and women throughout history whose faith was real enough to, according to the Hebrews chapter eleven, to others, were tortured. Not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. Baptists in history were tied up and drowned, they were burned at the stake, they were fed to wild animals for amus amusement, they were shot, beheaded, and many other retro atrocities because they refused to We need more of that devotion in our lives today. I need more of that kind of devotion. to God in my life today. We complain about VBS when it's hot outside. Um I guarantee it wasn't as hot as the martyrs that burned at the stake uh for their Lord. We're willing to where where is the devotion of Christians? Pastor mentioned it last week that there's many Christians who they may say, Oh, I'd I'd be willing to go to prison for Jesus, but they can't come to Sunday school school or to to church or to read their Bible every day. Where's the devotion? Isaac said, you know what? My dad had some devotion I want to get back to that. I'm going to go back and dig those wells again. I want to see what he had, and I want that for myself. We have some wells of devotion that need to be dug again. Remember the admonition Jesus gave to the church at Ephesus. Remember From whence thou art fallen. Repent and do the first works. Go back. Dig that up. Get that devotion back. If is there a time in your life when you were were sold out for God, when you were eager to to please the Lord, to be devoted to Him, whatever God wanted, you were willing to do. Let's get back to that. Let's redig those wells. So not only were these wells a place of devotion, they were also a place of deliverance. A place of deliverance, a place where Abraham had seen God do great things. Abraham saw victories by the hand of God. These were places where Abraham saw God do the impossible and saw God work miracles. It was here that he received God's promises and God's blessings. He saw God answer prayer at these wells. When Isaac dug these wells again, he was reminded of the deliverance that God showed to Abraham. Egypt kicked him out of his nation there. We see that four kings that invaded Sodom came up against Abraham and he fought the first war recorded in the Bible against those four kings. Abimelech was against him and kicked him out of his city. The Philistines envied him and filled in his wells, but through all this God delivered and blessed Abraham. Isaac looked back and saw, you know what, God was able to rescue my dad, was able to meet his needs, was able to give me that victory. I want that victory as well. Well, I want to see that kind of deliverance. So he re dug those wells to make a claim on God's promise to give him that victory. You know, Christians of old they were able to see great victories at that time. hands of God. Churches were planted. Revivals took place. People were saved. Missionaries were sent around the world. Awakenings took place that shook the world for God. People say, well, we live in a different day. Yes, we do. We live in a different day, but we have the same God. Same God that worked in the past can work today. We need to go back and dig some of God's well some of those wells up and look again for God's deliverance. Just an illustration to see what what kind of devotion or what kind of deliverance he I heard of a revival that happened about fifty years ago somewhere down south. They had a preacher in for a week of meetings under a tent. And God began to work in those services, and Christians got right with God. And people got saved every night that week of revival. There's an old preacher down south. I heard him say in a message one time that when Christians start getting things right this way, sinners will start getting things right this way. On how Christians can often be a barrier to death. So that's what happened in that revival. Christians got things right with God, and sinners started getting saved. Well, the pastor of the church, the last night of the revival, set us up and said, you know what? God's doing something here And I don't want to be the one to stop it. So if the evangelist is willing, we're going to keep having meetings. And we'll keep coming to church and we'll keep preaching as long as God keeps saving souls. Six weeks as God continued to save souls. Every night for six weeks as God continued to save souls. Not only were they willing to meet every night in church for a month and a half to see God do something Leading up to that revival, that church held all night prayer meetings where the men of the church would come to pray all night and then go work in their farms all day. Getting ready. And while the revival was taking place, people would go and pray all night. They take off early from their work in the fields to go into town to witness to people they knew that were lost to see God do a great thing. Are we willing to go back and dig, to put that kind of effort in to see God work again? To see God answer our prayers. Do you want God to bring deliverance in your prayer life? It's not going to come from an app. It's not going to come from a program. It's not going to come from some kind of new thing. We have to go back to what God says work works. What does God say? Works to bring deliverance, prayer, fasting, faith, perseverance, tears, fervency, a burden. There's some old wells that have been filled in in the lives of Christians. God challenged me on this just a sermon I was listening to last week. When was the last time you cried during your prayers? When was the last time you sowed in tears so you could reap in joy? Prayer's got to be real. Are we willing to make that kind of sacrifice? Are we willing to put in that effort to redig those wells of deliverance? Again, the reminder from Jesus. to see Christians go forward to God, to see young people called into the ministry. We've got to remember those things and we've got to return. Repent and do the first works. So it was a place of deliverance. It was a place of devotion. We see also these wells. They were places of distinction. Places of distinction. You see, Abraham identified these wells by giving them names. He named them and he he identified them. They were his wells and they stood for something because of the names that he gave to those wells. They distinguished them from other wells in the area. The name said something about their purpose. The name said something about their owner. The name said something about their structure and their quality. And Isaac decided to keep those names. He wanted to preserve them. He wanted to be associated with them. He wanted to keep those names that his father had given and maintain them. No, we as Christians it's important for us to hold on to our names. The Bible says a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. I remember growing up in South Carolina and there's um churches everywhere. Baptist churches everywhere. Greenville, South Carolina, they call it the buckle of the Bible belt. Baptist churches everywhere. When I drive, my parents drive to church, I drive about an hour to get there. We passed 14 Baptist churches that we can see on the way to our church that we go by. But I remember when I was about twelve years old, I started watching as these churches became Bible churches. They were dropping that name Baptist. And after churches were dropping that name Baptist, becoming Bible churches, they were dropping that name church. And they were becoming fellowships. And they were coming community centers and they were becoming associations. They were losing those names, those names that people have died to have, those names that people have died holding on to in the past. They're giving up those decisions. They didn't want to be different anymore. They wanted to be more welcoming to the worldly crowd. They didn't want to be as distinct. They didn't want to be set apart. They didn't want to be different. You know, I don't agree with every Christian, but I'm still proud to be called a Christian. I don't agree with every church, but I'm always going to be part of an assembly that has church in their name. I don't agree with every evangelical fundamentalist, but it's a good name to have. I don't agree with every independent Baptist, but I'm not ashamed to be one. Christians in the past died for wearing those names and the things they represent. Who are we to give them up? Who are we to leave them filled in? If we begin to feel shame at our distinction that we carry in this world, it's time for us to dig the wells again. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works. These wells represented a duty that Abraham had to God. See, God had given Abraham this land. And as this land was a gift from God, Abraham had the responsibility of caring for it. of protecting it, of staying in the land, which he failed at a couple times. But he had some duties that were tied to this promise from God. God had told Abraham, You you serve me, I'll keep you in the land. And we see the promises he made to Israel is, You you reject me, I'm going to kick you out of this land. And we see that happen over and over again throughout history. Digging these wells was one way that he committed to preserve the land that God had commanded. See if Abraham was just coming and going, he would have gotten water from the city. But he went out into the desert and he dug his own well and said, I'm going to stay here. This is what God gave me, and I've got a job to do, and I'm going to be here and I'm going to do my job. I'm going to do my duty He had a duty of God to be faithful to God. You know, Isaac went back and he dug these wells to further the duty that God had given to his father that was passed on to him. By digging them again, he was saying to those around him that God had given this land to my father, and he had given it to me, and I intend to keep the land, the duty and the responsibility I have. You remember how he talked about how the Philistines came and they filled in these wells, why to erase the the um uh the possession that Abraham had of the land to erase the history that was there when Isaac came back in and in the presence of all the Philistines He dug those back in. He put those wells back. He said, This is mine. This was given to me by God, and I am here to stay. And that was the testimony that he had that he was going to fulfill the duty that God had given to him and to his family. When we look at Christians of the past, we see them and we remember them for their service to God. If we could bring up the great names that we could list of Christian servants in the past, of the George Mueller's, of the Hudson Taylors, we could bring them up here on stage They would not be bragging about what they accomplished. They would simply say, I did what God told me to do. I was just obedient to the Lord. It's just what God wanted me to do. I just did my duty. Hudson Taylor, he actually said, I used to ask God to help me And then I asked if I could help him. I ended up by asking him, just do the work through me. They didn't see their work as some magnificent thing. They just saw what they did for God as their duty as believers. When we look at the idea of going back to those first things, what is the things that you used to do for God? There's a lot of Christians that have it used to. I remember as we go out knocking on doors, especially last year. I knocked on a lot of doors of a lot of people that used to go to church. They used to be involved. I used to ride a bus. I used to go to vacation Bible school. I used to be a part. I used to believe in God. There are a lot of used to's that there out there in the world, but there's a lot of us to's in church as well. I used to be a witness. I used to go to work party. I used to give to God's work. I used to be involved in missions. I used to help in a class. I used to help clean the buildings. I used to, it can go on and on and on again. These wells that were dug by Isaac were places of What duties do we need to get back to for God? I'm going to establish my place here. I'm going to make some possession here and make it mine and my duty for the Lord. As I talk to pastors that travel around, I encourage them to have work parties at their church. And I'm thankful for our church, and I always are bragging about our church and how well our church gets involved in taking care of our facilities. But I tell them, I said, do you know when you have the church family here at the church and they're the ones vacuuming the floor, they're the ones cleaning the windows. It gives them possession. This is my church. And so when they see somebody drop trash on the floor, they're going to take ownership of that. Why? Because they put the work in. For Isaac to go back and dig this well and said, This is my duty. I'm gonna put some investment here. It gave him some value to that land that he wouldn't have had if he had just been given it by Abraham He had some investment, he had some value that was there. And as Christians, we need to get the place where we go to our duty for God and we say, I'm gonna dig this in. This is my territory that God's given me, and I'm gonna stand for God The last one we're going to see as we look at these different ideas of the wells and why Isaac chose to dig them again was that these wells were a place of dedication. They showed Abraham's devotion to God, that Abraham was the friend of God. They showed the deliverance that Abraham had received at the hand of God. They showed how Abraham was was distinct from the nations around them and the duty that Abraham had in the land. But lastly, it was a place of dedication. It was a place where Abraham had consecrated himself to the Lord. A place where he had given himself to God, said God, you can have me. You can have my family. You can have my wealth. You can have my home. You can have my servants. I'm all yours, God. You tell me what you want me to do is place a sacrifice, a place of dedication. Abraham made life-changing decisions at these wells. They were places where he committed to God, places where he sacrificed to God, places where he received promises from God. And when Isaac dug those wells again, he was holding on to the truth that had been given to his father. He was holding on to those promises. He was dedicating his family and his life to the words and the promises of God. Eventually, the nation of Israel would get to the place where they would fight and they would die for the dedication to those promises of God that this was their land that God gave them. Well there's things of God and His Word that Christians of the past were dedicated to. There were things that Christians and Baptists died because they were dedicated to the truth of the Word of God. Things like the fact that the Bible is the Word of God. That baptism is by immersion after salvation, that salvation is by grace through faith alone in Jesus Christ. That the church is autonomous and not responsible to it. About the right to preach without the sanction of the of the powerful church or of the government. As you read in church history, there's a group called the Waldenzies. And I read about a 600-page um history book on on this group of people. Bittersweet I guess will be the word. Because you you see pride in in the fact that these were people that stood for God. They're people that believe like just like we do. They were alive today, they'd be Baptists. And they they serve God, they were faithful to God, but they're called Waldenzies because they were living in the mountains. They were hiding there away from the cities. Why? Because they were being persecuted by the Roman Catholic Church that was in charge of the time. So they hid in the mountains. But what they would do is they would raise their young men up And they would have them memorize scripture. And they would give them essentially tracks. They would take and write out scriptures on pieces of paper and they would have them. And they would send them away when they're sixteen years old to go into the city. It was a it was a group of people, and there was a crusade that was launched against this group of people, a part of history that most Most people know are not aware of. A crusade launched against these Baptists by the Roman Catholic Church to destroy them. And if you when you read of the atrocities that were committed, there were there were parents who watched as soldiers literally ripped apart their infants. Because they refused to denounce Jesus Christ. Because they refused to recount their faith. Because they refused to sub um swear loyalty to the Roman Catholic Church. Because they stood for something. Because they were dedicated to something. They were dedicated to someone. Sadly, today, many of these truths are forgotten, forsaken, or treated carelessly by Christians. Is there any Bible truth that you'd be willing to die for? Doctrine, practice, convictions, and standards that Christians before us have labored to establish are carelessly ignored by Christians today? Listening to people who call themselves fundamental independent Baptists saying, well, Baptists never really believed that the King James Bible was only the Word of God. And just tossing away carelessly the truth. that people have fought and labored to establish and to dedicate to the Lord. They say things like, it's really not that big of a deal. I don't want to create a stir. I don't want to offend anyone. I don't want to stand out. Meanwhile, the world's going to hell because they don't know what a real Christian is. Because all they see are people who are willing to compromise. We need to get back to some wells of dedication and commit ourselves to be faithful to the truths of God's Word. Jude challenges us to earnestly Contend for the faith. Which one? The one that was once delivered to the saints. Don't earnestly contend for something new. Don't earnestly contend for what you've found and what you what you're comfortable with. What God gave to the saints. We need to stick up for that. We need to be faithful to what God has given us. Again, as Jesus told those at Ephesus, remember from whence thou art fallen, repent, and do the first works. I just want to challenge us as a church tonight with this idea of going back to the old things. Going back to the things that God has given us and be faithful to those things. things. To make a a little bit more of a direct application where we're at today, we've had to take a step back as a church because of all the shutdowns and restrictions going on with And we've had to step back from um some things that we would normally do as a church. And what you're hearing about all over the place today is the new normal. We need to be very cautious about a new normal. as a church. Yes, things are going to be different, but there's some old things that we're going to try to get back to. There's some old things that we're going to do again. We're going to start one day taking up offerings again. We're going to start one day knocking on doors again. The bus is going to start moving once again, and we need to be careful not to become comfortable in the new things. There's some old things we need to get back to as a church. Why? They worked. They got us to where we are today, and we're not going to just leave them behind. We're not going to let the world fill those in. We're going to go back, we're going to dig those up and we're going to say this is where we're going to stand for old things. Stand for what God's given us that works. So, old things, what are they? They're places of devotion, places of deliverance, places of distinction, a place of duty, and a place of dedication. If you stand with me tonight with your heads bowed and eyes closed, we haven't made an official announcement about this, but it has thrilled my heart to see people down on the altar, another old place that's gotten left alone. For a little while because of what we're dealing with. It is open tonight if God spoke to your heart about standing for some old things. Maybe there's something that you used to do that God stirred in your heart tonight. But maybe there's something God wants you to do. I'm going to close here in prayer, then the um instrumentals are going to play, and you're going to have time to deal with the Lord. Lord God, we love you. We thank you for your word. God, a blessed old book that we get a hold in our hand, Lord, true from beginning to end. And Lord the Bible stands and it will forever. Lord help us as Christians to never get away from the old things. Never get away from the things that we know were And give us a tenacity in our heart to say, you know what, I want that for our church. And Lord, let us return to those old things. Thank you for Isaac, who had a commitment to go back to what his father had done. I want to dig those out again. I want to re-establish my commitment to God just like my father did. Pray you would work in hearts tonight as we have this time invitation. We thank you for your word. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.