And so we can only do this through Christ working in us to develop Christian character. Christian character is a very important thing. Tonight we're going to be looking at the topic of discernment. A very very big topic in the Bible is all these character traits are. A lot we can learn from, very practical application, and a lot of things that really just directly affect our lives and how important it is for us. As we looked at each of these character traits, we've kind of stressed how important each one is. When you look at it by itself, you say, man, that's really important. We definitely have to have that one. Then you see another one, we definitely need that one in our lives. The truth is all this character needs to be working and growing as we mature and become more like Christ, which is the goal of looking at these character traits in Christ's life that we become more like Christ. The topic of a discernment, however, I think would be I could categorize it or describe it as the most important character trait for the protection of a Christian. To keep wrong influences out of your life, to keep you from coming to harm in your Christian life, you need to understand and have discernment. And we'll be looking at this topic this evening. We're going to start in the book of Hebrews. We'll look at it several other places in the Bible as we go through our lesson this evening. But Hebrews chapter 5, verse number 12, down to verse number 14. If you'll stand with me for the reading of the Word of God as we begin this evening. Hebrews 5, verse number 12. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who have who, by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and And evil. Let's open with a word of prayer prayer tonight. Lord God, we love you. We thank you for your word and how practical it can be in our lives. Lord, just pointing out areas, uh God, where we need to improve and we need to be doing better and we need to be growing. in these areas to be more like Christ. So pray to help us as we go through this study, Lord, to be challenged in the area of discernment, to have wisdom as we approach our lives, to make choices in our lives that please you, Lord. Pray you bless this study this evening. We ask all this in Christ Christ saying, Amen. As he's writing here to the group of the Hebrews, he's writing to them and reminding them that as a Christian you're supposed to be growing. When you were first saved, you needed milk. You needed simple things. But we need to move beyond simple things. If you saw a grown man walking around with the pacifier in his mouth and a bottle in his hand, you'd say something was wrong Because he never moved beyond that level of immaturity. But as Paul was writing to these Christians here, the Hebrews, he was saying to them, you know, you when you were first saved, you needed that. You needed that milk of the word. But but Now you should be a teacher. Now you should know enough to be able to instruct somebody else, but you're not at that point. You haven't gotten to the place where you can instruct somebody else because you still need those simple things. You still need the milk of the gospel. and the milk of the Word of God, which you need to move on beyond that. And he says those who can have strong meat, those who can have stronger doctrines, those who would be Teachers are those who have reached full age, who've reached maturity, and they've had their senses exercised to determine to discern Between good and evil. Discernment is a step of growth. It's a step of maturity. It's a step of moving beyond the simple things or a simple understanding to a mature perspective. And we'll look at that as we continue this evening. As I said already though, discernment will protect you as a Christian. It will protect you from evil. It will protect you from error. It will protect you from sin. It'll protect you from apostasy. It'll protect you from harm, from d Danger and deceit As I looked at the word discernment or to discern throughout the Bible, I look back at the first time it was used, and this kind of sets the stage for how important discernment is in our protection. The first time the word discern shows up in the Bible takes place back in Genesis chapter 27. Genesis chapter 27, verse number 18, the story there is of Isaac passing down a blessing to Jacob. Well, he was thinking he was passing it down to Isaac. But as you know the story, um Jacob got together with his mom, or his mom pulled it aside and said, We want to make sure you receive this blessing, so we're going to do So Jacob uh and his mother were in the wrong as they were trying to bring deceit against their father. They they brought this deceit, they concocted this plan, they made this food, and then they put Esau's garments on Jacob and put the skins of the animals. on Jacob's arms so he could go see his father. His father was blind at the time, or mostly blind, couldn't see very well, and so he had to rely on his other senses to make determinations. And we see as he as Jacob comes in, he begins to question, Who are you? Are you my son? How did you find the meat so quickly? Come closer to me, let me feel you. The voice doesn't match up. He's he's got some questions in his mind, and that was good that those red flags uh came up to him, that he had some questions. But then the verse says in verse, I believe it's number 23, it says, for he was not able to discern him because his arms were hairy. He couldn't tell the difference. And because he couldn't tell the difference, we know his family went through a lot of turmoil. We know he lost both of his sons, one by going to another country, the other by rejecting the family and the heritage uh that they had. We know that Rachel never got to see her son again. She passed away while Jacob was traveling and living with her Uncle Laban. The family was in turmoil. The family faced destruction because Dad couldn't discern. Dad couldn't tell the difference. And that sets up the picture there of how important discernment is in our lives. That if we don't have discernment, we're going to move towards things that are going to harm us as opposed to making the right kind of choices. Yes, Jacob and Rachel were at fault because they were the ones trying to deceive. But the only reason their deception worked was because I um sorry was because Isaac could not discern. Isaac couldn't tell the difference. And so people in this world, there are false teachers, there are evil people, there are people that would try to pull people into sin in uh in a In the spiritual realm, we have the world, the flesh, and the devil that want to harm the Christian. In the physical realm, there are crooks, there are con artists, and there's manipulators that would do us harm. People are out there trying to deceive Christians. But the deception is only going to work if we are lacking in the area of discernment. So that's why it's so important for us to study this. First of all, let's look at the definition of discernment. What does it mean to have discernment? A modern dictionary online says discernment is the faculty of discerning, discrimination, the acuteness of judgment and understanding. If we go back to the Webster's 1828 dictionary, it broadens this concept and lets us look a little bit closer at it. The word discernment means to see and understand the difference. Also, it is the power or faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another, such as truth from falsehood, virtue from vice. It's the acutement of judgment, the power of perceiving the differences of things or ideas and their relations and tendencies. As I kind of summarize these definitions for what we're going to look at as a working definition for discernment, discernment is the ability to make proper choices based on proper understanding of the difference between the options. Let me read that again. Discernment is the ability to make proper choices based on proper understanding of the difference between the options. Anytime you're faced with an option, there's some differences. What color shirt am I gonna wear today? Got home, I got was getting dressed for church tonight, I got white shirts, I got blue shirts. I gotta be able to see the difference. I need to understand the difference. I need to understand that that shirt doesn't go with that suit And doesn't go with that time. I need to understand the difference. And when I see the difference and I understand the difference properly, I can make a right choice. And that comes to every choice when we have options in our life of choices we're going to make. What's the difference? Do I understand why they're different? And how do I make the right choice based on that understanding? So we'll break this down and kind of give you a um a formula or a pattern for how you can walk through and make proper discernment. First of all, in order to discern you must first understand the purpose You must first understand the purpose. Why are you trying to discern what you're trying to discern? Or what is your goal for discernment? You have to have a direction that you're heading. You have to have a goal. For example, if I put up here on the pulpit I had ice cream on this side. And I had vegetables on this side, and I asked you to pick the right one. You're going to say, well, what do you mean? Well what how am I s what am I looking for? What are the objectives? What am I trying to decide? So for example, you could try to discern which one has the best flavor. That's going to be subjective. Some of you would enjoy vegetables more than ice cream. Probably the minority. But some of you would have the if I was asking for the best flavor, if that's your goal you're going to have a different set of requirements or understand the difference in a different way. Are you trying to discern which one tastes the best? And you're looking for flavor. And then so and and and taste and how it responds with your taste buds. That's going to be a little bit different on how you discern. Are you trying to discern which one you enjoy more? Am I going to enjoy this more or this more? What's the goal of discernment? Which one is healthier? Uh which one's more visually appealing? I can tell you as one that would absolutely choose the ice cream, a half melted bowl of ice cream or some nice fresh steam vegetables, the vegetables do look better. Now they're not going to taste better in my perception, but if I if that's my goal, which one looks better, I'm going to look at the differences differently. So understanding when we're trying to discern, we need to know what's the goal. What are we trying to figure out? What are we trying to discern in this situation? That's an example of food. Let's go to an example in the spiritual realm with preaching. When you sit in the preaching, you need to be discerning. You need to be listening to it. So what are you trying to discern? Some people listen to preaching, they're trying to discern the content. What's this preacher trying to say? What's he trying to tell me to do? And in a in a way that can be good. What do I need to take from this? What do I need to learn from this? Some people look at a sermon and are trying to discern, is this biblically accurate? Is this what he's saying in agreement with the Word of God? So is that the goal of discernment? Are you trying to discern style? Well, I don't like preachers. I don't like yellers, and I don't like soft-spoken preachers, and I don't like preachers that move, and I don't like preach You can get all kind of range of uh of different types of preachers and their styles. Is that what you're discerning? I used to have a ringtone I stole off of a message um from a preacher down south, very very loud, uh very fast-spoken preacher, and he was preaching about preachers and their styles. And he said, uh he real raspy voice said, a man may be a North Carolina hacker, a Tennessee wind sucker, a Georgia spitter, or a nasal sounding Yankee, but if he'll preach the Bible, he's got God's power on him And so style, what are you looking for? What are you trying to discern? Some people that's all they walk away with from the message is that they discern the style of the preacher and whether they like the style or not. What's the goal? It's the goal enjoyment. Is that what you're discerning? Am I going to like this sermon or not? Am I going to be entertained or not? Am I going to have fun in church tonight or not? What are you trying to discern? Are you trying to discern his motive? Why is he preaching that What does he know? Who told him what? Is he talking about me? Is that what you're attempting to discern? If you if these are your goals, your your goal is important. You need to know why you're trying to discern something in order to have a proper understanding of the differences to discern it. Let's look at one more example. The example of music. When we're looking at music and we're trying to discern Make a choice. What are we going to choose? What differences are we going to look at? What's our purpose? What are we trying to understand? Is our purpose to get enjoyment out of our music? Is our purpose of our music to to um give us good feelings? Well how do I feel after I listen to that music? Is the music is our goal in the sermon to try to pick an experience? Well whenever I have that music I just feel so close to God. I'm trying I'm getting this experience Or are we looking at the music and saying, is this God honoring in the music and in the words? Is the lyrics and the music honoring to God? Is that what you're trying to discern? So in order to discern, you must first understand the purpose. Secondly, if you're going to discern, you need to be able to identify the differences. As I was preparing for this message, I read of a story of a man who is going with a couple friends and his wife to an art museum and an art gallery and showing showing his friends around. Now he was an artist himself and he wanted to impress his friends with his knowledge of art and painting and those types of things. So he was going to show off and say say um little nuances about the paint paintings as they toured the gallery. The only problem was he left his glasses at home. So he could may have had a choice. Am I going to just follow around my friends or am I going to still pretend to know what I'm talking about as I'm describing these paintings? He decided He was going to just wing it and uh go up to the paintings and say very generic things to try to still sound impressive to his friends. So without being able to see very well, he approaches the first frame there and he starts describing. He says, that is one of the ugliest pictures I've ever seen Now the colors are right, the shading is right, you know, even the way they they capture the light in the image, but why would anybody choose to pick such a hideous subject? And everybody started laughing at him as his wife pulled him aside and said he had just described a mirror. Because he couldn't tell the difference. He wasn't looking very closely. He couldn't see that there was a difference there. We need to be able to understand the difference or ide identify the difference if we're going to be able to discern. If you cannot tell why one thing is different from another, you're not going to be able to identify or to discern between them. For example, what makes this church different than the one down the road? A lot of Christians could walk into different churches and have no idea. Couldn't tell me a single thing that's different between our church and another church. What's different? If you can't see the differences, there's no ability to discern. You have to be able to identify the differences. What makes the Baptist different than a Presbyterian? What makes a Christian different than a Mormon? We have to be able to see what is different if we're going to be able to discern between Between the two. Just this week I had a chance on Monday to witness to a Muslim man. And it was refreshing because witnessing to somebody who understands that there's a difference. There's so many people we've knocked on their door and talked to them, they say, Well, I'm just like you. We go to church just like yours. We worship God too. And no, they don't see any difference. There is a difference there. He clearly understood the difference that I was witnessing to this Muslim man And yes, well we we do believe in Jesus, but we don't agree with that. We don't believe in this. And they understood they could see a difference. You have to be able to see a difference if you're going to um be able to discern. So thirdly, you need to first of all to know what's the purpose. What are you trying to discern? Secondly, you need to be able to see the differences. Thirdly, you need to be able to understand the differences. You need to be able to not just see that these two are different, but be able to say why are they different? What makes them different? What makes this difference more important than that difference? After you spot the difference between one thing and another, in order to discern, you must be able to understand why they're different. You may be able to tell that the music we sing at church is different than the stuff they play on the Christian radio. But do you know why? Do you understand that they're different? I can hear, I can hear those aren't the same thing. But I don't know why. I don't understand how that would be different or or why why one might be a problem opposed to another You could tell that a preacher on YouTube that you listen to has a message that's different than what you've heard at church, but do you understand the difference? If you're going to discern, you have to understand the difference. And lastly, you have to make the right choice. You take what am I game what's my goal? What's my purpose? What are the differences? What makes these things different? Understand that, and now I need to make a choice. Make a choice of whether or not I'm going to please God with my discernment. You can make a discerning choice once those things are in place. The word discernment shows up about 23 times in the Bible. And there are ten different, it's very interesting, there are ten different Hebrew and Greek words that underline the word that's translated as discerned. So ten as you understand in different languages, one word can mean different things. The word of in English has about 23 different definitions. So it can mean a lot of different things. Discernment is the same way. There are a lot of things that are meant by discernment where uh especially older languages are a little more specific in how they're worded. So there's a Hebrew word and it can be translated to discernment, but there's another Hebrew word that can also be translated to discernment. Hope that makes sense to everybody here. So what we have in the in the Hebrew and the Greek, there are ten different words that are translated as discern or discernment. And each of these kind of give us an idea of the scope What all do we need to consider when we're discerning things? What comes into play here? What do we need to be discerning about? And also everything involved with discernment. I'll show you as we walk through these. The first one means to scrutinize or to look closely at. This is the one that was described when Isaac could not identify Jacob. He couldn't discern. He couldn't scrutinize. He couldn't look closely. And he made the wrong choice based on his inability to discern. The second word discern for discern means to hear intelligently. Not just to listen, but to listen with some intelligence. That helps us understand that, you know, that's the understanding side of seeing the difference. The next word meant to know, to have understanding, to have knowledge. The next word meant to me mentally separate, to take two things and look at them and say, okay, I can put this in this category, this in this category, I can separate, I can see the difference The next word meant to see the difference. So not just do it mentally, but to physically with your eyes see the difference. The next word meant to separate, to put some distance between two things. The next word meant to test, so to put it to the test, to put it through a crucible, to try it out and see if it stands up to the test of time and to the test of God's Word. The next word meant to investigate. To investigate, to search it out, to find the truth behind something. The next word meant a judicial estimation, or as we would call it more on our terms, a judgment call. To look at it and decide based on the information you have what's right and what's wrong, to make a judgment call. And the last word meant to discriminate. To make choices based on what you understand about something. Those are all the words that are tied into this word to discern. So it's a big thing It affects what we see, it affects what we hear, it affects what we think. Every part of our life we need to be involved with discerning and making right choices and not be flippant or careless. As we continue on studying the definition here of discernment, the opposite, which will help us to learn more about the topic, the opposite of discern is to be simple. When you're talking about the Bible. The opposite of discernment is simplicity, or to of a discerning person is a simple person. Turn with me to Proverbs chapter 9. Proverbs chapter 9. We're going to look at an example here that really gives us a good idea of the importance of just discernment. In the book of Proverbs we see the the simple man uh showing up a lot. The word simple is used in the Old Testament to describe someone who is lacking in understanding. It's not necessarily a problem for someone to be simple. Now for someone to stay simple is a problem. In the book of Proverbs, the simple man is almost always described as a young man. Young people are lacking in understanding. That's why us older people, and some that are older than me, I'm still a younger person. You need to help those that are under you or younger than you to understand because you have experience and you can see things differently than they can. The word means seducible, to easily sway their opinions. They're seducible. Listen to these three verses about the simple, and we can see that the necessity for discernment. Proverbs 14, verse 15: the simple believeth every word, but the prudent man looketh well to his going. Proverbs fourteen verse eighteen. The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. Proverbs twenty two verse three. A prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself, but the simple pass on and are punished This is the state of the immature. Usually as I said, these go the young are called simple. Remember back in Hebrews, the verse that we looked at, those that were young in the faith, they needed the milk of the word. But those who are full age by reason of use, those that have grown up, those that have matured, we're not supposed to stay simple. Anybody that's saved, the moment they're saved, they're simple. in the things of God. But they need to move beyond that. They need to move on to maturity. And it when when a person is born, they're born simple. And they stay simple for a little while. But the goal is to move them past simplicity to a place where they can understand. There is a call that has been made to the simple. Look at verse uh verse number of Proverbs chapter 9, verse number 4. Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. As for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him. Now jump down to verse number sixteen. Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. And as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, Did anybody spot the difference between those two verses? There's an and? Okay. They're very, very similar The biggest difference is who's saying the phrase. Because look at verse number six. The first time the call is made to the simple. Verse number six: Forsake the foolish and live. Go in the way of understanding. That's what happens to the simple that heed the first call. Look at verse number 18. But he knoweth not that the dead are there, and that her gates or her guests are in the depths of hell. So here we have a call that's almost exactly the same gone out. And a young man, a simple man, someone who's simple, someone who's not mature, can hear that call, but if you make the one choice, you live and go in the way of understanding. And the next choice you have death, and their deaths are in hell. It's pretty important to understand and to discern. The discerning comes into who's making the call. If you look in verse number one, it says It says there, wisdom hath built in her house. Wisdom is calling to the simple and saying, let me give you understanding. But if you look down at verse number 13. A foolish woman is clamorous. She is simple and knoweth nothing. So the foolish woman and the sim and the and wisdom are making the same call to the simple. They're calling out the same thing. But depending on which one you choose to listen to You're going to end up with death or you're going to end up with life. Pretty big decision that comes down to a matter of discernment. So discernment is very important. And we don't want to be simple. We want to move on to a place of maturity, which is a place of discernment. The only way to avoid destruction is to make proper choices based on the proper understanding of the difference between the options. So that's the definition. That's kind of what the word deploym discernment means in the Bible. Let's go on to the deployment. This is how discernment works in our lives. Now we're going to just briefly touch on a few things here, then go on into the development, how we develop it, and deal a lot more with the the deployment in that point as well. But some would confuse having discernment, a critical spirit, and being uh judgmental. All three of these are very big topics. Several of them are hot topics in culture today. The judge not is a very big topic in Christianity and those who aren't in Christianity but want to attack Christians, say we don't have uh the right to judge, and you have the idea of being critical and then being uh discerning. These all seem to overlap and intertwine with one another, and we need to understand or discern the difference between them. Critical spirit is something that desires to see and to focus on the negative. Someone who has a critical spirit is going to see the negative and they're going to focus on the negative. I have about a 16-page little pamphlet I wrote on dealing with and overcoming a critical spirit. And uh so it's a big topic, I don't have time to deal with it now. But a critical person is going to look for something bad to say about everything. You're not discerning if you have a critical spirit. That's not discernment. Seeing the bad stuff in everything. That's not discernment. Alright? Then we also have, as we said already with discerning, is to make proper choices based on our understanding of the difference between the options. To discern is to see both the good and the bad and to choose the good. So you see the bad, but you also see the good and you make a choice. A critical spirit doesn't do that. They see the bad. That's it. So discernment is to see the good, see the bad, and make it the proper choice based on that. And lastly, the idea of being judgmental or to having judgment It's one of the most misunderstood and uh misinterpreted topics in the Bible in modern day. Uh there are areas where we are supposed to judge. There are areas where we are not supposed to judge. And uh we need to understand the Bible properly in this. I think the most common verse used in uh judge not is the verse about the beam in your brother's eye, the moat in your eye. Uh and you get you can't why are you beholding the beam that is in the the moat that is in that brother's eye and when thou hast the beam in thine eye. And so you're not supposed to judge. Who are you that judges your brother? Everybody will quote that verse to you. The end of the verse says, cast out the beam out of your eye so you can take the moat out of your brother's eye. That whole passage says you still need to judge the sin that's wrong in someone else's life, but you just need to deal with yours first. That's dealing with hypocritical judgment. That's what we're not supposed to judge in. So several types of wrong judgment. That would be to judge hypocritically, as we just discussed. To be judging in areas where God has given liberty One area spoken about in Romans chapter 14 is the the recognition of special days. And he said some people keep one holiday. These are mostly related to the Jewish holidays. Some people keep the holidays, some people don't say we don't have to keep the holiday. You don't have to judge between each other. That's not something God said was right or wrong. There are churches that would say that we're absolutely wrong as a church because we set up a Christmas tree. And Christmas is a terrible thing. Well, they don't have a biblical right to judge in that area, and we don't have a biblical right to judge them for not celebrating Christmas. So we don't judge areas in areas where God has given liberty. It is also wrong to judge motives because we cannot see the heart. Paul dealt with this with the church at Corinth in that they were judging Paul's motives behind what he did and he said, no, I'm it's that's between me and God. You don't have the right to call me out on that because you don't know what's in my heart It is also wrong to judge spiritually of others, the spirituality of others against our own perceived spirituality. Because I have all these rules, I hollow all these standards in my life, and you don't have it, that means you're a terrible person. That's wrong judgment in the Bible as well. But there are also many areas where we have the right, the obligation, and the command to judge others. And right judgment is a necessary part of discernment. So we're going to go on now to the development. How does this work in our lives? How do we get better at having discernment? First of all, this is something I've stressed with the teenagers a lot. To identify error, you must understand truth. To identify error, you must know truth. That's the only way we can identify what's wrong. If so if we're going to hear something and decide if something's right or wrong, we have to know the truth in order to make that decision, make that determination. The illustration has been given many times of how someone is trained to identify counterfeit money. If you're trained somebody to identify counterfeit money, you don't find every piece of counterfeit money or every type of counterfeit money that's ever made, give it to them and tell them to study all these and look for nuances and differences. No, they're taught to identify counterfeit money by handling real money over and over and over and over and over again. They learn what's real so that when something not real passes through their hands, it says, hold on a second There's something wrong with that. They don't need to know what kind of ink is used on the wrong paper. They don't need to use what kind of paper was printed in the counterfeit bill. They don't need to know what kind of press it was printed on. They need to know, wait, that doesn't match That doesn't match what's true. You need to know truth in order to identify error. Let me give you a quick example. Several years ago there was a very popular video on YouTube. that several people approached me and asked me about. Somebody was preaching some false doctrine in this video and they said something doesn't sound right, but they've got Bible and they see it. It seems to all make sense. And um could you look at it for me? I looked at this video and watched it to see what the person was talking about. And very simple application of this verse. So no truth, well you can identify error. So he had a lot of points he was making. And a lot of scripture he was using to prove his points, but m his main point of his uh video was um it was about end times And he said, this certain event's going to take place. Obama next year, President Obama next year is going to have this meeting, and that corresponds to this verse. Well, the verse he used is a verse that takes place halfway through the tribulation. The tribulation is seven years long. The tribulation doesn't start until after the Christians are taken out. So just by knowing that truth I say the guy's wrong. Because I'm still here. And if he's saying it's happening next year, that verse doesn't happen until three and a half years after I'm gone. So just knowing that truth is very easy to identify error. So when we know truth, we're set up to identify error. I didn't have to be nuanced in every one of his arguments, I could say, you know what, I know what sh hurt what's true and this one doesn't feel right Acts seventeen, verse number eleven says, These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so Here's an example Paul gave of a church and said that this church is, I'm sorry, Luke is describing them here. He gave this church and said the church was doing so well, they were more noble, they were in a higher position. Why? Because They received the Word with all readiness of mind and searched the scriptures daily whether those things were so. When we talk about knowing truth, identify identify error, we're obviously talking about knowing the Word of God. And that's what this church was doing. They were learning and studying and searching out the Word of God to be able to identify error and to know truth. Now this verse is speaking of a church that's in a safe or a tested environment. They are in their home church and they're with an apostle. So they're in a safe and tested environment. I say that because the verse says they receive the word with all readiness of mind. And when you're in a safe and tested environment, you're in a position to receive the word with readiness of mind. But even in that state, they still searched the scriptures whether those things were so. They still took what the preacher said, they received it, they applied it, and they said, now let's go see what God says about it. Not not from a critical position of saying, let's see if this preacher is really right. No, they received the word and they went to the Bible to do some more research for themselves because they wanted to learn truth so they would be set up to identify. error. In our church, with our pastors, and even as we bring people in to preach, you are in a safe environment. You're set up to receive the Word of God with all readiness of mind. But you still have a responsibility to discern it by searching out the scriptures You still should be taking things from the Word of God. The preacher says, huh, I want to find out more about that. I want to see what God says about that topic. Not from a point to try to disprove and Now this should not be our attitude in an untested environment. Discernment is especially necessary in an untested environment. When I listen to other preachers on sermon audio, I don't really let my guard down, so to say, spiritually, until I've listened to the same guy preach about fifty different sermons. That I'm in a position to sit back and receive word with readiness of mind and still searching out what he's saying and listening carefully to what he says. On YouTube, I would never let my guard down. You're watching spiritual things on YouTube, you stay on guard. And be ready to discern, be ready to see if that agrees with the word of God. When I go on vacation, I'll only go and visit a fundamental independent Baptist church. But when I'm on vacation and I've never been at church before, I come in And I'm guarded. I'm listening. I'm discerning. Does this what's being said and what's being taught and what's being preached line up with the Word of God? But you can be guarded without being critical. This all comes back to how well you know the truth. If someone's looking for a counterfeit, they don't need to scrutinize every single bill, but they'll stop and check if something seems off. So the illustration here of going into maybe another church And you know it's a good church, but you want to be scr d diligent. Somebody's looking for counterfeit, they can pass those bills along pretty quick. They don't have to take everything that's said Okay, it looks good. But they're they're they're feeling, they're alert for a red flag. Like, hold on. What was that? What did he say? Well it came out right there. And you watch those red flags and you you you're got your guard up ready to discern Here's some red flags for doctrine. When it comes to discerning doctrine, listening to another preacher, watching something on the internet, here's some uh reading something, a blog or something of those lines, some red flags. If it is something that you've never heard before, especially you've been saved a long time. I was uh I was one remember one time as a teenager when my grandparents came to me and they said, This preacher, we were reading this and it was a book. We were reading this book and this guy said something, we you just never heard anything like it before Well, you've been saved for 60 years and been in a Good Baptist church for 60 years. If you haven't heard it before, that should raise the red flag. And say, what is this guy talking about? What is he saying? If they're claiming or if it's something you never heard before, it should bring up, or it doesn't mean it's wrong, but it should raise a red flag. If they claim to have secret information or secret revelation, nobody else, you're not going to find this anywhere else. Okay, well God showed me this and nobody's seen it before. Red flag that comes up. If they're the only ones promoting it, nobody else is going to tell you about this. They're trying to keep you from finding out Red flag. All right, let that bring up to cause you to do some extra investigation. If their point is proved by individual verses from all over the Bible. Let me say this and let me pull a book verse out of Ezekiel. Let me say this and pull a verse out of Revelation. Let me pull this and I'm going to say pull half a verse out of Acts. Let me say this. If they're going all over the Word of God to try to prove their point and they can't prove it from a passage of Scripture in context Let that raise up a red flag. And this is one. Now I wouldn't recommend listening to anybody that's not using a King James Bible. You know where our church stands on the King James Bible. But if you see somebody and they're using different versions, what that means was In their version it didn't say it the way they wanted it said. So they had to go find it somewhere else where it said more like what they wanted it to sound like. And they're putting all different versions in, so that's an absolute red flag, because they're looking for the Bible to agree with them So these are some areas and some red flags that we can be watching for discernment. Charles Spurgeon made an interesting quote about the topic of discernment. He said discernment is not a matter of telling the difference between right and wrong. Rather, it is telling the difference between right and almost right. It's not a matter of telling the difference between right and wrong, it is a matter of telling the difference between right and almost right. As I've already said in the message kind of leading up to this, we're looking at judgment and discernment, we're deciding between right and wrong. But truthfully, it doesn't take that much discernment to understand between right and wrong. I don't have to have a lot of discernment to tell the difference between hymns and rap music. Doesn't take much discernment to tell the difference there. You need discernment when it comes down to things that are close, the things that are almost right. The world can even tell the difference between right and wrong. Because they'll say something like you're a Christian, you're not supposed to do something like that, right? They can tell. They can tell the difference between right and wrong. Discernment is for the so-called gray areas. And this can only be done if there is an ultimate standard, and that standard has to be the Word of God. You cannot, as we're going out door knocking, you cannot argue with somebody about a point of doctrine and convince them if they're not going to hold to the stand of the Word of God. Because if there's nothing I point back to and say this is right and this is what it says, then it's my opinion against your opinion. There has to be a standard if we're going to have discernment in gray areas, in close places where we have right and almost right Hebrews chapter 4 and verse number 12 says, For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharp than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and morrow, and as a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart I was talking with Pastor Gress a little bit earlier this week about this idea that the Word of God can get down in so precisely it can discern or decide between the thoughts and the intents of the heart. Now I can't tell when a thought becomes an intent. Well, I can't tell if I'm thinking about something or if I'm intending to do something. That's a very small area, but God's Word can divide and decide even in those small areas. For example, when I was uh um at the house the other day, I thought, you know what? Sounds really good right now. That's a thought. But at some point I was like, I'm gonna go get some ice cream because it became an intention. I couldn't tell where that line was set up. I couldn't tell where that was. But God says my word can divide between the thoughts and See, the Word of God is an absolute standard that can make the decision. God's Word can separate it. So we need to have discernment. So, what are some areas where we need to be discerning as Christians? First of all, we need to be discerning in doctrine. We need to be discerning in doctrine. False teachers are something that we are commanded in the Bible to judge and exercise discernment against In fact, with false teachers, God says they're supposed to be identified, they're supposed to be pointed out, they're supposed to be rebuked, they're supposed to be separated from false teachers. They come into church in sheep's clothing and want to lead many astray. Take away many disciples. The Bible gives us strong warnings about false teachers. And we need to be discerning in the area of doctrine because people are going to try to trip us up about the truth of the Word of God. Just because they call themselves a Christian or a Baptist or they use Bible verses doesn't mean that what they are saying is right I don't know how many times I've had people ask me, and if you have a question for me about something you saw or you read, I want you to come and tell me. I'm not picking on anybody as I make this point. I want you to come and ask about it. I want to be a help to you any way I can. But I've had lots of people come up to me was something that they've seen uh on YouTube, that's something they've never heard before, and he had Bible to back up everything he said. Everything he said, he had the word of God to back it up. Well Um the Word of God can be picked apart. It's a big book. There's a lot of things in there. It can be picked apart and Piece is chosen at random and you can prove anything you want to with the Bible. That's why I said if they're going everywhere around the Bible, um they're picking and choosing what they want to want to use You can use the Bible improperly, let me stress that, improperly to prove anything. I've heard of and seen the Bible used to prove that slavery was good. I've seen the Bible use to prove that adultery was okay. I've seen the Bible used to prove that incest was okay. I've seen the Bible used to prove that polygamy was Okay, that murder was okay, the genocide was okay Just about anything else. Somebody's used the Bible to prove their point. Just because they're using the Word of God doesn't mean that they're right. If you think back to Jesus, he's in the wilderness, he faced the devil. And the devil had a point for him, a spiritual point. And he used the Bible to back it up. Satan did. Satan used the Bible. I think we would classify Satan unequivocally as a false teacher. Someone who's not going to use the Bible properly. And so just because somebody has the Word of God or a Bible verse or Christian or pastor or or or reverend in front of their name Doesn't mean that what they're saying is true, doesn't mean that what they're saying is right. You understand that a false teacher is not going to label their video as false doctrine concerning the rapture. That's not that's not clickbait. You're not gonna see that. It's gonna be um something you've never seen before. Or some or or new revelation or or you've gotta you've gotta see this great truth about when God's coming back next year. They're not gonna label themselves as false teachers. Their goal is to slip in unawares. Their goal is to come in as wolves in sheep's clothing, um not sparing the flock. A false teacher is going to sound right and sound biblical. Hence we need to be able to discern to understand what is right. and what is almost right. In doctrine, we need to be able to see the difference. We need to be able to see um how how one truth lines up against the next. What's right, what's almost right. We also need to be discerning in spiritual things. First John chapter four verse one says, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. This obviously would apply to false prophets, we're going to apply it here with spiritual things. Things in your lives that are going to affect you spiritually, you need to be discerning in those. We need to be able to see and understand the difference and make the right choice based on the options that we have. If something or someone is going to have an influence on you spiritually, you need to be able to put it to the test. You need to be able to make proper choices based on proper understanding of the differences. between the options. Remember, we're not judging between right and wrong. We're judging between right and almost right. For example, this would include our companions. The people you spend time with are going to influence you spiritually. Not just people at church, people at work, the friends, the companions you hang around. Now remember, we're not judging right and almost right. You're not trying to decide should I go be with church people or drug addicts. That's not where discernment is necessary. Discernment is necessary is this person calls themselves a Christian. This person goes to the house of God with me. Is this person good for me spiritually to spend a lot of time with? Be cordial to everybody here in the church. Be friendly. But who are you seeking a close association with? Somebody that's going to Bring you up or bring you down spiritually. We need to have discernment to see in those areas. A Christian, uh that yeah, am I going to discern between a Christian that would support the pastor and program of the church or those that are willing to share criticism? About the church or about the pastor or about what's going on at church. Gossip is a big problem in workplaces, in families, and in churches. Gossip is a big problem. Gossip is talking about a problem with somebody who can't fix it If you're at work and your computer breaks down and you complain to the person in the next cubicle about it and don't talk to IT, you just talk to somebody about a problem that couldn't solve it. That's gossip. When you share with another church member, I don't really like it that we're going out every Saturday. Alright? That church member can't have an effect on that. Now we have some things in the Bible where a wife, if she has a question, she talks to her husband and her husband goes to the pastor But if you share a criticism with somebody who can't or won't deal with the problem, then you're in a situation where you're gossiping. And those people are not people you want to have around you that are influencing We need to be discerning on what's right and what's wrong. So it includes our companions. It also includes our music. Again, we don't need to be discerning to decide whether rock and roll or country is okay versus gospel music. We need to understand and have discernment is the music we hear at church and the music that this Christian college sells, is there a difference? What's the difference? What makes it different? What should I choose to do? We need understanding, we need uh discernment in our in our um music. We would this would include our reading. Again, not not trying to decide whether we should read our Bible or a romance novel. We're trying to decide, you know, this Christian author Am I reading that with discernment? Am I understanding what he's saying? Am I understanding what he's talking about? I read a book just uh a couple weeks ago, and it's by a very well-known conservative, independent fundamental Baptist preacher. And everybody in here would know the name of who it was. But as I read his book, he had three things in there that were unbiblical, that didn't agree with the Bible, that went against what God said. And it's okay, he's still a good man He's still a good author. I'm not going to tell you who it was because I can't remember the instances that he that I'm talking about. And I want you to read after him. He's a good guy. But even reading after a good guy, we need to be alert and testing against the Word of God to know is this right? Is this good for me? Is this what I need to be taking in? This is including our reading. This also includes our teachers. I have warned our kids about this when it comes to college. When you're choosing a college, we had a couple kids go off to college this year. When you're choosing at college, you're literally choosing who's going to instruct you. You're choosing who's going to influence you. This is why this is so important of a decision. in young people's lives is be able to discern because you're the Bible warns us about being in the counsel of the ungodly. And when you're choosing a college, you're choosing whose counsel you're going to be receiving. The Bible tells us not to walk in it, so it's okay to hear that counsel, but not follow it. But you need to be careful where you're putting yourself, what counsel you're sitting yourself underneath, those who are instructing us. You need to be discerning. A very very modern example of this is our news. If you listen to news, you're not listening to news. You're listening to somebody what somebody thinks about the news. No matter where you listen to it, you're listening to what somebody thinks about the news. No, no, no, no, no, it's unbiased. No it's not. You're listening to somebody's the news, nobody would listen to it. News is it is raining That's the news. It's not raining. It's sunny. That's news. Just the facts. But if somebody's giving you their interpretation of the facts, which is what news is today, uh you're getting somebody's mindset. They're training you how to think And you need to be careful about that. You need to be discerning about that. If you aren't exercising discernment, you can start to care more about what your favorite commentator thinks about something than what God thinks about it. You say, no, no, no, that could never happen in churches. It does. Because there's people that are more faithful to listening to their radio show than they are to attending the Word of God or the house of God and doing their devotions in the morning. They won't miss this person on at whatever time, but they can do it out their Bible reading in the morning. Because what has happened, they're being instructed and they're not using discernment, and that's beginning to influence them more than God is influencing them. I spoke about this a few weeks ago when Pastor's preaching, he uh he brought up this topic of illegal immigration. And we had more amens in our auditorium here when he talked about illegal immigration than when he was preaching about the Word of God. Brethren, that's a problem. Because we've we're starting to be shaped in our thinking and our mindset. We're starting to care more about what's going on in our country and what's going on in the Word of God. I'm a Christian first I'm a child of God first. I'm a proud American. I'm a patriot. I love our country. And I want to fight for our country and see that it progresses and does right and we see godly things happen in our country. But I'm a Christian first, and I care more about what God thinks Then what any news station, what any podcast, what any speaker, whatever commentator thinks about, we need to be careful and discerning about whose instruction we're submitting ourselves underneath. And while we're it's not wrong to list those things, but when it starts to take over of what God thinks, it becomes a problem for us, discernment. Let me conclude with this. Discernment is a Christian muscle that has to be exercised. Discernment is a Christian muscle that has to be exercised. Back in Hebrews 5, verse number 14. That's the end of the passage we read. It said, But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who have by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Now when I was in college I worked out a lot and I got to the point where I could bench press two hundred and twenty, two hundred and thirty pounds. Um if I even though I'm mature more mature now and even though I put on forty pounds, if I went to the bench right now I'm put it 240 pounds on there, I would not be pretty. I would injure myself by dropping it on me or tearing something uh because why? I haven't been exercising. I haven't been keeping up with that. And so if we're going to have discernment, it's something that we need to exercise. It's a muscle that we have to practice at. So how do we exercise this muscle? You exercise discernment through consistent instruction and truth. Remember this: to identify error, you have to know what's true So if we're going to exercise discernment, we need to learn and know what is true. How do we spend time learning what is true? Be faithful to church Be here every time the doors are open. Whether we have a revival, be faithful to church. Be faithful in reading and studying your Bible every day, exposing yourself to truth. You're exercising your spiritual muscle of discernment. Read good books, John Adams said. I must judge for myself. But how can I judge? How can any man judge unless his mind has been opened and enlarged by reading? Another way that we can instruct or exercise ourselves in truth, read good books, and also ask questions of spiritual leadership. You come across something, or you bring it and you ask a question, we We'd be more than happy to talk to you about it. Myself, Pastor Gus, Pastor Caleb, we're here. Use us. If you don't know, we'll look it up every Sunday morning in Sunday school. I open it up to the teenagers. Anybody got any questions? Any questions? They usually it's something hey I was talking to this guy yesterday and he said this. What about that? What does the Bible say about that? Use uh use spiritual leadership, ask questions so that you can learn. Exercise discernment through concern Consistent instruction and truth. And secondly, you exercise discernment by testing things against the Scripture. Remember the church at Belaria. These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, and that they received the word with all readiness of mind and search the scriptures daily whether those things were sold. You can practice, you can exercise discernment by taking something I said tonight. Going home and looking it up for yourself. That's discernment. What else does God say? He said there was twenty-three times the word discern shows up in some form in the Bible. What are all those forms? Where does it say that? What are those verses? What are those contexts? Who used discernment? Sermon. Something was said in the message on Sunday. When Pastor preaches the messages, take something he said. I'm going to go search the scriptures about that topic. When you do that, you're exercising discernment. Discernment is so important for us as Christians to protect us, to keep us from evil to keep us from error. It's very vital, very necessary for us as Christians. If you'll stand with me tonight, with your heads bowed and eyes closed, we'll have a brief word of invitation as the pianist comes. I don't know what God may have spoken your heart about, maybe the influences that are in your life, where you're getting discernment, whether you've been paying attention to the differences and things. That in this world discernment is so important as a character trait. Maybe you just want to ask God to help you. Start exercising those muscles of spiritual discernment. Whatever God spoke to your heart about, you come and pray as as we close tonight. Lord God, we love you. We thank you for your word and a very practical lesson here on being Being discerning, Lord, we need you to open our eyes so that we can see around us with clear spiritual vision, to understand what's right, to understand what's wrong, to understand error, to understand truth, Lord, and that we'd learn to make right decisions based on the We ask you bless this time of invitation, ask this in Christ's name, Amen