Really in chapter number twenty-eight, we're going to open up with some some thoughts in chapter twenty-seven, but covering those two chapters this evening uh is the plan tonight. And so we're going to begin with uh Job's determination to withstand that we see in chapter twenty-seven verses one through ten. Job's desire, his determination, his uh He he is set on just he's gonna continue to stand even though uh others would want him to turn away, even though his friends want him to just admit to something that he didn't do And his wife wants him to curse God, and of course Satan wants him to curse God and but still he's going to stand. He opens up in verse chapter twenty-seven, verses one through six follow along. He says, Moreover, Job continued in his parable and said a parable is a lesson, a something that he was teaching, not so much a parable like we think of in the New Testament as he wasn't drawing He wasn't giving earthly illustrations that had heavenly meanings in that regard to a New Testament parable, but a parable is a is a lesson, something that he was teaching. As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment, and the Almighty who hath vexed my soul, there's an acknowledgment and a recognition of God and what God was doing in his heart. He says in verse number three, All the while my breath is in me, and the Spirit of God is in my nostrils, my lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit. God forbid that I should justify you. Till I die, I will not remove mine integrity from me. My righteousness I hold fast, and I will not let go. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live. So we're going to open up here looking at these thoughts. First of all, he makes a statement with an acknowledgement and a recognition of who God is. And he kind of makes this this promise, this he says in the text here he says, as God liveth. Uh it's kind of like the idea of God is my witness. Or stating the fact that God is observing, God's seeing what I'm saying to you. This is a truth. This is something that I'm going to stand with. So he's making this statement before God and all of the witnesses, and he acknowledges that And he maintains his commitments, not just as God is observing it, but he says, as long as I'm alive. He he does this with two two statements there in verse number two. He says, as God liveth Sorry, verse number three, he says, all the while my breath is in me. He says, hey, as long as I'm breathing, as long as I have breath in my lungs, then I'm going to stand here. And uh then he goes on and he says, Well the Spirit of God is in my nostrils. And you can't help but go back to And think about uh Genesis chapter two and verse number seven, and the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. So what Job was acknowledging, what Job is saying, as long as I have life that's given to me by God, God is breathing life into me, then I'm going to stand here. Boy, it's great to have some Christians who just stand It's great to have some people who just know wanna wanna stand with God and on the Word of God and they're not swayed by society and they're not swayed by by family that wants them to turn away and drop their standards and stop living for God and and hey, what why do you need Sunday night church? Why do you need Thursday night church? Why don't you just Quit that. I mean you can be a good godly Christian. Just go Sunday mornings and that's okay. And uh they just want you to pull away. I was talking to Andrew about this this week and I said, Well You know, at this point in my life I've said, I know you're young and you're figuring out what you're going to do and where you're going to stand and what you're going to believe, but I can tell you, at this point in my life, I've just decided I want to hang on till the end I just want to keep on the old paths and do what was handed to me and maintain that as best as I can until the end, until until God calls us home or the Lord comes back. That's what I want to do, if if God will allow me, to just want to Keep on. I said, you know, we could we could grow the church much faster if we dropped some of the standards, if we lowered some of the bars, if we brought in a little bit more uh, you know, just eased up on the music a little bit, if we relaxed on some things a little bit. But I just said, well, you know what? I want to first and foremost please God and honor Him and we'll let Him bring in the increase. I just praise God for people like Job to say, you know what, as long as I'm breathing, I'm just going to stand with God. I'm going to determine to stand. He says, I'm not going to lie. He says, I'm not going to lie by agreeing with you what you've said about me. The fact of the matter is, he says, if I was to agree with you, if I was to just say, okay, you're right, I'm I'm I'm a sinner just for peace's sake. just for, you know, to to stop the argument or whatever, he's going to say, okay, I'm just going to agree with you. Well that would be a flat out lie. And Job says, I can't do it. As long as I'm alive, here's the driving motivation. He says his first statement of determination to withstand is because of his integrity. Because he has some integrity, he said that he says, listen, as long as I have breath, as long as God is breathing life into my life, my lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit. God forbid that I should justify you. He said, God forbid that I should just justify what you're saying, that I should agree with you. He says, Till I die, I will not remove my integrity from me. He had some integrity that he was going to stand on. Job was going to try try and stay true to the integrity that he had until the day that he died. We need to hold on to some things, and our integrity is one we need to hold on to. Integrity is something that's wholesome and sound. Like you you sometimes you you you we burn wood and w our wood supply is getting low. I'm starting to have to burn my smoking wood and I'm like, man, this is expensive. You know, this is uh this is good cherry wood for smoking meat. I hate to be throwing it in a wood stove, you know. But we we've got some some junk stuff out in the yard and we brought it in and I'm like, oh And Brother Greg's got something like that. It's like you throw it in, it's like useless. It's just mush. There's no th there's nothing to it and it burns up so quick. There's no integrity to it. There's no soundness to it. It's just you can smoosh it with your fingers almost. You know, it's just fluff and it doesn't give you any heat and it's almost not worth the energy or the effort to try and stick it in a wood stove because it burns up so quick And that's what integrity is, something that's solid, that's sound, that's whole, that you that you can count on. We need men and women that have some integrity that are sound, that are solid Boy, the second thing that Job says that he's going to hold on to, we see here is his clear conscience. He says for he says here he says My righteousness I hold fast, and I will not let it go. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live. I put these in the wrong order, but uh because the next one is his righteousness, which we're going to talk about in a second. But he says, My heart will not reproach me. That's the idea of a defiled conscience Your heart is convicting you. You know, many times the the the voice that's speaking the loudest about what we're doing wrong is our own conscience. It is our own heart that is accusing us, that's saying, hey, you've messed up, you've done wrong, and Job says, I'm going to live by integrity because I don't want to have a defiled conscience. I want to have a clear conscience before God. I cannot lie and defile my conscience. I cannot sin and defile my conscience. Oh beloved, that we would live lives That would allow us to have a clear conscience. I know there's things that we can get away with at work, and I know there's things that we might be able to get away with that the family doesn't know about or that the wife doesn't know about or there's things that you can get away with that sometimes we think nobody else knows about it. We just put it out of our mind that God knows But the fact of the matter is, is you know. Your conscience knows. And your conscience is just beating you to death. Job understood the value of a clear conscience. Paul standing before the Sanhedrin stated, and I, Paul, earnestly beholding the counsel, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day. These men were standing there and they maybe were accusing him of something, but what he said is, I listen, I'm standing before you right now, and I can with a clear conscience. Say, I have not sinned against God. They might not like what he did, but at least he can with a clear conscience. There's too many people trying to blur the lines and get away with stuff. I just recently dealt with a situation Regarding somebody in their workplace and the boss was possibly stealing They called me up and said, you know, what should I do? I said, well you have to you're not responsible. For everybody else or everybody else's response, but you are responsible for what you do. You know about this. You need to at least take it to the authorities and say this question was raised I'm not you I said you do not need to be attacking, you do not need to be accusatory, your goal is not to destroy them. Right now it's just an accusation. Right now there was questions raised, and I said if he is any type of a leader He would gladly come up and say, listen, these questions were raised. I just want to make sure everything is clear, that there is no question. Here is what this is. This is what this is Is there any questions about that? We need to address this. My clear conscience is worth more. Then a few bucks. If he's any kind of a leader, he won't have a problem coming and saying this is this and this and this. And if there's any problem, let's let's address it right now because The worst thing is just to uh have it out there and everybody just think that you're a thief when you're not. Maybe it's a situation, you know, y you need to go and it needs to be addressed, but Listen, there's just too many people trying to get away with stuff. We need to live our lives in such a way that we can live with a clear conscience. Amen That's what Job said. I'm going to have a clear conscience. I'm not going to let my heart attack me, basically. He said, I'm not going to let it shall not reproach me as long as I shall live. Oh, the sweetness of a clear conscience to laid your head on your pillow at night. And you may have people that don't like you, you may have people that that attack you and say things falsely against you like Job's friends did. But it when you can lay your head on the pillow at night and have a clear conscience and say, I have not sinned against God and I have not sinned against my brother in Christ or my my co-worker or my friend, whoever the the situation is, you can lay your head down, you can sleep easy, knowing that you have a clear conscience before God and man. He held on to his clear conscience. Paul said, herein do I exercise myself in Acts 24, 16, herein do I exercise myself to always Have a clear conscience void of offense. I'm sorry, a conscience void of offense towards God and man. I added the word clear in there. It's not in the scripture. He said, I live my life to have a conscience void of offense. That's what we should be working towards in our life, living our life so our conscience is void of offense. A lot of times the loudest cry against us is our own conscience. I think that may be one reason why there's almost an epidemic of mental illness in this country. Because men have been fighting against their own conscience. The laws of God are written on the heart of men. And men know. They instinctively know when they're doing wrong and when they're doing right. You take a little child that has never been taught anything And when he comes into the kitchen and mom's not looking and he grabs a cookie and turns around, why is it that he tries to hide it? From the very smallest little fifteen month old. He'll try and hide it because he knows what he's doing is not right There's something in the heart of man, and as a society, men have rejected God and they want to live their own life, and this has caused their heart to continually accuse them. And when they fight against that, I think it's created a lot of secondary problems. Even things that people wouldn't maybe necessarily think or attribute to that. But men cannot just shut off their conscience. They can sear it. They can sear their conscience. There's a point where God says he'll turn them over to a reprobate mind. That's gone, and their conscience will no longer be defiled, and they can sin without impunity, without any judgment, or even their own conscience attacking them. But that's a sad state for man. There's nothing so freeing as a clear conscience, and nothing so condemning as a defiled one. So Paul says he's going to hold on to that. Timothy, Paul challenging Timothy, tells Timothy, he says, now the end of the commandment of charity out of a pure heart. And of a good conscience and of faith unfeigned. He said, Timothy, when you go to minister to people, he says, do it with charity, do it with a pure heart, do it with a good conscience. And with faith that is unfanged. One of the key things when ministering to others, that clear conscience. Only that, we already read it because I got him out of order here, but he says he's going to hold on to his righteousness I guess maybe uh these two things are two sides of the same coin. You have one aspect where uh c having a clear conscience I think would be avoiding doing those things that are gonna attack you, right? Your heart's gonna say, that's wrong, you shouldn't do that. But then hanging on or holding fast to righteousness is doing those things that we know we're supposed to do. Doing the right things that God tells us to do. Job says, Man, I'm going to hold fast. Verse number six, my righteousness I hold fast, and I will not let it go. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I shall live. He's going to hold fast to his righteousness. To just doing right. Do right, do right till the stars fall. Do right, Bob Jones Sr. used to say. Just do right. We've got to hold fast to that which is good. I went through the Word of God and looked up the places that we're told to hold fast and we're told to stand fast and There's a number of them, don't have time to preach on them all tonight, but 1 Thessalonians 5. 21 says, proving all things, hold fast to that which is good. Hold fast to that which is good. There's some good things that we need to hold fast to. Just like I was talking to Andrew about, you know, the old-fashioned word of God We've got to hold fast to that. Let's let's not let that go by the wayside. Let's not uh allow uh the movement towards modern versions and the embracement of uh all these other things drag us away from the tried and true and proven word of God Let's hold fast to that. Let's hold fast to our standard regarding the right kind of music. I was reading a post today from Shelley Hamilton on the influx of uh the uh CCM into churches and how it it started and and and now Because she posted something about it, she's under attack online because she was talking about how uh we've got a guard against that in in our churches. Listen, the the world's music that's no place in the church house You know, this is not even a debate in churches that are sound and true, and the fact that it has become a debate is mind-boggling. We need to hold fast to the things that are good, to the things that are right. Nothing wavering We need to hold fast to our faith. Hebrews 10 23. Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. The faith that you have, the faith in God, the belief system, the foundation, what you know to be true. We need to hold fast to that. The things that thou hast received, the same commit thou to faithful men. Committing the same things to faithful men. I was talking to somebody on the phone this week and it says it's heartbreaking to me. So many of the college students that I w that I went to Fairhaven Baptist Bible College with. That I graduated with, that went into the ministry at the same time as me. And I see their Facebook. And you can't tell anything different from their Facebook from the guy that's lost and on his way way to hell down at down at Walmart or any other store. There's just no difference. And I know them. I know they sat in the same Bible class as I did, and yet they're promoting these rock stars or the latest movie and and their family uh looks just like the the the kids from the public school and their their their some sons have long hair or earrings coming out of their ears and and and dressing like the world and Their daughters look just like the world. We need some people that just know what they believe and they'll stand there. They'll hold fast to the truths of the Word of God and the things that they've been taught Because it's right, because it's good. Listen, we don't have much time left, friend. The Lord's coming back. How long are we supposed to hold fast? Revelation 2. 25 tells us. He said, but that which ye have already hold fast till I come. He says, hold fast till I come. He says, that which ye have, hold on until I come. We need to hold on to it until Jesus comes back. We need to keep the narrow way. And do what God wants us to do until Jesus comes back. And even so, Lord, come quickly. I don't know about you, but I'm tired of fighting the flesh. I'm tired of battling this whole world. I'm tired of worrying about the situations around and the direction that everything's headed. And I I was listening to one preacher this week and The first thirty-five minutes of his message was on how bad the world was. I said, man, I'm thoroughly depressed now. I mean, the situation, I know it looks bleak. I know that everything's a mess and this world's a mess. And that's right, Lord, come quickly. I'm ready to get out of here. But until then, we've got to keep on, keeping on for God. And I know we get tired and we get weary and well-doing, but we're admonished not to. We're admonished to encourage ourselves in the Lord and to stand and hold fast the things that are good. So we see in contrast here not only his determination to withstand, but in the following verses, verses 7 through 23, really the balance of this chapter, he describes the destination of the wicked. He says, I might as well hold fast because the hope that the wicked have is certainly not worth it's not worth going that direction. We don't want to end up there. That's not where we want to be for sure. He says in verse number 7, he says, Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that raiseth up against me as the unrighteous. For what is the hope of the hypocrite? Though he hath gained when God taketh away his soul. He said, boy, he may look, he's a hypocrite, he may look really good on the outside, but what hope does he have? In the end, when he stands before God and he says, Depart from me, I never knew you. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? He says, What hope is it that that oh you look really nice, you're the hypocrite and you've got everything pretty on the outside, the the the wicked man who is maybe looks like they've gained some things in this world, but what good is that in the end? The destination of the way the destination of the wicked is no destination that you or I would want. He said in verse number 9, will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him? Will he delight himself in the Almighty? Will he always call upon God? He gives us here several things, but they're kind of rhetorical statements. They're things that don't really require an answer. It's kind of a given that the opposite or that the answer is self-evident. He said, Will God hear his cry? Well, we know, beloved, God's not going to hear the cry of the wicked. The only cry that God hears of the wicked is the cry of repentance. The cry uh to repent and turn to him. You hear all the time people in the world that have No relationship with God, talk about how they called out to God and and uh you know that uh they they wanted God to heal them or wanted God to heal their heal their mom. But uh the Bible is very clear that God doesn't hear the cry of the wicked. Except for the cry for repentance, for forgiveness. Then as a child of God, then God has an ear and hears and listens to your cry. David had something to say about this, even for the child of God. You remember in Psalm 66:18, he said, If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. If I regard iniquity in my heart, if there's sin in our in the heart of man, it's going to put uh separate you between God. He's not going to hear your cry. Your cry and your day of trouble, your cry and your day of heartache. In your day of distress. He says, Will he delight in the Almighty? The obvious answer is no. He's not going to delight in the Almighty. How can he delight in him when he has made himself an enemy of God? To be a friend of the world is to be at enmity with God, to be an enemy of God. He says, will he call? Will he call upon God? No, he's not going to call on him. Because he's far from God and he knows it When you have no relationship with somebody, you wouldn't call them up and ask them for something You y you haven't talked to somebody in three years or y you know, y you the last time you spoke there was a fight. You're not going to call them up and say, hey, can you come over and help me, you know, clean my yard up from the trees, the leaves that blew in my yard, or whatever it might be. You're not going to call them and ask them And he's saying he's not going to call on God. The man who has set himself at enmity between him and God and knows that God is not there, he's not going to call on God in his hour of need. Because he knows that God is far from him. The day of the storm is going to come. And he'll find that he is out there in that storm all alone with no one to turn to, with no one to call upon. I've heard stories, as I'm sure you have, of men who were on the battlefield Maybe they were injured, and one of his fellow soldiers comes to him and says, Hey, call upon God. And the soldier says, I live my life without God. I'm going to die without God. Oh, can I? Or why would I call on God now? I've never given God a thought. Why would I give God a thought now? Well, we know in that moment if he would call upon God in repentance for his sin that God would hear him. But In his own conscience, tells him, I have pushed God away for my whole life. And so now in this moment of need, am I going to call? Job is saying, that kind of man is not going to call out on God. Because he knows that he doesn't have a relationship with him. He hasn't pushed him away. And he spends the rest or the balance of this chapter, verses 13, through the end, talking about the destination of the wicked He says, this is the portion of the wicked, verse 13 there, this is the portion of the wicked man with God and the heritage of oppressors. He goes through and describes their life. It's a sad thing. Verse 14 and 15 he says their family's going to suffer. He says, if his children be multiplied, it is for the sword, and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. Those that remain of him shall be buried in death, and his widow shall not weep. He describes there that the family is going to suffer. He describes the fact that their finances are going to fail. Though in verse 16, though he heap up silver as the dust and prepare raiment as clay, he may prepare it. But the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver. He buildeth his house as a moth And as a booth that the keeper maketh. He said, Boy, he's established all this, he's put all this dust, this gold, he's collected all this, he's made all these fine raiment, but somebody else is going to wear them. Like the rich man God looked at him and said, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall these things be? All these things that are laid up. He says the destination of the wicked, all that they've acquired in this life, it's all going to be passed to somebody else. It's going to just be suffering. It's sad, but he says fear will be in their future. Verses 20 to 23. Look, he says, terrors take hold on him. As waters. A tempest stealeth him away in the night. The east wind carrieth him away and departeth, and as the storm hurleth him out of his place For God shall cast upon him and not spare. He would fain flee out of his hand. Men shall clap their hands at him, and he shall hiss him out of his place. Fear is in their future. The man who lives in sin will live in fear. Knowing That he's transgressed the law of God. And he knows he doesn't have the protection of the Almighty. And he knows he's on borrowed time. Maybe you've seen depictions of this in different movies or or uh situations in life but where where a guy like let's say he works at a bank and he's been robbing, he's been stealing from the bank And every day he comes in and he thinks in his conscience, in his mind, that this is a day they're going to find out. This is the day, I mean he comes in and somebody drops a book and he jumps. And just think, oh oh, it's just a book. And and in the stress of knowing that he's on borrowed time, that any moment somebody's gonna find out that He's taken all of the money. He's robbed the bank blind and his sin is going to be found out. And the wicked man lives that way. Proverbs tells us the wicked uh man flees when no man pursueth. Maybe nobody even looking at him, but he's sitting at his desk, feels like everybody's looking at him. Everybody's watching what he's doing. Why? Because he doesn't have a clear conscience Because he knows what he's done is wrong and he's sitting there just in fear of what's coming. Boy, these are sad and tumultuous things, but praise God, you don't have to be that way We don't have to be that de that is not the destination of a Christian. We can live in those first uh six verses where we can purpose to to uh live with a clear conscience and hold fast to that which is righteous, hold hold fast to our righteousness. And honor God with our lives and put our head on our pillow with the sweet peace of God instead of this fear and turmoil. And I would have you see in chapter number 28, Job's dissertation on wisdom, his just kind of describes wisdom throughout this whole chapter. He compares here the pursuit of wisdom with that of the pursuit of wealth So many in this world go after wealth because that's how they measure success and happiness in this world. And men know where to go for wealth. The average man will do considerable amount of effort It's really quite amazing the industrious spirit of man to gain wealth. And we should be industrious. And we ought to be hard workers. Yeah but you you think about the the motivating factor there and and I mean you think about like the gold rushes of people move their entire family across the country and their They're working, you know, twenty-four hours a day or two twenty hours a day, sleeping two or three hours and going back down into the mine and and digging out just in hopes that they're going to strike it rich, that they're going to that they're going to break through and find some vein. Well, this is what he describes here. We see in verse number 28, I mean in chapter 28, verse number one. He says, Surely there is a vein for the silver. And a place for the gold where they find it. Iron is taken out of the earth and brass is molten out of the stone. He setteth an end to darkness and searcheth out all perfection, the stones of darkness and the shadow of death. The flood breaketh out from the inhabitants, even the waters forgotten of the foot. They are dried up, they are gone away from men. As for the earth, Out of it cometh bread, and under it turneth up as it were fire. The stones of it are the place of sapphires, and it hath dust of gold. He he goes on here, he's describing that the the the silver mine and the gold refinery that people look to and the iron that can be harvested out of the ground and the brass that can be drawn from the different stones or rocks. In verses 6 through 11, he poetically walks through the earth and describes there the links that men will go to in in uh to to acquire wealth. He talks about how man has a keener eye than the vulture. I don't know how many of you watch Facebook at all, but I posted on Facebook a picture that I took the other day. I came into the church parking lot. and there was a vulture sitting on our steeple and uh the vulture's arms or or wing span was all the way open And I don't know if he was just drying himself off, but it looks like he just came in and just landed. But he hadn't he actually was sitting there with his arms out like that and I pulled I pulled my camera out and shot a picture of it. I would have much rather have been an eagle But it was still a good picture even with the vulture. But you know that that the the keen eye of the vulture, you know, they can they can pick up the smallest little thing on the ground and and you know I was walking across Mary's gonna shoot me for this, but I was walking across the parking lot the other day and there was a dime and I didn't pick it up. But you know how your y m you're she would she would pick it up a dime, I'll guarantee you that. Uh she Y you your eye just catches that that little that little shiny thing. You're like, what is what is that? And you know, you see the little brass, that little little penny. You know it cost cost this is a side light, it costs the US four cents to make every penny. That is so stupid. I don't know why make a penny. It's costing us more to make one than than they're even worth. But that that idea of just being able to like keener than the vulture, he says. More cunning than the lion. Men will be more cunning than a lion to get wealth. They go out and try and find it like the lion's whelps, he says. He says, he gives an example here I was talking to the guys about in the four-year. Look at verse number nine. He puteth forth his hand upon the rock, he overturneth the mountain by the roots. I mean you consider and think about the effort that's put into to mine a mountain, literally turning a mountain upside down. Turning a mountain over by the roots to gain the ore that's in there or the gold that's there or the silver or whatever it is. And men will do that to go after it. Our eye sees every precious thing, but we don't see what is most precious. Look at verse number 12 He says there, but where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? He says, men will do everything to get a little bit of gold, to get a little bit of wealth, and yet they have no interest in the pursuit of wisdom. They don't know where wisdom is. They don't know where to search for wisdom. Their eye is not seeing that. Wisdom and understanding go hand in hand, beloved. Wisdom is the ability to apply truth. And understanding is the ability to discern truth. They go together I heard a a ball player and I don't know what the interview was for and I don't know what ball player it was, so if some of you have seen it, you could tell me later I don't know enough about those guys to know anything, but he was doing an interview and uh he, I don't know why he's even talking about wisdom, but he said, well, knowledge is knowing that tomato is a fruit. Wisdom is knowing that you don't put it in a fruit salad. That's what it is. That's knowing knowing when to use it. Being able to apply some knowledge. It's not just having the head knowledge, it's being able to use it to apply it to life. So wisdom, beloved, really is the right application of heavenly understanding. Most people don't know the value of it, and that's why they fail to seek it. We will endeavor to seek after things of this world continuously. But failed to seek after wisdom. Proverbs chapter 3 and verses 13 through 18 says, Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies, and all the things that thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her Length of days is in her right hand and in her left hand riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pluntiness. And all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her, and happy is everyone that retaineth her. Well, if we just understood just that passage of scripture, we would say, boy, I want wisdom. I want wisdom. I need to get some wisdom. And that's plenty plenty is in her in her in her path and and uh happiness is in her path and uh security and the you know merchandise, uh rubies. The value of it cannot be overstated. He begins by describing here for us where it's not. He kind of goes through the places and he says, well, it isn't here. And he said the earth turned up and said it isn't here. It's not something you can just buy in verse number 15. He says, Boy, it cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. He said, You can't just say, Oh, can I get a pound of wisdom, please? This is not how you get wisdom. You can't just go acquire it. It doesn't matter how much money you have, you could still be a fool Its value is immeasurable, verses 16 and 18. And he puts to us the question a second time in verses 20 and 21. He says, Whence then cometh wisdom? And where is the place of understanding? Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept closed from the fowls of the air He says, hey, I've hid wisdom in a very special place. Would you take your Bibles and turn to Colossians? He says, where is wisdom? Where can we find it? And then he tells us in verse number 10 there, he says, I hid it from the eyes of all that is living. But where did he hide wisdom? I want you to see it in the Word of God in Colossians chapter 2 and verse number 3. In this passage of Scripture, you can read verses 1 and 2, and you'll understand this actually verse 2 ends with him saying in Jesus Christ. He's talking about Jesus Christ here. He says in verse number three, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Isn't that rich? He tells us in Job there that God says, Hey, nobody knows where to look for it And God says, that's because I've hid it in a very special place. Wisdom is available to anybody who would want it, but it but it's hidden I hid it somewhere, but then we get to the pages of the New Testament, and Paul clearly communicates to us that the place that God hid wisdom is in Jesus Christ, who is wisdom personified among men. So, in our pursuit of knowing God, in our pursuit of learning who Jesus is, and being close to Jesus, that is where we will get wisdom. From being with him, being like him. Wow. He is the source of all wisdom. In verse number 28. You don't have to turn back there. We're going to close here. I'm just going to bring this to a close. But he says, and unto man he said, Behold the fear of the Lord. That is wisdom, and depart from evil is understanding. That should be pretty familiar verses, right? That's you know Job was was written before Proverbs, so I guess Proverbs is is quoting Job in there, but it's several times in Job that uh it's I mean several times in Proverbs that that is mentioned We know that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. What is it to fear the Lord? To fear the Lord is to know him. The more we know him, the more we fear him. Ecclesiastes 12 13 says, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. To fear God and keep his commandments. So this is the whole duty of man. Means we're going to do what he says. The more we learn of him The more we know, the better we know Jesus, the more wisdom we'll have, the more we'll be like him, the more the more we will follow his command. Proverbs 3:7 says, Be not wise in thine own eyes, but fear the Lord and depart from evil. Everybody is wise in their own eyes, but that's not what we need today. What we need is to fear the Lord and depart from evil. Fear the Lord and do what Christ would want us to do. We need to pursue wisdom. Where is wisdom? It's hid in Jesus. So if we're going to pursue and go after wisdom, we're going to be going after Jesus Christ. Priced. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?