Chapter number twelve, eleven and twelve where is where we are going to be uh today and then walking through our journey through the Old Testament. Uh thus far, we've seen the hand of God and as He plans and works out His Will. We know history is his story. We've tried to, as we've looked at this, to keep a bird's eye view. We want to kind of get the the grand overview, a look at all of it. Uh attempting, you know, to see the the broad strokes as it were, but not get too bogged down in the the nitty-gritty, tried not to get too uh there's so many individual stories. that we could get into as we come into this time of the kings and the prophets. I mean, you think about the life of Elisha and Elijah, and I mean we could spend months just on those two prophets and talking about them and what God did with them. So we're trying to keep a uh we will be hitting some of what God used them to do as it directly impacted the the nation as a whole. Uh but Trying to keep more of a bird's eye view. This our our Old Testament survey, as you see on our map here, uh or uh what is this thing called? Uh the timeline, yes, thank you. Uh we have uh broken this down into different eras. beginning here with creation and the general history of the development of nations. Then we went into the patriarchal history and seeing God building a nation. uh his nation and ultimately what he wanted to do the time of Exodus uh and then the conquest of the promised land the era of the judges where uh God was brought them into the promised land, he delivered them the law in the Exodus, and then he gives them the land in this this in this promised land and this nation is growing, it's being developed, it's being turned into what God wanted it to be, so that they could bring forth the Messiah and The nation is progressing really, really well. You get into the point here at the end of the judges where they demand a king, where they say, Boy, we want to be like other nations and we want to have a king that would rule over us and God grants them what they desired. They they got what they wished, but they lost what they had, as they get a king. And you have three kings that rule over the United Kingdom. Uh Saul David and Solomon that rule over this United Kingdom. And then we are embarking today. We're just starting here on what is called the divided kingdom, which falls underneath the kingdoms as a whole. This time period here, the divided kingdom is what we're going to be looking at. Now it's noteworthy that during this period of history we have a lot of the Old Testament. A lot of the Old Testament is there, and you know the Old Testament is not necessarily a book that's put together in chronological order A lot of things happen together at the same time. So during this divided kingdom, you'll see that we are in 1 Kings chapter 12, and then it goes all the way through 22. We also have 2 Kings. We also have the 2nd Chronicles. 10 through 36. But during that time where these kings are ruling, God sends prophets, and he sends some prophets to Israel in the north, and he sends some prophets to Judah in the south, and he's he's Talking he's sending these prophets. So you have Hosea, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk, you have all of these minor prophets that come during this time period of the divided kingdom as well. So all of those little books, that's why they're minor problems because of the size, the books are relatively small, they take place during this time as well. And so these stories, a lot of these stories that we're reading about in 1 Kings are overlapped. And somebody asked me recently about 1 and 2 Chronicles. And even in our notes and things today, today, I did not put the 1 and 2 Chronicles references. to the stories that we are looking at today in First and Second Kings. First and Second Chronicles repeats them. Uh and you have a a little bit more detail sometimes in First and Second Chronicles, a little bit more genealogy, a little bit more uh because it is the Chronicle of the Kings, it is a list of who was there You get a lot more information in 1 and 2 Chronicles. In 1 and 2 Kings, you get some of the stories and the things that happened and stuff like that, but they are happening happening concurrently. So those books, the history that we're looking at, happens during that time as well. Then we have the prophet Isaiah that comes here right at the end. uh before we get into the exile. And so we are right now, and I don't know how many weeks we're going to be dealing with the divided kingdom. It depends on how bogged down I get with looking at these prophets and the kings and and the back and forth. But that's a breakdown of the history. We saw, as we just concluded, the United Kingdom with uh Solomon that when his heart is drawn away to worship and to follow after other gods, uh that God's people find it harder and harder to to even see Jehovah. They find it harder and harder to uh recognize the hand of the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the God who brought them up out of Egypt, uh because of that. Someone said that men not unified by God will become divided by greed. Men not unified by God will be divided by greed. And uh we saw that take place Uh in we will even in a greater way see this as this nation here begins to be a nation of decline. You see that in the top, the heading of this section of notes is a divided kingdom, a nation in decline. Solomon does not heed uh God's direction Ray of takes over and Ray of seeks the advice of some youthful friends that he had and get some poor advice and he follows that advice and we see the ten tribes of the North separate uh from the south and we see the division of this and this is just the beginning but it's a nation in decline. So we see first of all here in the division that it was caused by Solomon It was caused by Solomon when he allowed his heart uh and home to go after other gods. When Solomon allowed his heart to drift. You know, a lot of times we think that we are an island unto ourselves and that we are just going to do what we're going to do and We don't affect anybody else, but we all affect somebody. We all impact other people. And obviously Solomon here impacted a nation and The Bible says to be not many masters, for they have a greater condemnation. And I tell you that those that lead men are going to answer to God for the direction that they lead them. They are going to be held responsible for what they teach and how they guide and what they lead other men to do because they are the ones that are directly given the authority or the influence in other people's lives And they misused it or led people wrong. And Solomon is going to know the judgment of God because of what he did here. Now God did tell Solomon that he would not Divide the kingdom in his day that he wasn't going to take the kingdom away from him in his day because of his promise to David And you can read that in chapter number 11. We're not going to go there, but he he says he's not going to do it, but he is going to take it away and divide the kingdom in his son's day. And we see that take place. Now this Solomon was caused by him. His heart went away, first of all. Secondly, he had obsessive taxation. He obsessively taxed the tribes. All that Solomon had, all the wealth that he had and all the wisdom he had, and yet he was obsessively taxing the people, uh somebody that knew more wealth than any other nation uh up to that time for sure, and yet he still uh sought great taxes from the people in a very oppressive way. And uh this taxation uh grew uh uh Bitterness in the heart of the children of Israel. First of all, they were a little bit disgruntled, a little bit jealous, because kings were supposed to be chosen from the tribe of Judah. And they kind of thought, well, what's wrong with the rest of the tribes? Why do the kings only come from Judah? If we're not of the tribe of Judah, we're nobody. And so We don't even i if we're not good enough to be part of their kings, then we're not good enough to be with them and so that kind of little bit of bitterness kind of started growing in their heart. That was complicated by the fact that Solomon decided to tax every tribe except Judah So now Judah's not getting taxed, but everybody else is getting taxed. And you can see how this kind of disgruntled spirit, a little bit of bitterness would start to grow in the nation, and they were They were just about getting fed up with it, you know. They had just about had all that they could take. Now Solomon dies and Rahbon takes the throne. Beloved, when Rehab takes the throne, we have just crested the peak of the mountain. As far as a nation, this is the highest point that they have ever been or ever will be. It is though we could stand on the peak of the mountain here at Solomon's reign and we could look back and we could see how God brought them. You see all the way through here, the patriarchal period, how it's just a small little group, and then God sends them down to Egypt to protect and provide for them. with a heathen nation that's going to protect them and and feed them and the nation grows and it and it's now it's big enough to be an established nation and God calls them out of Egypt. and they go through the Exodus time and then God gives them a land and they get their promised land and they conquer that land and they're growing and then they get a k the the judge is guiding them and and directing them and then the kings come and The nation continues to flourish, the nation continues to grow. You look back over time and you can see how it just kept growing and growing and growing in God's blessing and blessing and blessing. Now here we are standing on the peak of Solomon's reign, and you could look forward in history, and never again does the nation of Israel see that peak. From here on, they are a nation in decline. They are continually heading downhill. Now God is still working and ultimately God's plan, He protects the tribe of Judah, and He's going to bring forth his Messiah from that tribe, but the nation as a whole is in decline. And it continues to decline all the way through the conclusion of the Old Testament. So we see this division here was caused by Solomon. Secondly, it was complicated by Rehabom. So Solomon passes off the scene and Rehoboam gets to become king, and he is excited about it. Now Rehoboam took the throne at 41. And he reigned 17 years. Now I put there in your notes, 2 Chronicles 12, 13, don't turn there, but that's just one reference of a detail that's not found in Kings. That detail, you've got to go to First or Second Chronicles to see that. So a lot of times some of the details about who reigned when and for how long and when how old they were when they took it You you gotta go to the Chronicles to get that information. Uh although the kings talks about their reign or might tell them, you might not have the the detailed information until you go to the Chronicles to see it. So we see there that he took the throne at 41, he reigned seventeen years. The people called for a change. And this is where we're going to begin reading here in uh excuse me in chapter 12, verses 3 and 4. But we see in Verse number one, he takes the throne, and Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king. So he's going to become king. Okay. Everybody joined together. Everybody said, This is our king. They're all right there. you know, there's that undercurrent little bit of bitterness over the tribe of Judah and all of that that we talked about already, and yet they all came together and they said, Let's make him king. And we see that in verse number three and four, the people call for a change here. He says Then sent, they sent and called him and Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came and spake unto Rehoboam, saying, So Jeroboam comes with all the Israel. They come to him and they say, hey Rhoboam, listen, thy father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore, make thou the grievous service of thy father and his heavy yoke, which he put upon us lighter. And we will serve thee. So they came and they said, Listen, Rayoboam, you're taking the throne, you're gonna be the king, and if you will just lighten the taxation a little bit, if you will uh stop being so obsessive and and Let's work together and build a great nation. Well, Ray Abon talks to the older men. We see in verse number king, verse number six, sorry. And King Rhaboam consulted with the old men that stood before Solomon, his father, while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that I may answer this people? And so they advised him to do that. They said, hey, if you'll lighten the load, if you'll uh ease up on the taxation, if you'll make the burden on the people lighter, they will follow you, they will stay with you, and you can keep this nation unified and moving forward. Then he goes to his friends in verses 10 and 11. And the young men were grown up with him. Spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father hath made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us, thus shalt thou say unto them. My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins. And now, whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father hath chastened you as whips, and I will chasten you as scorpions. They came to him and said, Oh These guys want it easy. They're complaining because, oh, they thought it was bad under Solomon. You go to them and say, you thought it was bad. Just wait till you see what I'm going to do. And I'm going to increase this burden many times over He listens to the foolishness of these friends, Ray Boom consulting with his friends there. He heeded their advice And we see just a few verses later in verse number 19 that they say, okay, we're done. We're leaving. So in verse number 19, he says, so Israel rebelled against the house of David. unto this day. So they rebelled, and that is where you have the the separation, the dividing of the kingdoms, where we no longer a united kingdom. You have the division there as is seen. Now Rehoboam is going to rule over the house of David, the tribe of Judah, but Jeroboam is going to be called to be king over the house of Israel. So we see Judah and Benjamin remain loyal to David and become known as the tribe of Judah. From here on out as you hear the descriptions and you might hear about that your reading, you know, say Judah or the tribe of Judah uh that is this tribe of Judah and Benjamin. Could you give me the map of the northern and southern kingdoms here. Uh so we I put this here to show you the dividing of the land and In a minute we're going to show you something here, but you have the the southern kingdom here, the tribe of Judah. This is the tribe of Judah and Benjamin together. They they reigned this southern area of the nation. Then you have the tribe of Israel, that's ten tribes that consumed or took up the space to the north. Now in a minute we are going to be talking about how this was completed, the division, the separation was completed by Jeroboam, and that's because he established up here in the top you have th the the tribe of Jan or the area of Dan and then Uh down here in the bottom right down the bottom right here you is where Bethel He decides to move the worship because he doesn't want the pe children of Israel going to Jerusalem to worship. That's right here. It's not that far. But in order to do that, they would have to move to they would have to go into Judah and he understood that a nation unified around God was going to probably be unified again and he didn't want that to happen. So he says, well what I could do is I could get them to worship and provide a place for them to worship here in the north and this will seal the deal. They'll follow me forever And uh so he establishes false worship in Dan, which is way up at the top there, and in Bethel here. Uh so I just wanted you to be able to see that on the map as we're going to talk about it. Now We have the tin tribes that chose Jeroboam and became known as Israel. The northern tribes, they became known as Israel. And God commanded that Rehab should not retaliate. In verse number 24, he says, listen, don't go attack them. This is ultimately of my doing. It is judgment because of Solomon's sin. I told him that his the nation was going to be divided, basically. He says this is happening, there's nothing you can do about it, don't retaliate against them. Now even though he had been told not to, several times, if you read m chapter by chapter, you'll see that Rayobom does attack the northern tribes and they have some measure of civil war that's experienced. uh even though he was told not to. So not only was it um started by Solomon and complicated by Rehoboam, but it we see it was completed by Jeroboam. This this division, this separation, the dividing of the nations was ultimately completed by Jeroboam. You see, he understood that the unity of people, the unity that the people had around the worship of God was central to their nation. And he understood that if he uh did not do something about that, the nation would be divided, or at least in his mind he thought that. He provides for them an alternative form of worship in 1227. He says here, if this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem, Then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their Lord, even unto Rehoboam, king of Judah, and they shall kill me and go again to Rehabom, King of Judah. So he says, Hey, I understand this. If they're going back to Jerusalem and they're worshiping together with them, it won't be long and they're going to be together with Judah. They're going to call Rehoboam their king, they're going to kill me, be done away with me, and I I can't I can't take this. And so he sets up golden calves. In Bethel and in Dan. And that story is twenty-eight through uh thirty. He says, Whereupon the king took counsel and made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold the gods of Israel which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt Do you remember somebody else that said that when they made a golden calf? Yeah, Aaron. He said, Behold The God which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt when when that that calf that he fashioned out of the gold that they brought. And so he here he's saying the same thing. He made these golden calves, and he put one in Dan, he put one in Bethel. made it convenient and easy for them so they wouldn't have to travel down uh to Jerusalem. And he says, Look at the calves, the the the gods that brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And he set Uh one in Bethel and the other he put in Dan in in verse number twenty-nine there. And so, you know, beloved, uh any church or any group is just A short time away from apostasy if we aren't vigilant and guard against it. It doesn't take much for Satan to come in and cause something, this this group, this nation which was following God and had directly seen the hand of God in so many ways, and yet here they could be so easily led. And look, look, here's the gods that brought thee up out of the land of Egypt You look at it and you say, well, how could they be so foolish? How could they say that this calf, this golden thing that was fashioned is the God that brought them up out of Egypt? But Some of them probably justified it in their mind and they said, Oh well, it's not the actual God. We know God did it, but this just represents him. And so we are just using this as a forum to worship this because we can't go down to Jerusalem. You know, whatever they're reasoning in their mind, they were led astray. They never came back from this apostasy. There's 210 years of history of this The nation of Israel, the northern kingdom. Two hundred and ten years they functioned as the northern kingdom under many, many different kings. And during that entire time They did not have one good king that followed God. They did not, as a nation, ever turn back to the Lord. They went into apostasy and they stayed that way through the entirety of their days. Jeroboam was punished for his wickedness. God sent a prophet to pronounce judgment on him in chapter 13 and verse number one. We see that, and behold, there came a man of God unto Judah by the And he cried against the altar of the word of the Lord and said, O altar Thus saith the Lord, behold, a child shall be born unto the house of David, Josiah his name, and upon thee shall he offer the priest. This is a prophecy of what will take place and this does take place. This prophet does listen does live and does come and pronounce this on them Uh the priest of the high places that have burnt incense upon thee, and men's bones shall be burnt upon thee. And he gave a sign that same day, saying Thus is the sign which the Lord has spoken, Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out. And it came to pass when the King Jeroboam heard the saying of the man of God, which he had cried against the altar at Bethel, that he put forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him, and his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it in again unto him. So the Jeroboam sees this prophet announcing this uh prophecy of what will take place and ultimately the judgment on him setting up these false altars before the people. He says, Look This is not what God wants. God's going to do this. He's going to destroy this. You're going to see. And God rent that altar in half and ashes poured out onto the ground. And before them they saw that God was not for that. And the the king said, you know, stop that. He pulls out his hand to point or direct at him, and God causes his hand to shrivel up. So much that he lost the ability to pull it in again unto himself. Hand was all shriveled and and uh unable to function. God uh allows the prophet to pray for him and restores his hand to the king in just a moment. But he sees the judgment of God and God telling him not to do this, yet they still they still did it. The altar is split, ashes are poured forth. The prophet prays for his hand in verse number six and it's restored. Now, beloved, this nation, without the blessing of God, Israel was in a constant state of turmoil. and war. They they never knew peace. They they for all of their history they were in trouble. Now can you put up the uh uh diagram or chart of the kings uh that we printed for you. Uh you should all have that in front of you. Um just so you understand. I mean this is I did not do anything with this. I found this online and there was no um Copyright on it. There was no information about who produced it. I tried to I followed through a chain of websites trying to find out who it produced it, where it came from so that I could put notice on there of who it was, where it came from. So I just put that it was found online and used. Uh so again, I'm not trying to steal credit for it. I don't know who produced it. I have no information I could find about it uh but it was pretty well done and very easy so I printed it off for you. You'll see the um schedule on the right here that the green is the good kings, uh gray is bad kings, red is evil kings. So as you look down through the list here, even at the beginning here, you'll see like Saul started out good and then went bad. Then you have David who functioned and ruled as a good king, although he was not perfect. He had sin in his life. He did things wrong, but he didn't lead the nation in the wrong way. That was the problem with Solomon. Solomon here started out good, following just like David, but then towards the end of his life, he led the nation away from God. And so he is a bad king. Then the kingdom divides, and you have Judah here on the left and Israel on the right. You'll notice in Israel there is no good kings. There is one king here that started out as a good king, as in wanted to do what was right, but in the corruption of the nation ended up doing bad. You have evil kings here, kings that definitely they they were above and beyond the Bible uses the word, and they did worse uh than their father. And so there was a uh notable uh description of their kingship being very evil. Then on the left you have Judah and the Judah didn't have all good kings. There was some bad kings in there, but as a nation, they continued to come back to God. As a nation, as a group, they continued to turn to God, and so you have good kings, good kings that went bad, bad kings that turned good, you have some evil kings in there that just did wrong, uh but as a nation this nation followed after God. Then you have in the center here, you have the prophets that ru functioned during those time frames. And so understanding this was taking place in Judah on the left, this was taking place in Israel on the right. And these prophets were sent to Israel or Judah. So these stories that you read about individually, you might hear about one story. It would be like us talking about what's happening in the Philippines today. Okay, what happened in the Philippines today is happening concurrently with what's happening here. We can't tell both stories at the exact same time, and so you say, oh, here's what happened at Brother Hardecker's church this morning, this is what they did, uh, this is what happened. They d but then you would stop and say, Okay, now here's what happened at Hunt Valley. And that's what you have through the Kings and the Chronicles, is you have both of those stories kind of one after the other going down. You'll have to you have to pay attention if you're in the tribe of Judah or if you're in the tribe of Israel and who it is you're reading about to know uh what's going on and where you're at. Obviously all of it is taking place in what we know uh geographically as the nation of Israel, as uh you know God's people, but they're div is a divided nation. Now in your notes here I have also given you this uh and Don't be too stressed out about the numbers as far as when they start or stopped on the date. I just tried to put a a date of when their kingship started. I didn't give you the date that they ended. I did give you the fact that they were evil or good. That E there means they were evil. So all of Israel's kings were evil. Judah's kings, some were evil, some were good. So you'll see that E or G there And then the years that they reigned, 22 years, 2 years, 24 years, 2 years, uh, and then a reference. These references are not all inclusive either. I kind of gave you the first place that they're mentioned. And then it might be that their story, like let's see, 1 Kings chapter 11 through 14. It might not even start until eleven twenty-six or something like that, but they they're in chapter eleven Uh and then it may also be mentioned in chapter sixteen or seventeen. So it it's not uh I I didn't have space to put down every chapter in the Bible where their name is mentioned. I just put the first place where they become king. So that's what is there. And again I did not put the chronicles because they obviously are mentioned in the chronicles as well. I would have had to have a much bigger chart to give you the list of all those things. And then you have on the far right column there the prophets and uh that they were the prophet during those those king's time frames. So those are listed there on the right for you as well. So between all that, hopefully you can start to get a picture of what's going on here with this kingdom. So we see here, first of all, a nation of Israel Or the northern kingdoms. Okay, that's we're talking about the differences. What are the differences between these two kingdoms? And I've mentioned some of the things already, just by way of introduction to this, but we have the nation of Israel known as the northern kingdom. It also, you might want to make a note of this there in your notes, it also is referred to as Ephraim. Because the capital was in Samaria. The capital of Samaria is inside the tribe of Ephraim, the space geographically is which is Ephraim. So oftentimes or several times in the book of Jeremiah or in the book of Isaiah, it references Ephraim. That is talking about the nation of Israel opposed to the nation of Judah. So when you hear it referenced or you read and you say, oh, it's Ephraim, you'll know that it's talking about the nation of Israel. It consisted of ten tribes. The ten tribes separated and went away. It was total years of their kingdom was 210 years. Two hundred and ten years. Then we see the Assyrians captured and put them into bondage in 722 BC. Then we have the nation of Judah, or the Southern Kingdom. The nation of Judah or the Southern Kingdom. The capital of Judah was Jerusalem. Consisted of just two tribes, that would be the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. These two tribes, the rest of the tribes, all went and joined the northern kingdom. And their total years of kingdom was 335 years. Some people say 345. Um if you're reading about it, you might see 345 somewhere. But basically uh The notable factor is that the tribe of or the nation of Israel, the northern kingdoms, went into bondage almost a hundred years earlier. Than the southern kingdoms, than the kingdoms that knew and were experiencing the blessings of God. And uh listen, you want to end up in bondage, don't follow God. Just do what you want to do. And you see it over and over again, the trial, the turmoil that the nation of Israel endured because they were not following after God. And God's blessing was continually restored on the tribe of Judah. So over a hundred years longer, they functioned as a nation And uh just as a side note, one of the reasons that America has been blessed is because it was one nation under God. And as a nation, as we turn away from God The further we get from God, the less God's hand of blessing and protection is on this nation, and one day this nation will cease to exist. It's it's it's gonna happen because we've rejected and turned away from God. I don't know all of what's gonna happen, but we know that in the end times uh we don't see America, uh the United States as part of what's taking place in the end times. And so we we know ultimately it's gonna happen because America is turning away from God. So you have a list of the kings there. That's just for your reference. The Babylonians captured them in 586 B. C. So the tribe of Judah, the nation of Judah was uh put into captivity in 586 BC. Now as we bring this to a conclusion, consider or think about this. You see, Jeroboam thought that he was just doing what he wanted to do. Jeroboam thought he was leading the people. He thought, this is what I want to do. I'm going to do this for today. I'm going to do this for right now. This is the direction I'm going to lead. But we know that 210 years of history, they never came back from that. Jeroboam established these, you know, he led the nation into apostasy, that is, to turn away from God, and he set up these false idols in Dan and in Bethel, and he thought, well, this is what I'm doing to secure my kingdom. But would you look at 2 Kings chapter number 17? Turn to 2 Kings chapter number 17 This is coming to the conclusion of this nation. The end two hundred and ten years of history have passed Look what God says about Jeroboam. Jeroboam has been dead for a long time at this point. This is the end, 210 years of history. They're going in, the Assyrians have captured them. Look at what God says in 2 Kings chapter 17, verses 21 and 22. For he rent Israel from the house of David. And they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king. And Jeroboam drave, or drove, drave Israel. from following the Lord, and made them sin a great sin. For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam, which he did, they departed not from them. 210 years later, the conclusion of the nation, when they're going into captivity, God points back to the beginning. This is Jeroboam. When he became king, he turned the hearts of the people to apostasy to worship false gods. All of the wickedness that he did as a nation, they never turned back from that. It was he who was the one that did it. Now here's the amazing thing. You could turn to chapter number 1 Kings chapter number 11 and you'll see. We're not going to read it right now, you read it, but you'll see that God told Jeroboam, if you'll follow me. I will secure your kingdom. I will establish you as king. The people will follow you if you will follow me. But see, Jeroboam didn't trust what God said. Instead, Jeroboam said, wait, wait, no, I need to secure my kingdom. Here's how I'm going to secure it. No, God told him what to do to secure it. All he had to do is follow God and God would take care of it. But he says, nope, I'm going to do this. And so he set up these false idols and led the nation into apostasy, and God holds him responsible for it 210 years later. Here's what I want to leave you with. You and I have the power to leave an indelible mark On the lives of others, for good or for evil. None of us live unto ourselves We have the power to leave an indelible mark on the lives of those that come after us for good or for evil. We could take the time this morning and I could ask you. to tell me about somebody that left a mark on you for good, somebody that impacted you, a teacher, a parent, a friend, somebody that their life influenced you for good. And they left that mark on you. And that mark is still bringing forth fruit in your life because of their influence. We see what Jeroboam did to the nation of Israel. So my challenge for all of us is to be sure that we are leaving a mark for good. If we are impacting those that are following us, and if we're going to leave something, let's leave something that they'll carry with them and say, boy, they impacted my life for good. All right, let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this Sunday school hour, uh for the lessons that can be gleaned here. I pray that you'll give wisdom and direction as we move into This divided kingdom, Lord, how deep to get, how much to look at as we move into the coming weeks. Lord, many, many great, powerful truths. are are there that we could learn from. Lord just help us have a good balance of getting the overall picture and not too bogged down, but uh moving moving along, Lord, I pray you just direct it. Lord, I pray that each of us would be conscious of the fact that Our lives are impacting others. And boy, what a privilege we have to impact them for good. And what a sobering thought to consider and think that we also may impact them for evil. And Lord, I pray we would do right, mask this in Jesus' name, amen.