Uh of that kingdom, uh the northern kingdom, well it was one of consistent and continual idol worship one of uh pagan idolatry that they never strayed from. They continued that on that downward path through the whole of their history. We know uh that this southern kingdom, Judah, kind of stands in contrast to that. Not that Judah was perfect. Judah had problems. Uh as you'll see as we start going through these kings, you're going to see some pretty wicked kings. You're going to see some kings that uh you know don't honor God with their lives, that don't please the Lord, they go after pagan idolatry and such. But there was continually this revival, this pursuit, this turning back to God over and over, where God was preserving and uh the line of Christ, the lion of Judah, uh bringing that about a little bit of time. So we even right from the beginning we see from the very first king here that Rehabam was not a good man. But we are uh chronologically or in our timeline here uh Backing up to the beginning of the divided kingdom, we're going to walk through the kings of Judah there. We're not going to more than likely Get into all of the minor prophets, looking at each of the minor prophets and what they had to say, understanding that they were prophets that were proclaiming uh the message of God. to the kingdoms, northern and southern kingdom. They were preaching and calling people back to God, calling for repentance, giving direction to the kings that were leading. uh that's the messages that are in the minor prophets. That's their their messages that they were giving to the kings or to uh the nation of Israel or of Judah uh as they functioned inside of the either northern or southern kingdom there. Then we come to the very end of that. We have of course the major prophets here, but Isaiah, uh Jeremiah was right here in this time frame. Uh then We're going to conclude I was hoping to get done with this lesson today, but we will get into uh the exile or the time of captivity. Uh if we get to the conclusion of this we'll see that Judah goes into captivity. Jerusalem is destroyed and uh they go into under under God's punishment for a period of time. And so we will be looking at that. Next. Now I'm going to begin to give you some information. They should be walking in here with the Sunday school lessons very shortly. But we're going to just start and we'll move slow through this because you know you don't have the notes in front of you. But we have Rayobom. He reigned 17 years. Now he of course was Solomon's son uh and uh should have known better certainly was had a better example uh in many ways, but we do see uh that Rahoboam kind of follows his father's example in several ways, which ends up making him an evil king. We know that it was the foolishness of Rehabom that caused the divided kingdom ultimately, that that is what was used to bring about the divided kingdom. uh where God ripped the kingdom away from him. Uh ten tribes went with the Israel and then he just had the two. Now Rehoboam followed his father's example. ended up with eighteen wives and sixty concubines. Um, you know, just having grown up and that type of family seeing that example, he followed his father's example in that regard and those wives influenced his life and You know, one of the things that I do in marriage counseling and the pre-marriage counseling when I'm talking to them is just to really try and get them to identify the weaknesses that they're going to be prone to. Because the fact of the matter is is we tend towards what we know. And if you grew up in a home where there was never love expressed where there was never any emotion shown, where there was maybe a lot of how problems were dealt with was by screaming and yelling It's very likely that that is what your home will look like. Now it doesn't have to. You can change that if you can identify it and on purpose plan to do it different. But if you don't do it on purpose, you will very likely just fall into what you know. And that's what Raya Bohm did. This is what I grew up like. This is It's very common. This is how our home was. I mean Dad had lots of concubines and wives, and so he did the same thing Because of his wickedness, God allows the king of Egypt to come in and invade Jerusalem. The king of Egypt comes in and invades Jerusalem. and he invades all the way up. He he he goes in and he and he he uh plunders the temple. He takes from the temple Solomon's go golden shields, the shields that Solomon had crafted and were hanging there in the temple. And uh Rhabom takes those g golden shields. Well, th they get taken under Rhabohm's leadership, and so Ray Boom decides, well, I'm just gonna replace them with some bronze shield and uh we'll call it good. And just decides that that's good enough. You know, when we do wrong it it ends up costing us. As it as it did here for the nation of Judah. They they following Rehabom here, they ended up losing these gold shields. They didn't get them back. Rehabom. just replaces them with some bronze ones. Shimei was the prophet during this time, and God used Shimei greatly to bring about a revival in the hearts of the people. And uh we see that revival uh kind of takes a little bit to take off in what takes place there, but um let me see here I'm trying to see how far to go before before you guys get some notes because I don't want you to be too far behind. Um I wonder how close they are. Andy, why don't you go find out for me uh how close they are with the notes? Um We start ending up with too many blanks, you guys. I'll just have to come back and repeat it all anyway. There's nothing for you to fill in with regards to Obaijum. Some of these kings I was planning to just kind of skim over, uh giving you their names and and the information is all there for you to look at in at later dates. Uh but Abaijam, uh Rehboam's son, begins to reign. Uh he takes he takes it over and uh he reigns just for three years. Now he was an evil king in 1 Kings chapter 15 and verse number 3, we see the Word of God says, And he walked in all the sin of his father. which he had done before him, and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as the heart of David his father. Alrighty. So Abai Jim was an evil king, he did that which was wrong. Then Asa takes his place. Asa was Abaijam's son. There is a lot of uh The lineage continues down through the family here in a lot of ways. We'll see that continually here. Asa begins to rain. Asa reigns for 41 years Um and he was a good king. In First Kings chapter fifteen. Let me turn there. And first Kings chapter fifteen we see verse number eleven. He says, and Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, as did David his father. When these kings do right. You will continually see, even all the way down through this line, when they're doing right, they will be recognized as doing right as David their father. as in great great grandfather, as in the heritage, the lineage uh that started with David and that God was honoring and God was blessing. So they continually are referred back. to them uh when when they're doing right. Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord as did as did David his father, and he took away the Sodomites out of the land. And he removed all the idols that his father had made. And also Makea, his mother, even her, he removed from being queen, because she made an idol in a grove. And Asa destroyed her idol and burnt it by the brook Kidron. So he does some real cleaning. He cleans up even some things in his own family. He says, wait, this is not right. We're not going to deal with it. We're not going to have this. And he starts to take these steps to clean up and do what he can to please the Lord. But notice if you have your Bible open there, look at verse number fourteen. But the high places were not removed. So there was something that he left undone. There's something that he should have taken care of that he didn't. But notice what the Word of God says about him next in this verse. It says, Nevertheless, Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord all his days. We look at that and wonder like how in the world could God say his heart was perfect with the Lord all his days? When he didn't remove the high places. God very on purpose and directly tells us he didn't remove the high places. But nevertheless, his heart was perfect with the Lord all his days. Here's how I see that after contemplating this for a little bit. We know that David was a man who had the heart of God or who went after the heart of God. That he loved God and always wanted to, he was after God's own heart. And wanted to have the heart of God and to please God all his days. Was David perfect? No, we know that. David sinned. David did some things that were wrong. But he wanted to please God all of his days. As soon as you have some lessons there, you can just start giving them out. Yeah, thank you. He wanted to please God all of his days. So here's the thought. The idea is Not that you'll live and be perfect, but that your heart is right with God, your desire is right with God. I think had Asa seen and known his shortcoming in this area, he would have got it right. He would have said, wait, well, I need to take down the high places too. Here's what I'm saying is God may have some expectations or desires for you that you have not done yet. These are called sins of omission, things that you should have done that you didn't do. Uh sometimes there are things we don't even know about in our heart and mind. And As we pursue God and we want to please God, God will begin to reveal those things to us and show us. And if your heart is still right with God when it comes of it, when it comes to light, you'll do it. Because you want to please God. You want to do what God wants you to do. And so here's the way I look at that Aesha, he didn't do all that God really wanted him to do because He hadn't maybe seen that or realized how important that was to God and but his heart was right with God. And so for you and I As long as we're going after God, we we stay at Hunt Valley Baptist Church here and have for many, many years, God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with where you're going. And that's the idea. You might not be exactly or all that God wants you to be right now. But what direction are you headed? Are you just sitting and I'm content where I'm at and don't bother me and don't preach to me and don't try and change me because this is who I am and you can like it or lump it? Or are you saying, no, no, I want to please God. I know I'm not all that I should be or could be, but my desire is to please God. I know beyond a shadow of doubt that I'm not Where I should be, but I want to please God. So God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with where you're going. And here's what I see about Asa, as we see the reforms that he made, the direction he was headed was towards God He wanted to please God. He wanted to do what was right and honoring God. All right, I know they've got uh how far up are they with the notes here? We we don't have Miss Nancy doesn't have notes yet. You guys have notes yet? No. Okay, so we got we'll wait just a minute to back up and just fill in some of the blanks. They're they're bringing him in hot off the press. Levi doesn't have notes yet. Levi said he enjoys history. This is this is not bothering him at all. He's like Jacob. Do you know Jacob? Have you met Jacob Jacob. Uh so he he Jacob really likes history too. When I have a qu history question I go ask Jacob. All right, that's getting us pretty close. So there's just a couple of people that uh don't have those note yet notes yet. So just to Fill in your blanks there. Uh Rehboom, he reigned seventeen years. He was an evil king. Because of his wickedness, God allowed the king of Egypt. God allowed the king of Egypt to come in and invade and go all the way to Jerusalem and plunder the temple. Then we talked about Abaijim there. Abaijim reigned three years. He was a son of Rehaboam. He was an evil king. We're talking about Asa right now. Asa reigned 41 years. Asa reigned 41 years, and he was a good king, but he failed to remove the high places. He failed to remove the high places. So during uh you'll see over and over with these kings Those kings that honored God and pleased God, there was peace, there was prosperity, and there was progress. Every time you have a king doing right. There's peace, prosperity, and progress in the nation. Many things get built, many things, the the nation moves forward when the king is honoring and pleasing God. And the opposite happens when you have evil kings. So we see Asa makes these reforms, but he failed to remove the high places. But during this time of of honoring and pleasing God, great Uh blessing was on the nation. They enjoyed ten years of peace and blessing. He was known as a great builder. Why? Because God was prospering him. He just continued to build and progress and move forward. Then we see Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat, he reigned 25 years. This he was Asa's son, and he was a good king. If you have your Bibles, we're going to be in 2 Chronicles for the majority of the rest of today. If you want to turn toward 2 Chronicles, and we want to just see he was a good king. We see the word of God says about him. Chapter 17, verses 3, 4, and 5. So Jehoshaphat says, And the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto Balam. But he sought to the Lord, God his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand, and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents, and he had riches and honor in abundance. So Jehoshaphat continues the revival and the forward movement, honoring and pleasing God and doing what's right, not going after Balaam, not following the example of Israel, but serving God and God prospers him, God blesses him. You can read in 17 verse number 9 how he promoted the teaching of the law, the reading of God's word. He sent men around with the Word of God to preach and teach the Word of God and to tell others about it. However, he foolishly established an alliance with Ahab. His son will become married to Ahab's daughter Athaliah. So this was very foolish to Make a pact with Ahab. You know, Ahab is the wicked king, his wife Jezebel of Israel And he makes a pact with them, says, Well, I'll marry my son to your daughter, and we're gonna we're gonna hang out, we're gonna get along together. Very foolishly, he makes this agreement with them. This Bond that begins with disagreement causes Judah to drift. They begin to fall away. You can see in 2 Chronicles chapter 19 that uh He is rebuked for this in chapter 19, verses 1 through 3. And Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned to his home in peace to Jerusalem. And Jehu, the son of Hanani the seer, went out to meet him and said, King Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly and love them that hate the Lord? Therefore is wrath upon thee from before the Lord. Some very powerful statements there from the prophet to Jehoshaphat saying, hey, you know Ahab's wicked You know he's not pleasing God. You know he doesn't love God. Matter of fact, they hate God and he says, Should you be supporting that? Either way, just uh as a side note, you might want to consider or think about what you do with your uh, I would say, giving even as we're coming into the Christmas season. Many people think, oh, well, I want to give to some charitable organizations, or I want to help this organization or that organization. Listen, should you help the ungodly? Should should God's money be going to uh fund different uh things like this? You just gotta think about where is your money going? What is it that you're supporting? What cause are you furthering? And be very wise in that, because God judges Jehoshaphat here very harshly. rebukes him for doing that. We know John tells us, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And we so we should not be supporting the world or the world's things uh even in a effort to show kindness. There are plenty of other places. where you can give, where you can be a blessing or a help, uh, and you won't be supporting uh some organ like this throw one out the United Way You know, when I worked at Walmart every year, they wanted us to give to the United Way at Christmas time. You know, take some of your check and put it, give it to the United Way. You don't want to support the United Way. And there are a lot of other organizations like that that don't the money does not go to good things and so you don't want to be sending your your money that direction Now he responds correctly, praise the Lord, and does right. However, that the drifting of the nation had started, and now we have a wicked king, Jehoram. Jehoshaphat's son, Jehoram, takes over, and he reigns eight years. Now he was an evil king. Influenced by his wicked uh wife, Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab. You know, it's very important who you marry. So very important who you marry is going to impact or influence you for the rest of your life. And uh by the way, uh those of you that have been married, you know you marry the family as well. So you you may say, well it's just gonna be I'm just gonna marry her and and I don't care what her family's like. No, you marry the family. And uh you you are tied in with that. So it's very crucial, very important. That's why the Bible says be not unequally yoked uh with unbelievers. Um You shouldn't even be looking at or considering somebody that is not a believer because they will pull you away, which is what happened here with Atheliah, this this wicked woman. She influences her husband. Uh and Jehoram here, very wicked king. He assumed the throne through murder. of his six brothers. Can you hear Jezebel? You think about this, the you know Jezebel and what she did. And how she would just kill somebody to get him out of the way. Well, can you hear Atheliah? Carrying the message of Jezebel in her mind like, hey, to her husband, you want you want to be king, right? I want you to be king. I I married a king. But I'm not the oldest. I'm not the first choice. Well that's okay. We'll just kill him. And he kills all of his siblings so that he can have the throne. A wicked king. This uh Elijah the prophet uh from Israel informs him of God's judgment on him uh because of his wickedness. Uh and uh he he hears that, hey, what you've done is wrong, and he's struck with the disease and dies. So Jehoram reigned eight years. Um now Ahazia took the throne. He was Jehoram's son, and uh he reigned one year and was killed uh by the king of Israel. Now Etheliah, Jehoram's wife, Ahaziah's mom She says, well, Atheliah didn't last long. I want to take control. So now we have a queen that takes control. Athaliah comes in, that wickedness is continuing. So Athaliah, she takes control and she reigns for six years. She obviously is a wicked queen continuing the uh Slaughter of innocent people. She murders the entire royal family, the seed of David. You see, here we have a movement of Satan using Athaliah to try and destroy the line of Christ. She comes in and she has in her plan to attack the the uh family of David, the the line of Judah. And Satan, she doesn't even realize w what all she's accomplishing as she tries to destroy the line of Christ, but it is the work of Satan that she's accomplishing. Christ from being able to come and fulfill the prophecy and the plan of God. However, uh there was A God-honoring uh high priest and his wife, uh, and they take young Joash, who's going to be king, next. They take young Joash, Joshabeth and her husband, Jehoudah, the high priest, and they hide him. They hide him for six years from this wicked king who is trying to wipe out The line of Judah. And after six years he's reached the age where he could be presented as the rightful king. They bring him out, they uh hold fanfare, they hold an event, they call the community together, they announce he is the rightful king. And the queen, uh, trying to stop this, comes out and is going to have him killed. She calls people together and she tries to have him killed. However Somebody with a spear of David, one of David's spears, throws it and she is struck dead and dies there in trying to stop this king from the rightful king from taking the throne So Joash uh takes the kingdom. You'll notice on your if you have your chart here that uh we have these, we just had these. uh two bad kings and a wicked king. The ones that are in red are exceptionally wicked. They're they're not just evil, they're they're way beyond that. And Athaliah was very wicked queen, just the horrendous things that she did. But Joash takes the throne. And uh he starts out good, God honoring and pleasing the Lord as he begins. Um but he ends bad. He he tends to drift. You know, if we're not careful That is human nature. If we're not careful, uh we will drift. So he is the only surviving member of David's family in continuing the line of Christ in Cooperation with Jehota, the high priest, he takes leadership, and together they destroy the temples of Baal Together they rebuild the temple of God. This great influence of Jehoiada in his life. Here's another warning for you: be careful who your friends are. Your friend can greatly encourage and help you on the right path or greatly hinder and hurt you or motivate you down the wrong path So be cautious who your friends are, who is influencing your life. You see, one of the reasons that Joash ended up falling away is Jehootah, that great influence for good in his life, dies. After the influence of Jehoda is gone, Joash strays from the Prath. This true friend of his, the counselor. uh passes off the scene and Jehoiada begins to do some foolish things. He's led by others to worship idols. He uses the gold from the temple to buy off a Syrian king. Hazel, this king comes in and is going to attack They don't have the means or capacity to stop him militarily, and so they think, well, maybe we could buy him off. Maybe we could give him enough money that he'll say, Oh, I'll just take the money and leave. And uh that's what they do. They take all the the gold and things out of the temple and they give that away, which they weren't supposed to do. Um He has Zechariah the high priest stoned because he dared preach against the idolatry uh the king was involved in. So Zechariah comes on the scene and Zechariah is preaching and saying, this is not what you should do. And Joash, who started out good, who was great friends with Jehovah, But Jehoidah passes off the scene and now he has Zechariah stoned. I'm sorry? figuring about that Zechariah was the son of Jehoiada. He grew up with and he was raised with. Yeah. Yeah, that's terrible. Uh how far one can drift. So Joash is killed by his own palace guard uh shortly after Jerusalem is attacked. Uh you know the the Assyrian army comes into Jerusalem uh and attacks Jerusalem. J Joash is killed and uh then We see Amaziah, the king. He reigns 29 years. He was Joash's son. He started out good and ended bad. Again, we have kind of a drifting taking place here Uh he did several things that were right. He organized the army of Judah. Uh now he was going into battle with uh three hundred thousand of his own men, and he paid for a hundred thousand more from Israel to come and join him in the fight against the Edomites. Now, the prophet came to him and said to him, Hey, you don't need Israel to come and fight with you. God is on your side. You need to send Israel home, send that hundred thousand soldiers home. And the king was a little bit concerned about the money he had spent in 2 uh chronicles chapter 25 verse number 9 And Messiah said to the man of God, but what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man of God answered, The Lord is able to give thee much more than this. You see, this is not what he was supposed to be doing. But he looked at it as man financially I've invested this money already. W what about that? The prophet correctly says, listen, God's on your side, God is with you, and God will replace that. God will take care of that. Let's just take a second and apply this to our lives. You know, sometimes people think, well, I'm gonna quit drinking. But I've already spent all this money on this at booze and I don't want to just dump it out. So I'm gonna I'm gonna drink that and then I'll quit drinking And they've been saying the same thing for four or five years or longer. Right? They they look at this from a financial decision and say, oh well, uh I I I've spent this money already on all these bad DVDs and so uh I don't want to throw 'em out. Why That's not what you should have in your home. It's not something that's God honoring. You need to get to get rid of that stuff. Oh, but it's a lot of money. It's wasted money and it's gone. And God can more than multiply that when you honor Him with your life. Take those things and get it out of your life. Don't worry about the financial loss. It is a financial loss, but that's you you you spent the money on it. It's gone. And let those things go, and God will replace it. Listen, when you give up things for God, God is a debtor to no man. And God will replace, God will bless in ways that you can't imagine, way above and beyond that you would even ask or think. And so he does follow God here and do what's right, but he was concerned about the financial loss. Uzziah takes the throne. He reigned 52 years. Now he started out good and ended bad. Have this progression here. Now he was known, he was blessed, and so he was known all the way to Egypt for his success. The way God was blessing the nation and the forward progress that they were making, the prosperity that was there, all the way to Egypt they heard and they knew about his success. He built great cities, they built huge water reservoirs, they established farms and vineyards and cattles. And if you just read the passages at this of scripture at the top here under each of these kings You have Uzziah here and you have 2 Kings 15, 1 through 7. It's not that big of a section of Scripture, or 2 Chronicles 26, 1 through 23. You read that and you'll see the descriptions of all these things that he built. And what he accomplished. We don't have time to read it to get through this today, but he was blessed of God. He had many victories in battle. He conquered the Philistines. He conquered the Arabians. He conquered the Ammonites. He designed great weapons of warfare that helped him to prosper through battle. And the problem is, with all of this prosperity, with all of this blessing, he began to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. And he became puffed up with pride. His success led him to pride. In 2 Chronicles 26, 16, he says, But when he was strong, His heart was lifted up unto his destruction. For he transgressed against the Lord, his God, went into the temple of the Lord, and burned incense upon the altar. So he became puffed up with pride and said, Boy, I accomplished this, and look at me, I'm the king. And he went in to the temple and burned incense, assuming the position of the priest. Which he had no right or authority to do, but he went and just did it. The Bible says he did it to his own destruction. Uh pride cometh before destruction. A haughty spirit before a fall. We've got to be careful about allowing, you see, God is the one that prospered him. God is the one that blessed him. All the prosperity and blessing and benefit that we have in our life And then if we aren't careful, we start to think we did it. We start to think it's us. And we'll get puffed up in pride and think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. And six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him, a proud look. A proud look. Because God is the one that did it. We need to be giving the honor and glory to God. God was not pleased with this king because he became proudful, which is why he ends his kingdom uh in failure instead of victory, uh he is confronted by the prophet and he refuses to repent. So God strikes him with leprosy, ultimately he does he dies from the leprosy uh that he's struck with. Then we have Jotham be kings king. He reigned 18 years. He was a good king. In 2 Chronicles 27, verse number 6, we see that description of him. So Jotham became mighty because he prepared his way before the Lord his God. He became mighty because he did what's right. You know. People want to be victorious, people want to be successful, people want to be happy. Psalms 1, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord and in his Well, does he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water? If we would just do what God says You could be blessed. You could be happy. You could be victorious in this life You could be successful. And when I say success successful, I'm not necessarily describing or saying from a worldly standpoint of success, you're not going to be living the life of the rich and famous. But you'll be successful in life. And you know what? There's a whole lot more things, uh things far more important than having a big house or owning a yacht. You you you can have it all and be miserable. Completely miserable I can tell you this. I would take the family I have, the relationship I have with my kids The blessing that that is and live in a cabin out in the middle of the woods. Take over from Joe and Kim. And be happy over having all the money, having two or three Mercedes sitting out front, living in a five hundred thousand dollar house. And my wife not want to talk to me. My kids not want to have anything to do with me. That stress in the relationships, that that that I mean I would take What God has given me above all this world has to offer. And if we would just follow God, we see here this that he says So Jotham became mighty because he prepared his way before the Lord his God. And if we would do that, just follow God, we could know his blessing. In every area of our lives. We've got to be careful not to get puffed up in pride as God bless. Think that we did it. Think that we've accomplished something And that is a constant challenge because we are sinful men. And uh our own ambitions take over. But we're gonna bring it to a close there today and pick up next week here with Hezekiah. Try and wrap up uh next week this uh the Kings of Judah, uh the split kingdom. So we began last week and be looked at this is the southern kingdom of Judah and the kings and their prophets and what was going on during that time that we are looking at right now. And we got about halfway through uh last week. So we kind of ended just touching briefly on Ahaz. Uh he reigned 16 years. He was a wicked king. Very wicked. He he the Bible tells us that he sacrificed his own children to Baal, uh just a a wicked king, taking his own k kids, his own children and sacrificing them The Lord judges him and sends in Syria and Israel against Judah to bring them under judgment, and so hopefully they would return to him. Um s so then we come into King Hezekiah, kind of where we left off uh last week. And You should be on page middle of page number 120 there in your notes. So King Hezekiah. Now King Hezekiah reigned 29 years. There's no notes for you to fill in, but Hezekiah is notably a very good king. Uh great study for you if you want to just read about his life and and see what he did for God, the steps that he took. Uh he tore down the high places, those places of worship of false gods. He tore those down. He removed them. You know, a lot of times kings will take a step and say, hey, we're going to worship God, but they didn't remove the high places. And that's the thing, Christian. We need to in our lives, if we're going to uh be faithful to God, there's some things that need to be removed. We need to take them out of our life. They should not be left as present or as part of our lives if we want to be completely sold out to God. And so Hezekiah removed the high places. He re-established worship of Yahweh, that is the true God. Jehovah and uh the people under his leadership experienced real revival, a real turning back to God. They observed the Passover, the Passover feast, which is supposed to last seven days, but they this uh lasted an extra seven days. You talk about revival. The people were excited and thrilled about what God was doing, this turning back to him. And the Passover feast lasted an extra seven days under Hezekiah's leadership. Because he was following God, God blessed him very richly. Look in 2 Chronicles chapter number 32. In 2 Chronicles chapter 32. We see that uh he honored God. Uh let's let's say in verse number 30. The same Hezekiah also stopped uh the upper watercourse of Gion and brought it straight down to the west side of the city. of David and Hezekiah prospered in all his works. Uh God blessed him very richly. He was the richest king besides Solomon Uh in uh verse in chapter thirty one, verse number ten, tells us that the pr the prophet, the high priest was saying, hey, we've got more in the storehouse than we know what to do with. Everything that we need to to worship God, to serve the Lord, it's all present. And not only that, we've got extra. It's in the storehouses uh of the king. And so God prospered him. And Christian, can I tell you uh we do not preach or believe in the prosperity gospel that we serve God to get gain, but I want you to know that God is a debtor to no man And if you will love him and follow him and honor him in your life, you will be blessed by God. That does not necessarily mean you're going to be driving a Cadillac. Or Mercedes, but it means you'll be blessed by God. You'll experience the true riches of God's blessing on your life. The prophets that were serving during uh this time were Isaiah and Micah. It's notable that Hezekiah, uh God put a test into his life and wanted to try him to see what was in his heart. We talked about this last Sunday evening. The test to see what was in Hezekiah's heart was not that God could see what was in Hezekiah's heart, because God knows what's in all of our hearts But it was that Hezekiah could see what it was in his heart. And uh Hezekiah didn't do too well. God was going to judge him. Hezekiah was going to uh he got a sickness that was going to kill him And Hezekiah turned to God, prayed, and begged God for fifteen more years. Listen, this is uh goes along with uh you know, the in the book of James where they anointed those that were sick and prayed over those. Listen, God is the master physician. God can heal. I believe that God can heal. I believe that we commit our loved ones, those that we're concerned about, to God in prayer, and God can do the miraculous. Above and beyond anything that, you know, even in our advanced state of human medicine, uh, who is it that gave us this state? Who is it that gave us the ability to be able to do what we can do with the human body today? It's uh very impressive. It's mind-boggling what they can accomplish. Uh but hey, God is a great physician, and God can give you many more years of life, even though currently maybe what the doctors pronounce is a death sentence, uh on on you, uh physically, God can heal you. And so we need to rely and trust on trust God through these times. So we see Hezekiah this great king Then we kind of go in a in a great contrast here because we go to Manasseh right away. Uh Manasseh, this is the only king in all of the kings That started out bad and then turned good. All of the other kings that are either good kings or bad kings Or maybe they started out good but turned bad. They fell away from God. They got puffed up in pride and and God had to judge them and the kingdom had a falling away from God. But here you have the opposite takes place where this king really was a very wicked king to start with. He was a very bad king. But then God had him imprisoned. God took him. He was put into prison. And in prison, he turned to God. Sometimes God has to bring things into our lives of great tragedy or heartache to get us to look up. to get us to turn back to him. Otherwise we would continue headlong down that path or course of sin without any acknowledgement of God and who he is. And that's what God did here. for Manasseh, he uh called him back to him. Now he had the longest reign of fifty-five years. He reigned for fifty-five years. Um He uh of course started out bad but ended good uh after assuming the throne, he rebuilt all the pagan altars that his father had torn down. In chapter 33 and verses 3 through 6 we see that. He uh says, for he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down. So he he built back up the high places, all the places, all the steps that his father had taken. Uh let me just encourage you parents to Raise your kids up, train them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. It is so vital, so important that we teach them the way of truth and that we show them and instruct them here immediately This king's son undid all that his father had done in the righteous way that his father had gone. And he he went directly opposite. He encouraged people in the worship of the sun and the moon and the stars. He as well sacrificed his children to Baal. God calls him a very wicked king. in 2 Kings 21, 11. And let me just read it so you don't have to turn there. Because Manasseh, king of Judah, hath done these abominations and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were before him, and he hath made Judah also to sin with his idols. a wicked king, causing the city of Judah uh to sin or the the nation of Judah to sin, and God acknowledges and and names his wickednesses. So then we have uh Amon, King Ammon, he reigned two years. He was a wicked king and he was killed by his own servants. Very brief history of his, just a few verses. Then you get to Josiah. Josiah reigned 31 years. Notably he was the most righteous Of all the kings of Judah. Of all the kings of Judah, the Bible tells us very clearly that he was the most righteous. If you would like to see that, it is in 2 Kings 23, 25. I'll read it for you here, but if it's not in your notes, you may want to note it next to that, 2 Corinthians 23, 25. And like unto him Was there no king before him that turned to the Lord with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his might? Does that sound familiar to something that God tells us that we are supposed to do? Love the Lord thy God. Yeah. Very similar. That that is the first and the great commandment, uh, and the second is like unto it. And if we would do that, boy, um We would observe and follow all the other commandments. All the other commandments would fall underneath that. But here he did it with all his might, according to all that the law of Moses, neither after him arose there any like him So God says there was nobody that was as committed and as purposeful in their pursuing of God before him. And after him there was neither any like him. So very clearly God is saying that here we have a king that was committed in such a consistent and faithful way. that he was the most righteous of all. Several things that he did, we see that he sought after God as a young man, very young, turning and uh seeking God. Here's a good illustration that your heritage does not have to establish your your future. Your past does not dictate your tomorrow. Where you came from does not determine what you're going to be We see that in Hezekiah whose son went in a wicked direction and then here um Josiah who determined to do right even though his father did wrong. And so he destroyed the pagan altars everywhere they went, not just uh in their own country. As you read the stories, they're going into other countries and like, oh you guys don't need these pagan altars and and taking them out of other places as well. And anywhere they went in campaigns or in growth or expansion, anywhere they were at They removed the high places. They took a stand against this uh the pagan altars that were there. Uh they killed pagan priests. He tore down the houses of prostitution. He rebuilt the temple. He removed all the pagan idols that were in the temple. In this rebuilding of the temple and removing the pagan idols This opened the door or led to the high priest Hilkani to find the book of Moses In 2 Kings 22, 8, they find the book of Moses and they begin to lead the people in a great revival, a great returning to God. And let me just say they you you see the same thing in the book of Ezra. When they find the Word of God, there's a returning to God. And any revival is going to have the Word of God as a central part of it. If the Word of God, you'll see different things in in today, people talking about revival breaking out at this stadium, you know, revival broke out at this Uh but the Word of God is not mentioned, the Word of God is not read, the Word of God is not part of of what they're talking about, then you know it's not a a God sent, heaven sent revival The Word of God is going to be central to any revival, any work of God that He does, because that's how God communicates with His people is through His Word. So he calls the people back and he calls the Levites back to fulfill their role in the temple. He got rid of the uh pagan priest, and then he said, Hey, the Levites are the Levites are supposed to be doing this So he put them back in their place. He put the Ark of the Covenant back in its rightful place of honor where it was supposed to be. Now it's notable, beloved, that this is the last mention of the Ark of the Covenant in the Old Testament. So this passage of Scripture is the last place that it is mentioned. There in 2 Chronicles 35, verse number 3. They put the Ark of the Covenant back in its rightful place of honor. He institute reinstituted the Passover festival. Now we just covered a lot of years really quick It's already been 60 years since Hezekiah reinstituted the Passover. Now we just talked about that just a minute ago. Like, oh man, look at Hezekiah, he reinstituted the Passover. They had revival and uh you know it went set an extra seven days. And so now here we are seven minutes later talking about this king that did it. But understand it's been 60 years in history. And in 60 years, they have not, as a people, have not observed the Passover for 60 years. And he reinstitutes the Passover as he calls people back to God here. So we see that he was ultimately slain in battle against Egypt, was buried in Jerusalem. And he was buried, the people grieved for him. Uh it is notable that Jeremiah attended his funeral. Jeremiah was there and attended his funeral. You can see that in a book Book of Jeremiah, but uh he was loved by all, he was appreciated, he was missed uh because of what God did during his reign. Which is contrasted against many of the other kings who were buried and forgotten and nobody cared. They didn't even acknowledge that they were a king or that they were they were no longer there. He is the last good king. The judgment of God has already been pronounced on Judah. It is notable that God delayed his judgment for a period of time because Of Josiah turning back to him. Because of Josiah and the work that God did during that time, God delayed his judgment. So I just would encourage you, I know that our nation is a nation that we look at and uh it overall is very wicked. It's on a downward path and we look at it and say, man, how can God uh hold his hand of judgment? How can God uh allow us to continue this way. And uh listen, if God's people would turn back to him and worship him and pursue him, God will stay his hand of judgment for the work that he can do among the people, for the more more people that can be reached with Jesus Christ. presented the gospel, if there is a remnant that will continue to hold fast to the things of God, the doctrines of God, God will stay his hand of judgment for a period of time. We saw that as well with Lot in Sodom, Abraham talking to God about it. You know, Lord, would you spare the city if there was fifty righteous? And God said, okay, I'll spare the city if there's fifty righteous. Sadly, that you know they found to ten and they couldn't find ten righteous people in that wicked city. And uh so what we need to do is uh uh lead people to Jesus Christ and uh grow the number of righteous people in America, amen. Then then God will stay his hand of of judgment on this nation for a period of time. But God had already judged uh s had pronounced his judgment. They were on a downward ch trajectory. If you see here uh on your chart of kings there that Uh Josiah was the last good king. After that, there's a number of kings which are going to run through relatively quickly here, but uh these kings at the end, there was no more good kings. The the judgment of God is on its way. And uh the they're getting ready to be going into captivity. And so we see that begin to take place here. We see Jehoaz becomes king. He only reigned three months. He was an evil king. He was killed by Pharaoh, the same Pharaoh that killed his father in battle. um he came in. The prophets that were serving there. Now Pharaoh killed Jehoaz and then he renames his younger brother. and appoints him to be king. So Jehoakim is a name given to this king by Pharaoh. Things have digressed so much that the Egyptian king is the one who's appointing the next king over Judah. The Egyptian Pharaoh. He's the one that's in control. He's the one that's determining. He says, well, uh I'm gonna set up Jehoiakim as king. Now Jehoiakim reigned eleven years. He again was a wicked king. He was a ruthless ruler. The Bible tells us about how he persecuted the prophet Jeremiah along with others. He burned the scriptures. It's amazing how so many people they say that this is just a book. That it's just words on a page, that there is no power and there is no meaning. If that's the case, then why is it from this time in the Word of God until today that this book is under so much attack? Why is it that uh it was removed from the schools? Why is it that people don't want this book around? If it's just a book like any other book, And we can promote and have every kind of wicked, filthy book in the schools today, but not the Word of God. Now I just read this week, I think it was Is it Alabama, Louisiana? Does anybody know there's a s there's a there is one of the states that's putting the Bible back in the schools? Does anybody know? Alabama, I think. Uh they're working to put the Bible back into schools and uh that would be a an amazing step in the right direction uh to get the Word of God back because this is Quick and powerful book. It is the living word of God. It speaks to the heart of men. It gives us the unchanging law of God and the foundation for our lives. And so we see even from this time that, hey, we want to burn the Word of God. Those that are going to take a stand against God, they want to get rid of this book because it is a powerful book. So uh He burns the scripture. He was the brother of Jehoaz, the son of Josiah. Now he reigned uh during his reign, sorry, Nebuchadnezzar. took a small band captive back to Babylon, just a small group. Now this would include Daniel and many other many of the other Hebrew children that we know. So this is when Daniel is taken into captivity. And uh I think it was Ryanna asked last week about Daniel because on the chart here, Daniel uh And Nehemiah and Obadiah, they're right underneath where it says it says they were to the nation of Israel and they were taken into captivity here. but then their names appear there. So it is just after that time that they're taken into captivity and a lot of what we know about them happens to them during captivity. And uh that is a lot of their story, what we see about them. So it's notable that he was taken into captivity during Jehoiakim's reign. Uh when he died, he was buried as a criminal in the trash heap of Jerusalem. No one mourned his death. You see, this is in contrast to those kings that honored God. Humble yourself and God will lift you up This king was, you know, put into this place and he wanted to, as far as the world goes, hold the greatest position in his society, and yet when it came the end of his life, he was put into the trash heap and forgotten. Nobody recognized him, nobody missed him. In contrast that to the king Josiah who honored and pleased God, and God lifted him up to the point where a whole nation mourned his loss when he was gone. So we see that um then let's see The prophets that were serving during that time, a number of them, we go to Jehoachen. Uh he reigned three months. He was Jehoiakim's son. Uh he was an evil king. He was taking captive with Ezekiel and ten thousand other Jews by Nebuchadnezzar. So he was taken captive along with Ezekiel and ten thousand So a much larger group was taken now into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar. This process, uh Nebuchadnezzar is now leading or in control of the nation of Judah, basically dictating what's going to happen. He was imprisoned by Nebuchadnezzar for 36 years. Until, here's a notable name for those that know some Old Testament history, until Mordecai. Released him. And he ended up serving Mordecai. Just some interesting history for those that know some of those names and the people there. Then we have Zedekiah. He reigned eleven years. He was the youngest of Josiah's children. Josiah, the greatest king in Judah's history, the most godly, by God's statement alone, God said it Not any before him, nobody like like him after him. And yet his own son was a very wicked king. He reigned 11 years. He was an evil king. He persecuted Jeremiah relentlessly. Jeremiah chapters 27 through 29, you see just ongoing persecution against the man of God He refused to follow the counsel of Jeremiah and rebelled against Nebuchadnezzar. Jeremiah told him to submit, to not rebel against Nebuchadnezzar. And uh he said, Hey, I'm king, I can do what I want. He rebelled. His rebellion lasted two and a half years. Uh they stood against Nebuchadnezzar for two and a half years, but ultimately in 586 BC, Jerusalem is destroyed. The city is burned, the walls are torn down. And uh we know as we get into Ezra and Nehemiah, those returning, those coming back, and we're going to be talking about that and we get to the post-exile era, but that what do they do? They rebuild the temple, they rebuild the walls. They start to put Jerusalem back together again, and this is many years down in the future, which we'll get to uh but the Jews were taken captive ultimately, the balance of the Jews were taken captive back to Babylon along with uh Zedekiah taken captive as well. Now it's notable that Jeremiah had told him not to rebel. He said, don't rebel. And he said to him, he says, if you rebel, you will look into the eyes of Nebuchadnezzar and regret it. But Ezekiel, the prophet, told him that he would never see Babylon And yet, the Bible tells us he was taken captive and taken to Babylon. However, both of these things came true. Because Nebuchadnezzar ransacked Jerusalem, destroyed the walls, destroyed the temple, and he took this king and made him watch as he killed his family. And then he took his eyes out. The last thing that this king ever saw was his family being murdered before his eyes And he said, that's the last thing you're ever going to see. Then Nebuchadnezzar, standing before him, looking into his eyes, took his eyes out. I think that Jeremiah's prophecy came true. But so did Hezekiah's because then he was taken to Babylon, but he couldn't see Babylon because his eyes were gone So in this, even in these small details, we see how God prophesied or said this is what was going to happen, what will come to pass, and it did, even in the smallest detail it came to pass. It is noteworthy, beloved, that from the destruction of Jerusalem in 586 B. C. until May 1948, The nation of Israel was scattered across the world. They did not have a nation. But in May of 1948, The Israeli Declaration of Independence was formally established and the State of Israel was re-established. I asked Gus to put this up on the screen. There is a newspaper. uh article that they're showing Bob and Carol of this t taking place. Uh it says the state of Israel is born. Now that's really a misnomer wasn't born the state of Israel as a nation or as a people, have all had always been, but they had been scattered all over the world. And so in this May of 1948, they came back and the nation of Israel was re-established there in their home. By David Bagurian. So that's very notable from that time, 586 BC, until 1948, there was no nation of Israel in Jerusalem in in Israel uh until that time. Alright, that brings us to a conclusion here. I know we're done a few minutes early, but I wanted to at least finish up uh these kings. Uh is there any questions? about what we just covered. I know it's a lot of names, a lot of history, and especially because the names aren't John and Adam and and and David and you know the names are very very hard trying to keep them all straight but you at least have it on paper in front of you along with all the references of where they can be found. So if you're looking up something or interested in it you can go to to it, look at it historically, know where they fit in with the other kings. No questions? Alrighty, well we'll close in prayer. Be dismissed just a few minutes early today. Lord, we thank you for today. We pray that you would bless the morning service. Ask you, Lord, that you would uh guide us in the morning service. You know the gravity of the topic that's being covered this morning, and pray, Lord, that you would Give liberty, give leadership, Lord. I pray that uh what needs to be said would be said, what needs to be left off would be left off, and but Lord, what we have or what we find in this morning's service would be strength and hope uh for those that are struggling some understanding, uh Lord, and we'll thank you for it. We ask you, Lord, just to do these things and we'll praise you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you so much. You're just missed.