Now we have been studying an Old Testament survey. We've walked down through the history of the Old Testament, starting obviously the book of Genesis currently We have just completed the United Kingdom, uh time period where the entire nation of Israel was all together under one uh what would be a kingdom ruled and ultimately directed by God, where God was leading and directing the king and then the king was supposed to follow and do what God wanted in leading his people. We had three kings under the United Kingdom, uh started with Saul. David took over and then Solomon. At the conclusion of Solomon's reign, because he allowed his heart to be turned away from God and uh divided the nation and excessively taxed them. Ultimately it was God's decision to remove the kingdom from him and to uh divide it. And so his son Rayoboam Uh was very foolish when he took the kingdom. Rehaboam uh heavily taxed the people. He said, Boy, you thought Solomon's reign was rough, you thought things were hard under Solomon, just wait till you see what I'm gonna do Rhaboam excessively taxed them, even made it even worse. Well obviously ten tribes said we're not having that, we're leaving. So they join up with Jeroboam, so now the kingdom is divided. under the rule right here where the kingdom divides on your timeline under the rule of uh ten tribes known as the northern kingdom known as Israel under the rule of Jeroboam Jeroboam is the king, and then Rehaboam is the king that followed the Davidic line that is ruling over Judah. And uh so it the nation of Israel plays a a minor role. We we know a little bit about them. This is not drawn actually necessarily to scale because Israel as a nation does last two hundred and ten years. Now, Judah as a nation lasts a hundred years longer than that, so this technically on your map should be a little bit further. Now during this time period that we're talking about right now, a lot of our Old Testament gets given to us I don't know that I'll be able to tie it all together and give you all of what's happening in each of these places because not only do we cover 1 and 2 Samuel, 1 and 2 Kings, 1 and 2 Chronicles, during this time period. But we also have all of your minor prophets, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Hegiach, Zachariah, Malachi. That also takes place during that time And during the United Kingdom, which we've concluded, you also have the books of wisdom or poetry, which we've already covered So that I hope brings us up to speed kind of where we are right now. Uh I didn't know for sure what I was going to try and tackle with regards to this at all. I'm trying to figure out how to look at it. Should we look at each of the profits during this time? Should we just Look at the kings. Obviously you have the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom all at the same time. Things happening over here that are happening over here. And sometimes you'll read in uh in Kings and you'll read about, you know, chapter thirteen you read something happened and then chapter fourteen it jumps over to Judah. And and so sometimes if you're not paying attention what you're reading about, you won't realize Oh, now we're no longer in Israel. We're talking about Judah, and we're over in Judah, which is the southern, I should say, we're down in Judah. So you're reading about the southern uh area of what's happening. And so it goes back and forth quite a bit. So I was trying to figure out how best to address this, and what I decided to do was I'm going to give you the kings. I divided it up into the north and south. I'm going to try and give you the kings that were ruling in the north, tell you a little bit about them, give you some very key pertinent information. And uh we are going to try and run and hopefully it's not too laborious uh as we get into it. So as I mentioned, we currently have Jeroboam as king. Uh he reigned there in The northern region known as the nation of Israel. He reigned 22 years. Now, Jeroboam was respected. Look in 1 Kings chapter 11. And uh verse number twenty-eight. He was respected, 1 Kings 11, 28, by Solomon. Jeroboam was a good man. He was recognized by Solomon. Solomon said, And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. And Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph. So uh Jeroboam was a leader of men and his skill was recognized by Solomon. Solomon awarded him and put him up into this place. But the problem is, look in chapter 11 and verse number 31. Uh God's plan, God told told Solomon because he his heart was turned away that God was going to divide the kingdom, right? And so he tells this to Jeroboam, look in chapter eleven, verse number thirty one. He said to Jeroboam, Take the ten pieces For thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, Behold, I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes unto thee. So God right here tells them, Hey I'm gonna take the kingdom out of Solomon's hand. I'm gonna give ten tribes to you. This is gonna happen. Solomon hears about this and he's not real excited. So this man that he lifted up, that he had given authority and power to, we see that in verse number forty, jump down to verse number forty, that Solomon tries to kill him. So he says in verse number 40 Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. Hey, he was going to try and kill him. But see, Jeroboam escapes to Egypt for a little while, goes on the run. And uh God preserves his life and brings him back at such a time as uh the kingdom is divided. Now we know following the folly of Rehabom uh Jeroboam comes into and we're gonna keep going back and forth with these names and I hope it doesn't get to be too much, especially as I'm trying to fly and uh and but keep moving I I hope. But Uh so Rehoboam messes up. You remember what did Rahab Rehoboam do? Ultimately God is the one that did this, but what folly did God use to take the the kingdom from Rehoboam? We talked about it already. What was it? Come on, Mrs. Rogerson's giving me the answer. You guys were here we talked about it last week and we just talked about it this morning. King Rehoboam took the kingdom, remember, and he said, Boy, you thought the rain under Solomon was rough? Wait till you get wait till you see what I'm gonna do. Remember? So this is the folly that he did. He listened to the advice of his buddies. Instead of heeding the advice of the older uh men of God, there's wisdom in the gray hair or the no hair, amen. And uh Brother Rogerson said, Amen. So there's there's wisdom in that. So he should have listened to them, but he didn't. So God rins the kingdom from him and gives it to Jeroboam. Now, Jeroboam was the first of several or completely wicked kings. He cursed Israel and he caused them to sin so that they never recovered. Now we're not going to read those passages of scripture, but the sin of Jeroboam is followed all the way down through the nation of Israel. It never stops. Now had he heeded to God, God told him in chapter number eleven Jeroboam, if you'll do, if you'll follow me, if you'll obey me, then the kingdom will be yours, and I will cause your reign to continue. But Jeroboam said, No, I don't want to do that. Remember what was the sin of Jeroboam that he caused all the people to follow after him? Do you remember? It is in your notes here, but what what did he do? Do you guys we talked about last week? The two altars. He built two altars. He said, boy, I don't I'm afraid that the people aren't going to follow me. I'm afraid as soon as I become king Surely they're gonna go back to Jerusalem and they're gonna start following Rehaboam. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna set up kings. Now uh Gus, can you give me the map of the northern and southern kingdoms Um so he says, I'm going to set up uh my own way of worship here. Now this is Judah. This is the southern kingdom down here. And then you have up here all of Israel, much greater area, but Jeroboam is ruling over this area, and he says, boy, I don't want them to go down to Jerusalem. You see Jerusalem's right here. I don't want them to go down to Jerusalem to worship. We're going to make it convenient for them. We're going to allow them to worship up here. So he builds all the way up in Dan. He says, boy, everybody that's up there can go up to Dan. And he builds right here in Bethel, not too far from Jerusalem. We can go to So he sets up these two golden calves in Dan and in Bethel and calls the people to worship them. And of course, following the example of uh Aaron, um he he says, Boy, look at these calves that brought thee up out of Egypt. And uh of course they know that that calf in itself is not what it did, but they were using this as a representation. And worshiping these calves and finding a way to worship, maybe they looked at it and said, Boy, we know it wasn't this, it was God that did it, but this is representing God for us. But God tells us in his commandments uh to not have any gra graven images, uh not to uh bow down or worship any other gods and and so they were sinning against God by doing this, but he said, Boy, if I do this I can win them over to myself So we see several things. First of all, he changed the location of worship. He put the location in Dan in Bethel. That's not where they were supposed to be. God told them to go to Jerusalem. That's where he had built the tabernacle and then the temple He changed the leaders of worship. We're not going to read this, but in chapter 12, verse number 31, he made his own priest and his own uh, he took the the worship from the Levites and set up his own priestly people and said, Hey, and the Bible says he uses the word from the lowest of the people. He said, Boy, you guys uh you know what, you guys want to be uh I don't have time to talk about this. You're just get really carnal for a minute. This will help you get back on to on with me. Uh many, many years ago we watched this North Avenue Irregulars. Dumb Walt Disney show. But this pastor takes this new pastorate of a church and uh he says, Boy, I want to get the people involved and helping with everything. And so he takes the church finances and the first guy that comes through the door he says, Boy, you want to help with the church finances? Here you go. Here's the books. And then his first Sunday in in in the pulpit, in comes his wife, the wife of the guy that he gave the church books to. And uh she says he lost all the church money. What? He lost it all? Yep, he bet it all on horse number nine at the races or whatever And uh so here's the thing. Uh Jeroboam should not have taken the worship from uh the priest, the Levites, whom God had appointed. He changed the location. He also changed the leaders. And then we see that he also uh changed the time of worship. And uh in chapter twelve, verse number thirty two tells us he changed it. Uh from the seventh month to the eighth month. Again, just deciding to do what he wanted to do. Uh now with most of the kings, if not all of these kings, and I didn't go through although I have read most of first and second kings several times in this study, but uh specifically to know this, but it says over and over and over again when it lists the king and says he was an evil king, it says that he he that this king caused the people to do or continue in the sin of Jeroboam. Over and over, Jeroboam has been dead for a long time, and God is still saying, Hey, He caused the people to continue in the sin of Jeroboam Over and over again he says that Jeroboam set the nation uh on a downward path that they never recover from. Now in each of these uh twenty-one times the Bible says that he made Israel to sin. He made Israel to sin. And then in each of these, I'm going to give you the prophets that were ruling during that time. We have Ahijah and Idu. These two prophets were the prophets during this time. They pronounced God's judgment on him for the great wickedness that he did And uh the judgment that was pronounced on him that he was going to be killed uh would be fulfilled by Baasha. And Bayasha is a king that's coming in a couple in a couple of kings. Alright, so You have here in your, you should have in your book. Pastor Gus, you want to throw this on the screen for me? This is the breakdown of all of the kings and gives to you so that you can see it. Now what I'm going to try and reference for you is obviously we have the the United Kingdom right here. You have the king's ruling. The prophets are in the center. Then we see here the prophets that are ruling in the or serving God in the northern and the prophets serving God in the southern. And then you have Israel and the kings that are listed here when they reigned. And so I'm going to try and give you those as we're going down, including what prophets are ruling during that time, okay? So This is a futile endeavor. I am not going to get through this. We see secondly Nadab, King Nadab. Um the reason I want to go quickly is because this is not Really critical to the overall. We want to get to Judah. Judah is where we see the line of Christ. This is what God puts the emphasis and a focus on. Um but we need to at least look at the kings here. So we see Nadab, he reigned two years. He was the son of Jeroboam. Occasionally we'll see the son of the king that takes the throne here. the prophets again, Ahijah and Idu, uh and he was assassinated by Bayasha in fifteen twenty-nine. uh not the year, the date, or the uh reference in the Word of God, okay? He was assassinated by Baasha in chapter 15 and verse number 29. Then Baasha becomes king Now I've given you there in the notes all the places where that king is referenced and talked about, so you can go back and look at these. Bayasha reigned 24 years. Baasha went to war with Asa, king of Judah. You can read about that in 2 Chronicles chapter 16 and verse number 1. He went to war with Asa. He tried to stop all the trade and traffic in and out of Judah. 2 Chronicles 16, 1. Let me read that for you. He says, um In the sixth and thirteenth year of the reign of Asa, Baasha, king of Israel, came up against Judah and built Ramah. to the intent that he might let none go out or come in to Asa, King of Judah. So he was trying to stop all the trade and and hurt Asa, King of Judah. So Bayasha was trying to do it. His prophet was Jehu. The prophet Jehu. Uh now there was no prophet in the land for a long time, uh, but God raised up this prophet. There was a large portion of his reign where there wasn't anybody. Um but God raised up Jehu. Jehu prophesied that Ba'asha would see the same punishment as Jeroboam. Look in chapter sixteen. First Kings chapter number sixteen. We're gonna we're gonna read this here because this pertinent. He says, Then the word of the Lord came to Jehu, the son of Hananiah, against Baashah, saying For as much as I exalt thee out of the dust and made thee prince over my people Israel, and thou hast walked in the way of Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sin So he says, Hey Jeroboam, because you've done all this, behold, I will take the prosperity of Baasha and the prosperity of his house, and will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat Him that dieth of Ba'asha in the city shall the dogs eat, and him that dieth of his in the fields shall the fowls of the air eat. So he he he prophesies and says, Hey, because of this sin, you're going to be like Jeroboam, your family is going to be killed. He prophesies this uh against him. Now listen, Christians, we need to remember where we came from. We need to remember who we are and that ultimately we aren't anything without Jesus Christ, without God, that God has put us in that place. We don't get to uh we just do and do live however we want. God has raised him up and he forgot God, who God was. We need to remember that we're here for God and for his glory. Then we see King Elah takes the throne. Elah reigns two years. Elah was the son of Ba'asha. The son of Baasha. Now how's how's it going Bob? You say you guys think this is hard with you, you've got the notes to look at in front of you, so they got to try and follow this all in their mind. Keep all these connections uh connected. Now Carol's taking notes. So I'll check my I'll check my lesson with her after we're done. See see how we're see how we did. Okay, well uh we have uh uh Elah is king, he reigned two years, the son of Fayasha prophet was Jehu during that time, he was assassinated by Zimri. uh his own commander. So you'll see that over and over again, uh this northern kingdom is ruled uh by almost anarchy. That there was constant assassinations, constant uh takeovers, one family to another. This is what this for 210 years, this is what this area or this nation is known by. We see here that uh Zimai took over, but he reigned for seven days. He was on the throne for a while. He took over and he was there for seven days, although he did fulfill Jehu's prophecy concerning Bayasha. in that the house uh his house and his family would suffer the same fate of Jeroboam. Um so he fulfilled that prophecy that God said would happen. Uh and He was attacked by Omri, uh the following king, and uh he was attacked but he didn't die. But Zimri decides, well mm there's there's no hope for me and he ends up committing suicide. So he ends up killing himself. So Amri takes the throne uh and he reigns twelve years. Now, some notable thing here is that he married off his son Ahab. Now there's a there's a name you all are familiar with or recognize. He married off his son Ahab to Jezebel. He did this to form an alliance with the Sidonians. So all that follows the mess that Ahab brings And the sin that follows because of that was because his father was trying to set up an alliance with somebody they shouldn't have had an alliance with. Our decisions that we make as parents are far reaching in the lives of our kids. Their impact them for the rest of their life and the people that they are associated with. His life and example laid the way for his son. who would be known as the most wicked king in all of Israel. Look in chapter 16 there in verse number 25. Chapter 16 and verse number 25. For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, and his sins wherewith he made Israel to sin, to provoke the Lord of Israel to anger with urbanities. This was his way. That's what he did. He laid the foundation, and his son, Ahab, who's going to take the throne, follows in his steads. In his stead. Parents, we're going to be held responsible For the direction that we send our kids. For what we've trained them, how we've taught them. The Bible says kids are like an arrow in the hand of a mighty man. And as parents, our job is to direct them in the way that they should go, which is not the way we think they should go, it's the way that God would have them go, to point them that direction and to send them with within the best of our ability towards God. And this father did not do that, and he's going to be held responsible. For all that his son ultimately did, because of how he led and trained him and raised him up. And we need to be careful as parents. how we direct our our children. Ahab becomes king. We see that he reigned for 22 years. And we read here where he provoked God. He provokes him like his father did. In uh chapter 16, verse number 33, we see that he builds a temple to Baal in the capital of Samaria. God is not pleased with that. So another uh step away from the true God. They're going to worship a false God here. Now, his 450 prophets of Baal are soundly defeated by God when Elijah faces them on Mount Carmel. There's some stories that you're might be familiar with here, but of course Ahab has these 450 prophets of Baal and Elijah. A lot of Elijah's life and the stories that we read about Elijah take place during this time. We could have spent We could spend six weeks teaching on just Elijah's life or longer. I mean, just taking each of the miracles that God did and such. But uh we know that he soundly defeated the 450 prophets of Baal. Through uh God's help there on Mount Carmel. Jezebel has Naboth killed uh in order to take his vineyard in first Kings chapter twenty-one. Verses one through sixteen, that that story of Naboth's vineyard vineyard and Ahab wanted it and was crying because he couldn't have it and his wife said, Oh, I'll get it for you and she goes and has uh Naboth killed so that they can just take it. Now he deceives Jehoshaphat into an alliance to go to war against the Syrians. We see from this point on this continual conflict with the Syrians. It comes and goes in different levels. Things happen over and over again with the Syrians ultimately where they are taken into captivity and they cease to exist as a nation. The prophet uh Mekaiah is hated by Ahab because he tells the truth. Uh look in 1 Kings chapter 22. We'll get into the end of 1 Kings here. First Kings chapter twenty-two. So the king here is about to go to war, and he says, Boy, uh we want to go to war and we want to win. Uh let's get a prophet to tell us if we're going to win. And so they say, Well, yeah, there is a prophet, and he can come and he can tell us what God says. And look at 1 Kings 22 and verse number 8. And the king of Israel said unto Hosaphat, There is yet one man, Mekiah, the son of Imilon, whom we have inquired of the Lord. But I hate him. For he hath done not prophesied good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so. He says, Boy, I don't like that guy. He just prophesies bad things. Okay, he told the truth. It seems to me if you were going to go to battle and you want to know whether you're going to win or if all your in all of your army is going to be killed, you would want somebody that's going to tell you the truth But Ahab said, no, I don't like listening to that guy. He tells us the truth, and uh I want somebody that's going to prophesy good things. Can I tell you that that is the average church today? People don't want to be told the truth. People don't want to be told about the sin that's destroying their life. They don't want to be told about the way that they're raising their kids is hurting them. They don't want to be told about the foolish decisions they're making with their finances that they're they're wasting their money and and they're they're letting it go to wicked things People don't want to be told that stuff. They want to sit there and say, Oh, prophesy good things unto me. And Timothy tells us people are going to come to that place where they will not endure sound doctrine. It's the very same problem they had all the way back here in the Old Testament, where everybody wants to hear how good they are and how good things are going to be. And boy, I'll tell you what, you are your best. You have your best life now and you can prosper. Boy, you just come into this church and give and let us multiply and grow, and you're going to have the most amazing life you can imagine Prophesying a bunch of good things, but it isn't the truth. And I tell you that people in this world don't need that today. What they need is the truth. They need to know what God says. And that's what the job and the responsibility of the church is, and the pastor is to is supposed to preach the whole counsel of God. He's supposed to preach the truth. And occasionally I'll be standing out in the foyer and some of you will come and say, well, you were all over my toes today. I hope it wasn't me. I hope it was the Holy Spirit. I mean my plan is never to be walking down the pews and and and and pointing fingers at you. You know, we we say we preach for you, not against you. It's, you know, just like you telling your kid, uh, don't touch that hot stove. That's to protect them. It's not to hurt them. It's not because you don't want them to have a good time. It's not because you don't want no, you want to protect them. And the job of the pastor is to protect God's flock. from the onslaughts and the attacks of Satan, and if there's anything that he can do to try and uh curtail the direction that you're headed that he knows is going to lead to destruction Then he ought to proclaim it. Try and help you, try and encourage you in the right direction. Oh, here, but Ahab's like, I don't like that guy. He's always telling me the truth. And we have the same problem today. People don't like a pastor that tells them the truth. They want them just to prophesy good things. You need to pray for your pastor So that he will tell you the truth. Because you know what? We we this pastor right here, myself, we're men just like just like you. And we want people to like us. We don't want people to be mad at us. We don't want people to to just, you know, be angry or or or upset at us But one day we're going to stand before God and we're going to give an account for what we say in this pulpit, whether we preach the truth or not. And we must Preach for an audience of one. God. And let the Holy Spirit do the work. But can I tell you that takes guts? It takes the power of the Holy Spirit. Because especially in today's world, people do not like it. So we gotta we need prayers of God's people. And you guys praying and holding holding up the man of God that he would have that courage and that he would preach the truth. For your good and for God's glory. Amen. That was all free. We see Ahab is killed in battle, even though he disguises himself as a normal soldier. You should read this story. It is really funny. He he comes and he uh Ahab tells Jehoshaphat, listen, I want you to wear your royal robes, put your crown on your head. Get on the royal horse and let's go march into battle. Meanwhile, I am going to dress in these peasants' clothes. I'm going to, and Jehoshaphat does it. You talk about stupid. Jehoshaphat says, oh, okay, that sounds good to me. So Jehoshaphat's up on a horse. Jehoshaphat's there in his royal garb, recognized his king. Everybody can see he's king from a long ways away Meanwhile, Ahab is dressed in these lowly garments as a normal foot soldier, uh, but God says that a random arrow Shot by somebody. Somebody just like just see what happens. And that arrow comes and pierces Ahab through, right through A weak part or exposed part of his body where his armor couldn't protect him, and he dies. Now he's injured and ultimately dies a little bit later. But uh That's what God says is going to take place. What God has planned is going to happen. You can count on it. You can try and avoid it. You can try and say, well, I'm going to do what I'm going to dress up and I'm gonna pretend that I'm not the king. It doesn't matter. When God is ready and it is your time, it's gonna happen. We see that the prophecy that God said would take place is fulfilled. Look in chapter 22 and verse number 38. You see, he wasn't quite dead. They loaded him into a uh chariot and they hauled his body back home. He ends up dying and they give the chariot to somebody and say, hey, go clean this out. In 2238, he says, and one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria. And the dogs licked up his blood, and they washed his armor according to the word of the Lord which he spake. You see the prophecy that the prophet said. That, hey, not only you're gonna die, but I want you to know that the dogs of the street are going to eat of you, that prophecy is fulfilled. Exactly how God said it was going to happen. That's how much we can rely on the Word of God. Then we see the prophets that are ruling during his time there listed. A large part of Elijah's life takes place right there Uh then uh Ahaziah becomes king um and he reigns two years. Ahaziah is the son of Ahab You might want to note here that he is his oldest son. Make a little note there. Oh, you know what? In your notes back, if you back up just a little bit where we see the prophecy is fulfilled, if you would like to mark where that prophecy is, you can put Chapter 21, 23 to 24. So the prophecy was given in 21, 23 to 24, and then was fulfilled in 2238. Alright, so we see Ahaziah here, he reigned two years, the oldest son of Ahab. After falling through a lattice. He inquired of Beelzebub for his healing. Am I going to live or am I going to die? Can I be healed? And Elijah comes and tells him, listen, uh, is there not a God in Israel? He says, why would you go to these false god? Is there not a God here that you could call on? Is there not a God that you could rely on? Beloved, I praise God for the doctors and the medical staff that we have and the skills that they have, and I do not doubt their ability. But I want you to know when I go to the hospital that I I first and foremost put myself in in the great physician's hands. That God. Now God can use a doctor, and I don't think you should be foolish and say, well, God's going to heal me. I'm not taking your medicine. You're gonna get to heaven after you die and God's gonna say, I gave you medicine, wouldn't you why don't you take it? You know, it's he it's it's you could be foolish like that. God could provide healing in in any way he sees fit. I believe he could heal you miraculously without any medicine at all. Or God could choose to use the medical medicine or the staff or the wisdom that He has given these doctors over years of study about the human body to be able to help us. But ultimately we need to remember that God is the great physician. He's the one that's in control. He gives life and takes life. And uh so I always, when I go into the hospital or somebody that we we pray first and foremost that God that they would be in God's care and that he would give the doctors the wisdom that they need or the ability they need to maybe bring healing, but we we put them first to God. Elijah says, Man, why would you go to this false prophet? Is there not a God in Israel? And he ends up dying of his injuries. The prophets during his time are listed there. Then we see the king Jehoram. Jehoram comes as soon as Ahaziah passes off the scene, just as Elijah proclaimed. But here we have the transition in these two prophets' lives between Elijah and Elisha. So it's right here at the end of Uh Ahaziah's kingship right at the beginning or just before uh uh Jehoram becomes king. But Elisha trans, you know the story where he sa Elijah says, hey, if you stay with me and you you're here when I'm taking up, then You know, God will bless you. And, you know, he prays for a double portion and he goes with him and over and over and over again. Ultimately, Elijah is taken up into heaven. And uh the mantle falls and Elisha picks up the mantle and God's power is put on Elisha and Elisha's ministry uh starts. And so we see that there. So Levi, you hanging in there? Yeah. This is a this is a lot of information, especially and I don't know. your your level of exposure to this kind of stuff. So especially if this is all new, this is like a whole bunch of y you think I'm talking Greek right now. Like like this like I don't know any of this stuff. None of this And and here's the thing, don't let it discourage you. I was talking to somebody this last week and they're like, man, it's just so much stuff and so hard to keep up with and to follow you in Sunday school. You gotta start somewhere. You don't start in algebra. That's not in what you did, Levi, you jumped into algebra this morning, okay? Um But that's not where you begin. You have to start and just get some little pieces. And as you learn some things about the Word of God. then you start having these connections. They start making play making sense. And this ties to that, and then that ties to this. And oh I see how these all fit together. It really encouraged me two weeks ago. Ms. Joyce, can I use you as an illustration? She she says to me, she says, Pastor, I don't understand it. She said for years and years, uh I was You know, I sat and listened to the word of God or whatever. She said, but it was like it was all black and white. She's like it like it was there, but I'd never really understood it. didn't make sense and it was just like this. She says since we've been his Old Testament class, I'm making all these connections. She said it's like now the word of God's in technocolor I said, hallelujah. That's what we want. We want the word of God to make sense. We want you to be able to put those connections. We want you to, when you're reading it Not to just be a bunch of lists of names and like, oh yeah, there's somebody and this is somebody and that person died and this person. No, what we want is you to be able to realize what's happening in the overall picture, in the timeline of history, of what God is doing in the lives of his people. Why this is happening, why these kings are dying, because they chose all the way back here not to follow God. And especially the Israel side as the as the you have the divided kingdom between Israel and Judah. Israel decides to go the way of Baal and to worship at the at the foot of two false uh gods, these calves that were set up. And as a nation, they continued further and further down. And even though God over and over listen, two of the greatest prophets in the Old Testament, Elijah and Elisha, were sent to Israel. You would think God would say, Okay, Israel, you're done, you're gone, all right, see ya, I don't want nothing to do with you. We're going to follow the line of Judah because Judah is where Christ is going to come, right? But no, God sends two of the greatest prophets in in all of the Old Testament to Israel to try and reach them. To continue to pull them back, to say, hey, would you turn at my reproof? Would you hear my cry? But they continued to not do that, and so they continue to suffer the consequences of it. So we see here that the son of Ahab, uh Jehoram is the son of Ahab, he's his youngest son. You can mark that down. Now his youngest son is taking the throne. He reigned twelve years. He won a great battle against the Moabites with the help of Elisha. Great story there. You can read that. Many of the great miracles of Elisha, three or four of them at least, take place in chapter number four. Jehoram is the king whom Naaman went to. Look in 2 Kings in chapter number 5. Second Kings chapter number five. You guys know the story of Naaman? Second Kings chapter five and verse number four. And one went in and told his Lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maid. So you remember, Naaman had a maid that was taken. Uh Naaman uh we don't know exactly when Naaman's maid was taken into captivity, uh how she ended up being a servant here of this king uh or leader of the Syrian army, but she was a servant in their home. And she remembered the prophet back in her homeland and the power that this prophet had with God. And she says here, and he went and told his Lord, saying, Thus and thus saith the maid, that is one the That is of the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go to her, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and he took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand pieces of gold and ten changes of raiment And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now, when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman, my servant, to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. So you remember you remember the story, and as we read it, you remember how the king of Israel says, Who am I? How what in the world? How am I gonna heal this man of his leprosy? What uh what am how am I gonna do that? I mean Does he think I can just do anything? And he gets to get worried, starting to get worried because the Syrians if they don't like what he does, the Syrians are going to come in and kill him. He's like, Oh, this is great. Now now and then the king is told, wait, what about Elisha? What about the prophet? What can the prophet do? And so the king sends him, so the king that this is speaking of right here in this story is King Jehoram, Ahab's youngest son. He was warned by Elisha of a Syrian plot to kill him, and that leads the king of Syria to think he had a spy in his camp. You can read the story, but you remember he says uh the king of Syria several times he went to kill uh Jehoram, but Elisha warned Jehoram, hey, the Syrians are coming. You see, God told him This is what you need to do. You need to go another way because the Syrians are coming. And the Syrian king's like, okay, I got a spy in my camp. I got one of my he says, which one of you are for Israel? Somebody here is is going and telling these guys where I'm going to be, and ultimately it was God, through the man of God, through the prophet, who was saving his life. He was killed by Jehu. Okay? Now, this is not Jehu the prophet. Okay? If you look at your uh Diagram here, Jehu the prophet, way up here. Okay, he's been dead for a while. Now we have down here the king. How far here we are, Jehu, okay, Jehu this king takes over from Jehoram. But this prophet up here was dead a while. Alright, does that make sense? Just so you're not confusing those they're different people of the same name. Alright? It's 1012. I told you it was a futile endeavor. I was can you believe I was hoping to get this done today? Oh my goodness. The problem is it's too much information. If I just ran through it, you guys wouldn't get it. It wouldn't. So it's better for us to go slow. Right, Bob? Amen. All right, so we're we're gonna we're gonna bring it to close. We'll pick up here right here with Jehu next week. You should be in your books uh I believe at the top of page 113. I think we kind of concluded uh just got to the bottom of 112 there with Jehoram and uh finished up him. So we will begin looking today at uh Jehu. uh the King Jehu, that's where we're gonna pick up this morning. Um we are going through the northern kings, uh seeing what we know of course that all of them did the sin of Jeroboam, uh that is that they continued to worship at the feet of these golden calves that They continued to follow after that, and they led the people in that instead of turning back to God. No matter what they ultimately did, that's the sin of Israel as this the Israel, the northern kingdom, that they continue to do, and that led them just continually on a downward path. They never recovered from that the sin of Jeroboam. So we see Jehu uh in 2 Kings chapter number 9, we is where we're introduced to him. He reigned 28 years. He was anointed, it's notable that he was anointed by one of the sons of the prophets. In uh chapter nine there, let me um uh a couple chapters oh we're off here, let me back up. And Second Kings chapter nine, beginning in verse number one. And Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets and said unto him Gird up your loins and take this box of oil in thy hand and go to Rameth Gilead. And when thou comest thither, look out through Jehu, the son of Jehosaphat, the son of Nishi, and go in and make him arise. up from among his brethren and carry him to an inner chamber. Then they take the box of oil and they anoint him. So he was anointed by one of the sons of the prophets. Many times when you read about Elisha uh you hear about the sons of the prophets. That those were men that were being trained by Elisha and Elijah uh to go out and to continue to do the work. You know, it's important that we are always training our replacement. It's important that we are reaching the next generation. that we are bringing up. They had the sons of the prophets, these men that weren't necessarily their physical sons. They were young men that they were training uh in churches sometimes that might be called preacher boys But you have uh boys that are preparing to lead in junior church, that are preparing to work and help in teens Sunday school and then teach in Sunday school classrooms. and young ladies that are growing up to be able to fulfill the shoes of the ladies that are currently serving, you know, the Bible tells us that the older should be instructing or teaching the younger. And that's a constant pattern that needs to be followed And in every area of our ministry here at the church, we need to always be training our replacement. And uh we've got to be careful because sometimes we uh get ownership of our ministry And we feel like, well, this is my ministry and I don't want anybody else to know where the wet wipes are, you know. Because this is my ministry and these wet wipes are mine or whatever and and we'll get ownership and what happens when you're sick? Then somebody fills in for you, but they don't know where the wet wipes are. You know, they don't know where the goldfish are, or they don't know where the vacuum is, or they don't know where because that nobody has been trained in what you're doing in the sound ministry. You can't just go up to the sound ministry and start turning stuff on You you gotta know what needs turned on and what needs turned off. You can change some switches and it wouldn't be very easy to create a big mess. Especially with the board we have right now is a digital board and it can you can mess things up pretty good. And so we need to be training people to take our place. People that know and understand, here's what happens, this is how you solve the problem, this is what we're doing, always training the next generation to fill our shoes so that when we're sick or when we're on vacation or we're out there's people that can step right in and take that. But sometimes in our in our flesh we want to kind of protect our area And I hey, I appreciate people that take ownership, that this is my ministry, and I want to serve God and I want to be there. We ought to have some ownership. We ought to take it seriously. But at the same time, we need to realize that it's all God's ministry. We're all just here serving. From the pastor all the way down, we're just serving. And every one of us, including me, is replaceable. And uh if God takes me home next week, at 50 years old, amen. If God takes me home next week, uh the fact of the matter is this Hunt Valley Baptist Church will go on. And God will lead, and you as a church family, through the direction of God, will call somebody and to to fill the shoes of the pastor, and the church will go on. Because we're all replaceable. We're all just serving God together. And so we see here these sons of the prophets being used to fulfill the ministry that Elisha or Elijah uh once did. And it's just a notable thing that we need to remember and keep in mind. We see Jehu here that he started outright by following God's commands, doing what he was supposed to do on your diagram. He is the only one That starts out green. You'll see he's the only green in this whole site over here. But the very beginning of his reign is green because he did what God told him to do. But then he did not follow God completely. He did what he wanted to do, even though initially when he took the leadership he started and began. by doing what was right. You see, God told him to smite Ahab's family in 2 Kings chapter 9 in verses 6 and 7. So we see that here. He says to him, And he arose and he went into the house, and he poured the oil on his head, and he said unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I have anointed thee king over the people of the Lord, even over Israel. And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab, thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants. You remember Ahab was killing the prophets Jezebel went after the prophets. And God said, Hey, we're not going to have that. And Ahab's and his family is going to pay the price for it. He says, I may avenge the blood of my servants, the prophets. and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of Jezebel. You see? He says, hey, all of Ahab's family is going to die because of this. You know what? God's keeping score. God knows what happens. And he's going to do a lot better job evening the scales out, fixing the problem. God said, vengeance is mine. I will repay. Amen? That so we need to just trust God. I taught a Sunday school lesson which I would say is probably right up there with the top, not saying I ever had any really good ones, but uh out of the ones that I did It's in the top of the ones that I did and it's on it's on vengeance and I think the title of it is Taking God's Place Something like that. Uh the idea of we as God's people we want to step into God's place and get even instead of allowing God to handle it and balance the scores. And God will do it. Just like here, you remember the prophet on the run because Jezebel wanted his head on a plate. And uh so the prophet goes and and discouraged and and you know says, Man, I'm the only one left. Jezebel's done, killed them all. And uh the the harm that was to the cause of God here and so God says hey they're gonna pay the price and I want you to know that the Lord is keeping score and the Lord knows who is harming his work and who has harmed his people and God is keeping things in check So we see here that uh he he was also known as one of the bloody uh kings as the most bloody king because of what he did. Uh we see that he not only did what God instructed him to to k to kill Ahab's family, but he be I don't know if he got a desire for it or lust for it, but he very bloody in his actions and killing many people. The king of Judah, Ahaziah, he killed him. His predecessor, uh Jehoram, he killed him. The wife of Ahab, Jezebel, he killed her. The seventy sons of Ahab, he killed them. The forty-two royal princes of the house of Judah, he killed them. The priest of Baal, he killed them. He did many, many things. Now, although he did what God told him to do by removing wicked Ahab and destroying Baal, The problem or the sin that he continued to do is he continued to worship at the feet of these golden calves. Look in chapter 10, verse 28 and 29. So he started outright, but he did not follow through and do what God wanted him to do. Verse 28 and 29, he said, Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel. How be it From the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nabak, who made Israel to sin, Jehu departed not. From after them to wit the golden calves that were in Bethel and that were in Dan. He says, you see, although he did what he was supposed to do, He didn't follow through. He didn't take care. He killed the prophets of Baal. But then he continued to lead the people to worship at these golden calves, which they should not have done. They should have got rid of those golden calves and returned to God, the God of Israel. It is notable, though, that God blessed him for the right things that he did do. God will always bless you for your obedience. In chapter 10 and verse number 30, he tells us here, he says, And the Lord said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in executing that which was right in mine eyes, And hast done unto the house of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel. So he says, Because you've been were obedient in this command I'm going to bless you. And God blesses you when you do right. You don't have to be perfect We're still sinners, you're still gonna do some things wrong, but what you do right, God blesses you for. You see, we've got a modern mindset where we are so much about the scales and does my good outweigh my bad and uh oh no I did this bad thing and that's messed up what I did good and listen we ought to do as much good as we can and we gotta avoid doing the bad but I want you to know God recognizes and sees when you're doing right And God will honor you for the right that you do, just like he did here. I mean, we just read a couple verses before where God says, Hey, he continued to worship at the feet of these golden calves. But what you did do Is you're obedient here. And for that I'm going to bless your house to the fourth generation. So the prophet that was ruling or leading during his time was Elisha. Um and then he died and his son began to reign in his stead. Now his son began to reign in his stead. As you see here, God promised him that to the fourth generation, his children, his uh offspring was going to rule. And so we see the first one here in uh Jehoahaz. Jehoahaz began to reign there, and he reigned seventeen years. We know of course that he was the son of Jehu. Jehoahaz was constantly under attack from the kings of Syria. Syria attacked him over and over, depleting the army and the resources that he had in chapter 13 and verse number 7. We see that his resources are depleted. He says, neither did he leave of the people of Jehoahaz but fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand footmen. For the king of Syria had destroyed them, and had made them like the dust by threshing. Assyria just continued to attack, continued to attack, continued to dwindle the armies of Israel down under the leadership of Jehoaz, and uh did they just did not have anybody left ready to fight. The prophet there was still Elisha. Uh he died and his son began to reign. Um so Jehoash is uh his son, not Jehoaz, that's who we just Jehoahaz, we just saw that, but this is Jehoash. Began to reign. He reigned 16 years. Uh Jehoaz was the grandson of Jehu. You might want to note that grandson. And for the next one we're going to see uh great-grandson and great-great-grandson in fulfillment of the prophecy But uh Jehovah as rules. Now he visited Elisha on his deathbed in 2 Kings chapter number 13, verses 14 through 12 through 20, there's a story there. He visited Elisha because he wanted Elisha to tell him whether they're going into battle here. Are they going to be victorious or not? And Elisha is so close to death, but he still says, well, yes, you're going to be victorious. God uh has told me to tell you that you're gonna you're gonna come through victorious so you can go with confidence. Um and Then Elisha dies and uh Elisha on they they bury Elisha and you guys remember the story when they bury Elisha in the ground. Uh they put him in a tomb, right? And then the story goes that they're out there and they're going to bury somebody else. And they're when they're there, the Moabites attack. So they're out there, they're going to dig a grave or open a tomb for somebody, uh, and Moabites are coming, and they say, well, we we don't have any time, and they take this individual and they throw him into Elisha's grave The problem is, is when this person touches the body of Elisha, he comes back to life. He revives. He stands up. If you want to see that, you can turn to 2 Kings 13. And thirteen verses uh number twenty and twenty-one. So we see he says And Elisha died, and they buried him, and the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming end of the year. And it came to pass as they were bearing a man that behold they spied a band of men, and they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha. And when the man was let down, he touched the bones of Elisha and revived and stood up on his feet. Now that will scare you, right? Uh the thought this guy was was done. Here here is the message That's good for us to remember as well. I think that as the Moabites were attacking, the children of Israel probably looked at Elisha and said, here's the prophet of God. He's gone. What are we going to do? But God was letting them know, yes, the prophet's gone, but God's not gone. It is not the prophet who has that power, it is God who has the po the power. And even though the prophet is dead and gone and his life and ministry is over, but the God of the Prophet is still here, and he is still with you. And he's reminding them that even though Elisha's gone, that he is still there, and we need to remember that God is still with us. He he defeated uh Amaziah, the ninth king of Judah, which was coming against them, the prophets were Elisha and Jonah. We see Jonah the first time coming into the picture, if you remember, uh very minimal stuff in the kings on that, but we do have all of these minor prophets that take place during this time that they are serving. And so Jonah is mentioned here and under his leadership or part living during his time. So we see that he died and uh Jeroboam II begins to reign. The uh in 2 Kings chapter 14, picking up there. So Jeroboam the second, again, noting that it's not we we began all of this with Jeroboam the first, right? And then now we're down, we have Jeroboam the second begins to reign. He reigned forty-one years. He was the son of Joash, the great-grandson of Jehu, the great-grandson of Jehu. It was the longest reign of all of the kings of Israel. He reigned the longest amount, 41 years. We see that uh again Jonah was one of the prophets that uh prophesied during this time Look in, let's see, 2 Kings chapter 14 and verse number 25. Look at verse number 25. We see him mentioned here. And he restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto the sea of the plain, according to the word of the Lord God of Israel, which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah. So we see Jonah here mentioned in Jonah chapter one. You don't have to turn there, but chapter one and verse number one, he says, Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, the son of Amaitai, saying So here we know we're dealing with and talking about the same person. This is Jonah, the story of Jonah that we see in the Word of God, and then also this as a prophet here during this time. And uh so Jonah prophesied that the lost land that they had the land that they had lost would be restored to them there in the verse that we just read in 2 Kings 14, 25. And uh God had mercy on this broken nation. They were depleted down because of the attacks of the Syrians. They depleted down to nothing. There wasn't much left. God had mercy on them, restored some land to them, allowed them to begin to recover and recoup, but still they did not turn to God. Over and over again, the prophets would preach and call upon them to repent and turn to the Lord, but they did not. The prophets during this time is Jonah, Amos. and Hosea. In uh Amos, you don't have to turn there, but in Amos chapter 1 and verse number 1, it says this. The words of Amos who was among the herdmen of Tokiah, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah, the king of Judah, and the days of Jeroboam. the son of Johash the king of Israel. So we see here very clearly in Amos talking about he was here During Uzziah's reign and during Jeroboam the son of Joash, the king of Israel. And then in Hosea chapter one and verse number one Uh he tells us the same very similar thing. The word of the Lord that came to Hosea, the son of Eer, the son in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Eziah, Hezekiah, king of Judah and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel. So those prophets very clearly tell us they were Being directed by God and given words from God during the reign of these kings. Now he died and he began to reign, uh his son began to reign. So we see Zechariah began to reign. He reigned six months. He was the son of Jeroboam the second and the great great grandson of Jehu. So fulfilling God's promise. That uh Jehu would be blessed because he obeyed God and killing Ahab's family and following through with what God had instructed him to do. God said, I'll bless you. Your family would sit on the throne to the fourth generation And so we've seen that fulfilled. You know, God's promises are true. God carries out what he says he's gonna do. He does fulfill that. It does happen. We see the prophets during this time are Hosea and he was assassinated by Shelem, who took took his throne. Now he was only on the throne for six months and uh Kill and said, Oh, I want to uh I want the throne so he he reigned, but you know when you take a throne by force Uh it's very likely you're gonna lose it by force, right? Uh it's just he reigned one month and somebody else said, Oh, you can do it, I can do it. And so somebody killed him, right? So he reigned one month. And uh was assassinated by Minahem. Minahim, who took his throne. The prophet was still Hosea. Then Minahem reigned ten years. Sorry, Menehim is known as the most brutal king to sat on the throne. Look in chapter 15 and verse number 16. Second Kings chapter 15 and verse number 16. It gives you a picture of how brutal he was. He says here, then Minahim smote Tipash on all that were therein and the coast thereof from Tirzah, because they opened not to him Therefore he smote it, and all the women therein that were with child he ripped up. This is the image the Bible gives us of not just did he go in and kill the soldiers, not did he just kill women and children, but he saw these that were with child and brutally uh killed them, took their life. And we look at that and we say, Man, how in the world can somebody be so callous? How could somebody be so far gone that they would attack a woman uh of any kind, but then to hurt a woman carrying a child and and to do them harm like that. Listen, beloved, when you remove God from a society When you remove the authority of the Word of God that establishes a unchanging standard for men to live, The basest and most vilest of of things can take place. Men will continue to go after their own desires in their own flesh. And here we are tracking this northern nation that continue to do their own thing and to to not worship God, even though the prophets came and preached, and even though God continually tried to call them back and God brought punishment and said, Would you repent? And he gave them blessing and they didn't repent and over and over again. But society as a whole, uh was not following God. We're not very far from the entire nation of Israel going into captivity because they are not returning to God. You know, we look at that and say, how could that take place? But We have a nation where it's perfectly acceptable to kill a baby. Where it's perfectly acceptable in society and people will argue and stand up for their right to kill another human being, to pull the defenseless child from the life of a mother and uh from the body of a mother, and uh, you know, it's it's okay. They they try and get around it by saying it's not a it's not a baby, it's not a it's not a person. Um it they're not even consistent in their own in their own debates because Uh if you kill a lady who is carrying a child, you can be charged with a double homicide. Yet at the same time that lady could go and kill her baby and they'll say, oh, it's not a baby. That's the base vilest part of society because we have removed God. And uh they they argue for that. They want to remove God from every part of society. They want to take his name off the money. They they would don't want him mentioned in the schools. I mean even uh I remember in Lawrence, Kansas, when we were serving there, one of the young kids uh got in trouble. Because he was talking to his classmates about God on recess. And he got in trouble, and the police came to his house And uh talked to his mom and dad. So the school said you cannot do this. He had some verse tokens that had scripture on it, and he had given it to his friends, and they said, we want the verse tokens. The the family hired a lawyer and ended ended up winning because obviously it is his uh right, it is the protection of free speech to be able to share on recess. They cannot take that from a child But that society in which we live, they would desire to remove every bit of God that they can. I was out passing John the Romans out uh a week ago Saturday. And uh guy was standing in his front yard and I walked up and said, hey, can I give you this? And he just started cussing. And he's like, that blank blank stuff is a bunch of And he's yelling and cussing me out and and give and giving me the what for. One day when he stands before God he'll remember. He'll remember the opportunity that somebody came to give him the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ and uh he rejected it. Because men that that they have no bearing, they have no absolutes when we remove God. And this man, this king, is a picture of that. Now he gave Teglath Felazer a thousand talents of silver not to overthrow his kingdom. He said, Boy, I don't have enough men to fight you. We're going to lose. If you come in, we're done But could we buy our way out of this battle? And Teglass P. Peleuser says, okay, yeah, uh it's gonna cost this much. And he had to uh even go borrow money from other people to get enough money to buy his way out of this battle, but he kicked the can down the road a little bit. The prophet was Hosea. He died and his son began to reign. We see uh Pekah here. Pekahiah begins to reign and he reigns two years. Um he, of course, was the son. of Minahem. I have to pause to think about how to pronounce some of these names. But uh the the son of Minahem He was the prophet Hosea. Now he was assassinated by his commander, uh, and the com his commander took his place. So the following king we see here is Pika. Pika begins to reign. And he reigned 20 years. Now, it's believed that Pika reigned for a period of time, maybe as much as the first ten years of his reign, was kind of combined with the previous two. Like there was kind of a uh a little bit of power struggle and there was two kings reigning at the same time and so if you see a chart and uh you'll see that their dates overlap or whatever where where these kings are when they're ruling and whatever it might overlap their names. You'll see like even on this chart here that we've given you that uh Pika's name has a bracket that goes up around the other three. Like why is there a bracket there? What does that what does that mean? Well it's basically stating the fact that he was ruling jointly with those other kings. And so they were sharing the throne for a little while until uh he ultimately took the control of all of it. Um so Let's see here. Pika, he reigned 20 years. Teglath Peleaser moved in on him. He said, hey, your previous uh predecessor gave me a bunch of money not to do this, but he's gone. And so now I'm coming in, I'm going to take over. And uh if you look at uh 2 Kings chapter 15, 29, we're not gonna turn there, but if you look at that, you'll see seven cities. that he took control of and uh controlled a large portion of the northern part of what is Israel. So he kind of moved in and gained control of about half of the nation of Israel And then Pika was assassinated by Hosea. Then we see Hoshia, sorry. Hoshia uh began to reign here. This is a concluding, the final king. The captain of Samaria is put under siege, I'm sorry, the capital of Samaria is put under siege for three years in 2 Kings chapter 17, verse number 5. So They're holding out in the Capitol. The Tegrath Palezer came in and he gained control of a vast majority of the country already. They're pushing in towards the Capitol. The Capitol is holding out. That's their strongest defenses, their most people. They are holding a siege there. If you remember Back in chapter seven of Kings there, where uh the story is told uh about again a time when the city was under siege uh and You remember that there there was no food and there was a famine, but there were some lepers. And these lepers says, well, if we stay here in the city, we're going to die. And if we go out there we're gonna die. So why not go out there and see if our enemy has some food? Because there's no food here. Either way we're dead, right? And they go outside the city and they find out that God had miraculously caused uh all of the enemy to go away and they're fulfilling the prophecy that God had said by this time tomorrow everybody's going to have plenty of food And and they said, no, there's no way it could happen. And yet these these lepers go out and they find out the whole Syrian army is gone and uh they can come in and and everybody had food. And so they had the capacity or means to kind of hold up in the city for a period of time and uh the Syrian army was coming in and attacking. For three years they held them off, uh but ultimately The people are taken captive into Assyria. And uh the Assyrians gained control of the northern part of Jerusalem and uh occupied it with their own people. And for over 200 years, beloved, the patience and mercy of God was continually seen. For 200 years, God tried to get them to turn back to him. For two hundred years he sent messengers to them and said, Hey, would you repent? Would you turn from your wicked way? Would you come to me? God's patience, God's mercy, continually trying to reach out to them. And for two hundred years they refused to return unto the God of Israel to worship him. They hardened their necks against God, and they went after the heathen nations round about them. So God sent them into captivity. Now it's notable here that the Assyrians that took control of Samaria, they repopulated the city with their own people. And the inhabitants of that area, they called and they said to some of the people that lived there, to some of the northern tribe of Israel, they said, Hey, what are these places of worship that you have in Dan and Bethel? What is that? Who are the priests that run this? How can we worship at these things too? They wanted to assimilate that or bring that into their own religions And so they had people come and teach them how to do it. Here's what how we worship at these at these false golden calves. And so they assimilated that into their already false religion. But what is notable here and why as you look down into the New Testament and you hear about a group of people called the Samaritans. So the Samaritans were the Assyrians that took control of Samaria And repopulated that area and took over from them. And that's why during the time of Christ, the Jews did not like the Samaritans. This is where the Samaritans came from, this group of people that were here that took over Samaria uh and took that capital and put them into captivity. This group of people that we want by the time we get to the New Testament become the Samaritans that uh hold that place of uh you know anger from the children of Israel because because of that. And we're not seeing it for a long time. So we see here that the Assyrians uh took Israel into captivity. And that brings this side. You remember we're looking at one side, one line. Now we've got to go back to the beginning of Kings and look at the line of Judah. And so the Judah is the line that is the line of Christ is going to come from and uh where God is working, where not they weren't perfect, but they did continue trying to follow and honor God, and God is working with them to bring ultimately Jesus Christ uh to the throne in the New Testament, but through the line of Judah.