Yeah, I want to thank uh Pastor for giving me the opportunity to preach. Um he asked yeah, he did ask me about a week and a half ago. And um At first you're like, uh but uh no, I am thankful for the opportunity. Um the thing about preaching that really helps me is that it helps you to get in the word and study. And as much as I'm gonna share this thought with you tonight, um, it has been a help to me. And so that's what I love about preaching is that You get to study the word, but it's as much a help to me as what I'm going to be sharing with you tonight. But we're in Psalm chapter 62 tonight, if you want to turn there. I think I'm getting initiated. some sort of initiation. So I was sitting up here uh about thirty seconds before the about the service started, Pastor Gus comes down and he's like, hey you wanna can you lead songs tonight for me? And I was like, uh I doesn't be preaching, but sure I could do it. And then he just started laughing and he was like, I'm just messing with you. You don't have to do that. So I think I'm getting initiated or something By Pastor Gus, but he he got me there. I'm sure my face was pretty funny to see. Um But we're in Psalms chapter sixty two, verses one through seven tonight. And I'll just read these real quick if you would follow along. Verse 1 says, Truly, my soul waiteth upon God, from him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man Ye shall be slain all of you, as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence. They only consult to cast him down from his excellency, they delight in his lies, they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly My soul, wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved In God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God. Let's pray real quick and then I'll get us into the message. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for um Lord your risen Savior. Um Lord, and as Mr. Joe is saying in his testimony tonight, sometimes we take that for granted. and all the things that you do for us. And uh Lord, I pray that um you'd uh Lord calm my mind and my nerves and all of that, Lord, so that I can Communicate what you've laid on my heart, Lord, effectively, and that it would be used just to be a help to someone here tonight, Lord, who Um who needs to hear what what what you have for them. And Lord, I pray that um you take me out of the way and um Lord my sins and all the th all the things that I've done wrong and just use your word um um to speak to hearts tonight. Um I pray that you'd bless the rest of our evening tonight. Be with the message, and Lord, I pray that it would fall on the hearts that need to hear it in Jesus' name. Amen. Um have you ever needed something um so bad that you became desperate to get it? you became desperate to get it. I was thinking of an illustration about this and an illustration that came to mind Not necessarily a good one, but um Pastor when he injured his back, um, I remember him telling me he was like um Yeah, I just told Miss Mary, you might have to run some red lights to get to the hospital. I need to get there, you know, my back is in pain. Um you know he was desperate to get to the hospital. He needed, you know, he needed attention. Um another another illustration of this is um marriage. Um I was desperate to get married once I got engaged. I just needed to get married. You know? I'm like, I'm tired of this, I'm tired of this engagement stuff, this wedding planning, all of this. Get me married Um I don't know, maybe that's a guy's perspective, but um I was I was desperate to get married. Um but um so this is kind of the direction I want to take in this passage. Um if you notice Um there's a lot of only's, a lot of the word only in this passage. He only is my rock and my salvation. My soul wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. David needed God. He I think it was clear that he knew that he needed God. And so tonight my the title of my message is Do You Need God? Do you need God? Um I think all of us would say right off the bat, yes, yes we need God. But do we live like that? Do we live like we need God? Um so I have three areas uh that I just wanna um uh talk about and three areas that in our lives that we can forget about God. That we can um get into the mindset that and maybe we don't say it, we don't need got I don't need God, but we get into the mindset of um we can do it on our own. We can take care of things our own way. And this is something that the Lord has really been teaching me. But the first one point number one, do you need him in your trial? Do you need him in your trial? Well, I think all of us would say, well, uh isn't that what trials are for? You know, we need God in our trials, obviously. Um But I think of um A trial and the way that the Lord revealed this to me was if you're will if you need me, you are willing to wait You are willing to wait for me, for my plan. And sometimes we rush God's plan. Um I think a good example of this is, you know, you don't really know how patient you are until um you run into traffic. Or you get at a red light for you know more than thirty seconds. Or your fast food is not ready in two minutes. But I think a good example of this is a red light. You stop at a red light and you're waiting. Why isn't it changing? Well, if you decide to go through the red light, something bad is probably going to happen to you. And many of us are like that in our trials. God is giving us the red light, and we're deciding, I need to do my own, I need to I gotta go. And we run through the red light and that's when something something happens. Um So do you need him in your trial because um and the way we say the way we say we don't need him is doing our own thing. Not waiting for him, patience, not having patience in our trials. We were talking about this in Teen Sunday School class this morning. Actually, um Abraham. So we we're we're like so Pastor is one week ahead of us. So you guys I think you all did Isaac this morning, the adult Sunday school class. And um we're doing Abraham. We just finished up Abraham. Um But Abraham and Sarah are a perfect example of this. They rushed. Abraham rushed his rushed I I gotta have a seed, I gotta have the seed, I gotta have a child, um, and he rushed it. So um I think we we can all get to that area of our lives where we are impatient. So do you need him in your trial if Do you do you need him in your trial? Are you being patient with the Lord or are you rushing your own thing in your trial? And I don't know what you know what who what's going on in people's lives. I have no idea. But I just encourage you to be patient with the Lord. I think of Job is a good example of this. Just if you read Job, just the battles he faces. continuously. But he waited on the Lord. He was patient. He never rushed, even when everyone was against him, even his wife. when everyone was against them. Um but the Lord the Lord blessed them for that. And I think of Caleb and Joshua too in in the Old Testament. Can you imagine being the two spies that come back and say, we can take Israel and nobody else? And so you have to wait for 40 years. And you were the ones that believed that you could do it. And they had to wait for 40 years, but the Lord blessed them. And I think of Um Isaiah forty-one, or Isaiah forty verse thirty-one, that talks about they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Um they that wait upon the Lord. Uh so do you need them in your trial is point number one. Many of us would say, Yes, we need him in our trial, but are you living like that? Are are you waiting for the Lord Or or because if you're not, you're saying that you can do it all on your own. That's what you're saying. Um so do you need him in your trial? Number two, do you need him in your prosperity. Do you need him in your prosperity? If you look down in Psalm 62 at verses 10 and 11. Verses 10 and 11. This talks about prosperity. Trust not in oppression and become not vain in robbery If riches increase, set not your heart upon them. God hath spoken once, twice have I heard this, that power belongeth unto God. We go through ups and downs in life. Um I'm realizing that the more uh the more um that I that I've been married and things like that. But we go through ups and downs in life and a lot of the times and what Mr. Joe was even saying And I thought he was I was like, man, I'm basically just gonna preach Mr. Joe's testimony tonight. So um but we go through ups and downs in life and God was speaking to me about this the other day. You go through ups and you you don't need me anymore? I don't you don't you don't need me anymore, everything's going okay or everything whatever whatever's going on in life, you don't need me anymore. Um and that's a really easy place for me to get to sometimes is that I don't need I mean I don't I'm not I may not you know say that or think that or do it but man I need the Lord Every day. Um and I need I need him in the good times and the bad times. Um I think a good example of this is the prodigal son. He got all his money. He got all of his money. He got his inheritance and he said, I'm gonna go do what I want. I'm good. And the Lord had to show him. The Lord had to show him that he he needed he needed more than money, more than more than the good times. Um So are you are you in the good times tonight? Are you could you say, well I'm not really facing a trial, so to speak, or I'm not You know, you know, I'm I'm just having normal days like Mr. Joseph, but are do you still need God? Yes, you still need God. And are you living like it So you need him in your prosperity. And then number three, and this is kind of where I want to dwell on. tonight is um do you need him in your daily life? The answer is yes. But do you live it? Do I live it? And the Lord really challenges so the Lord challenged me with this actually last night. I actually had a whole different message on Friday from and then last night it changed it to this. Um because I was I was running I ran into store at like nine PM to get some stuff for the the Easter egg fun. And The Lord really challenged me and I was just driving. And um the Lord I and I was thinking about today and all the stuff that needed to be done for today. And the Lord just hit me. He was like, do you need me? And all the things that you have to do tomorrow, do you need me? And I was like Why didn't you know that was just like it was like one of those things where it just hits you. And um And he spoke to me about, you know, you can get up, you can I can get up and direct choir, no problem. I can do that probably in my sleep. It's just easy for me. It's just something that I'm used to. But I need the Lord's help to do that. I need it's not going to be productive if I'm if I'm doing it in my own strength. Um And so we get into our daily into our daily lives of day to day. Do I need the Lord? Do I need the Lord on Monday, Tuesday? Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. I uh I skip a day Two days, three days, four days. I can go I can come into the office, get my stuff done, and I'm good. I I can do it in my own power, but that's not it. That's that's not what the Lord how the Lord wants us to live, how the Lord wants me to live. And so do you need the Lord in your daily life? Um A good example of this, there's actually a few, but a good example of this in the Bible is Daniel. Let me get over there, Daniel chapter 1 and verse 10. But this talks about Daniel praying three times a day. Um let me get there. I'm sorry, not Daniel chapter one, verse ten. I think I have the wrong verse. But anyways, it talks about Daniel praying three times a day. Um And he faced he faced things every day in in the situation that he was living in. But he spent time every day. And I have trouble spending time with the Lord once a day. And so that's really been a challenge to me and really what I believe the Lord wanted me to share with you all tonight. Another another example, uh how many of you know George Mueller? Have you ever heard that name? So he lived in the eighteen hundreds and he he Um he ran an orphanage uh for thousands of kids. Thousands of kids. And there in hi if you read his biography it talks about him he would pray for a meal that day. And the Lord would provide it. We don't know what that's like. We live in our we the Lord has pro provided for most of us and blessed us. Blessed us very, very much. And we forget that we need him in our day-to-day life. And every single day do we need him. And I thought this was a good a good challenge for me and uh for you all as well as we get into go towards Anniversary Sunday. Uh we have a lot to get done There's a lot to do. And if we're not careful, we'll do it in our own strength. We we're not we won't ask for the Lord's help. So um That's my challenge to you all tonight is number one, do you need him in your trial? If so, you'll wait for him. If if if you need him in your trial, you'll wait for him. Number two, if you do you need him in your prosperity You know, there's ups and downs. If you're in the up right now, do you still need the Lord? And then number three, do you need him in your daily life, just day to day? Um we all we all would say yes we need him but do we live like it? Do do do we say Lord I n you wake up in the morning, Lord I need your help today. I I haven't done that. Um and so it's really been a challenge to me, and I pray that would be a challenge for us going into the next couple weeks is we need the Lord's help every day. For souls to be saved on anniversary Sunday, we need the Lord's help. Um the bus push this morning, the visitors that came You know, we can go out and do knocking on doors and we invite, we invite, we invite, and the Lord wants us to do that, but we still need his help if we don't if we don't do it in uh his power. Um I think of The song I need thee every hour. I need thee every hour. Stay thou nearby. Patience is power. Forgetting the words, but I need the oh I need the Every hour I need thee, O bless me now, I say you're I come to thee I need the every hour. That's a challenge to me. I hope it's a challenge to you, especially as we go get in these next two next few weeks and much to do. Um but we need the Lord's help. So I challenge you if you uh if you're facing a trial tonight, um maybe it's maybe it's a good time to come to the altar and Um ask the Lord for His help um for patience in your trial. Um if if if you're in a time where you know You know, I'm serving the Lord, I'm doing good, I'm I I would say I'm doing good, but maybe you've lost sight of needing the Lord still. Um you still need the Lord day to day. And then in your daily life. That's what's been a challenge to me. You need him every single day. I need the Lord. Um and so maybe that maybe that was a challenge to you tonight. But um I don't know. We need the Lord. And so uh I pray that it will be a challenge to you as you go forward and uh we need we need the Lord. And so I just have to turn it over to Pastor.