Pretty awesome, right? Hello. I'm also transparent about this. I don't know when we've gotten over the idea that we don't make an order call anymore. Like like like like like you're ready watching. Like like like I I don't ever go through a service where really, pretty honestly, I don't need to make an autocall and I'm doing the preaching. But I don't know. If you're perfect tonight, then don't worry about it. Amen? Hello. If you aren't, just adjust your hello, would you please? Thank you very much. Okay? Now I do know this. I did find out eating, I appreciate Joe and Kim taking me out to eat today. I did find out. that Kim does like to eat. Watch, she had more food than the two of us combined Lord have mercy. Now she didn't eat it all. And poor Joe over there, he got a sandwich and only had potato chips. I mean I had I had scallops, a baked potato and rice, oh yeah. And and Kim had Kentricket fried chicken. Oh yeah French fries, coleslaw. Oh yeah, how many are hungry right now? Come on, let's okay, heads bowed, eyes closed. Give an invitation, let's go. Amen. What's the matter with you? Alright, Galatians chapter 6, beginning verse number 1. And by the way, preacher Caleb did text me. I like that one and told me who was taking me out to eat. So anyway, he must have woke up from his nap or something. Amen. Here we go. Galatians chapter 6, beginning verse number 1. The present of a man be overtaken in a fault. Ye which are carnal. Is that what it says? Ye which are what? Restore such a one in the spirit of bitterness, anger. No meekness. Now we know one of the meekest men in the Bible was Moses. Hello? I don't know. If I began to lead a one point five million people and they complained, I think I'd want to ch I would have think like when they were crossing over the Red Sea, I would have asked the Lord to just close it on. That's just me. You probably don't think like that. Hello. Consider thyself lest thou also be tempted. I don't know if you're like me, but sometimes come on, come on. I don't know if you've ever been this way. Like when somebody's going through something in their life Or maybe they've gone away from the Lord, and I say, and watch, watch. Because we never say this. We think it like they deserve it. Oh, I know you never thought that way. I'm the preacher and I thought that way And the Lord said to me, Oh, what do you deserve? I think, listen to me, I think so many times we forget What God has done for us. Because we don't ponder upon it. And we don't think about it. So therefore, we make bad judgments and decisions because we forget where we came from. Hello. Talking to me tonight. Lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Don't you know how much I got going on? Well, you want me to help somebody else? Got a child going for surgery? And you want me to help somebody else? I lose my wife. You want me to help somebody else? I didn't say it was easy. I'm just saying that we have a God in heaven. Come on now. Who can help us do that? I'm not even preaching yet. Come on now. And so fulfill the law of Christ For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself Let me give you some statistics, some missing stats on death. There's 86,400 seconds in a day. Okay, mathematicians, here we go. Jacob looks like one of those mathematicians. Also, he's got the voice like a preacher, too. I'm just saying Now, I don't know why they do this. They say 2. 2 people die every second. Why don't you just say 2 or something? Amen. What do you want to say? 2 and a third or something? Or whatever. Okay. That means a hundred and thirty-two people die every minute. That means a hundred and ninety thousand and eighty people die every day. Are you getting overwhelmed yet? That means one million three hundred and thirty thousand five hundred and sixty dying a week. What? A week That means sixty-nine million one hundred and eighty thousand and one hundred and twenty die in a year. And where is our burden? Albert Einstein once said this: only a life lived in service to others is worth living. If service is beneath you, then leadership is beyond you. I remember, watch, I remember when I got saved, I came to the pastor, I said, um, because I I heard this verse like You ought to be doing some reasonable service. So I said to the preacher, I said, there's something in the church we could do. He said, Yeah, we need somebody to vacuum and we need somebody to clean the bathrooms. I said, Well, you don't want me cleaning the bathrooms. I'll have my wife clean the bathrooms. I'll vacuum. This is when I first got saved Do you know normally now now they got all kinds of crazy things. They got robots and the whole thing cleans a church. Like, like, why? What are we lazy? We can't do anything for the church, or we can't do anything ready, ready, watch. It's not for the church, it's for God. Hello. Come on now. Reasonable service. Now watch it now. I really believe because I had a heart to do that that God called me to do what I'm doing today. I'm just saying. So I want to look at three points tonight. Number one, don't lose your first love. Revelation chapter 2, verse number 4. Jacob, that's you, sir. Revelation 2, 4 Please nevertheless I have somewhat against thee because thou hast left thy first love. Wow. Okay, now watch. Okay, beside the Lord My wife was my best friend. And I was married for 45 years. Now I'll be very honest with you. I miss her every single day of my life. And when I drive down the road and I'm on the road for that many miles, you better believe because I used to have her sit across from me. I I this is a little crazy. She said to me, hun, hun, while you're driving, you're out of control. You're out of control And then I said, okay, let me pull off the site, you drive. So I let her drive. I said, now you're out of control. There's just something about driving. But that's not an excuse. Hello? All right, here we go. Another place. Turn to Matthew 22, 37. Eli, right? That's you, bro. What? Lucas, why do I want to call him Eli? Huh? That's the yeah, okay. Older brother? That's who I was thinking about. Lucas, man. Okay, you're reading Matthew 22. Love God is first. Matthew 22, 37. Matthew 22, 37. Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy woman. Okay, c can I answer a question? Do you know I don't love God like that? Could you imagine what kind of Christian I would be if I did? Every part of my being loves God. I love God. I spend time with God. I know God. And God lets me know a lot of stuff. I knew when my wife was going to die. I don't know if I ever told you that story So the Lord wants me to go there with it. So I am preaching a revival. And I am I am in Clinton, Maryland. And when I'm in Clinton, Maryland, my wife is staying at a hotel visiting our grandkids. I went there with her. It's a Hilton. I don't stay in a five and dime hotel, okay? I'm just trying to say We're in hill. We're in Pennsylvania. And the first couple rooms I went in, they stunk. Did you ever go in a room that stinks? So I leave two or three of them and we go to another one. Now I have to go. I got revival going. She goes to the next one. I probably should have just pulled her out of the thing, but I didn't. And the water spick, she turned it on, and there was black coming out of the water. After investigation, I find out that they Pennsylvania has strict rules on hotels and water purification recording. Well, they stopped recording their stuff and when COVID hit, they rented out house that their place to Section 8 housing. And she began to get sick. Monday, Tuesday it got a little worse. She was with my son. My son was keeping an eye on her. By Wednesday, she's really bad. Now I'm preaching there to the revival till Friday. Wednesday, a tornado watch comes, and I'm not going to preach Wednesday night. They're going to do it live stream. So I am in the prophet's chamber, and I'm figuring, okay, I'll leave, and I'll go to be with my wife and take her to the hospital. And the Lord said, no, you won't. Sort of like you taking your kids to the surgery. And the Lord said, no, you won't. He said, you're going to finish what you start because your wife is not going to make it. And I'm in the quietness by myself. I remember like it was yesterday, it's three years ago. And the Lord said to me, Here's the songs I once sung at your wife's funeral. And here. Is what I want preached at your wife's funeral. I almost preached my wife's funeral. Almost the pastor didn't have to get up and say anything after I got finished. And the title of the message was Finish Well. Now I said all that to say this. By the time I took her to the hospital on Friday, she was pretty sick. They immediately thought it was COVID. And then when they ran the test, we found out by Tuesday that she had Legionnaire's disease. Now you listen to me. I took her into the hospital. When I took her in the hospital, COVID was crazy. Friday, it was Memorial Day weekend. And uh she got up into a room by about 8 o'clock. As she's going back, she said, I forgot my phone. Now, I'm attached to my phone. I have 3,826 contacts in my phone. She's not attached to the phone except for her sister that she talks to for hours. So, you know, being the loving husband, because I already know what's going to happen, I'll go get it for you. Okay? It's only 40 minutes away. Do you know I really want to complain? I know none of you've complained, fellas. Please cut me a break. But I don't, I get the phone. She gets in the room. She texts me and said about 8 o'clock. And then at 12. 30 the next day I get a phone call. She coded. And I said to the Lord, is this it? Are we done here? And the Lord said no. 3. 30 again, the phone rings. They bring her back. 3. 30, the phone rings again. And they say, um, you need to get the family and everybody up here. Um her blood pressure is 60 over 31. Her lungs are failing. We're gonna have to put on a vent. You need to get up here as soon as you can. I call my son. He's not the one, my oldest son is not too far away. He brings his wife and the and the boys up. And I get a hold of my other son who's a couple hours away. And by 515, they want to put her on the vent. Now I know what's going to happen when the vent goes. Now she's communicating with us with hand signals. But my son's not going to get there for another 10 minutes, and they're not going to wait. Can I help you for a minute here? Could you just listen to the wishes of the people who are involved with the person when it just becomes I know the whole deal. They put her on the vent. My son works in almost not even five minutes after they did it. And he said, Dad, I can't stay here. I want to remember mom like she was, not like she is now. As I was getting ready to leave the room, the the doctor, who was an LPN nurse, met me and she said uh I'm in charge of this floor. I run this place here. She said, and I heard you're a preacher. She said, I'm married to a Baptist preacher. You can't make this stuff up. She said, I'm married to a Baptist preacher, and it doesn't matter if it's COVID or not, you can come visit your wife from eight o'clock in the morning to eight o'clock at night. and nobody else has anything to say about it. I've already called downstairs to the security in the front desk. And if you have a problem, here's my cell phone number. Come on, you want to talk about God? I needed that time. I had to bear my heart. I had to talk to her. Hello. And one week later, the Lord lets me know it's time. And I pulled the vent. I didn't pull it. I had somebody pull it. But I did not realize what was going to happen. I thought somebody should have let me know. Because when you pull the vent, they gasp for breath, and I thought, did I make a mistake? 702 We pulled the vent in 712 she was in glory. Would have been done earlier than that, but they forgot she had a pacemaker and they had to demagnetize it. So even though she was dead, the heart was still beating. I said all that to say this. If you don't love God, you immediately will become bitter at God. But here's our problem. Do we know better than God does? Alone, God knows better. Don't lose your first love. Okay, one other verse. Matthew 22, 39. Brandon, could you read that first, sir, please? I was talking about that this morning, right? About the leaves. I I I don't love my neighbor like I love myself. I'm just being honest. So I had a bus and I had these four girls who were working on my bus. Two were twins. One was twin. Two of the girls were twins. Courtney and Brittany. Now, now, now, now Courtney never ever smiled. Now, if you're around me, I'm gonna try to make you smile. That's how I roll. Now I could understand the reason why she wasn't smiling because her grandmother was raising her because her mother was in for murder. And literally she murdered her dad. And she was spending life in prison. No wonder, she said. And then they had two friends down the street, Jasmine and Brianna And when the kids came on the bus, their teenagers, I put them to work. I had them pass out candy. Oh yeah, because you always have candy. If you have a bus route, you always have candy. Can I pause there for a minute? You always have candy. Amen. Come on. And watch it now. Pass out candy, pass out snacks Come on now, give them their Bible verse. And the other one kept attendance. So I said to them, I said, look, look, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take you out to eat for dinner. Next Saturday, we're gonna go. Okay. So I figure, you ready? The French restaurant, McDonald's, amen Dollar menu, amen. Cheapskate. No no no no no no no. They want to go to the Chinese buffet. $19 a head. Now, when you take your kids out, okay, there's a sign Now this is not the one for but it's water. And when you're really like blessed, Brother Gus, you let your kids get soda because it costs like four dollars for a soda. It's highway robbery. How many can I agree with that one? Come on, highway robbery is ridiculous. And it doesn't even cost that much to have a carbonated drink. So anyway. I'm taking a bus worker with me and I got these four girls, so you know they're getting a soda. And my bus worker Ryan, hello. I'm thinking he's gonna have water. No, he gets soda. You know what I get? Soda! There's a problem. I only have $65 in the bank account. On the debit card, and I'm hoping when I pay this amount, it doesn't bounce. So after I pay, I had a discounted coupon. Oh yeah, can I get a witness right there? Amen. And I got $10 off, the whole bill came to $89. So I'm short $13 in the bank. Hello. So, after we get done, they want to go to read us I got twenty dollars left in my pocket. It could cover what I just am short, but they want to go to Redis. Now, they just don't want a water ice, they want a gelati. That's ice cream and water ice. Oh yeah, I'm all about every bit of that. Come on now. I usually tell them, yeah, could you get that ice cream a little taller, amen? I spend a whole $20. As I'm there, I I have I contact my wife because she was cleaning houses, and my bus worker proceeds to run out of the van and tell my wife how much money I spent. Those kind of people is you want to strangle them. Amen? Now my wife just made $100 cleaning houses. So being the great woman that she was, she went to the bank to put the after I bought her a water ice. And she put the $100 in the bank. And I went to church and nobody knows what happened. When I get done service, a fella in our church who's a farmer, he comes up and gives me one of those handshakes. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, it's your birthday. Now I have I have a little ritual I do. I take it, I put it in my left pocket, put the button over it, and look at it later. Depending on how broke you are, amen. I'm just saying. Hello. And so when I get outside, I open it up, It's a hundred dollar bill. Do you think that God knew what I was going to spend before I spent it? Hello? Now, I'm going to cut the short story a little shorter because I took them home and we they were at my house in a whole bit But when Courtney and Brittany, who got off, when I dropped them off, the girl who never smiled is smiling from ear to ear. And do you know what she said to me? I can remember like it was yesterday. She said, this was the greatest day of my life. And I said, Courtney, I understand. I said, but the greatest day of your life really is when I knocked on your door and you came to church and got saved. was your greatest day, but I understand. And I thought I'd do that whenever I have money. And here's a girl who never did that. I have this little sign, I don't know where I picked it up, it says, today will never come again. Be a blessing, be a friend. Encourage someone. Take time to care. Let your words heal and not wound. Point number one, don't lose your first love. Number two, don't let your fire go out. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 28. Hebrews 12, 28. Volunteer for that one. Who's this guy back here over to the right-hand side? Yes, right there next to the girl. Who's that guy back there? Best for Gus. Right there. Right here. Yeah, yeah, that guy. Can you read for me? Thank you. What is your name? James? Jake. Okay, Jake. Please. Hebrews twelve twenty eight, sir. Now I I wrote this down. You ready? We've all noticed the quality of reception on a cell phone varies widely. The same is true with you and me You must position correctly in order to hear God speak. Sometimes we never give God a chance to talk to us Because we've made up our minds, and we do not want. You ready? We do not want to do what God wants us to do. Our hearts are hardened, and we're unwilling to listen. And there's some, you ready? There's some obstacles For us not to hear. Number one is pride. Proverbs 16, 18 said, pride goeth before destruction. and a holy spirit before a fall. Proverbs 2923 says, A man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit Number two, the hindrance is fear. Hebrews 11, 6, but without faith is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Can I stop here for a minute? Did you ever start in your mind to think things that are going to happen, but they never happen? And you get fearful about it, but it never happens. And you and you get all these scenarios of what's going to happen, but it never happens. And the last one is bitterness. Jude 22 and 23, and this is good. And of everybody has compassion. All right, turn there. Turn to Jude 22. 3 John's Jude and Revelation. Keep it simple, stupid. Amen? Oh yeah. Oh yeah, it's your birthday. Get a cheesesteak if you're in Philly. Hello. Come on now. I can cook some mean cheesesteaks. I used to be a shoulder I can chop that baby up. Oh yeah. I can put the cheese. I'll put the roll in the oven just for a little bit and melt that cheese all the way over that. How many here want a cheesesteak? Right now. Oh yeah. And Jacob, he finally got his hand a little bit higher. Amen. Talking about some food. He's ready to roll. Amen. Here we go. Amen, Jacob, man. And of some having compassion making a difference. Wow. And others Save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh. First one is don't lose your first love. Number two, don't let the fire go out. Illustration. So I went to a Home Depot. I I lived in Home Depot when I was in construction. I don't go to Lowe's because Lowe's never has what I need. And I complained to the people who stock the place and I said, you really aren't looking for commercial guys to come in here. You're just looking for the house guy to come in here I went in there and I couldn't even get inch and 5H drywall screws in a five-pound box. Are you serious? So I did complain. Anyway. So I went to Home Depot and I met this I met this fella and um and uh I I came up and talked to him and uh his name was Joseph Baptiste. And uh I said uh I said uh I go to a church uh Southside Baptist Church and I'd like to see if you'd want to come. I said, do you have a family? He said, well, uh, I have uh two children and uh I have a wife. I said, would it be okay if I visited you on a Saturday and I got his address? And I went to visit. So mom allowed the two kids to come, Brenda and Reggie. And they came riding the bus and they got saved. And then the mom got saved, but the dad never came to church. And then they enrolled the kids in school. And Brenda was in my wife's class. She taught kindergarten for about 14 years. And Brenda was always complaining. about eggs and pains. Sort of like everybody called her grandma. So then at six years old she's still having problems. And I I proceeded to talk to the people And at the time we started our school for the first time, and we had three other kids, you ready, who had leukemia at the same time. And people in church are getting nervous, like, can you catch leukemia? So I went and lived at children's hospital for about a month Learning about blood disorders and leukemia. They thought Brenda had leukemia, but had come to find out that Brenda had a tumor on her kneecap And I remember being in hospital when they when they came with the diagnosis. I was with the parents And they said she has a tumor covering her whole kneecap, and we're going to have to amputate above the kneecap. Six years old. Come on now. But they said we're also going to take a PET scan to make sure everything is okay. And when they take a PET scan Her whole all her lungs are filled with nodular tumors, which are cancerous And Brenda is not long for this world. And this little kid always had a smile on her face. And I used to go and visit her every day but Sunday in the hospital. She had a problem where she wasn't drinking drinking any water and if you're going through chemo they really want you to drink water. So I came up with an idea. I said if I put you ready, here's me. If I put tang in her water and mix it up and give it to her, will that be okay? They said, sure, she'll drink it. So guess what? She drank it. You know how many people get by with that? Just me. Hello? So I used to go, they had a place right across from where she was. It was called the safe room. That was a place where the kids could play and have no have no injections, no doctors, no nurses. They could just play with the computers and games and toys. So I went over And I started mounting up all the blocks. And then I got a big Tonka truck Oh yeah. And I took that big Tonka truck and knocked all those blocks down. And the kids went, ah! I mean the place is going nut, though. Amen. It's going crazy. It's going crazy. And a lady, the nurse, said to me, Do you want a job? I said, to do this? What are you kidding me? I said, I do have a job. I said, but I don't know if I could handle it when I was playing with them, and then I came back and they weren't there. So it was the winter time, and because I went through all the classes, it birthed into ministry to outreach people in the Ronald McDonald House where the people come for free and they get the kids get treatments and they stay in a place like a hotel for free. And about ten days later, almost two weeks, I was by the bedside with Brenda when she breathed her last breath. Almost seven years old. Now you now you listen to me. And you can do this. I began to think, like, why her? Why my wife? Why not somebody else Listen, I'm not God. God knows more than I know. You just need to trust God. Although, there could be somebody, some people in here right now, you're a little bitter at God. Hello? And guess what that's doing? That's affecting your fellowship with God. It's not worth it. It's absolutely not worth it. Last point, and we're through. Don't lose your first love, don't let your fire go out. And last one, here we go. Don't lose your passion. Galatians 6. 9 says, and let us not be weary of well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we what? Feign not. James 4. 8 says this, draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you. Can I help you tonight? Do you know that we're as close to God or I'm as close to God as I choose to be? Depends upon me. Not my salvation, my fellowship. And if I want to be closer to somebody, you have to spend more time with them. Like you don't build a marriage by staying away from your spouse. That's a little dumb, isn't it? Hello? I'll close with this illustration. Across the street where I lived, there were these, now you know me, I met the teenagers. And uh the two teens. You ready? James and Jamie. That's pretty original, isn't it? Hello. Nicest kids in the whole wide world. So, and the mom was Diana and the dad was Paul. And the Lord was telling me to go over and witness to him, and I just kept making excuses. And I was away for a couple weeks, and when I came home, and I saw some news report. That Paul across the street, when he was going to work, he was a cement finisher in Philadelphia. When he was going to work, a guy was drunk. and crossed over into his lane, and it was a high-top truck, it literally ran over his car The only thing that saved him, only thing that saved him, is he moved a little bit out of the way. Because the drive shaft came right through his seat. And the Lord said, um, you're going to witness to him now? And he had to be out of work for a long time. And then he was walking around in a walker, but he could walk And I took my bottom over there. Now the families, except for the wife I found out later, is saved. The two kids are saved. But she married a a lost person who took over for her kids. She was in a a really tough relationship. And he said, I don't even know why I'm alive. I said, Well I do So I can tell you about Jesus. Because if you would have died without Jesus and been saved, you'd have been burning in hell for all eternity. You'd have thought he ran to get saved, but he didn't So I'm driving. They're having things pretty rough. I figured I'll get a meal for them. So, you know where I go? Popeye's chicken. Oh yeah, it's your birthday. Oh yeah You know what I mean, Kim? You're all about the fried chicken. Amen. Hello. Even though she's trying to lose weight. Amen. She said when she goes out to eat, she just excuses that. Join the crowd. I'm with you, Kim. Amen. That's how I roll. So here's what happens. So I go to get contumptified too, so I figured, okay, watch, watch, watch. I'll get besides. I'll get macaroni and cheese and mashed potatoes with grape. Come on, how can you go wrong with that, right? Come on now. So I said, well, I'd like to have Come on now. I'd like to have macaroni and cheese. They said we don't have any. I said, what are you doing open? I said, okay, how about mashed potatoes and gravy? Oh, we don't have any of that either. I said, I was ready to say, could you send somebody out here so I could slap somebody? I said, okay, give me a double order of french fries Now I figured I'll get a gallon of tea, sweet tea, and a gallon of lemonade. Oh yeah, it's your birthday. Watch. I say, could I have lemonade? Oh, we don't have any lemonade. What? And you're still open. I know I know you have IC. No, we don't have any I see. I said, okay, okay, okay, okay You probably have coat products or Pepsi products. No, we only have one thing: Fantaorange soda. What? What That stuff tastes like cough syrup. Drinks that nonsense, except for kids. I said, alright, all right, give me two two-liter bottles of Fanta Orange. Now I am leaving the place totally depressed. I'm depressed. So I get to the house. And you really would have thought that I gave them when I came up and knocked on the door Jamie, the daughter, teenage daughter, meets me at the door. And you'd have thought I gave them a million dollars. Now watch watch it watch it. This is God. I said, you know what, Jamie, I'm really depressed because I couldn't get macaroni and cheese or I could not get potatoes and gravy, mashed potatoes and gravy. She said It's okay because Liam, our younger brother, all he likes is French fries. And I said I couldn't get iced tea or lemonade. He said he doesn't like iced tea or lemonade. He likes Fanta orange soda. Like you can't make this stuff up. But God knew better than I did. Do you think for one minute that that made an impression on that kid? And I'm finished. And I put down here, we need to love God, love people, love souls. And remember that we need to keep the main thing the main thing. I got saved And my one goal in life should be to bring other people with me. Can I help you today? There's nobody outside of here who's, come on now, if they're saved individuals, come on now, come on, pass out a gospel tract. We were at a restaurant today. There was a fella who served in the military, and I didn't have any of those military coins. Felt so bad. So I gave him one of those other coins Oh, but we gave him a gospel tract. All right, here we go. Come on, I'm getting really personal with you. So when's the last time you passed a gospel trackdown? When's the last time you got burdened so much for somebody that you weeped for a soul to be saved? Phew. To be honest with you, I don't get that serious. But that's where I should be. Listen, we need to make some changes. And I'll be honest with you, I don't I'm not looking forward to standing before the Lord and give an account of my life. I'd rather skip that. But you have an opportunity to make a change. Heads bowed eyes closed. Nobody looking around. Heads bad eyes closed. So here's the question tonight. Say, Brother Kaiser, sometimes I have a burden. You know a burden can come and a burden can leave you A call never leaves you. So here's my question tonight. Maybe you can be honest with the Lord tonight. And you'd raise your hand and say, Brother Kaiser, I'll be uh let me just be honest. I said, and I I'm with you. I I I don't have a burden like I should. And I don't love people like I should, and I don't love my neighbor like I should. Here's my hand. Anybody like that today? I'm with you, man. My hand's all over. Come on. Come on. Maybe here tonight and you're not a hundred percent sure that heaven is your home. Maybe you have some doubts in your mind and your heart. It's easy to get saved. As A, B, C. Admit you're a sinner. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned to come short of the glory of God. B, you've got to believe. Acts 16, 31, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved in thine house. And the last thing is call. Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now here's what I've learned. When God speaks to my heart, I need to make a movement from where I'm sitting to where I need to go. Now listen very carefully. You might not be able to kneel, but you can stand up here Let's all stand to our feet as the instruments play and God spoke to your heart. Come on out. Come on. Come on. Make an altar call tonight. You raised your hand. God spoke to you. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. One. Talk to the Lord tonight