Turn your Bibles to Luke chapter number nine. Luke chapter number nine. We're going to get into the Word of God this morning, looking at several different passages of Scripture as I preach to you this morning a message that I've entitled Don't Look Back. Don't look back. In this passage of Scripture, Jesus is speaking to those who would be followers of Jesus Christ. He's speaking to them and he's talking to them and they're saying, oh, I want to follow you, but first let me go and bury my Loved one, oh I want to follow you, but first I've got to go take care of this important thing. First I've got to go do this. And Jesus Christ says unto them in Luke chapter 9, all the way towards the end of the chapter here in verse number 62. He says, and Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Beloved, he did not say, no man having put his hand to the plow and quit and gave up and turned back and went the other way is fit. That's not what he said, is it? He said, this is important, believers. This is important, Christians. He says, if God's called you, if God saved your soul, he's forgiven you of your sin, and you're on your way to heaven, and you're Going forward in the Christian life. He says once you put your hand on the plow, don't look back. Don't even look back. Don't worry about what was back there. Don't worry about yesterday. I've called you to something more important. I want you to be a victorious Christian. I don't want you to be consumed with what used to be. You need to be looking. ahead. One of the true things uh that everybody knows when when you're in a race is you don't look back To see how close the competition is. You don't want to turn around and figure out who oh oh no, they're right there, because that will cost you valuable seconds. That will cost you maybe the race Because you know, you just want to keep looking, keep your eye on that finish line, and just run for all that you've got. Don't worry about how close they are Don't look back because they might catch up. They might get you. You don't know what's on your heels. Don't look back. Certainly there's lessons that can be learned from the past. However, one must be eternally vigilant to learn these lessons without getting stuck in the past. For to dwell too long in what has been is not good for anyone. It doesn't matter if we're talking about past victory or past failure, past defeat. It does not matter. It does no one good to dwell on what was. It is unwise to linger long on what was, for it will not aid us in accomplishing what is. It doesn't matter if we're talking about success of yesterday or failure of yesterday. Could I encourage you this morning, don't look back. Don't look back. Past victory will cause one to be puffed up and feel like they've attained something already and that they've met their their ambitions and they've got no further place to go. And past defeat will swallow you up in depression and discouragement and cause you to not be able to see the possibility of tomorrow's victory. Past victory or past defeat, either one, we don't want to look at it for very long. The past is a hard taskmaster It will defeat and deceive you. And as we here are on the brink of a new year breaking off into the possibilities of what unlived tomorrow still holds for us. Could I encourage you to look ahead to what God has for us tomorrow and caution you. Not to long not to ponder or look back at this past year at what was There's several reasons I want to give you this morning for why we shouldn't be looking back. And I hope these are an encouragement to you and a help to you and kind of gives you a little bit of a boost this morning as we are just about to start this new year and we're looking ahead at the possibilities of what God has and wants for us. First of all, don't look back because your sins have been forgiven. Because your sins have been forgiven. God guarantees to you and I, the man who has confessed his sin to God, God's forgiven it. He's guaranteed that he's given us the promise in 1 John 1, verse 7 through 9. He says, But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ hath cleansed us from all sin. Cleansed us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. But if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Hallelujah. He has forgiven that past sin. Hey, all you've got to do is ask him. The precious blood of Jesus Christ was shed on the cross so that you could be forgiven You don't have to live with that weight of guilt and that shame on your heart and your soul. All you've got to do is ask Jesus Christ to forgive you, and he'll forgive you and he'll wash away that sin. He'll wash away that guilt and he'll Allow you to live fresh and clean before Him. Turn your Bibles to Psalms 103 with me, if you would. Psalms 103 Psalms 103, this is an amazing psalm here. Just follow along and listen to the promise of God as the psalmist of Israel, David, says this. He says, A Psalm of David, bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me. Bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits Who forgiveth all thine iniquities? What's one of the benefits that God gives us? He forgives us of all our iniquities That past sin has been forgiven. He healeth all thy diseases. Who redeemeth thy life from destruction? Who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. Who satisfies thy mouth with good things so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses and his acts unto the children of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, So far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. As for man his days are grass and his flower of the field, so he flourisheth For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him And his righteousness unto children's children. I'll tell you what, if there's anybody in the Word of God that we look to that we as a people understand and know that They would have a grasp on the forgiveness of God. It's David. It's David, this young man who was chosen by God and anointed by Samuel and praised by the people and placed in a position of power lived his life and then all culminating in that terrible, horrendous sin with Bathsheba that led to murder. And to the destruction of his own family. And David lived with that guilt and shame on his heart for a year. Not having sweet fellowship with God, living with that pain and disappointment in himself, and understanding that he had sinned against God. But then you turn to Psalms 51 and you hear him cry out for the forgiveness of God. You hear him ask, Lord, forgive me. You hear him say, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. David confesses his sin before God. And then here in the Psalms that we just read, we see how David had learned about his God. He had learned that God was not somebody that deals with us after our sin, but according to his tender mercy. God is ready to forgive, beloved, if you have not asked for forgiveness. This morning I want you to know that God is ready and willing and wants to forgive Forgive you, you don't have to live with that guilt in your heart, with that shame on your soul. God will forgive you But beloved, if you're here this morning and you've experienced and you know for the forgiveness of God, listen, if God in his mercy can forgive you, I think that you should forgive yourself. Quit letting the devil cause you to look back at what was Looking back at your life and where it's been, and you think, oh, I can't do for God or I can't be for God or I could never accomplish this or I couldn't have a family like that or I couldn't be used like this Because of what I was. Listen, what you was is forgiven. And God forgave it and he forgot it. He put your sins as far as the east is from the west. That means they're gone, beloved You've been forgiven. There's no reason to dwell on those anymore. You can let it go this morning. The old accuser of the brethren, he'll keep bringing that up. He'll keep trying to put it in front of you, trying to discourage you, trying to say you aren't anything, you can't accomplish anything, you're nobody. Look at what kind of sinner you are. You can say, yeah, but I'm a forgiven sinner. I'm forgiven this morning. And I can know the joy of the Lord and know that He doesn't deal with me after my sin, but according to His tender mercies. And praise God, the devil can't bring that up to me anymore. Because God has forgiven it. Beloved, we can't look back because our sins are forgiven. What was yesterday? Let it go. Don't worry about that. Listen, beloved, don't look back because your defeats need to be forgotten. Your defeats need to be forgotten. Listen, every one of us have known defeat. Every one of us have experienced failure. And one of the surest ways to discourage any measure of success tomorrow is to dwell on yesterday's defeat. We look around the world today and there are many people that we look at and they're successful. They're what we would say victorious or successful in their life today and we we look at them and we say, well man, if I just knew that kind of success. What you don't know is all the defeat that they overcame to have that success. That's correct, right. We could talk about many different people, but I was actually reading this week about Elon Musk and how he started SpaceX. And invested everything that he had in this endeavor to be a private citizen Who wanted to build rockets to go to space. I mean, can you imagine that endeavor? Just oh yeah. I want to go to space, to Mars. This is what I I want an ambition to do. And and to buy a rocket was like $60 million. He's like, oh, I can't do that. So he tried to go to Russia and buy several ICBMs from Russia, and they wanted like $10 million apiece for him, and he figured he had enough money to do two launches. But to buy those would be twenty million dollars, and then he figured it'd cost another ten million dollars to get them functional to actually to work, and so there's thirty million, that's all the money he had. He said that's too much money. So he decided instead of buying an ICBM something ready to go to space, he was going to design and build his own. So he hired a bunch of really smart people and started SpaceX. And he spent every dollar he had. And they launched their first rocket and it exploded into pieces. I mean it was it was a disaster. And he thought, well, I figured we'd have, you know, trial and error, so we're gonna do another one. And they launched their second rocket and it exploded. Two defeats. He says, well, let's scratch together every last penny we got. We're gonna launch a third one. And the third one exploded. He says, Well, we've learned what the problem is, I think, but now we're out of money. I mean he was he was talking about I was listening to him tell his own story. He says I was sitting in the boardroom And everybody was so discouraged, and they're like, what are we going to do? There's no more money. We've invested everything we have. We've done all that we know how to do. And and uh he says, we know what the problem is. He said, we just need money to make it happen. He said, we're gonna do it. We're gonna launch a fourth rocket. He says let's do it. So he he was excited about it. He says, We're ready, man. This one's gonna work. We're gonna and and around that room everybody got excited. He says, Yeah, we can we can do this, we can do this. So they all got excited about it, but they didn't have any money So he went out and raised thirty million dollars of money he didn't have to try and launch a rocket after he after he had failed three times And the fourth rocket was a success. And within a couple of couple of months of launching that, NASA uh gave him a contract. I I can I can't remember. It was billions of dollars of contract to be the company that supplied the International Space Station with their needed materials. What a few to quit after that third rocket. What I'm saying is everybody's known defeat. Everybody's experienced failure. Everybody's experienced the the the the disappointment of not accomplishing what maybe they set out to do. You can't dwell on that. You can't worry about what was yesterday. You can't spend time looking at and pondering at unachieved goals or promises that weren't kept or projects that you didn't complete. Only those that never attempt to do anything don't know defeat. And only those that quit are failures. You can know defeat and get up again and keep going. There's some people that just don't know what it means. To fail. Because they're not going to quit. You just keep going. You don't let the defeat destroy you You just keep going. There was a little boy who uh was bragging to his dad one day about how good of a hitter he was, how he could really swing the bat, man, he could hit home runs. And he was talking to his dad about it, and finally his dad said, Okay, let's go out in the backyard, I want to see you hit the ball. And so the boy grabbed his Softball and his bat and they went out in the backyard and dad stood off to one side and the the boy threw the ball up and he swung and missed. And he grabbed the ball again and his his dad's watching and he threw the ball up and he swung for all he could and he missed. He got ready again, lined it all up, threw the ball up again, and he swung it again, and he missed. And he says, man, I forgot how good of a pitcher I was. Listen, stop looking at your defeat and start recognizing and seeing that there is victory available. You can accomplish something. The devil would want to hold that discouragement in front of you, that defeat in front of you. They would want to look at yesterday, and there's some people that say, Oh, I don't set any goals for the new year because I always break them. That's yesterday's defeat, and if you never aim for anything, you're never gonna hit it. You gotta shoot for something. You've got to have a goal, some kind of of ambition, and listen, because yesterday was a defeat doesn't mean tomorrow has to be. Don't look at yesterday's defeat. Stop letting the devil hold that in front of you. God wants you to succeed more than you want to succeed. God is really and willing and ready for you to be victorious, Christian. He wants you to be victorious and he's ready for you just to start again, start afresh, start anew, try one more time. Say hey, maybe yesterday didn't work, but I'm not worried about yesterday. I'm gonna strive to accomplish something today I hope you will this year. Set your life and focus on what's ahead and accomplish something great for God. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down. For the Lord upholdeth him with his hand. So you've misstepped. You've fallen. You've messed up in yesterday. God wants to hold you up with his hand and give you victory tomorrow. Don't look back at the defeat that should be forgotten. Look ahead and fight for the victory that's yours in Jesus Christ. Let me just throw this out. Don't look back at the old disputes that should be forgotten as well. We're not going to spend long here, but listen, some of you are nursing old wounds like they were pets. You've got some problem, some issue, some circumstance. And you're just nursing that thing. Let it go. Let it go. It's just holding you back. Even areas in your life, things that you have, by your own testimony, you've said, I've forgiven that person When you continue to nurse that, when you continue to ponder it and think about it and dwell upon it, it opens and stirs that wound afresh and new. You've got a purpose to forget those things that are behind. Just let them go. Just let it go. You know that's the only way a couple can stay married for their whole life? You've got to just let it go. You can't just be making your list and holding all these things against each other. Your marriage is never going to last. You gotta just say, okay, I just let that go. Why? Because my love for her is more important than this little thing right here. Our relationship is worth more than that. And listen, what God wants you to accomplish in your life and the victory and the joy of the Lord that could be yours is worth a lot more than nursing that old wound. Just let go of that stuff. The devil's using it to make you bitter and sour and upset in your spirit. And the person that's hurting the most is you. Let it go, beloved. Let it go. It's just destroying you from the inside out. Forget about it. Say, I'm done nursing that because I want to be more victorious this year. I want to accomplish more. I want to see more done for God. I want to be happy this year. I'm sick of being miserable. If you want to get over that, you've got to let it go. Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisy and en beings and evil speaking As a newborn babe, desire the sincere milk of the word. Lay aside all that junk. Let it go, beloved Could I encourage you lastly this morning that don't look back because your past is not as bright as your future. Your past is not as bright as your future. You see, it's human nature to look back, especially as we get older. We begin to ponder and think about the good old days How things used to be. You know, we we we like to think about that. You know, I've told you before but Wearsby, he always said the good old days is a combination of a bad memory and a good imagination. That's what the good old days are. You you realize it wasn't the good old days when you were going through it? It wasn't the good old days when you were living it. I remember Mary's downstairs this morning. She tries to let me know when she's not going to be in here so I can talk about her. I mean, so um when we first got married, I I remember we moved into our first home. We bought our our first home for $7,000 cash. It was a 1970 Fairmont, 14 by 70 mobile home. I'm just gonna throw this out. Kids, you don't need everything your mom and dad have when you first start out. It would do you good to live inside your means for a little while. We paid cash for our first home. But we were in love. So it didn't matter that there was no carpet. It didn't matter that the kitchen cabinets were actually in a stack in the living room. It well maybe this did matter. And one night when we came home late in the evening, Mary was carrying groceries, she walked through the front door and she fell through the floor. Now praise God that she did not break anything, but she did hurt herself pretty good. She bruised herself up, cut her cut her legs and her arms and Uh of course I felt like the worst husband in the world bringing my wife into a place like this and how could I do this to her? And I remember that first winter. When the pipes froze, and I'm laying down underneath the trailer in a puddle of water and freezing cold temperatures trying to thaw out the pipes so that we could have water in the house Dems was the good old days. Right? What I'm saying is you forget about it. You forget it wasn't as amazing as you thought it was. I had a Ford F-250 four-wheel drive red pickup truck that I bought for $400. Yeah, my wife knew when I was coming home several blocks before I got there, that thing was so loud. Listen, I drove it for about a year and a half and got 200 bucks out of it when I gave it to the junkyard. Live within your means. You don't need to have everything perfect. You look back and you say, boy, in them good old days. Listen, you just got a good imagination and a bad memory. Your future is brighter than your past every single time. Because the future hasn't been lived yet. Because the pages of tomorrow aren't marked yet. Because the success that's possible is still there for you. It's still available. We need to remember that a great future beats a great past every single time. Our problem is that we have the disease that the children of Israel had. They left Egypt, they got into the wilderness, and they forgot what Egypt was like. They forgot that they were enslaved, that they were in bondage, that they were uh you know had hard taskmasters back in Egypt. They were enduring a little bit of struggle today, and they said, Boy. Wish we were back in Egypt. Wish we were back there. Things were a lot better back then. At least we had leeks and onions. We've got the problem the children of Israel have. Listen, Christian, you forgot how hard it was in the world. You forgot the loneliness, the emptiness, the hopelessness You forgot what it was like without Jesus Christ, and you're looking back at the world and the days, bygone days, and saying, oh, I wish it was like that But your future is bright. Listen, your success is yours with Jesus Christ. Don't look back. Don't look back. Let last year be last year. And let's have a year of victory and of success with Jesus Christ. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Look ahead. Look to Jesus And let's see great victory in our lives as believers this coming year. Look at tomorrow with all of its possibilities and its promises. Look ahead. The best is yet to come. Don't look back. Dear Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you in this moment of invitation, you'd be with every Christian here. Lord, I pray that you would give us the strength to Stand against Satan who would want to hold up our past sin in front of us and limit us from being and doing what you want us to accomplish in the future. Would want to keep those defeats in front of us and keep us from being successful tomorrow. Lord, help us to realize that victory is possible with Jesus Christ. And we'll praise you for it. May every heart yield to you and be strengthened by you this hour. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.