He set me up this time 'cause he asked me to do some and I'm like Really? I I haven't got to it yet. I spent all day I had uh we had a incident occurred about a year and a half ago and as we were traveling and We had somebody steal something from us and the only thing they stole was my notes, all my sermons. All of ever every sermon I've had for the last thirty years I've been preaching and I was led to the Lord to start putting it digitally and I got through the index but none of my sermons made it and so I lost everything and uh I've been trying to piece some of them together and it's not going rapidly Uh so I spent today getting a message. I don't know if it's gonna be as it was a good message In the past. And the message is still good. Whether the delivery will be okay or not, you have to decide. But um we're gonna be in uh first Kings chapter seventeen. I feel like um you know, you get around these guys I've been with this week and man, the voices they've got, you know Uh boy tonight he's delivering that. He's giving a track to a guy things your rabbi doesn't want you to hear. And what he said, well how'd it go with rabbi? He cussed me out. Exactly what my track said. You know, he doesn't want you to hear this. And and jeans last night, I mean that that guy's got a voice, doesn't he? Like, man, I feel like a mule to Kentucky Derby. You know, uh Pat's got this way and just saying everything so smoothly and all the anyway. So hang on tonight. Try to get something out of the message anyway. We're in 1 Kings chapter 17. I'm sure that you have heard a message or two out of this passage. Try to take a different look at Xarephat tonight. So 1 Kings chapter 17. Let's begin reading in verse 1. And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, as the Lord thy Lord God of Israel liveth before whom I stand, there shall not be dew, nor rain. These years, but according to my word, and the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence. Turn thee eastward Hide thyself by the brook Sheereth, that is before Jordan. And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook, and I have commanded the ravens, I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. And he went and did according unto the word of the Lord, for he went and dwelt by the brook Chirith, which is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him flesh and uh bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up, and because there had been no rain in the land, and the word of the Lord came in him, saying, Arise, get to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded, a widow of the woman there to sustain me. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. And he rose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold the widow woman was there gathering of sticks, and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand And she and she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal and a barrel and a little oil and a cruise. And behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. Elijah said to her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said. But first, but make me thereof a little cake first And bring it unto me, and after make for thee and thy for thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste Neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she and he and her house and did eat many days, and the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the crude of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick And his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. And she said to Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Art thou come to call unto me uh c uh come unto me to call my sin To remembrance and slay my son. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, as we bow before you this evening, a quiet moment here, I pray, Father, you'd have your will and way in the service. Dear Father, I pray that you need your Holy Spirit to move. I pray that you'd speak through me, guide the very message I would bring tonight. Open ears, open hearts, help us to leave here different than we came in. As the truth of your word may ring in our hearts and in our minds. Let it affect our hearts, and let it affect our lives from this day henceforth from everyone. Lord, I pray that you'd use this conference. So many lives and souls are in the balance. Pray, Father, that you would bless the pastor and bless this church. That everything is said and done tonight in honor and glory to Jesus Christ. For it's in his name that we pray. Amen. I want you to notice, first of all, A neglect of a vision. The neglect of a vision. Down in verse 10, we see a woman, and the first vision we have is the woman gathering. sticks. Now, I believe this woman can illustrate a couple of different people. I see her as a picture of a sinner, uh lost, on their way to hell. And she's doing everything she can. She's doing her very best, but she herself admits that it's not going to be enough And oftentimes people do not understand what it's like to talk to somebody else about their salvation. If you've never witnessed to somebody, I challenge you to take the opportunity. Uh it's it is exciting to say the least, um and and you get an idea of how their view of the world is And she's trying all she can, uh sinners do. They try to, they, they, they're like just like this window, they window, they spend their time in an effort to obtain eternal life. But the problem with that is always the same death. Why? Yes, I in. No matter how much good we do, we are still under Sin's curse. Bible says the wages of sin is death. So many people concentrate on heaven. In fact, I I hope I don't offend anybody tonight. But uh when I don't like some tracks. I didn't look at your rack, preacher. I hope I know you got the most beautiful track rack in this entire area. I found that out last night. But uh I didn't go through your tracks But I'll just be I'm talking personal here. This is my personal opinion. Let me step out of the pulpit so you don't think it's gospel. I don't like ticket to heaven I don't I don't I don't use them. I I I detest them. Uh because we live in an area, we live in a country that we serve in that when we went there um twenty well it'll be twenty one uh over twenty years we went in two thousand we went actually Two thousand and five. Yeah. Um, so twenty years ago. And it was the most atheistic country in the entire planet. And uh uh they were sick of religion. And religion is teaching people how to go to heaven The problem is they don't deal with what prevents you from going to hell. And so when we deal with people, one of my most commonly repeated phrases is Jesus Christ wants to do for you what you cannot do for yourself. And that is remove the penalty of sin and death and hell, the second death And this is the problem. I don't even mention heaven when I'm dealing with somebody's salvation. It never comes up. And when they finally, if they do receive Christ, I say, oh, and by the way, let me just bring this up. A little side benefit you might not have noticed in this. You have a home in heaven. And Jesus tells us in John 14 that he's gone to prepare a place for us. And God is preparing a place for you now that you're in one of his children. And we we we bring that up later because if somebody truly gets born again If they truly get re uh re they repent from their sins and they are given redemption through Jesus Christ, they will work, they will serve because they are appreciative of what God has done. However, if you sell them a ticket to heaven, they got their ticket, what more is there to life? Especially the Christian life So I see her as an illustration of the sinner doing all they can, but failing. Most religions cannot help you. I tell people all the time in Estonia, I'm less religious than you are. They look at me kind of funny, and then I go through and explain to them. I said, Do you do this? Well yeah. What you're a preacher I said, Yes, but I believe in a relationship with Jesus Christ What a difference that makes. And I I know you probably deal with that in Israel. Religion, religion, religion, you know. Um it's sending a lot of people straight to hell. Everyone needs a savior, a redeemer, a deliverer. We look at this widow, we can also see an illustration of a Christian. We sit here working diligently, yet not accomplishing anything. Why? Where was her focus? Her focus was not on things above. The Bible says that we are to set our affection on things above, not on things on the earth. Her focus was not on God. Her focus was not on what he could do. She had neglected the vision. Her focus was was on her problems. She was busy looking at the ground for what? Two sticks. Uh, that's a pretty pathetic fire. If you've ever built a fire, uh in fact I've never been able to accomplish a fire with two I would have kinda like to have seen how she did that. Uh uh that would have been kind of an amazing thing. Uh, but she was looking for two sticks. She should have been looking for a God of deliverance. She's kinda like a lot like Moses. You know, uh when when when God speaks to him from the brush bush and he be Moses cannot understand All that God had done and would do for him. If some place like, well, what do you have there, Moses? What's in your hand? Nothing but a stick. You know, uh do you not realize the power that I can imbibe in a piece of wood, Moses? Uh you know, uh he calls it the Lord's later on. Just a stick But just a stick in God's hands can be mighty. He had so little. He really did. I mean it's kinda sad, really, you stop to think about it. I mean she didn't even have enough to make a cake You understand in the Bible there are different things. We have loaves and cakes and wafers. And that's why I may preach on that down in the kids. Uh uh feeding of the 5,000, I I I I hope again don't step on toes here. I detest uh little boys lunch. Come on. I'm a King James Bible man. It says five loaves. It doesn't say five. I had a preacher one time preach on five discets. And I as a child, I didn't go to church, but I remember hearing that and thinking in my head, how do you make sandwiches out of five pieces of bread and two fish. What woman in her right mind would send her little son out with five pieces of bread Two feast two fish and say here and make sandwiches. That boy would have been trying to do the algebra already, trying to figure out how to divide that. It's impossible Okay, it wasn't a little boy's lunch. Read your Bible. It was five loaves. It was for sale, the Bible tells us. They had they were saying 200 penny worth wasn't sufficient. Either what have you? Well, here's a boy and he has five loaves, two fish. Hello. It was loaves. You don't give boys loaves. Well, maybe you do if they're teenagers. Five loaves is a lot of lunch. Still can't divide it with the two station, but that's inside the point of another method. Our point is this. She didn't even have enough to make cake, let alone a loaf. Never stopped to think why was she gathering sticks in the first place? She had wood at home. Don't look at me like that. The Bible said she had a barrel. Come on. Why didn't she use the barrel? Well, I believe if she knew, she broke the barrel. It's done. Okay. It's over. There would have been no hope. I think she held on just to the edge of hope. Thinking, God, I still have a little bit in the barrel. You can still do something. She was not gonna get any more meal if she didn't have a barrel. And Oh, that's that big bag of money you tell me about. I didn't know that was move it out of the way there. You know, we need to be a little bit like that. She may be saying outward, we're gonna die. But in her heart she may have been praying, please Lord, don't let me die. I don't think she gave up praying. I believe that's why she didn't break the barrel. The barrel represented hope. She won wanted God put meal in a barrel. If we break our barrels, then God cannot fill them. Don't break your barrel. Never give up hope. I want to tell you something I have seen so many times in the ministry. I've seen it so many times in my life. Our timetable is not God. Okay? And I got some story I'll tell you about our timetable and God's timetable And uh when we got expelled I when I when I got expelled in two thousand from from Russia, um it wasn't going well. And God literally brought a storm in that the aircraft that I was being expelled upon could not fly. And God I was like, man, it's over. It's too late for me and And God said, I can bring a storm. Oh you know, this is nothing. No big deal. And he did. And uh God can do that And God does do that. And God still can do that. Don't break your barrel. Keep hoping the Lord. His timetable's not your timetable until you stand before him. Saying, Lord, here I am. It's not too late. It's never too late for God. I don't know how many times I've seen a Christian quit Just when they're about to receive the blessings from God. We've had missionaries come through Estonia, family after family after family after family. Serve year, two. We have one guy what was it uh one year. Uh I think the family that came over at him like nine months. Nine months, we haven't had a convert we're leaving. Uh, okay. Uh we've had families stay. We had one family that was there and about every year or two they'd move uh to a new location I kept saying, you don't understand. You've got to get into the homes of the people. You can't do that in in one day. We had we had Baptist couriers for Christ come over and pass trying to pass out thousands of I I I know I shouldn't be laughing about this, but it was horrible. I kept telling guys you don't understand. I'm I'm gonna pray, I'm gonna hope that I am totally wrong. I want to be wrong so bad. Uh but I really don't think this is gonna work And when it didn't, then not one person came the church, I said, you know, hey if I would have been optimistic, I think it would have broken my heart But uh I wasn't being pessimistic, I was being realistic, amen. I said, hey, we've been doing this a long time over here, and we know you have to get to know people. You can't just Pass out a piece of literature on the streets and expect them to get saved. We try. We will try and hallelujah. It could happen because God can do things But if you expect it, I try. I did expect it. And but I don't get disappointed when it takes more time. And I've seen so many missionaries quit because it takes a lot longer time than they expected. In twenty years. It was twenty years. You get this it was we as we began our twentieth year, nineteen years exactly. Um almost to the month. We saw our first two Estonian normal professional Estonian. What I mean by that is they weren't out of the jail, weren't they weren't Russians, they weren't on alcohol and drug rehab and things like that. Just normal people Um first thing we've had people saved, but not Estonia. Um Yeah. What a blessing. And uh twenty years of beating heads against the wall. Something harder than the rock and that's my head, I guess. I don't know. I asked somebody asked me one time, why don't you quit? I said, Well, first of all, I'm I'm too stupid to do anything else. Uh I'm too afraid uh to do anything else and uh I'm too greedy to do anything. What do you mean by greedy? Ah man, uh you you serve the Lord. There's nothing finer. And I just love the blessings of God. And I mean that with all my heart. Uh when we went to Estonia we were begging God to send us. We didn't go to Estonia kicking and screaming and saying, Oh God, why us? Why do we just send us Estonia No, we're like, oh hallelujah. We get to go. I want you to understand about missions. When God calls you, it is the greatest honor and privilege you can possibly experience. And it is a joy. The Bible tells us in Psalm 37:4, Delight thyself also in the Lord, and He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. When you delight yourself in the Lord, when you get right with God Your wonder and God's wonder get in alignment. Amen? And it's a joy. So let's not neglect the vision. The Bible tells us that they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with the wings of eagles, they shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. Don't break your barrel. Don't quit. Don't stop. Don't don't don't quit on God. Keep your eye on the multitudes. Don't be looking down when you should be looking up. Jesus himself said, Say not ye, there are yet four months, and then cometh harvest. Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields. But they are white already in the harvest. We need to get our eyes off our problems and get them focused on the field. This woman here had been uh this widow had almost been blinded by the God of the world. I'm gonna die. I love what Elijah said. Did you catch what Elijah said? Well, go ahead and do that. But before you do that, eat your cake and die. Make me one. Did you get that? That's just funny right there. That is. You know, go ahead and do what you said you did. Which is what? Eat your cake and die. But before you do that, give me one first. You know, you ever thought about what one more cake would make a difference Huh? I mean, this is pretty small if you can cook it with two sticks. Amen. I can I and I can see the turmoil when he said, make me a cake first. She's like If I make you a cake, I won't have one for me and my son to eat and die. Really? You're worried about how much longer are you gonna Two of you survive if the amount of meal you have is not enough to make one cake to split between the two of you. What are you gonna prolong your life three hours? Is it worth dying for? Amen. Here's God in heaven. Here's the deal. You can die in now and have a huge blessing for eternity, or you can wait three hours and lose everything. No blessing. I'd be like, okay, yeah, take me now. Three hours, really? Maybe a day? I don't know. Not long. We're all that way though. You don't believe it? I remember when we um started up in our faith promise years ago, we was like, Well, we can afford twenty dollars a week. Oh if we can afford twenty-five, what's another five dollars? Well, if we can afford twenty-five, what's thirty? Only another five dollars. If I can afford thirty, what's forty? Ten dollars. Nine more than one. And it got kept going up and up. It's it got to be that conversation, you know? Um it really does mean that much. What is it? What is that really? That amount. Seriously. It's not that much. It's not that much. But we want to hold on to those little things, don't we? I remember um it was the spring of ninety eight. And we had flown we had just left California and it was in February. And it was warm kind of for California. Now California people don't realize California has winter. Okay, I gotta thank my son last week. And they were showing us how they were sledding down the hills of Palomar and and they went from the mountains to the uh went from the summit to the seashore in one day. Uh um so they went from down the hill and got out of the snow and went to the surf and Um but it gets cold. Um you can get you can actually occasionally get it down to freezing. Just relax, not that cold, but it can get cold for them. And so I remember we left California and it was cooler. And so my wife, we were dressed, I had short sleeve shirts on, you know, she put a like a light jacket. on as the evening was coming around, it's getting a little cooler. We're going to the airport to fly out and we say goodbye, you know, we get on the aircraft and immediately we're tearing off our clothes, start getting built up 'cause we're flying into Alaska in the winter, February. And so we wanted to when we landed to not be uh frozen. You know? And so we put on our heavier clothes and we put those lightweight garments. We kinda just stuck them in the bottom of a suitcase And uh we f got into Alaska, we changed planes, we flew into Russia when we landed in now mind we haven't stopped traveling. We've been traveling it was about sixty Probably two in California. And when we landed in Russia, it was forty below zero. Um yeah, it was a little cooler. And uh I it was cold. I mean you breathe in and you're everything freezes. I'm not joking, it really does. And uh it was cold. And weeks go by, just like a week, two weeks, not long, and we're getting established in a new village. And um we couldn't get any money in. And uh it i it's still cold. It's freezing. And we're trying to straight by And uh so we're dealing with our bank and trying to get money in from their bank to our bank to this bank to there and finally we got it settled. They said it's gonna take about a month to get clearance to get your monies transferred. Okay. How much money do you have, Brother Mike? Well we had sixty rubles, which was about ten bucks. We had ten bucks and we gotta la live a month on ten bucks. But we had a bag of rice. One. That was 110 pounds, so we had rice, but we didn't have We didn't have sugar. We didn't have uh oil. We didn't have sausage, we didn't have butter, we didn't have we had nothing else. And I mean nothing with nothing else. You with me? We didn't have sugar. We had nothing else. But you get water and rice and that was gonna be it. And uh So I had a family meeting round the table, family conference, because I don't want to hear any complaints out of my children. You're gonna shut up and eat it? Or you can go out shut up and go hungry. I don't care. But either way you're gonna just shut up because w I can't do anything about this and We had a conference. My daughter's straight across the table from me. She's kind of looking at me. She's kinda got like this. You know, her face is kind of halfway down and st kind of crouched down. She's like, Woo! Family conference. This is terrible. It's almost really bad And big old blue eyes poking out there, you know. And uh I said, well here's the deal. I don't want to hear any complaints. No no uh whining or crying about no variety in our diet. We're eating rice, and that's all we've got for the next month until we can get money in. We're gonna have to eat rice. And my daughter goes, wait a minute, Daddy, are you trying to tell me we have to I said, Yeah, but it's just, oh daddy, she goes, every mission, every story I've ever read had something like this in it Lord bless my heart. Amen. And so that was on a Saturday, and we got up Sunday, and the weather had completely flipped It was like, wow, check it out. It's 30 degrees out. I'm not trying to exaggerate or brag. When you get you can all live there too, you'll be fine. But you you're going from 40 below to 30 above. That's huge. And I said, man, it's so warm out. Because you've been used to it. I said, I'm just gonna wear my suit. I'm not even gonna put a coat on. My wife's like, well, I think I'll dig that jacket I had in California out of the bottom of the suitcase. I'll wear that to church. And so we went to church. Before I could go there though, I'm in the back. I'm getting dressed. And I'm as I'm getting dressed, I have a set of shelves there. And I saw the 60 rubles, 10 bucks. And the Holy Spirit said, put that in your pocket. And the missionary said, no. And the Holy Spirit said, put that in your pocket. And the missionary said, I don't want it. If I put it in my pocket, I might have to use it. And that's all I got for the next month. Ten dollars. Sixty rubles and a bag of rice. And me and the Holy Spirit got an argument. That probably never happens with you, right? Happens with me unfortunately too many times. Fortunately, he was fine. I'll have to be honest with you. I know that the Bible says God loveth a cheerful giver. Okay? But he also will accept an uncheerful one. And I put the sixty rubles in my pocket, went to s went to work, went to church. As I was there, Yoda come up to me and goes, Hey, I have a chance to get a job. Seventeen men in our church all were alcoholics, not one had a job. I have a chance to get a job, but I need a spravka, which is a document from the hospital from the doctor. It costs 60 rubles. Do you have 60 rubles? I stop and think about it. What are you gonna buy with ten bucks for a month? Really? Really? See my point? Nothing. Okay. Maybe a bottle of ketchup. I mean things were expensive. There was nothing. But man, I wanted to hold on to nothing. Instead of letting God act and seeing what God can do with what He's given Well we got out of the apartment we got out of the uh church, we started walking to the down to the apartment where we live. We're just walking, you know, this is such a nice day. By the way, the next day it dropped back down to forty Bello. But I opened up the apartment door and my wife just before we got there says says, Honey, you had to give away the weight, didn't you? I said, Yep. She goes, I knew it. I knew if you took it. Gotta take it. See I told you. She she was happy. So she was happy. I well And she's like, oh that's great, that's wonderful. Let's see what God does. And as she gets it, her attitude and demeanor set the tone. And I said, well, hallelujah, we'll see what God can do. As we got in there, she happens to slip for some reason, put her hand in her pocket, and somebody in California, unbeknownst to us, had put a hundred dollars in that We had no idea. Now, you can say what you want. I am firmly convinced that the temperature moves 70 degrees. Prompt her to put that jacket on. And I'm firmly convinced that she had a wrong attitude. Had I not obeyed the Holy Spirit. She'd have never put her fingers in those in the in that pocket. We'd have found it eventually someday down the road when we didn't need it. But we needed it. And God provided in his time. Let's not neglect the vision. Let's keep that barrel intact. Vision without action is a daydream. Action without vision is a nightmare. Are you involved in missions or are you committed to missions? Those are different. Take the idea of ham and eggs. The chicken's involved, but the pig's committed. Do you go to church? Do you attend church? Or do you serve the Lord at Hunt Valley Baptist Church? There's a big difference. I'm talking to the wrong crowd. Amen? Thursday night, I'm talking to the wrong crowd. But I've seen Thursday night missions conference attenders over the years. Stopped attending Wednesday nights and Sunday nights and Sunday school and eventually church all day. Do not neglect the vision. Did you notice we read that? That God had already commanded the widow to feed Elijah before Elijah ever had the need to be fed? Did you notice the tense of that? I think that God came down to her one day and said, now Miss Widow, I'm going to send Elijah to your home Would you feed him? And I think she looked over now this is speculation. I know we're not supposed to speculate, but we do know his past tense and we do know she had more back then anyway. So I'm not I you know I believe that she looked in that barrel, said yeah, I can do that. I can do that. And I can imagine her day by day saying, he better show up pretty soon because it's starting to wear and run out here. Amen. It's not an act of faith to give out of your abundance. It's an act of faith when you're like the widow who gives her two might. By the way, she couldn't give more because she didn't have more. God never expects you to give what you don't have, He just only expects you to do what He tells you to do with what you do have. And I can imagine her um beginning to doubt God. Kind of like David doubted God and ran Ends up at the cave of Dulam. Kinda like Jacob who doubted God and had to connive his father. We need to keep our eyes focused ahead and not neglect the vision. The Bible tells us 2 Corinthians Chronicles 16, 9, for the eyes of the Lord went to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. God is looking for those that are weak. God is looking for those that are poor so he can show himself strong. That he gets the glory. I give all the praise and glory for that hundred dollars from God. And we didn't do it. I didn't go work extra. It was all God. 100%. Get your eyes off the problem, stop stooping for sticks. And look look on the field tonight. Don't neglect the vision. Number two, I want you to notice the necessity of giving. The necessity of giving. What do you reckon Elijah was doing at the Brook Shireth in the first place? Why didn't he go to s you know why he was there? It's real simple. The widow's barrel wasn't empty yet. Did you get that? Elijah didn't go to the widow's house for the widow to feed him. Elijah was sent by God so the widow could eat. We uh we don't we don't understand giving If we don't understand that concept. You said it last night, Brother Carey, William Carey. He went to Verma or India. So that England may be thanks. The necessity of giving. You can't outgive God One guy asked me again, the same same answer I gave. Why why do you give number one I'm too afraid not to? Number I don't want no curse. Amen. Number two, I'm too greedy And in number three, I'm too dumb not to. I don't know why it works. I don't know how it works, but it does. And I I'm greedy. I want God's blessings You mean you give? For God to give you blessings? Oh, that's wrong. You don't know what the Bible says then. What did Jesus say? Give, and it shall be given unto you. Jesus said that. If that's not incentive, I don't know what else that is. Amen. I want to give So they'll be given unto me. Good measure, pressed down and shaking together and running over so that I can give. So they can be given to me. So that I can give. It just it's a circle. The more that woman gave, the more God gave back. That woman was in great need. She had no means. But God used her to create it. Elijah was simply at Cherith waiting for the widow to be prepared to be blessed with God. God fed him with ravens. Where do you think they got the food at, by the way? That's probably a funny one. Oh the brook dried up. God can't bring water out of a rock. He didn't care that the brook. . He dried the brook up. Are you with me? We need to see the necessity of giving. Go. Widow's gonna feed you. I love God's choices. in his servants. Amen. I'm so glad he's not too big. I don't think he'd ever use I mean I'm so glad he uses us He chooses the weak and the poor so he can bless us when we go and do things we cannot do I'm not trying to be self self-human, you know, humble, what do you call that? Self-effacing. Like I'm really actually going, yeah, well, you know, no, I'm I'm I'm serious. Um when I was in fourth grade, I was in speech therapy class because I couldn't talk. And uh true story, it's not it's you've heard this before, I'm not a preacher. The teacher gave me up. For reprobate tongue. Forget it. There's no sense him doing that. She told my mom, my mom will be a witness, get him a make sure he gets in a career where you don't have to talk to anyone. True story. And uh uh God has a sense of humor You know, we and I I I'm uh my language how how how's your Russian? Well it's terrible. Uh but they understand me enough that they can get saved. Amen And I learned if you speak Russian with a Russian accent like you talk in English, you know, you bottak wasn't bill pool meals to voyavued, don't you shake, you know, they go, wow. His Russian's amazing. His grammar is perfect. I just quoted the Bible. Okay? You gotta learn how to use crutches, you know. And God does these things. God gave me that idea. Just memorize the Bible Then you don't have to worry about saying anything other than this is what God said. You know. The Bible says over here, Jesus said, I can learn those phrases and then quote scripture. Okay. Uh I don't have enough I know some people I we have a young man that took over our work in Russia. Wow, his Russian's so amazing. He sounds like Spurgeon preaching Russian. I'm not kidding you. Wow, I'm awe of him. Um But God chooses the poor and weak so that he gets to win. Never neglect the vision Notice the necessity of giving. Also, there's a never failing. A never failing God. Before Elijah ever went to the brook, God had already commanded a widow. Before Elijah Elijah went to the brook, God had already commanded the ramen. They were prepared for him because God looked ahead. God is not surprised. And so many times we act like he is surprised. Lord, you had no idea, did you, when you called me here that this was going to happen this way. One of my favorite ones of this is we had a man that I had met on a bus in Russia. I'd given him a track, I'd been invited to church. He finally came to church On the very Sunday when the Gestapo well it wasn't really the Gestapo, but it was close, uh they kicked the back doors into the church Came in with guns and video cameras and were interrog interrogating everybody. He's like First time in church, you know. Well, I'm a visitor! We're like, yeah, he's a visitor. And they're like, well, you can go then. And he never came back. Go figure. You know, God knew that was gonna happen when he came there. God knows what's gonna happen. We're gonna go out soul window on Saturday. God knows every contact you're gonna make. There's no accidents when you're serving God. She reaped, you know, you don't know the laws of the harvest. She reaped what she sowed. the meal, the oil. She reaped more than she sowed, because she was able to feed Elijah. She reaped after she sowed, she fed Elijah first, and she received in the same proportion. Because she had given her all. She had one thing in life worth living for, and that was her son. When her son died. Elijah brought him back from the dead to the power of God. By the way, that's the first resurrection recorded in Scripture. We have a never failing God. God is not surprised at anything that happens or anything that will happen. He knows he's on the throne. Don't act like he's sub don't be surprised and think he doesn't know. We got guys going to Bible college. Man and God, you didn't know that this was in the rules when you sent me here, did ya? Amen? Yeah, he didn't. The flour never ran dry. God, the Bible never says God filled the barrel. That widow had to trust God every time she made another cake. We have a never-failing God. Could you imagine she makes that cake and the tears are streaming down her face as she's cooking it for you like Okay, here we go. Now I guess for No no no I told you go do what you wanted to do. What are you talking about? You said he's gonna make a cake for you and your son and then die Well yeah, but you just used the last flour in the oil. Are you sure about that? Well yeah. I didn't hear me in your scraping the bottom of the barrel? You better go check Where'd that come from? They're boiling the cruise. Amen. We have a never failing God. And every time that was happening, I could see it first time and second time. Man, this is getting It's almost like spooky. I can imagine her calling her neighbor doing unbelievable. Watch me make a cake for a jet. Watch me on pouring the rest of oil out there. It's a tempting. This is what God does. And God still does that twenty twenty five. Why did God choose the widow? Because I'll tell you something. Yes, we criticized her for looking down, but she was still working one. She was doing everything she could do. She hadn't broken her barrel. She was still hanging on to the last thread of hope and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Tonight we have a never-failing God. Elijah was waiting by the river for the widow. God wanted to bless the widow. God didn't just simply want to feed Elijah. God wanted to feed the widow. God was taking care of her needs. God didn't want to give her the burden of feeding Elijah. God wanted her to give a blessing for feeding. Tonight. You want God's blessings? Oh, I have a little flower. If God asks you to give it, will you give it? I'm gonna tell you something. You'll never receive better blessings than when you get to the bottom of your barrel and God asks you to give that last ten rubles Or 60 rubble, 10 bucks, and watch what God does with nothing. Feed Elijah, use what you've had, don't break the burden. Break your