To uh give our hearts to God, to let Him speak to us and make decisions for the Lord. And I know that you can make a decision in your seat, but there is something about coming to the altar in sealing that decision for God. And it's uh something I just want to remind you of the importance of it, the biblical uh foundation of it. And why we as a church observe it, and then maybe encourage, exhort you to don't let it get to the place where it's strange for you where using the altar is something that it's been so long you feel funny doing it and it's been so long that it just seems like it's it's uncomfortable. You want to be familiar with the Lord's altar. You want to be familiar with that. The Bible says in Psalms 43, verse number 3 and 4, it says, O send thy light. and thy truth, let them lead me, let them bring me unto the holy hill and to thy tabernacle. Then will I go unto the altar of God. Unto God my exceeding joy. Yea, upon the heart will I praise thee, O God, my God. We see the reference here to the altar, this altar of God, the place where man would meet with God, where they would get into the presence of God. This term altar that we use is something that even the world knows what it is by its implication. I mean they might not understand uh what we do as far as the invitation. They might not realize like we call this an altar, but if you mention an altar Even the world knows that an altar by nature is a place in which sacrifice is made. A place in which somebody would take something and give it or present it or offer it on an altar And the altar we have that is down in front of the auditorium, the place where we've chosen to set up an altar, the place where we've chosen to Signify and set apart as holy ground where we come and make decisions for God. It's a precious place. It's a valuable place. That invitation that we hold at the conclusion of a service, often called the altar call. Is a time when we can truly make decisions for God. It really is the most important part of a service. Or everything else leading up to that point, if preaching does what it's supposed to do, preaching is supposed to bring you to a point of decision. That's what preaching is. Now teaching is edification, and teaching uh gives us doctrinal truths and helps us learn and understand. But The aspect of preaching is that you would be brought to a point of decision where you have to decide something for Christ. And you make that decision for the Lord. And you seal that decision at an altar. Mark it down, friend, the church that's moving forward for God. A church that's pleasing God and fulfilling the Great Commission is going to have a very active altar. It's going to have an altar that the members of the church are very familiar with. You would be able to walk by the altar, and in your heart's heart and mind you would be able to think about the decision you made when you were kneeling right here at this place. Maybe five, ten, fifteen years ago, you say I was kneeling right here. This is where I was when I made this decision. Or, oh, I was right here in front of the piano. When I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior, I I knelt down right here and and the pastor came or one of the men came and showed me how I could know for sure I was on my way to heaven The altar over time becomes a precious place where you've met God, where He's come and touched your heart and brought change in your life Things that are life-changing, things that you carry with you, not just today, not just tomorrow, but 10, 15, 20 years later, you still in your heart know that decision was made for God and you did it right there. That precious place, the altar of God, a people that is right with God and real familiar with the Lord's altar, or people that are close to Him. It is that place where we offer the sacrifice of our sin. We lay it on the altar and turn it over to God and let it go. It's a place where we offer ourselves, a sacrifice for service. I don't know. We could go through the room tonight and Get testimony from all everyone present, decisions that you've made that were sealed at the altar. Psalms 26. Says, Judge me, O Lord, for I have walked in mine integrity. I have trusted also in the Lord, therefore I shall not slide. Examine me, O Lord, and prove me Try my reins in my heart, for thy loving kindness is before mine eyes, and I have walked in thy truth. I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers. I've hated the congregation of evildoers and will not sit in with the wicked. I'll wash my hands in innocency. So will I compass thine altar. The altar of God. There's great contrast here in this passage of Scripture between the world and the flesh and those that would do wrong and those who compass the altar of God. Because when we're real familiar with the altar of God, we're less familiar with the world, this flesh, and the devil. We have an altar call here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and Lord Will, and we'll always have an altar call. There is a great movement today. There is a lot of pressure, even in fundamentalism, to do away with the altar call. To get rid of it, to say, to say that's you're manipulating the emotions of people and trying to get them to make a decision and Oh, let's have one more verse and give them one more opportunity, trying to pop prop yourself up and say, Oh, you had people do make a decision for Christ and and they make it about self-glorification. And the articles that are out there, and I don't want to encourage you to go read any of that foolishness, but they're attacking churches like ours that are having an old-fashioned altar call. There they're they'll y you you go to many, many churches today and they'll get up, they may even preach a gospel message. But at the conclusion of the message they say, Okay Lord, go with us goodbye and dismiss the message, and there is no call to make a decision for Christ Beloved, the reason that we preach the truth of the Word of God and give an opportunity for Christ to speak to our heart is so that we might make a decision for Christ. If we leave from church Sunday after Sunday after Sunday, the same way we were when we came in, why are we going to church? What are we doing it for? Is it just to check off our little religious uh duty for the week? I want God to meet with us. I want God to speak through our hearts. I want God to change me. And that's made, that happens through making decisions for Christ. The altar call, we do it because it's biblical, friend. I don't have time tonight to walk through the pages of scripture and show you how often God told his people to build an altar But I think you know if you've been in church at any time that the altar is something God was real familiar with, and he encouraged and challenged his people over and over again to build an altar unto him, a place where they would come and meet with him. Abraham built an altar to remember the promises of God in Genesis chapter 12. All the way back in Genesis chapter 12. We're just a few chapters out of creation. Now, if you know Bible history, you know a lot of stuff happened between Genesis chapter 3 and Genesis chapter 12. But we're just a few chapters on down the road. And Abraham built an altar. He says, Then the Lord appeared unto Abraham and said unto Unto thy seed will I give this land. And there builded he an altar unto the Lord. who had appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto a mountain, unto the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east, and there he built an altar unto the Lord. We find Hannah at the altar begging for a son. Oh, she could have prayed for a son anywhere if she wanted to go to a special place. A place where she could feel and know God's presence, a place where she had met with God before, and she was moved to come to the altar. And she begged God for a son, and God answered her prayer. Friend, don't be ashamed of what God does in your heart when he moves when he calls you to make a decision. Sometimes people say, well it's a private decision and nobody nobody knows but me, so I'm just going to stay right here. I don't want anybody to know. Now it is a decision between you and the Lord. And it's not a matter of other people supposed to be watching. Encourage you, you know, the altar call, that time's not time to be looking around and finding out what sinners are moving. Right? That's not that's not what it's for. We're to be communing with God. But you know many times in the scriptures when God did a miracle in somebody's heart? He would tell them, go and tell everyone what I did for you. You say, oh, well, it's a private decision. I made I made this decision in my heart. You know what might do some good to share with the church family what God did. Somebody else might be struggling with that same thing and realizing, man, if uh if God helped them get victory in that, I I maybe I could get victory in that We don't know what it might do, but if we would swallow our pride and be willing to just let God change us The Lord said, Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess before my Father which is in heaven. We have biblical example after biblical example of the altar. We also have the biblical example of Christ. Who all through his ministry had the message come. He was calling men. Come unto me, all ye that are weak and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come. Look up the passage of Scripture over and over and over again, you'll find Christ. Saying those words. And that's what an invitation is. That's what the altar call is. It's a time where we say, would you come? Not come to me as the pastor. Praise God. Nobody's confessing anything to me. They're coming to an old-fashioned altar just to a point where they can kneel down and do a work with God and meet with Him. Christ calls over and over again, come. We have the practical example that you see oftentimes in the scriptures where he told them to build an altar. As a memorial, as a place where they would remember what God did in their heart. Build an altar as a memorial that they could remember and mark down what God did. And as I said in the beginning is an altar that you get familiar with will be a precious place for you. You'll be able to look at it and think about the decisions you made for Christ there. How you were almost gone. Your feet were well-nigh slipped. Except Jesus called you. And you confessed and got right with God, and he again put a fervency and a fire in your heart You'll remember the times where you knelt down at this altar and you were full of sin, but then you stood up and you're completely forgiven. Completely forgiven. Restoring that relationship with God again. The altar just becomes a precious place in a church. I think some of these young people They're all gone. Well the the ones that are approaching this age are gone right now, but it won't be too many years and we're going to be seeing some of them gather here at the altar to get married. This is the altar they got married at it. You know the joy about a church and just getting in and staying in He he's been in the same church his whole life. You know one day he was dedicated to the Lord at that altar Nine years later he he committed his heart to the Lord to to be a missionary at that altar. I'm sorry, nine you were saved? Yeah. Yeah, and I four years later he got saved and then nine years he t you committed. And and were you guys married at Heritage? No? You messed up my illustration. You went to a pagan altar and got married. No, you you you see that you get you get married at that altar and you know what, friend, you're you you're still there The day may come when your loved ones will gather around and be saying goodbye to you at that altar. There's something precious about a church family. About being in the family of God and just walking through life together. There's a lot of stages. There's some great ups and there's some real low times. But you're doing it together with a family, the family of God. And in that family, there's a family altar. Where we meet with God and He speaks to our heart and it becomes a place of memorial for us where we remember what God did. We have the proven example over time. How God has used the altar, the altar call. People can make fun of it and criticize it and say that it's that it's all for man, all they want. All I know is that once I was blind, but now I see. All I know is that there has been time and time and time again in the house of God where the man of God preached God's word and the Holy Spirit came and touched my heart and I came back to the altar. I said, Lord, I need to get this right. Lord, I need to quit doing this. Lord, I need to start doing this. God, would you give me strength? And the altar became a precious place. It's a place that just practically you can look at it and say, man, over and over and over again we've seen God do great things in the hearts of men and women and boys and girls when they came and made a decision for Christ at the altar. Beloved, there's something about stepping out There's something about coming from your seed, and I know you can make a decision where you're standing, but I think maybe it's just a matter of Swallowing your pride, or maybe it's just a matter of showing God how serious you are. I don't know what it is, but I know there's something about stepping out Why is that first step so hard? Once you take that first step towards the altar, the rest come easy. You come down to the altar and you just begin to pray and talk to the Lord I mean there's something about that, and yes, you can make a decision at your seat, but it's precious when you do it at the altar. I believe moving from your seed is a declaration to the Lord that you really mean business. That you're not just playing around. You know, we we've we've seen in our church some people who went several years without knowing for sure they were on their way to heaven and they battled with that and they gave testimony of how they would sit in their seat. And they would say, Lord, if I'm not saved, save me right now. But that's not the way you settle that. If I'm not saved Uh you first gotta decide whether you are or not. If you ever want to get peace, you gotta get it settled. You can't just go, oh well, maybe no. And they would pray that prayer service after service, still no peace in their heart, still not solidified in their mind, afraid that they're going to die and go to hell But they come to the old-fashioned altar and get it settled where they know beyond a shadow of a doubt either they're saved or they got saved that day. There's a story of a little girl who is heartbroken. She went to the altar in her local church and began to pray. She didn't really know too much about praying, certainly wasn't eloquent like others. But she had been in church her whole life and she had learned, her father said that God knows what you have need of even before you ask. And her father taught her that God prays for you when you pray. Jesus is praying for you to the Father. She came down to the altar and she began to cry because her heart was burdened over some sin or uh offense before God that she was carrying, and she she didn't know what to pray exactly, so she just prayed what she knew and she started saying A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and some concerned adult came up and said, well You know what are you what are you doing? She says, I'm praying to the Lord from my heart. And tears are coming down her face. And he says, Well, it sounds like you're saying you're ABCs. And she says, Yeah, but God knows how he needs to put those letters together to make it say whatever. So he could do that. I don't know what to say, but Dad told me he knows. The altar is for everyone. The altar is from the youngest in our church to the oldest in our church. We ought to be familiar with the altar and just be willing to come and Pour our heart out to God and you might not know what to pray. You might not even know why you're down there, but you know God has called you and told you to come and to kneel and do business with God There's a preacher who was holding a revival service in an old tent, having a temp camp meeting. One night a man walked in from the neighborhood. He was all dirty, cut off overalls on. At the conclusion of the service, the man came down to the front and He asked, just look at the pastor, just said, I need to be saved. And the man The pastor walked through the plan of salvation with them. The man trusted Christ and they stood up before the congregation and said, This this dear brother wants to just testify tonight that he trusted Christ as his Savior. And everybody of course rejoiced and cheered with them and praised God for the decision he made. And he said, Now, brother, what was it in the message that encouraged you to come forward and get saved tonight? And the the man said Preacher, don't take offense at this, but I have no idea what you said. And he says, well, i i if there's nothing in the message, what was it that caused you to come down the o to the altar here? And asked to be saved, and he says, well, when I was seventeen years old, I ran away from home. When I got to the first city that I Decided to stop. I opened my suitcase and my mom had put a note in my suitcase that said, Son, no matter where you go or how far you go, I want you to know you have a mom that's praying for you. And he said, I saw that note and it made me mad. And I just saw my mom at home praying for me. And she he said, I wrote, God curse your prayers, on the bottom of that note. He said, I continue to run from God for years and years. Well, preacher, not too long ago my mom passed away. Because she's no longer alive. I came back and I was sitting on our porch, which is just down the block here And as you guys opened your service tonight, I began to hear the songs that you were singing. And I thought about that. No matter how far you go, you've got a mom that's praying for you. He says, I got up out of my seat and began walking this way, and I heard you singing, What can wash away my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can make me whole again, nothing but the blood of Jesus? Oh precious is the flow that makes me white as snow, no other fountain will I ever know nothing but the blood of Jesus. He said, I just knew I needed the blood of Jesus. So when you gave me a chance, I came for it. What if that preacher had not had an altar call? What if he hadn't had an invitation? What if he'd just said, Oh, it's been good to be in God's house tonight. We praise God for his goodness. You guys are all dismissed. We'll see you. Well Jack Cole would be on his way to hell tonight instead of on his way to heaven because he responded to an invitation. Would you respond to the invitation? Would you just do what God wants you to do? Anytime God stirs your heart, you respond. God stirred you, God spoke to you, you respond. I understand coming down the altar doesn't mean you're confessing sin. Maybe you just want to thank God for speaking to you. Just praise God for His goodness. Thank him for being real and speaking to you in your devotions and opening the scriptures to you and giving you understanding and that he sent his son and and that you have the Holy Spirit and I don't know, but you just want to commune with God for a few minutes Respond when the invitation call is given and the Holy Spirit has stirred your heart. You ought to come often enough that it's not strange and uncomfortable. As I said, the altar's for everyone, but I want to encourage you parents, don't let kids make a mockery of it You know, the younger kids, maybe maybe parents ought to come down with them and say, hey, what what are we praying for? And help guide them Instead of just letting them come down here and they're praying and they and they're going like this. You know, they're they're looking I'm standing up here. I see them. They're not they're not praying. Now listen, with the Holy Spirit speaks to their heart, I want them to come and pray. I don't want to squash that. I want them to be familiar with the altar. The only way they're going to come to Christ at four or five years old is if they're familiar with the altar. The only way they're going to submit to be a missionary at nine is if they're familiar with the altar. But mom and dad, you need to help a little bit with that so it's not made a mockery of. Sometimes you might need to come and just pray for someone else Maybe just come and pray for the lost that might be in the audience. Just pray that they would respond and God would do something. Sometimes it might be just a matter of presenting yourself before God. I beseech ye therefore, brethren, by the Mercies of God, that you present your body as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Maybe you just need to come and say, Lord, here am I. Send me. Whatever you want me to do. I just want you to know I'm willing. I don't know, Christian, what it is, but I want to encourage you tonight to be familiar with the altar. Lord willing and Lord allows me to many years to continue to serve here. We're going to continue to have an altar call. But I don't want to just do it to do it. I want God to speak to us. And God's only going to speak when we respond. We've got to respond to him. Tonight David preached. Preached about who knew it. God knew it. God knew where you were going to be. He knew exactly what was going on in your life. He knew the struggle you were going to face and the strength that you would have. He knew where you would be for such a time as this. What are you doing? With what God where God has placed you? The the the it's not about the position you have. It's about doing what God wants you to do. Are you fulfilling God's will for your life where God has you? There's not a lot of time left. The night cometh when no man can work What are you doing with the time that you've got?