You can turn your Bibles this morning to John chapter number eighteen. John chapter eighteen We're going to read a few verses together. John chapter 18, verses 28 through 40. We're going to preach to you for uh a short time here I believe shouldn't be too long but the title of the message this morning is Don't Miss the Lamb Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment, and it was early, and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled. But that they might eat the Passover. Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusations bring ye against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death, that the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and he called Jesus, and he said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this of thyself? Or did others tell it thee of me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priest have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered unto the Jews? But now is my kingdom not from thence. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou the king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end I was born, and for this cause came I into the world that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone that is of the truth heareth my voice. Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said thus, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all. But ye have a custom that I should release unto you one at the Passover. Will ye therefore that I release unto you the king of the Jews? They cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas Now Barabbas was a robber. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning and ask that you would speak to our hearts. We ask you that you would turn our hearts and minds towards heaven for a few minutes. And Lord, that you would do the work that only the Holy Spirit can do as you draw men unto yourself and that you bring the power of the scriptures to reality in our lives. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. A man couldn't get his computer working. He was having a real problem He was struggling with that. He he did everything that he knew to do. I mean he had turned it on, off, turned it on and off. He had plugged it in and unplugged it. He had tried the the the special combination of keys to do a hard reboot. He held the button in for a long time trying to do a hard restart. He did everything he could do. Finally he swallowed his pride and he called tech support. Hard thing for man to do. He called tech support and uh of course tech begins running through the basics. You know, they start with the very basics and he's getting very frustrated with this simplicity of the questions and he actually became indignant when the m tech asked him, is it plugged in? He said, Of course it's plugged in. I'm not an idiot. He says, Well, would you just humor me? Please just look under the desk and is it plugged in? And he climbs under his own desk and He's got the phone on speaker phone and he's looking, he says, Well would you look at that? It's plugged into the power strip and the power strip is plugged into the wall. How about that? And that's when the tech said, Is the power strip turned on? After a long pause came the question, it has a switch? Have you ever missed the obvious? Have you ever uh been there and just just somehow you miss the obvious? I don't know what kind of superhuman power God has given my wife, but it's crazy because I will look for an item. And I will look and look and I will look in the same place three times. And then I'll ask Mary, hey, do you know where this is? And she will go right where I was looking and grab it. I think she hides it. And she is some kind of magic. She she hides it and waits till I'm ready and I ask her and then she produces it somehow. 'Cause it's just I'm like I looked there. I know I look there like you know, something in the fridge and you know, where's the milk? And she d I'm I've looked in there three times If we got new milk bottles or something, what what happened? I don't know how that is, but sometimes we if we're not careful, we miss the obvious Listen, in our text here, Jesus was taken by the Jews from Caiaphas unto Pilate to be interrogated. Look at verse number 28 again. He says, Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment, and it was early. And they themselves, listen to their motivation, their reasoning here. And they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled. That they might eat the Passover. Beloved, they had Jesus Himself in their care. They were so concerned about the spiritual. They were concerned about their ceremonial. They were concerned about being defiled. That they may be ready to observe the Passover. How ironic is it that these religious people Who were all about their customs were so concerned about the ceremony that they missed Christ. They missed the obvious. They missed that they had actually right there the Lamb that would take away the sin of the world. They were part of the greatest event in all of human history, and they missed it. My concern, beloved, as we observe the Lord's table this morning, is often we find comfort in the ritual instead of the righteousness. We have come to enjoy the process instead of looking for the person, the Lamb. Oh, we come and we look at the table But we fail to see the truth that the table teaches. And we walk out in the same condition as when we walked in. That, beloved, is not God's intention. I implore you today to not be like the Pharisees that loved the liturgy. And missed the Lamb. How is it, beloved, that these men involved in this great event could miss it? I look at these men, and these were certainly religious men of their day, and I think if they could miss it, it's possible that you and I could miss it. That we would be so focused on the ritual that we would miss the Lamb. So how can we observe the Lord's table today and not miss the Lamb? First of all, we need to remember That liturgy is the means, not the message. Now, liturgy is just a fancy word for ritual. It just means it just means religious activity. It's the activities that a church puts in. To events. And beloved, we as a church certainly just try to follow the Word of God, and the Bible tells us that everything should be done decently and in order. And there should be some order and there should be some structure to the observance of the Lord's table. There should be some patterns that are followed. It shouldn't be careless and haphazard and everybody doing whatever they want. There there ought to be some organization and and so we set forth a pattern and a plan, but beloved, it's not all about the pattern. We try and make it special, we try and make it as as eloquent as we can and as professional as we can But could I tell you this morning it would be just as special if we were serving the Lord's Supper on paper plates instead of silver platters? Because it's not about the decorum, it's not about the decorations, it's not about uh the the the pattern or the the habits that we have here, but it is about the the person, the Lamb of God, whose blood was shed that he might take away the sin of the world. Jesus in his upper room, as he observed the first Lord's Supper. He was not in some grand palace. He was not in some huge, beautiful worship hall. He was in a simple home and quite possibly using common dinnerware, if any at all, as they observed the first Lord's Supper, beloved There's nothing wrong with making it as special and as beautiful as we can, but those things are not what make it meaningful to you and I. That is not the message. The ritual is not what's important. Boy, the Pharisees had mastered ritual, but they had completely missed the relationship. They miss the lamb. And I hope this morning as you come into God's house that you are here and we observe the Lord's Supper together. that you will not gain or feel some sense of spirituality because you've eaten of this bread or drinken of this cup. But beloved, your spirituality will come because you have a heart submitted in obedience to an Almighty God that you desire to follow and to worship and to know personally. Paul said that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. If this is what makes us spiritual, then yeah, we ought to just do it every Sunday. Come on in and observe the Lord's Supper. You can be made spiritual and you can leave and go live how you want. But that is not the message of the Lord's table. Jesus said to the Pharisees, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye pay tithe and mint and anis and cumen and have omitted the weightier matters of the law and of judgment, of mercy, and of faith. These ought ye to have done, and not left the other undone. He says, You've come to the place where you find your spirituality in the observance of ritual activity. And yet your hearts are far from me. Colossians is very clear in telling us that the rituals of the Old Testament were just a shadow of the things to come. And beloved, this is just a picture of what was done for us. I hope this morning you're not so much engaged in the practice that you miss the person. He said, this do in remembrance of me. Let's not miss the lamb this morning. We remember we need to remember that the Lord is not in the motion. But in meditation. Again, this emphasis and focus on ritual In the activity. The Pharisees were so worried about being undefiled that they might partake of the Passover feast. They were in a frantic frenzy over all that needed to be done to observe the Passover that they took the lamb and delivered him to be slain. As we start out this new new year, beloved, we must do it right. We must be right. I would implore you to make sure there's nothing between you and the Savior. And as we observe the Lord's table, you don't find the Lord in the activity, in the motion of it all. You find him As you meditate, as the passage on the Lord's table says, let a man examine himself. I know we don't want to take time to think about it. We want to just come to church and we want to enjoy some songs, we want to spend some time in worship, we want to just think about the the the good things and how he's a friend that's closer than a brother and that He you know loves us and he'll always be with us and he'll never leave us or forsake us and and and we want to ponder and think about those, but We don't really like to stop and pause and think about our own condition, our own heart, and how far we may be from God. Let a man examine himself. Would you hear me this morning? Confession is always supposed to precede communion. We are not to partake of the Lord's table unworthily. That means if there's something in your heart that is not right with God that you know is an offense against God or you somehow have have sinned, beloved, praise the Lord that if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness and you can be made clean this morning and partake of the Lord's Supper with a heart that is pure and right before an Almighty God, but it's going to take a few moments Of meditation. It's going to take a little bit of quiet contemplation where you consider and think about Jesus Christ. I could encourage you today to take a moment and do some quiet meditation. I know it's hard. Our lives are inundated, and every moment of our day is consumed with mind-numbing entertainment. And that's what we enjoy. We don't really want to pause and spend time in deep contemplation today. We don't really want to spend time in quiet meditation, but can I remind you that Elijah, he looked at the wind and said, God isn't there? He looked at the fire and he said, God is not there. But where he found God was in the still small voice. God speaks to the quiet mind, to the one who will pause and take a moment and meditate upon God and His Word. It would do us some good this year to just get back to some quiet time with God Commit to a particular time where you spend a little bit of time each day in quiet contemplation and meditation allowing God to speak to you. Maybe one of the reasons you lack direction or power in your life is because you have not spent time in quiet place. Where God could give you that direction, where God could empower you, where God could speak to you. In Isaiah chapter 40, verses 28 through 31, he says, Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? There is no searching of his understanding. He giveth power to the faint, and to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. One of the reasons you may be lacking power and strength in your Christian life is because you have ceased to wait on God. So the message this morning here is that don't let the activity, the motion of the observance of the Lord table be what's important to you. But get inward and contemplate and think about where we are at individually before an Almighty God. And lastly, this morning, the lamb is the motive for our meekness. Understanding, beloved, we know that makes us power under control in a very direct, simple definition. Really, the person that's meek of spirit, meek of heart, meekness is somebody that's going to be submitted, somebody that's going to be yielding, that's going to do What God wants you to do. It is the Lamb, is the reason that we live in obedience to God. John 1. 29, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. The songwriter said, Your gift of love they sacrificed. They laughed and scorned him as he died, the humble king. They named a fraud and sacrificed the Lamb of God O Lamb of God, sweet Lamb of God, O wash me in your precious blood, my Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Listen, beloved, the symbolism is powerful. It points to the Savior. This is literally the gospel made visible. Jesus Christ, whose body was broken and whose blood was shed for you and I, it's visible. This Lamb Christ who gave himself. And this is why we should be willing to submit to him, to obey him, to follow him. What I'm saying, beloved, is don't partake of the Lord's Supper and feel spiritual because you took of this bread and this juice when you're not being obedient to him. Your spirituality is not found in partaking of this This points our hearts and minds heavenward and contemplate and think about what he did for us, and that should motivate obedience and spirituality is found in consistent daily obedience to him. Yes, you fail. Yes, you falter, but you get back up and you get back on the right track. That's where your spirituality is to be found. It's amazing here, and you know, the Jews deny Jesus That he was the Messiah. They didn't believe it. They were fully convinced in their mind of their own righteousness, obtained by the observance of the law. What I'm saying, beloved, is I wonder what do we have set in our mind that we will not hear Jesus on. The Jews looked at the very Son of God and denied who he was. God has taken his words and given you direction. And how many of us look at the very words of God and we say, I don't believe that. That's not what I want to do for my life. Oh, that's all fine and dandy for somebody else, but no, I'm not going to do that. We're no better than the Jews. We're concerned about our formalism, about our practices. But we've missed the Lamb. You see, spirituality is found in obedience to Him. Their mind, the Jewish mind, was made up. Their prejudices were established, their value systems were firm. There's nothing that Christ could say or do that was going to change that. And I wonder, do we have value systems that are firm? Things that we believe to be important or that we believe that are to this is the way it is? And whether you have lived here, I don't know, the youngest person in here, maybe 12, 13, or whether you're 95. You have something in your heart and mind that you're unwilling to submit and yield to God on? And you look at the pastor when he says something about it, and you say, well, I just don't think that that's the way it is. Well, I just don't believe that. And you continue to go your way. We you cease to be meek. But the lamb is our motivation for meekness. sub submitting to God and what he wants us to be. I wonder this morning is Christ trying to speak to you. Is he calling you sinner to the cross? There's one here that you haven't put your faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ on the cross? Maybe for your whole life you have thought and felt That your assurance of heaven and your salvation was attained through how good of a person you are. But the truth has been presented from this pulpit many times. I don't know of any first time guest here. And I wonder Have you failed to respond to that? Is the Holy Spirit calling you and saying, boy, the time is at hand? You need to put your faith and trust in Christ. You need to trust his shed blood. Beloved, if you could get to heaven on your own without the shed blood of Jesus Christ, then why did he die? Why did God send his only begotten Son to give his life for you If you could somehow have attained righteousness on your own by the observance of whatever list of rules you want to put forth, it's unattainable. So maybe God's calling you to give that up and just finally submit and trust Jesus Christ. But I wonder, Christian Saint, you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, but I wonder if there's something in your heart and mind that you said, well, I just don't think that's that important. I'm not ready to give that up. I still enjoy that. But I wonder, is Jesus calling you and saying it's time? Are you going to yield in meekness to him because of the Lamb and what he's done for us? Or would we still be stubborn? Where the Lord implores us, don't partake of the Lord's Supper unworthily. I would ask of you, if God is speaking to you, you get it right. Get it settled. Yield to Him today. I'm going to have the pianist come. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? We want to have a moment of invitation. We want to have some quiet contemplation. And if God has spoken to you You can come to an old-fashioned altar. People aren't watching. Nobody's worried about what you're doing.