Turning your Bibles to Second Timothy chapter number two. Second Timothy chapter number two. I should have told you that before I spent that time telling you about the Hoffmeisters. You could have been there, but uh uh 2 Timothy chapter number 2. This is a key passage with regards to uh separation when we're talking about ecclesiastical separation. Now, I don't want to take for granted that everybody knows the word ecclesiastical. Uh apparently some weeks ago we were talking about uh piety. And uh there I had heard, I actually walked by somebody in the hallway and they were just talking and they said, Went through the whole service and you kept saying piety and you never said what it was. What what was piety? And and uh so we don't want to take for for granted that these terms that are used are are understood and that everybody knows what they are. Um piety is uh reverence. Uh it's uh uh you know, looking to the Lord, having uh somebody might say it it comes from the term of pious, almost like if somebody did a pious act, uh, but it has to do with reverence and and the things of the Lord and those that are serving are putting God first. And uh then ecclesiastical literally means the church When we're talking about the church, ecclesiastical, things of the church as opposed to secular. You understand and know what it is to say secular. Well, ecclesiastical is the opposite. So we're talking about ecclesiastical separation tonight. This passage of scripture in 2 Timothy chapter number 2 would be a very key passage in dealing with this subject. And we're going to reference this passage several times tonight. But follow along with me as we read chapter number two, verses fifteen down through the end of the chapter. Familiar verses. But I want you to think about it in light of ecclesiastical separation. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth, but shun Profane and vain babblings. Now you know what it means to shun, to shun, to put away. Profane and vain babblings. For they will increase unto more ungodliness, and their word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is Hymenius and Philetus. Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that there was a resurrection, that the resurrection is passed already and overthrown the faith of some. Nevertheless, the foundations of God standeth sure. Having this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and of earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. If any man therefore purge himself of these, what are the these that they're supposed to purge themselves of? If you look back at verse number 17, and their word will eat, as doth a canker of whom is Hymenius and Philidius, these people that were spreading false doctrine. False doctrine. If any man therefore purge himself of these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work. Flee also, youthful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender stripes. And the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach. patient in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if God per venture will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive. Now we're dealing tonight with the idea of ecclesiastical separation. This passage of scripture is very key to that. But let me give you a couple of others that there might be familiar with. In Jeremiah 10, verse number 2, thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen. In Colossians 2, verse number 8, beware lest any man spoil you through philosophies and vain deceit. after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. Fir Second Timothy three, verse number five. Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, the Bible says from such Turn away. And in 2 Timothy 3, verses 3 and 4, he says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall keep to themselves teachers having issues And shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall not be turned unto fables. What is it that these many texts have in common tonight? They all remind us that there is in fact Something that we should avoid. There is some teaching, some principles, some things that are out there that as Christians we should not. Be part of. There are some people, some practices that are contrary to the Bible, contrary to the Word of God, and what God would have us do as believers. And therefore, we are to separate from them. We are not to join up with them. We're to maintain a level of separation, a barrier between us. Even though they sound good, even though they may, with their philosophy, with their ability to reason and to discuss matters, and sometimes use eloquent speech and good words. But they are not after the way of Christ, but after the way of the world. And when that is the case, the Bible very clearly tells us That we are not to have anything to do with them. He says, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof, from such turn away. They may look good, but they lack the power of God. As we look at ecclesiastical separation, The fact is that it is unwise, yea, even unbiblical, to even loosely associate ourselves as a church With organizations, with groups, and with people that do not stick to the Word of God, that do not adhere to the biblical principles of the Word of God that we believe to be true. Even though they may be doing some good things, even though they may look good, even though the person is leading it may be a dynamic personality Even though they may have a name badge that says pastor, or it may have a badge that says leader of ABC Ministries. And those things sound good, but if they're not following the Word of God as we believe the Word of God to be taught and preached, then we're not to associate with them. I want you to understand that the pathway to compromise is accessed through the gate of fellowship The pathway to compromise is accessed through the gate of fellowship. You get through that and head down to complete and utter compromise when you begin to associate with, become friends with, spend times with time with people Who do not believe what you believe the Bible teaches. There was some months ago some a group of people that came to meet with me here at the church and they said, boy, we would love to join up with your church and we would love to uh attempt to accomplish this particular project together with you guys. I said, man, that's a great project. And you know what? We as a church may decide to attempt to try and do that. But if we did, I'm sorry, but we would have to do it all alone. We we couldn't do it together with you. And you know, they they looked at me kind of funny and I said they you know the idea well We could pool our funds and we could all participate. I mean all that, you know, more money would make it a lot easier and and we could have a lot more laborers, a lot more people with a bunch of groups together. And I just said we can't do it. We can't do it Because I know that they do not believe and practice the Word of God like we believe and practice the Word of God. And I understand the idea of ecclesiastical separation. You say we say, you see, we say, we believe a particular thing. And this idea of separation is foundational in what we believe. One of the biggest problems today is that many people don't have anything that they really believe to be true. I mean they have an understanding and they like the stories in the Word of God and they like to hear about David and Goliath and Daniel and the lion's den. And Samson, and they they like those stories, and Jesus came. But I'm talking about biblical principle that they believe to be true, that they understand and will not bend on. What happens when we aren't settled in our beliefs, we become easily swayed with every wind of doctrine. We need to be students of the Word of God. Our text tonight we read started out, study to show thyself approved unto God. Don't be irritated when we take some time in the spend some time in the Word of God and really try to study it. When we really try and understand it. when we try to get more than just surface meaning, because Christianity today, by and large, is surface Christianity There is no depth. There is no understanding. I wonder tonight if I asked some of you, could you explain some things to me out of the book of Isaiah? How many would be able to adequately explain you've been saved 10, 20, 30, 40 years and don't have an understanding of what's going on in the book of Isaiah? I teach in Sunday school on Sunday morning, and I took some time to talk about the very, very basics of thou shalt have no other God before me. Thou shalt not bow down to any graven image. We went through the Ten Commandments. Why? It's the basics. But how many in church could give me the Ten Commandments? I spent some time and we're going to continue to review it in Sunday school on occasions of just the books of the Bible. If I said to you, where's Amos? Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nah, Habakkuk. I mean, do you even know where the books are found? Let alone an understanding of what's being taught? We've been saved for a lot of years and we've lived as a surface Christian and have never took time ourselves to dive into the Word of God And to learn what the Bible says to give us a matter of conviction that we will not be changed on. And thereby we're blown about by every wind of doctrine and easily changed and turned and swayed to every common belief. If somebody can present a nice story that makes sense We believe it. Instead of looking back at the Word of God and saying that doesn't line up with Scripture We need to have a belief that guides what we do. That's what ecclesiastical separation is tonight. And I want you to realize the paramount importance it is for us as a church. To maintain this level of separation. In today's world, it's very hard to be what they call culturally relevant To get into society and remain separate. But we are to be in the world, not of the world. And we must remember we're trying to please him, not them. We present the truth And let God draw the heart. Ecclesiastical separation As a church, maintaining a level of protection around the church, not joining up with every organization or bringing in people Oh man, there's this great speaker that I heard over at this convention. But when we do a little bit of searching, we find out that his connections. His good friends, his associations make it so we couldn't have him here in church. And you have to trust me as a pastor when I say we can't have him. Because you understand you are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. And if we as a church begin to associate Spend time with, rub elbows with, go to associations, spend time with people Who do not believe what we believe about the Word of God, it will only be a matter of time, and every doctrine that we hold to be true and we believe to be right will fall by the wayside and we will no longer stand on the biblical principles with which we preach today. It happens over and over and over and over again in churches all over America. I literally could list church after church tonight. and give you fact after fact about their association with organizations which are not separated and their downfall. A very large organization, as some of you may be familiar with, was Highland Park Baptist Church, pastored by Dr. Lee Robertson. It's not even a Baptist church anymore. And they hold rock concerts in their church. Everything that Dr. Robertson stood for and believed and preached and practiced as a church 30, 40 years ago is all by the wayside. Because somebody didn't practice ecclesiastical separation, put up some guidelines, put up some barriers. There must be something that we believe that we will not bend on Psalms 119, verse number 128, says, Therefore, esteeming all the precepts concerning all things to be right. Psalms 119, 128. Esteeming all things to be right, I hate every false way. Now I know you're not looking at it in your text, but it's Psalms 119-128. I read it to you. What did it say we're supposed to do to every false way? Hate. That's a strong word. That's a word today that people don't like to use. That people don't like to say. And they say, well, you know, you just you ought to be, you ought to just love everything. No. God said that we are to hate, hate every false way If I truly hate every false way, how could I join up with somebody who teaches that we should pray to Mary? Join up with him and get together on the platform with him and introduce him, allow him to open in prayer for our services tonight. When he would teach that you pray to Mary or that you're going to die and spend some time in purgatory. That's a false way. And we can't allow that. And we remove ourselves from that. You say, well, Pastor Caleb, I know you're never going to have a Priest here at church. But what about Billy Graham? Who stood on the platform, lifted up and praised Catholics by the dozens. Who introduced priests and allowed him to pray and open his crusades. Who praised the Pope as one of the most moral men in our world This is what we're talking about. Now I know by me mentioning Billy Graham, I'm sure I bothered some of you. But this is what I'm talking about. It's associations, it's friendships, it's introducing yourself, spending time with, and being with. You soon are will be or you you are right now or soon shall be what your friends are. And we as a church Allow that type of thing, or if I was to tell you, oh yeah, go to this Billy Graham crusade, it's great. I'm endorsing that I'm not protecting the church from the compromise that is inevitable when we go through the gate of fellowship. I want you to understand that it is possible to stand for biblical truth, to practice ecclesiastical separation. And still love people and have compassion on souls. But nowhere in the New Testament do we see the principle of discarding truth for the sake of somebody's feelings or for the common good For the sake of accomplishing some project that might be successful if we join up. We're not supposed to do that. As a church, we need to remain Now I'm going to go through this next section really quick and I've got a lot of information here. I'm going to show you, give you some of the progress of how we ended up where we are. The progression Of this idea of ecclesiastical separation and where we are today and why it's so important. In the 1800s, German liberalism brought about an attack on the Word of God. Friedrich Schlamischmar Which is not pronounced correct, I can guarantee you that, but you're welcome to try and pronounce it. Uh he was the father of liberalism or higher or higher criticism. I'm sure you've heard about higher criticism, the questioning of the Word of God, the religious educational institutions of the day began to get too smart for their own good. And they began to say, oh wow, we're going to look at this. This surely can't mean this in the Word of God. They began to question the very Word of God and decided that it didn't mean this or didn't mean that. At the same time, in 1859, Charles Darwin initiated the origin of species. All believers up to the late 1800s were considered evangelicals of sorts. But this liberal thought began to infiltrate their ranks until the inspiration of the Word of God was questioned and the cardinal doctrines of the faith were brought into question By the early 1900s, in 1908, the Federal Council of Churches was formed. They rejected the inspiration of the Scriptures and the literal interpretation of the Scriptures. And concentrated on what they called a social gospel. Now, members of this federal council of churches, which by the 1950s was called the National Council of Churches, The groups that joined that was AME churches, the Evangelical Lutheran, the USA Presbyterian, the United Church of Christ. The Reformed Churches of America, the Mennonites, the Church of the Brethren, the Episcopals, the Moravians, the Seventh-day Adventists, the United Methodist Church. and the United Church of Christ. These groups joined in at early 1900s with these with the Federal Council of Churches. Leading this were in this time some key leaders in this in this time period were William Renner Harper, William Adams Brown, William Adams Brown, Henry Ward Beecher. William Newton Clark, Henry Emerson, leaders of this movement. And some of the liberal seminaries that taught these philosophies was the University of Chicago The Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Boston University, Duke Divinity School, Hartford Theological Seminary. Now, during this time, a term was coined to describe those who stood against this movement. There was a group of people that stood against the movement. That was taking place, this criticism of the scriptures, this questioning of the Word of God, this social gospel, the discarding of the cardinal beliefs of the faith. What do you think the term was that was used to describe the group of people that stood against those things? Fundamentalist. Fundamentalist. That is where the fur the term came from that we now are called fundamentalist. A group of people became known as the fundamentalist. They stood against us. Now we are still fundamentalists today, even though our numbers numbers are dwindling, but we stand for the literal interpretation of the Word of God and the fundamental doctrines. That's why we're fundamentalist. We stand for the fundamental beliefs of the Word of God. Now there were some people that were joined this fight that were also fundamentalists, some names that you'll recognize. Some of them were not even Baptists. But they were fundamentalists because they stood for the fundamentals of the faith, like D. L. Moody, Wilbur Chapman, and R. A. Torrey Now, R. A. Tory was a Yale graduate of 1875. R. A. Tori helped start the Moody Bible Institute. And was one of the three editors of a series of articles that went out, a 12-volume set at the time that was published in 1909, that was called The Fundamentals. Now I have a copy of those on my desk if you want some night reading, night light, light reading. Uh the fundamentals. It was a twelve volume set that has been condensed. The the edition that I have was reprinted in nineteen seventeen. But it was the fundamentals. Now, R. A. Tori was one of the editors of this book, which are these books that taught about the fundamental doctrines that men were to stand for. This 12-volume set was sent, paid for by some Christians, Lehman and Milton Stewart They sent three million copies to Christian workers all over the world to influence them, to show them the importance of standing for the fundamentals of the faith. Others believed it was important and became convinced of the necessity to stand for these fundamentals. Other names that you might recognize that stood during this time was Sam Jones. Gypsy Smith, C. I. Schofield, James Brooks, A. T. Pearson, Edderman, W. B. Riley, J. Frank Norris, T. T. Shields, John Stratton Men that stood for the fundamentals. Now the National Council of Churches in the nineteen fifties uh was became that after the World Council of Churches was introduced. During the 20s and 30s, a lot of development came. One of these groups that came during the 20s and 30s was the G A R B churches. How many of you know what a GARB church is? It's a General Association of Regular Baptists. In the 30s, the General Association of Regular Baptists stood for the fundamentals. They were very strong fundamentalists. The reason that I'm telling you that is because when we get to the end of this, we're going to come back and look at the GARB church today. Now, a lot of momentum was happening during this time. A lot of people seeing a lot of things happen, but not a lot of people standing on separation outside of these that we've mentioned. The major development was in 1941. October 27, 1941, at Moody Bible Institute, a new group was formed called the National Association of Evangelicals The evangelical movement was born in 1941. Their president, Harold Ockenig of Boston. In 1948, while preaching at their annual convention, called this group the New Evangelicals. Today If you are an evangelical, you are a new evangelical. The names are pretty much synonymous. They pretty much stand for the same thing. There is not much difference The churches that joined up in 1948 or 1941 with this group, the New Evangelicals, was most Pentecostal denominations. The Free Will Baptist, the Church of God, the Free Methodist, the Evangelical Evangelical Free Church, the Nazarene Church. The Christian Missionary Alliance, the Evangelical Presbyterians, the United Brethren of Christ, Youth for Christ, Camper Crusade for Christ, Navigators, and Interverse Intervarsity Ministries Now, these groups had a phrase they like to say. In essentials, unity. Non-essentials, liberty. All things, charity. That sounds good, doesn't it? In essentials, let's be unified. Non-essentials? There's liberty. You can do what you want. But all things, charity. They like that phrase, and it sounds good. The problem comes is because most people's definition of what is essential and what is not essential began to vary. Even the people that started the movement would be turning upside down in their graves today at what has become non-essential. Like a belief that in order That the definition of marriage is one man and one woman. That has been regal uh re Rejected to a non essential in many churches. Most evangelicals today do not believe in even the basic fundamentals of the faith. Now, some fundamentalists can be found In a few separatist Baptist, I mean separatist Methodist churches. Some can be found in some Presbyterian churches, some can be found in some Southern Baptist churches. But however most have no idea of separation. The idea is primarily promoted and held by independent Baptist churches. The level of apostasy and heresy promoted by most of these groups is out and out amazing. What is the purpose for our separation? The purpose. 2 Timothy 2. 22 says, Flee also useful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. We're to follow this. These things, with them the call of the Lord out of a pure heart, because evil communications corrupt good manners. Separation is not the goal of ministry We know the goal of ministry is that we be fruitful. God has called us to bear fruit. Every branch and meat That beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit he purchaseth, that it may bring forth more fruit. To be separate, and bear no fruit. Makes you good for nothing. According to the Lord. And he'll take you away. See, ministry is not about separation. But we understand that it is necessary to live separated. It becomes a matter of obedience to our Lord and Savior. And because a church that is unseparated will be hurt. If I was a gardener and I don't have time to develop this illustration tonight, but I said I'm going to plant these potatoes. But you know what? I'm all about the positive. I'm all about the positive. I'm going to plant these potatoes. I'm not about the negative, so I'm not going to worry about weeds. We're not going to worry about weeds. We're not going to worry about bugs. Don't want to deal with the negative. We're just going to deal with the positive. What kind of a garden would I have? At some point you have to deal with the negative. If you want to be fruitful, if you want to be prosperous, if you want to have fruit that remains, you've got to take care of the negative. It becomes a matter of obedience in our text. But shun profane and vain babblings, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. And their word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is Hymenius and Philetus, who concerning the truth have erred. You notice that Paul named those that had erred. Name those that were pulling people away. If we hold wrong associations, it will corrupt good manners In the 1990s, the GARBC Churches, that's the General Associate of Regular Baptist Churches, began to participate in a group called Promise Keepers. Now I know, I'm pretty sure most everybody in here is familiar with promise keepers. Let's all gather together. Every group, every denomination, every kind of person from every different walk of life, for the sake of keeping our promises Man, that's a good goal. And you know what? We ought to be promise keepers. If we make a promise, I mean especially as men towards our family, towards our wives. We ought to be committed for life and not let those promises go. And that was a large part of what this focus was. But they were joining up with every kind of person. For the purpose of keeping these promises. In nineteen ninety-six, the head, the president of the GARBC organization Said this. Let's build a picket fence instead of a wall around our churches. What he was saying is let's take down the barriers. And what they've done is they've taken down the barriers and they set up a picket fence. And then they went through and over the years they took out every other picket. And before long the fence on the east wall is completely gone. And that's where they are today as a church. Sadly But it's what happens when you don't live and practice ecclesiastical separation. It will happen because you are influenced by those you associate with. We must live separated lives because we will lead others astray. Just as others influence us, we as a church influence others. And if we're not separating as a church, you know, when I give my support to something as the pastor, I'm taking the influence that God has given me in the hearts and lives of men. And using that to endorse something. I was asked I'm not going to give the details of it because I don't want to give away any associations, but I was asked to preach at a church in a few months from now That runs over 3,000. Wow. I mean, who am I? I mean, wow, you want me to preach there? I mean, this is a big this is a big thing. But you know what? I found out about the church and found out they don't believe like us. And I could not in good conscience. Now some people say, well, hey, I'll take whatever opportunity to preach I can. I'll get up and preach the word of God and preach salvation and whatever. But do you know what I'm doing when I do that? There's several things. Number one, I have to curtail my message. I know that this church does not believe in eternal security. I could not get up in that pulpit and preach on eternal security And it would not be my place to do so. So I would have to curtail my message in order to do that. And do you know what? If I began a friendship with the pastor of that church, it would begin to curtail my message in other places as well. Because I know now I'm preaching against him. You got to be careful who you associate with. Furthermore, if I preached at that church, all of you would say, man, Pastor Caleb preached at that church. I've taken the influence God has given me and now I've influenced all of you. And I wouldn't support that church. I was just going there to preach. But I didn't get up and preach against what they're doing wrong, which there's a lot of things they're doing wrong And that's why it would be wrong for me to go there and preach and pretend that everything they're doing is okay. And that's what I'm doing if I get up in the pulpit and I preach and and I just pretend everything's okay. And I'm telling everybody else in the world everything's okay. And that's what's wrong with these groups that are associating with churches that believe against the Word of God. Younger Christians don't know, may not understand, and have been influenced by me. You see the idea of concentrating over only on the essentials. You know, pragmatism is never right. Just because it works doesn't make it worship. Just because you see results doesn't make it righteous. We don't do what we do because we think it will work. We do what we do because we think it'll make the Lord happy. The non-essential mindset that is driving many of the ministries today will cause a man to fight. For the heretic he's standing on the platform with. He will defend the heretic And set aside the scripture. That's what happens. It's important that we practice biblical separation. It is essential. You do not find non-essential principles in the Word of God In fact, it is clearly taught that we are to teach all things whatsoever I have commanded you. You can you can look that up. He just quoted one of all scripture is profitable. Look up that word all and find out how many times it's dealing with The principles and the precepts of the Word of God. In Galatians 3. 10, he says, For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse. For it is written, cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them Now I want you to understand, and I'm and I'm done. I know it's it's time. The last thing is the profit of separation. 2 Timothy 2, 25 and 26, you see the profit of separation. It will yield fruit. In meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves, if God peradventure will give them repentance to the Knowledge of the truth. Separation will bring fruit and it'll bring repentance. That's the profit in doing it. It is profitable, and we need to trust God. That's 2 Timothy 2. 25. five and twenty six. Let me close this in prayer tonight. In this world of let's join up with everybody to accomplish good things. Lord, we praise you for the good things that are done, but I pray you give wisdom and help us to put a wall about the church and to guard that gate. of fellowship, Lord, that we're careful who we associate with as a church so we don't bring in false doctrine and heresy and and uh Ecumenicalism, Lord, and we'll thank you for it. Go with us now as we go our separate ways. Keep us safe. Be with our church family, Lord. Provide for them spiritually, physically, Lord. We'll thank you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.