Genesis seventeen, your Bibles. We're going to have about a twenty-five minute Bible study or so and then about a five minute sermon. So those of you that like Bible studies, you'll have a short one. Those of you that like sermons, you'll have a short one Those of you don't like either one, why are you here on a Sunday night? I don't know. Um Genesis 17 Verse number one. When Abram was 90 years old and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am the Almighty God. Walk before me and be thou perfect, and I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly One of the foundational things to understand about the Word of God is that it is first and foremost the revelation of God. The Word of God is many things, and I've heard it defined as many things, and I wouldn't necessarily criticize those definitions or descriptions But on a foundational level, when I approach the Word of God, I approach it as this book shows me who God is. If, for example, one of those shades was down and you were to gradually raise it up, you would slowly uh see more and more of what's on the other side of that window And as the Bible was of course you can't see everything on the other side of that window, but you can you you have a uh an avenue to look through onto the other side of the window. This doesn't tell us everything about God, but it does show us everything about God that God wanted us to know about him in this life. And as you work your way from Genesis all the way through to Revelation, you find more and more about God is visible to you. As more and more of God is revealed to you or unveiled to you, you then become responsible for how you're going to How you're going to respond to that particular aspect of God that's been revealed to you. Of course, we're we're accountable for truth, whether we know it or not, and the Bible teaches us that But as we search in the Bible to discover more about God, we discover more about what he expects of us, and we then can become better at meeting his expectations, if you can allow me to say it that way. In our culture, names are something that we don't choose, they're chosen for us. For the most part, we do we we like to choose nicknames sometimes, although sometimes even those happen. But I did not choose my own name. My name is Thomas Paul Brennan, that's my name, named for two apostles and the Irish who are drunk Catholics. But I didn't choose any of that. It just got foisted upon me, and I discovered it as I as I grew along, as I as I got older. When you look in the Word of God, one of the ways that He reveals Himself is His names. He chose all of his own names. Nobody ever named God. God, of course, was never born. He never began. That is its own whole whole thing to try to wrap your mind around. But he never began. But when he wrote a book, He chose how to reveal himself by way of, amongst other things, the names he chose for himself. And I have found profit in studying God by studying what names he chooses for himself. And that's what I want to talk about tonight. Look again at Genesis chapter 17 and verse number 1. When Abram was 90 years old and nine, the Lord, that is capital L-O-R D in your King James Version, that means Jehovah. Not not what I want to talk about tonight, appeared to Abram and said unto him, I am what's the next three words? That's the first time that term is used in English in the King James Version. And the first time the original language term underneath of it is used in the Hebrew Old Testament, and that is the name El Shaddai, the Almighty God That name for God is going to show us two somewhat paradoxical things about God. I'm going to tell you what it shows us about God, and then I'm going to show you that, hopefully. The first thing it shows us about God is that God is a bountiful provider of fruitful blessing. The second thing it shows us about God is the complete opposite, which is that God is a poorer out of destruction and judgment. So on the one side, Almighty God is a bountiful provider of fruitful blessing. On the other side, he is a poorer out of destruction and judgment. Now the term itself, El Shaddai, the term El is sometimes a word translated in your King James Version as power or might. More often, in fact 225 times in the King James Version, it's simply translated God Most of the time you see that word G-O-D, it's Elohim, but sometimes, uh several hundred times it's just the word L. And it's the idea of God being powerful and being strong and being mighty But the word Shaddai is a little bit more complex. I'm not a Hebrew scholar. I don't pretend to be a Hebrew scholar But I have a lot of expensive Hebrew books that tell me what Hebrew scholars said and thought. And there's some v uh various arguments about where the term originally comes from. The term Shaddai means something that is is a person that is pouring something out, or a pourer forth, if you will. But the root word, some say the root word is shadded, which means to to destroy, to lay waste. to spoil, sort of like an army would do when it comes through. The other uh other folks say the root word as shad, which means to nurse, speaking of bountiful provision. I find the argument on each side of that curious because when you look up the term Almighty God in the Word of God, it shows us both of those. It shows us a God who is a bountiful provider of blessing on the one side and a poorer forth of destruction and judgment on the other. If I could illustrate that for you in a way that I think that we would understand, that helps me to understand, is with rain. Where I live in Iowa, rain is important. It's important because so much of Iowa is agricultural and feeds so many people. That's why I moved there, so when the zombie apocalypse happens, me and my family are going to be great. You all here on the East Coast are gonna eat each other and die. And so just wanted to be a blessing and share that news with you. You didn't think you were gonna hear the term zombie apocalypse tonight, did you? But now you've heard it twice You say where's that in the Bible? It's not. But anyway, uh rain is important in Iowa because agriculture is important in Iowa And it's not uncommon at all for me to walk into church and find a group of men on the back discussing how many tenths of an inch they got in their rain gauge last night. It's not something I've ever come across in any of the place I've lived, but it's an important thing. Well, rain is curious in that rain is a bountiful provider of blessing, is it not? I mean it it that that is what is necessary to to grow crops and and and to and to to feed us and to uh the grow the plant life that makes so much of life possible. But by the same token, rain is also a destructive force of of that lays waste to entire regions. I was referencing somewhere recently, I might have been at the marriage conference, the Johnstown Flood, read a whole book about the Johnstown Flood Which took place of course in Pennsylvania, and is uh just a a massive amount of destruction. The rich folks in Pittsburgh built themselves a resort in the hills of Pennsylvania But they didn't pay to maintain it very well and they they built a pond up there, a a big lake, and they they had it dammed up and they didn't maintain the dam and Uh one night as the rains that it rained a lot and that that dam got weakened and that whole that whole dam collapsed and that big lake of water began to travel down through the hills and almost as it worked its way through the ravines It picked up entire railroad cars, it picked up entire houses, it picked up entire little villages, and it became a moving wall of concrete. That's the illustration that you find when you when you read it And it w that that moving wall of waters that bounced off the ravines, working its way down the hills, didn't stop it until they got to Johnstown and killed thousands of people There was an eye there was a metal brid uh not a metal bridge, a stone bridge in Johnstown that essentially stopped it all, and it all piled up there and it burned for days and days and days. And the destructive force of water Water on the one hand that is received becomes very beneficial. Water on the other hand, where the earth closes itself off and does not soak it in, becomes very destructive. The same thing's true of God. Now, let me show you that if I can in the Word of God. So the first mention of El Shaddai in the Bible, the first mention in the Old Testament, we just looked at here in Hebrews, in Genesis chapter number 17 So in context, I don't want time to go into a whole lot of the context of each of these, because we're going to look at several verses, but in context, Abram, of course, has been promised that he's going to have how many children? As many as the stars of the sky and the sand of the seashore. That's a whole lot. But you have to start with one. And it didn't happen, and it didn't happen, and it didn't happen. Have you ever been frustrated with God? People have been frustrated with God since the book of Genesis. Not because God is frustrating, but because we don't understand him, we don't think like he thinks, we don't operate on his wavelength. When you're frustrated with God, he's always right and we're always wrong So Abram, of course, in his infinite wisdom, and by the way, I don't mean to criticize Abram, because almost every Christian I know at some point has done this. We think God has told us something, and it seems like he's forgotten or he's not doing it, so we decide we're going to do it ourselves. Oh, I've I've been so guilty of that in my life. I've trying to force what I believe God wants for my life. And since it doesn't and since God seems to be busy elsewhere, I'm gonna make this thing happen. So Abram, of course, commits adultery with Hagar, and out of that comes Ishmael, and out of that comes a whole mess of disaster. That's when Abraham is in his mid-80s. Abram's in his mid-80s But by the time you come to Genesis, and that takes place in chapter before, chapter 16, chapter 17 is 15 years later, and it seems like Abram has come to a much more mature And this sounds I don't mean to be c to be snarky here at 99 being mature, but he's come to a place in his in his relationship with God where he's willing to just wait for God to do what God wants to do. And that's what you find here. And of course, as this is a reiteration of the Abrahamic covenant. And he goes on to say here, uh he appeared the Lord appeared to Abram, said unto him, I am the Almighty God, El Shaddai, walk before me and be thou perfect, and I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will What's the last three words of verse number two? Multiply the exceedingly. The one who gives manifold blessing, the one who helps us to bear great fruit. And and that's the very first time that God chose to refer to himself in the Bible, in in in in order for as the books are written, chose to refer to himself as El Shaddai He's the God who said to Abraham, I'm going to make sure that you are you are multiplied exceedingly Did God do that? Yes, he did. Because you go from the time of Abraham and you fast forward just a few hundred years and you arrive at the place of Moses, and then you've gone from the Jewish people being just one or two to the Jewish people being probably somewhere around a million or so, give or take That's a lot of multiplication. We see this illustrated as well with Jacob here in Genesis 17. Go to Genesis chapter 28, please. Genesis chapter number twenty-eight, we're not going to look at every book of the Bible, so you can relax, but we are going to look at a handful of them Jacob, of course, is further down the line of these promises that will be fulfilled under the Abrahamic covenant, and God reveals himself to Jacob. And remember, when God reveals Himself, God tells us exactly what He wants us to know. I like to say every word in the Bible is there on purpose. God doesn't waste words. He says exactly what he wants to say. So how does God reveal himself to the patriarch Jacob? Genesis 28, verse number 3. And God Almighty That's El Shaddai. God Almighty bless thee and make thee, there's that word fruitful and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people. Go to Genesis 35, please. Genesis 35. I have the world's smallest bottle of water up here, which means I get to preach about 12 minutes. Fortunately I got reinforcements on the fourth row there, so we're we're golden. Genesis thirty-five, look verse number eleven, please. And God, that's Elohim, said unto him that is Jacob, I am God's God's naming himself. I don't name myself. I sometimes joke. You know, I yeah Yeah everybody relax. I'm here it's all gonna be okay. You know, I I love to tell little kids, I sure am glad you got to see me and they go No. I find great delight in acting like I'm all that in a bag of chips when we all know that I'm not. But God is naming Himself and He's choosing His words very carefully. He says in verse number th eleven, God said unto him, I am, this is who I am Now he says I am another context and identifies himself differently. But to Jacob in this particular instance, he said, this is who I want you to know me as, because this is who I'm going to be in your life. I'm God Almighty, be fruitful and multiply. A nation and company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy lawns. This is this is why Jacob, when you fast forward to Genesis forty three, we're not going to take time to go there. In Genesis forty three, he's fighting sending Benjamin to Egypt. He doesn't want to send Benjamin to Egypt because his favorite children are Joseph and Benjamin. They both come from Rachel. And b Joseph, as far as he knows, is dead. He doesn't understand what's happening and and and doesn't realize God's plan is actually in the works. And his his his sons of uh uh of Leah have lied to him And and but now the Pharaoh in Egypt, or the Prime Minister of Egypt, this dictator down there is demanding that Benjamin come, and he doesn't want to send him. But when he sends him down in Genesis 43, he tells Benjamin, I want El Shaddai to be with you The one who promised me that I would have children, and the one who promised me those children would have children, it's almost like he's reminding God as he sends Benjamin off Hey God, remember now, you promised me that you'd have me give me children, and you promised me you'd give me a lot of children, and that's my favorite one It's that idea that this is the part of, not not the part of God, this is the aspect of God that is so wonderful in his provision of blessing in our life. This is why Jacob, at the very end of his life, he calls upon El Shaddai to bountifully bless Joseph. Look at Genesis 49, please. Genesis 49. And verse number 25, Genesis 49, and verse number 25, Jacob is praying for Joseph, and he says, even by the God of thy father. Elohim, who shall help thee and be the what? So he said, Elohim is going to be your El Shaddai. That's what he's saying. Who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts and of the womb? The idea is that you will have a lot of children, and they will be bountifully nourished And God is going to bless you in this way, and I'm calling upon God to bless you in this way. One of the paradoxes of uh of this is Is the book in the Bible, and I would never have guessed this until I studied it. The book in the Bible that uses the term El Shaddai for God more than any other book is Job. Now, I'm making the argument that God is the bountiful provider of blessing. Well, you wouldn't go to Job to make the argument normally that God is the bountiful provider of blessing. Job uses the term El Shaddai 31 times of the forty-eight times it's used in the Old Testament, which means almost three out of every five times it's used in the entire thirty-nine books of the Old Testament is used by Job. Now there's a couple of interesting things there. One is that tells me that God had revealed himself as El Shaddai before he told Abraham. Job comes after Genesis in the order of the books of the Old Testament, but Job comes before Genesis in the sense of terms of when it was written. Moses writes Genesis about 1500 BC, give or take. And of course, Abraham, chronology is loose and these sorts of things. If you disagree with me, it's okay if you're wrong. Abraham is See what I did there? Abraham's roughly about two thousand BC and Moses is roughly about fifteen hundred BC. But but Job, I believe, is is predates Abraham. He's prior to that in the early uh earlier two thousands, and so When Job talks about God, and when Job's friends talk about God, they very often use that term El Shaddai, calling him God Almighty. It also reveals El Shaddai as the bountiful provider of blessing. How does the book of Job do that? Without taking you to the book of Job and walking you through all of these thirty-one references to the Almighty or Almighty God Or the Almighty God in the book of Job, I just say this. When you get to the end of the book of Job, what do you find? You find in the last chapter of Job that God gives Job more than he ever had before. When you meet Job, and this is not a prosperity gospel message, you don't take it that way. But when you meet Job in Job chapter number one, he's he's healthy He's wealthy, he's got children, he's got the respect of everybody, he's got the love of his wife, the affection of his wife. He's he's one of the esteemed city fathers, if you will. And then you go down through the book of Job, and Job is miserable One of the most sarcastic books in the Bible is Job. He's always you know at one point he he he after his friends get done accusing him of lying and being a hypocrite, Job says, Miserable comforters are ye all And the basic argument that Job's friends make is, Job, you're holding back because we all know that if you're right with God, you'd be rich And obviously you're not. If you're right with God, you be prosperous and you're not, and God has judged you. And so what are you hiding? Why is God judging you? The book of Job is actually one of the best books in the Bible to counter the prosperity gospel. Because Job wasn't hiding something. Not Job wasn't perfect, but Job Job was a man of integrity and he followed the Lord and he loved the Lord. And in the course of that there are deeper lessons that God reveals to Job, and Job learns things about God and about himself in the process of that. The Bible tells us in Genesis Job chapter 42 that God gave to him more than he ever had in the very beginning. It's almost like God says All right, you've turned me all the way through this process, the God that is the bountiful provider of blessing, even well it seems like I've taken everything away from you And I'm going to honor your faith in me and your trust in me, and I'm going to prove to you that you are right to trust me to be the bountiful provider of blessing. That's a rather fascinating aspect of this. This bountiful, nurturing, blessing-providing God is the God who calls us tenderly to his side. My favorite book of the Bible is the book of Psalms. The Bible says in this context, in Psalm 91, He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High, that's El Elyon, the Most High God, shall abide under the shadow of El Shaddai, the Almighty. He names himself two different names for God in Psalm 91, verse 1, but the implication there, the illustration is But this is the God who watches over you, not in a brooding way, not in a way that he's watching you like a hawk waiting to pounce, but rather the kind of a God that's watching over you tenderly. Before the service I was sitting over here and and just chatting with folks and a little girl come running up and down the aisle and I think it was her grandpa who was following her around. And she was just running around without a care in the world, trip traipsing everywhere, and it was a little more difficult for the grandfather to follow after her. But the look in his face was not one of anger, it was not one of slow down, it was one of This is my granddaughter and I love her very much. That's how it appeared to me. It's that same sense you see in Psalm 91 and verse number one. Take your Bibles, go to 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Let me show you a New Testament usage of the term in this context. Now, of course, we understand the New Testament's not written in Hebrew, it's written in Greek. And I don't speak either one of those. I know a little Greek. He runs a hot dog joint not too far from uh where we live. Thank you very much. I worked on these jokes all week long. I'm glad you appreciate that. Second Corinthians chapter 6. So the New Testament is written in Greek, but of course we don't have to speak Hebrew or Greek to understand the Bible. For studying them, don't misunderstand me, but you don't have to speak those to understand the Bible. What you find here is consistency, 2 Corinthians 6, verse 18. This is in the in the context of when we what when we obey God and we separate from evil, when we separate from wrong, God blesses us. Verse number 18, and we'll be a father unto you. And ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith who? The Lord Almighty. He said, Essentially I will I will be the one who watches over you. I will be the father, I will be the mother, I'll be the I'll be the one who's tenderly taking care of you. What is what do parents do amongst other things? They make sure their children have everything they need And what parent is there amongst us who does not want their children to have more than they had and does not want their children to see them advance further than they went, so to speak, and And that's a very that that's a very normal, natural aspiration of parents who love their children. And God said, I will be that kind of a God to you When you compare the God of the Bible to the God of the pagans, the gods plural, gods of the pagans, the differences are so stark. The psalmist said, The Lord is my shepherd, followed by, I shall not, I have all my needs met. Psalm 23 is such a beautiful psalm. But the psalmist said, Of all the shepherds to have, I have Jehovah as my shepherd. I have God as my shepherd. I have the best shepherd of all Oh, the Greeks couldn't say that about their gods, and the Romans couldn't say that about their gods, and the Egyptians couldn't say that about their gods, and and the the most modern equivalent of paganism on earth now is Hinduism It has more gods and goddesses than it can possibly count, and they aren't loving and they aren't affectionate and they don't watch over and they don't take care. Instead you have to appease their wrath and hope they don't sink your ship while it's coming in. But our God is such a tender God, He's such a thoughtful God. He's not a God who is stingy with his blessing. He's not a God who says, I've got a blessing for you, but you've got to guess which hand. He's not a God who Who makes us jump through a series of hoops some of you remember back during COVID when everybody was so bored to tears? That one guy who was so inventive invented this process i if you're bored tonight with this, you can look this up on YouTube He invented this thing for a squirrel to see if this squirrel would work really hard to get this particular you know what I'm talking about, Pastor Gus? Right? He's a pastor, he's lots of time to be on YouTube. See him after the service, he'll tell you where it's at But it's it it's I'm just insulting everybody tonight. It's cause I'm getting on the plane in just a few hours and I I don't have to claim the mess. But But but this squirrel has to has to go through this this complicated series of progressions in order to get just this one nut at the end That is not our God. Our God is the God who pours out the provision and pours out the blessing. And listen, if you walk with God for years, and those years turn into decades, I promise you, if you walk with God, there will come seasons of your life and times in your life when you're you're live. Lift your gaze to heaven and you say, God, why have you been so good to me? You filled my life with blessing. That is El Shadai, the Almighty God. By the same token, this El Shaddai is the poorer out of destruction. Take your Bibles, look at Isaiah 13, verse number 6, please, Isaiah 13. There is a phrase that is found in the Word of God that is closely tied with judgment, and that is the phrase the day of the Lord It is used in the Old Testament in the context, as we look at first with Babylon. It's used also in the context of the end times, what we would commonly call the book of Revelation for lack of a longer explanation. But we'll see this in Isaiah chapter 13. He's talking about Babylon. And look at verse number 6. Isaiah 13, verse 6. How ye For the day of the Lord, this is not a 24-hour day, this is a season of God's judgment being poured out. The day of the Lord, that's Jehovah, is at hand, it shall come as a destruction from who Now this is the same term El Shaddai as all the references we looked at where he's the poorer forth of blessing. He's the one who who lavishes goodness and grace and blessing upon us. Now this is the same God who lavishes goodness and grace and blessing upon us, who is pouring out destruction as a result of sin. Take your Bibles, look at Joel chapter number one. Joel, if I could summarize the book of Joel with one phrase, it would be the day of the Lord. Joel is giving us the the end time, a summary of the end times from his perspective and about the judgments that will fall there And that we could look at other references, but Joel chapter number one, verse number 15. Verse number 15, alas, for the day, that means the day of the Lord. For the day of the Lord is at hand, meaning it's going to come soon, and as a destruction from who? From the Almighty. Just like Jerusalem was destroyed by Babylon, I mean destroyed so badly that that that the city was left a smoking ruin, and Jeremiah wrote the book of Lamentations, lamenting over all of the destruction, all the loss of life, and everything, all that was good and wonderful. had been destroyed just like that. Joel said, when the Almighty pours out, when he turns loose, the destruction is going to be very similar to what happened with Jerusalem under Babylon Talking about the book of Revelation. Revelation, of course, is the book that contains the fearful and awesome judgments indicated during the Great Tribulation. Revelation opens in chapter number one. with a vision of God. John sees God. It's an unveiling of God in chapter one. Chapter two and three are discussions of the seven churches, uh seven letters, almost like mini epistles to seven specific local churches, where John knew these letters were going to go and messages for specific churches. Revelation four begins the the prophetical portion with the phrase Come up hither, which I think signifies the rapture. And the first first picture you see in Revelation four and five is that gat great gathering around the throne of God in heaven Where the Bible says all of the saved will come together and will sing in a great choir. Those of you that don't sing in church, aren't you in trouble? You're going to sing in glory and you're going to love singing in glory, and the rest of us are going to say, What took you so long? And then surrounding that crowd of millions of Christians who are singing the praises of God are the angels on the outside. They're singing the the same songs that we are. the greatest choir in the history of of time and eternity both is in Revelation chapter four and five. As a as we sing the praises of God, that's the the the time when the twenty four elders come and they fall down before the throne and cast their crowns before the throne and And that's the same event and there at that event they want to discover what's going to happen next, because time does not stop with the rapture. The day of the Lord begins with the rapture, and so they bring in a book, and this book is going to say, Here's what's going to happen with the rest of uh of the events on earth as as God unveils his plan for the end times, but they couldn't find anyone to open the book. It was closed, it was sealed. They couldn't find anybody to open the book until the Lamb showed up And he opens the book. And then we have the rest of the book of Revelation and the judgments that unfold there, culminating, of course, in the second coming of Jesus Christ, and then the new heaven and the new earth But what we find in Revelation is we find the term Almighty used seven times in connection with great tribulation. Let me show you this. Take your Bibles and look at Revelation chapter number 11, please. Revelation chapter number 11. I've tried to be kind to you and take you to places in the Bible, mostly where you know where they're at. So we've majored in Genesis and Revelation, because even deacons know where those two books of the Bible are. Revelation chapter number eleven. Look at me please in Revelation chapter number eleven at verse number seventeen. Saying, we give thanks, O Lord God Almighty. O Lord God who? Almighty. That's El Shaddai in the original language, the Greek equivalent, which art and was an art to come Because thou hast taken to thee thy great power and hast reigned, and the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come And the time of the dead that they should be judged, and thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants, the prophets, and to the saints, and to them that fear thy name. And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in the temple the Ark of His Testament, and there were lightnings and voices and thunderings and earthquakes and great hail. Poured out by the Almighty. Let me show you a specific example of this, or seven specific examples of this. Go to Revelation chapter 15, please. I use the Schofield Reference Bible. You're not right with God or wrong with God if you do or you don't. But my Schofield Reference Bible says at the top of Genesis 15, the seven vials. The term vials in the King James Version means bowls. And a bowl was something that held something that you drank. And uh uh this these bowls, these seven bowls, these seven vials talked about in Genesis chapter fifteen And and sixteen, they're described as vials of the wrath of God several times there. And he gives them to humanity on the earth to drink, and they have to drink every drop of what's in those bowls in Genesis chapter fifteen and verse 16. Let me work through a quick description of what these what these vials contain. These vials give a sword to all those who have taken the mark of the beast. One of these vials turns the sea to blood Because a and every man either on or in the sea dies. One of these vials turns the fresh water to blood because uh they have shed so much blood of so many of God's children Uh one of these vials of the wrath of God, one of these bowls, gives the sun great power and men are scorched. One of these bowls, uh the Bible says that the Antichrist capital, the beast capital, and court becomes full of darkness and pain Uh one of these bowls dries up the river Euphrates, which is necessary for the Battle of Armageddon. One of these bowls causes the greatest earthquake in human history. Islands go underwater, mountains collapse, hailstones come and kill men by the thousands. The Bible says in this section, toward the end of Genesis 15 and 16, to give unto her that is the people of the earth the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. But guess who does all this? Look at Revelation chapter 15 and verse Well, let's pick up at verse number one. I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last flags, for in them is filled up the what? The wrath of God. And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire, and them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of the name, stand upon the sea of glass, having the harps of God, and they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God That's the one who wrote Genesis and all those other first five books of the Bible. And the song of the Lamb saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty The God, the aspect of God, the way God chooses to identify Himself when He's pouring out these bowls of wrath upon a rebellious humanity, the God who chose to identify Himself chose to use the term. El Shaddai, the pour forth of destruction. Of course, the final destruction that comes not to humanity, but during the Great Tribulation is the Battle of Armageddon when rebellious humanity ceases its wars amongst itself and unites in an attempt to physically fight God, which reminds me of Psalm two. The Bible says the heathen rage, and what does God do? He laughs. What in the world are your tanks and your drones and your your your your your robot soldiers and your nuclear weapons? What are they going to do against God? The Bible says Revelation chapter 19 and verse 15. Turn and look at that, if you will. Speaks of the second coming of the Battle of Armageddon, Revelation 19 and verse number 15. You and I will be present, but we won't do any fighting. We'll just be following along behind. Look at verse number 15. Out of his mouth, that is Christ's mouth. goeth a sharp sword that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of who Else should I. The wine press there is the symbol, and most of us have a visual image of that. And if you don't briefly describe, they would take the grapes that were gathered, they were going to press for wine. And they would put them all within a concentrated area, usually a a a pit that was i uh uh a stone pit that was round or square or something of that. They would fill that with grapes and they would press that down uh almost like with a with a with with a big clamp, if you will. And sometimes in places where they didn't have that ability they would just throw some some young men up there who were very active young men and they would throw them up there and they would take their uh make make their legs bare and and they would g and they would literally stomp the grapes with their feet and as they stomped the grapes with their feet that grape juice would come out. And it would run out the drains out of all the sides of those. That's a wine press. It presses out the wine. And what the Bible says here is that what Jesus is going to do is he's going to take and he's going to squeeze humanity and extract from humanity the last drops of their blood because God has been so angry with them. They've they they've they've infuriated him and he's no longer holding back his judgment Well, the God that sounds like that doesn't sound like any God I want to be associated with. But He's the exact same one as the one who pours out all of this blessing. He's the pourer forth. He pours forth all of the blessing, all of the fruitfulness, all of the goodness until until he fills our lives with goodness and we stand there and our eyes fill with tears and we say, God, we don't deserve how good you are to us. Thank you. And it's the exact same God who extracts from humanity the last ounce of blood that he possibly can in his fury and in his wrath. That's the Bible study. Here's the message. You get to choose which one he is. You get to choose If you gardened it all, you didn't even have to garden it all. I mean you know what it's like when it it there's a drought. And one of the signs of a drought is when the earth gets dry. What does the earth do when it gets real dry? Cracks open. It's just it's just almost like opening itself to receive moisture. And then when the rains fall That earth has prepared itself to draw into it as quickly as possible and as deeply as possible every ounce of refreshment and nourishment it can possibly draw into itself. That's the kind of Christian I want to be. Now there are times in my life where it seems like God is remote, where it seems like God is not blessing. Where it seems like God is not answering, where where I pray and it seems like the heavens are breast and and I work and nothing happens and and and I plan and I organize and I I motivate and I mentor and I teach and I preach and I witness and and it seems like uh there's less and less response. But yet I've learned over time and walking with the Lord over these decades that that there are seasons in which God pours forth his blessing and so when it seems like he's not pouring forth his blessing, it just makes me hungrier for it. Just makes me more eager for it. And then when it comes, how refreshing it is and how how deeply you draw it into yourself. And if you've ever been through a season of your life where it seemed like God was absent and God wasn't listening. And then you get to the season of blessing on the other side of it, it is all that much more sweet and precious. But what if the earth does not draw that water into itself? What if the earth instead closes itself up if The ground is already saturated and it can hold no more water, and that water as it pours down in rain is nowhere to go into the ground. It said it sits on the top and then it begins to pile up And as it begins to pile up, it begins to move because water always goes downhill. And before you know it, one thing's led to another, and one thing's led to another, and you have a flood that is just absolutely destructive. Whether you will receive what God has for you or not dictates how He acts towards you Those of you in the room, I'm not being sarcastic or snarky, those of you in the room that are older, you don't have as much time to see this reflected in your life. Well, you in the room that are younger. Well, you absolutely do. When God comes to you And you close yourself off to it. And I have seen it. I have seen it. I have pictures of I have faces in my mind of people I went to high school with thirty-five years ago whose life is filled with destruction. And they sat in the same Bible classes I sat in and they They went to the to to to a similar church like mine, or in some cases the same church as mine, and they heard the same sermons I heard, and they read the same Bible I I read, and they sang the same songs I read, but they walled off God and they said God no and every time God said will you give me they said no and every time God said would you and they said no and every time God said I would like to and they said no and they just kept saying no to God and they kept saying no to God and here we are 35 years later And my life's not perfect, but I'm telling you tonight, God has filled my life with blessing. Because I'm better than them? Absolutely not! It's the goodness of God, it's the grace of God. But the same God that has filled my life with blessing has filled their life with destruction. And the destruction of their families, of their marriages, of their dreams, of and you can see it written on their countenance and you can read it all over their social media pages and and their lives are empty And they're angry and they're they're they're lustful and they're vengeful and they're bitter and their their their their their life is miserable. And I'm not saying that I'm perfect. Please don't take it that way. I'm saying that God has filled my life with blessings It's the same God. The same God Hell Shadai. He will pour out upon you blessing until you will marvel at how he has anticipated your ever desire. anticipated things you never even knew you wanted and prepared them for you. And we haven't even got to heaven yet. That's the God I serve. Or you'll be curled up in Maine, shouting curse words at heaven, at how awful the God you no longer believe in has been to you And it's your choice. Which one of those is going to be. Let's pray together, Shall we Heavenly Father.