We'll go ahead and turn to the book of 1 Kings, and we'll turn to chapter number 19. And it's days like this that I realize all the things that goes on through Pastor's mind because the just the You're looking at the time, you're looking at what the next thing is, and you're actually trying to think of of the words to to communicate. And then the message is well, it's just it's a lot. So uh uh had a bit different appreciation for for for those matters. Uh but uh as you're turning to first Kings nineteen That's really where we're going to be. And we're going to go through a a lesson. I I've studied this bef before uh last year sometime and uh really just ministered to to my heart as uh the need here that things just kind of stood out in in the life of the prophet Elijah. And I think there's some practical things that I think we can take away. And uh I just felt a a at a certain point that if if there was an opportunity to to uh preach at the church again that this would be something uh that would be helpful and so this is the way uh I think the Lord led and so as we as we go there we're gonna look at first Kings nineteen And we're going to look at uh what I would say is maybe uh if you've if you've been in church, it's a somewhat of a familiar story, uh, but I'd like to just bring some some things to light. and I hope to hope it'll be a help to you. And again, it is going to be a little bit more practical in in thought tonight. And as as we look at this, the title of the message is Elijah's Despair. Elijah's despair. And if we could visit with Elijah within this passage You would see a man who truly is in despair. Some would say that his speech and his actions uh his problems it would bring us to the conclusion that Elijah was dealing perhaps with some depression. I do not say this clinically, and I'll begin today with the disclaimer that I'm not a psychiatrist or a clinician or any kind of mental health professional. uh but we see some truths and and some details, very specific details in the Bible that I believe will help us. And if we if we look at other passages in the Bible, the the despair in the people that that wrote the scriptures comes through in in even just in the language that they use. And so as we look at that, you're in s uh 1 Kings 19 and let me just read for you a couple verses. Psalm 42, 11, the verse there says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God, for I shall yet praise him who is the health of my countenance and my God. And so you get this idea, these words that are used in the scripture, that his soul is cast down. His he he's disquieted. Uh in in Psalm 43, 5 you see a very similar phrasing used there. In Psalm 142, 4 The Bible says, I looked on my right hand and beheld, but there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. And so we get these deep feelings, these deep sentiments that are expressed in the Bible of a troubled soul, of anguish of soul. Perhaps we would call it depression or despair. And uh depression is not anything that is that that is foreign or uh unchristian, uh, if you will. The the thing that happens, there is a many some of you may know the one of the great preachers, uh Charles Spurgeon, uh in England, he suffered through d severe bouts of depression. where he was unable to preach uh for weeks at a time just because of the struggle and and the the the depression that he was dealing with and and a lot of it was was carrying the weight of the ministry. One of the main of or one of the big events that happened, if you read some of his uh his books, is that there was at one point a a a fire that broke out at the Metropolitan Tabernacle uh to the point where it caused a exit from the the location from the sanctuary and there were so many people there. uh that it caused uh if you would as as people were just flooding out of the building, uh several people were trampled and several people uh passed away and so these were people that he ministered to And so he carried that and he carried those those uh deep uh bouts of of of despair in his life. And those things happened. And so as we look at that today, this is something that we uh I think we should learn from. I think we can learn from. And so where we'll begin, we'll begin in 1 Kings 19, and we'll look at the setting that is laid out for us. And again, as we look, we're going to visit with Elijah and one of the things that I that I enjoy doing is pointing out things in in a passage that maybe uh as you look through it or as you read it uh in your devotions, perhaps uh sometimes you're like me and maybe you you rush through it or kind of gloss over it And uh you you have a picture in your mind of what it is and and you just you you you just kind of s go through it without really giving it any any uh additional thought. Uh but there's some details perhaps that that we might miss uh if we scan through that too quickly. And so Leading up to where we are right now, again, very familiar stories of the prophet Elijah, one of the great prophets in the scripture. And so as we look at this setting Leading up to this in 1 Kings 18 is a great victory that Elijah experienced. And we know this story of Elijah against the prophets of Baal at the top of Mount Carmel. And there's this huge situation. And in that, I just want it to be a reminder because The idea is that as a human, many times we feel that that if we're coming off of a victory, there's this feeling of like you're bulletproof, that you just have this great uh enjoyment and this great energy and you're just excited and you almost feel like you'd be willing to to take over the world And as you look at that, realize that that is an area of vulnerability. That is an area where we are at risk. And immediately after this episode on Mount Carmel, Elijah faces this challenge. Understand if you look at verse uh let's look at there in in in chapter 19, and Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword. So again, this is just a quick recap of what occurred at Mount Carmel. And verse 2 says, then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah saying So let the gods do to me, and more also if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by tomorrow about this time. And so here we see very clearly that Elijah is under threat. He has an adversary. He has Jezebel who is working against him and she is intent on Elijah's destruction. And it's very clear here in verse 2. And then, as we go into the next verses, look in verse 3 and 4. And when he saw that, he arose and went for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah. and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life. For I am not better than my father's. An interesting observation here is that in this in this part of the story, we Elijah ventures out of his own will, of his own accord. And this is actually the first time that we see that happen. If you're looking at the chapters previously where Elijah is is being guided and can and and performing these miracles that he's so famous for that we read through the scripture, we see that Elijah was directed by God, go here. And you're going to be fed by the ravens. Go here to this widow's house. And God step by step directs him. But that's not what happens here in chapter 19. What happens here is he just up and leaves because he's under threat, and as soon as he's under threat, he reacts to that and he takes off. Mount Carmel to Jezreel is about 15 miles. So the the idea is coming off the mountain and that victory. They went down to this area in Jezreel, and that's about 15 miles. And then he flees, Elijah flees from Jezreel to Beersheba, and that is about 150 miles. So Jezreel is in the northern part of Israel and in the northern kingdom, and when you see when you when you make see mention of Beersheba, that is very south, almost to the to the southern tip of the country. And so what this illustrates or what it shows us is that you're you see Elijah go from one end of the country to as far to the other side of the country as he can go and still be in Israel, he just takes off and he goes as far as he can uh 150 miles away. Then we see that he leaves Beersheba and he went further into the wilderness, a day's journey, which from estimates that are made, that's about 10 to 20 miles. And then as we look at that, we see in verse 4 that we find Elijah under a juniper tree. And as we look at that, in verse 4, he says, But he went, but he himself Went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a juniper tree, and he requested for himself that he might die And said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's. And so we see that some of the greatest, some of God's greatest men had this same request. In the book of Numbers, Moses had this similar request in Numbers 11, 15. We've been studying the book of Job, and we see that Job in chapter 3 had a had a similar request where he was just like, it'd be better off if I was dead. And then we know that Jonah, of course, in Jonah, after he went and preached to Nineveh, he was just discouraged and he was upset. about God showing mercy and he was under a gourd and in chapter 4 verse 8 Jonah requests that to to die as well And we see that God helps Elijah and he takes him to Horeb. So if you look down there at verses 4 through 9, For chapter 19, we just read verse 4, and verse 5 says, This: And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, then an angel touched him and said unto him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was a cake bacon on the coals, and a cruise of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again. An angel of the Lord came again the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose and did eat and drink and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb, the mount of God. And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there, and behold the word of the Lord came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah? This experience that Elijah's going through is concludes in this cave, and God asks him a question. What doest thou here, Elijah? What are you doing here? What are you doing here, Elijah? And there's so many different ways that maybe that could be presented. It's just it provokes a lot of thought when you think about that question. And it's like, what is Elijah doing in this cave? But when we look at this mountain, it says that Horeb was the mount of God. For the trivia folks, does anyone know another name for Mount Horeb? Sinai. It's Mount Sinai. So we're going to come back to this mountain. There's some good lessons on that. As we look at that, realize that Mount Horeb and Sinai are the same. But now we're going to point out some observations that on some symptoms that Elijah presented. Now, this is meant to be a help, a help to you to discern as you work with people what are the markers or areas of concern that you observe or perhaps are a symptom. of despair or or depression and I I would not say that these are all exhaustive. This is just what we observe from this passage and I think that it's helpful. And I hope that it's helpful for you and you can just write these down as you look in the notes there or in you in the in the verses, you can just annotate it on the side. First we see in verses 3 through 4, we're going to continue to walk through this passage. In verses 3 through 4, what happens here is that he isolated himself. And when he saw that, he arose and went for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness. And so as we we think about this experience, we think about this account of what's going on. Elijah runs from one side of the country or one point at the top of the country to as far south as he can, and he goes down, and he leaves his servant there. He isolates himself. And for many people in challenging situations in a moment of despair, people isolate themselves. This could come across in different ways. They could say, hey, you know what? I want some me time. Alright? And what we need to understand is that God has made us to be social beings. And I'm not trying to say that it's wrong to be by yourself, because as we see in the scriptures, there's there's a time, sometimes it's necessary to come apart. We see that Jesus exemplified that. That's certainly the case. But we see later in this passage that and of course the other example in this passage is that God leads Elijah to a cave. But Elijah here was running away from something. And it was not the right thing for him to do in this situation to isolate himself. But that's what he sees we what we see that he did. And not just that, as he leaves uh uh Beersheba, he goes into the wilderness, into a more secluded area. just by himself and then that's where he finds uh himself in in the juniper tree under the juniper tree. But as we read these first few verses, these first four verses of the Bible, we we see this activity that Elijah is is taking on himself and he's on the run And he's going a really long way. Again, we're talking about from one point to the other is about 150 miles. We have to come to the conclusion that Elijah was probably very exhausted and hungry. And what I think is a good symptom or something to learn and consider is that we have a responsibility to take care of ourselves physically. That could be, we see this in uh in in this passage as as rest or sleep. uh or nourishment. There's there's food that that was needed here for Elijah. And there's there's times where These physical aspects can affect us spiritually or emotionally. We have to take care of the temple that God gave us. And so there's wonderful opportunities, and if you ever take time to read some studies on that, there's it's necessary to get uh air or sunlight that that's good for you to be outside in the fresh air. They're good for your for your attitude, for your demeanor. There's uh uh uh this program that they're doing at work where what they're going to do in our because we work in the basement and in the basement We have no windows and that's just how it is. It's always been that way and that's just that's just life. But they're going to install, they have these programs and one of the guys uh jokingly calls it uh uh happy lamps because they're gonna install these lights that are l as bright as daylight and and they're gonna install them on the walls to make them look like windows almost and so there's the they're trying to like d all these things they from what they've studied are good for you physically to get that bright light and and and it's helpful for you. It helps your your your mental health to be happy. But there's also studies that show about the connection between sleep And mental health, and there's so many of them that you could read that if you're interested in that, those those factors should not be ignored. Physical things that come in your life, whether it be food or rest that's needed, those things are necessary. And they can affect you, and they certainly can affect you negatively. And so we we also see as you go down in verse 4, you you you have this Speech or complaint that Elijah puts forward in the end of verse 4. And when he's asking to die He says this. He requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am not better than my father's So I make an interesting observation here, because we see that Elijah compared himself to others Elijah had an expectation of himself. There was something that he was putting on himself that he felt he had not accomplished, if you're looking at that verse. He's saying That he wants to die. He's saying that he's not better than his father's. And this expectation led him to a dark place And the Bible talks about this in the New Testament where it says, if you compare yourselves among yourselves, this is not wise. And what's important for us to remember is that God has uniquely made each person to accomplish his purpose. But it's not a cookie cutter. It's not the same for one person as another. Each one of us are an individual. The Bible says that we're fearfully and wonderfully made. Each person is unique and each one of us has their purpose that they're supposed to satisfy or accomplish for God and no two are alike. And so the problem here that we see is that Elijah was comparing himself to, and he was comparing himself again to his fathers and saying, I'm not as good as they were. And so many people do that. And what that can do is that will lead you to a place where you're never going to reach that, accomplish that expectation. And that can lead you into despair. Again, there was a nourishment part that he was struggling with. He was weary. He was physically weary. Now, as we go down a little bit more in this passage, I think we've read through verse 9. Let's look at verse 10. Verse 10, right after that question where God asks them, What are you doing here? Verse 10 says, and he said, This is Elijah, I've been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. For the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am left, and they seek my life to take it away. Elijah felt alone. He felt isolated. Another observation that I make in this in this verse is that he was dealing with self-pity. What's interesting about this is that I was talking to someone a few weeks ago and just the the conversation just was very good and made a point that really stood out to me and and I haven't forgotten it since And the point is this, is that many times when we we think we're being humble in a situation like self-pity This could actually still be pride because the focus of that isn't God. The focus of that is still yourself And so here we have Elijah, and we have this self-pity that he's feeling. And again, you know, as you look at it, he says I even I only am left and they seek my life and take it away. And so he's like, I'm the only one and they want to kill me, and then what? If they kill me, then it's over. That's kind of what we're what we're gathering from from Elijah's speech here. And that's just where we see some self-pity. And so we make these observations, these symptoms that we see that Elijah is dealing with. And as we finish this, take note, again, in case you confront similar symptoms in someone that you know, understand that they could be struggling. It's not time to attack, it's time to offer help. So our last point that we'll go through is understanding the solutions that God provided. I think this is very neat to see if we go back to verse four We see that Elijah needed rest. He was weary. He was tired. And he had opportunity where he came to that juniper tree and he crashed out and he rested. Verse 5 says he lay and slept under a juniper tree. And so that was rest that he needed, but he needed a lot more rest than that, as we see in this passage But we also see in verse 4 that, or excuse me, in verse 5, that an angel touched him, woke him up, and said, said unto him, Arise and eat. And so God provided for him that nourishment that he needed to grow to strengthen his body, to strengthen himself physically. How important was that? What I also want us to see is that he communed with God in verse seven. The first verse here in verse, or the first reference to this happening where he's waken up by an angel and given food, is verse 5. But then we go to verse 7, and we get a little bit more detail as to who it is. And the angel of the Lord came again the second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. So when you look at this passage, we see that the visitor that visited with Elijah was the angel of the Lord. And there's many references to the angel of the Lord in the Old Testament, and there's many people that will attribute this visit to Christ Himself. This is one of those areas as we studied the Old Testament. This is possibly a Christophany where Jesus Christ Himself presented himself in the Old Testament. And so as we see that, that's the reference that we see, the angel of the Lord. It's very possible that that Elijah commune and took time with God. The second time around in verse 7, he adds one more thought to what he says. He said, Arise and eat. But the second time he says, Arise and eat, because the journey is too great for thee. The next solution that God provided is to rely on God's strength, not your own. This journey, that thought there, this journey is too great for thee. What the angel of the Lord was saying there is that this is too much for you. You need God's strength. And what's interesting is that The journey from Beersheba, so we talked about already that the journey from Jezreel to Beersheba is about 150 miles, and the journey from Beersheba to Mount Horeb was about 260 miles. Almost to the point understanding where they're, if you're going in your own strength, you're only going to go so far. But you're going to go much farther, If you're doing it in God's strength, God will sustain you and strengthen you beyond what you can do in your strength. And the Bible talks over and over about that, how how his strength is made perfect in weakness. And so when If you look at it this way, when man's strength is tapped out, that's where God's strength. Brings you through. But God's strength is not going to kick in until your strength is tapped out. As we continue in this passage, look at verse 9. Another remedy or that we see is solution. Is that a Elijah went on went on a retreat with God? That's when we see verse nine. So we see that he goes to Horeb, he goes to this cave and lodges there. And the word of the Lord came to him and said to him, What doest thou here, Elijah? Now, I already mentioned earlier that it's it's important to not isolate yourself. And Elijah goes off into a cave at Horeb, but if if if I could just make the point that he isn't by himself. He's on a retreat with God. He's communicating, talking, and and having this time in the cave with God As you look through that, there's they have this discussion in verse 10. Elijah talks uh again about him being the only one. And then in verse 11 And he said, This is God, go forth and stand upon the mount before the Lord. And behold the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains and break in pieces the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire a still small voice And it was so when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entering inn of the cave, and behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What doest thou here, Elijah? And so here's this time that he's spending with God. And the next solution that I'll present to you is to get back to basics Remember God's promises. God asks Elijah a great question. What are you doing here? And as we already made the observation that Horeb and Sinai are the same, this is the place where God reveals himself to Moses. And here God spoke to Elijah. And Sinai was where God met with Israel. And Sinai is where God gave his word and his commitments to Israel. And the remedy here is that God provided a reminder of his provision and all these things, and the word of the Lord came to Elijah. Within this passage, we also see that he listened for God. On this retreat, Elijah went through, he was listening for God. He was not distracted. One of the struggles that we have is that we have a hard time listening to God because there's so much noise. And I'm not saying that there's, you know, things are loud. There's just many things that consume our mind, consume our priorities, consume our attention. So much to the point that we can't take time to listen for God. We're distracted with different things. I pr think I make mention to it uh in in a couple other places throughout the notes, but There's a book that is talking about some of the impacts of uh social media and the internet on on really on this generation, but people that are using uh devices. And one of the struggles and one of the things that they're finding and for through the social science is that uh boredom is the impetus for creativity. And so but the problem is that we have a solution for boredom. We're never bored. I I mean we we always have something that we can look up. We always have a video that we can watch. We always have uh emails that we can check or messages that we can check. All these things are at our fingertips. We can always listen to a podcast or listen to music, whatever the case may be, and we're not bored. But that diminishes our ability to be creative. But at the same time, there's all these things that are vying for our attention. And in the same way, we don't have opportunity to listen for God. We don't have time to just be quiet and listen and be bored. And there's nothing wrong with that. We need to make sure that there's nothing wrong with being bored and and and listening for God So here we see that Elijah listened for God. And the next thing that we see is that in as we go down through this passage, In verse 15, we'll pick up on 14, because that's where we left off. And he said, I have been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts. He repeats his complaint. He had planned it out very well. He he n he knew what he was going to say, and uh when when God asked him a question, he knew that this was gonna be his answer. And he said, I've been very jealous for the Lord God of hosts Because the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword, and I even I only am left, and they seek my life to take it away. And the Lord said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus, and when thou comest, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria, and Jehu, the son of Nimshai, shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel, and Elisha the son of Shephat of Abel Mehola shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room. And so another solution that God provided to Elijah to deal with his despair is that he said, get back to work. God put Elijah back to work. He had work to do. He had to anoint two kings. He had to anoint his successor. And What's nice about this is that the work that God gave him to do in a way answered Elijah's complaint. Elijah was saying, they're going to kill me. And They're after me and they're going to kill me and I'm the only one that's left. And God said, they're not going to kill you, because there's work that you still have to do. This is the work that you have to do. And that God it showed that God had a purpose for Elijah. And Elijah found God's purpose and how important It is for us to individually find God's purpose for our life. But remember that we see here that Elijah still had service to do for the Lord. So he gave them this job these jobs to do, and it was very much just he let them speak, and God responded, this is what I need you to do. And so as we go to verse sixteen, or excuse me, seventeen, it continues on about the the process that is gonna that's gonna take place in verse seventeen, and it shall come to pass That him that escapeth the sword of Hazael shall Jehu slay, and him that escapeth from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay. And so that's a prophecy of something that's going to happen. And verse 18, yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him. So the next solution that God provides here is that He points out to Elijah that he needs to change his perspective. And as zealous and as sincere as Elijah was, he was just wrong. He was not the only one left. And God came to him and provided that to him and just let him know, like, hey, you got to change your point of view. You're not seeing things this way. You're not seeing them correctly. And God sees these things perfectly. And he was not the only one left. And there's times where as a person is dealing with despair, they may need some help seeing things from a different perspective. They may not be able to see any other perspective. We see twice, again, it was ingrained in Elijah's head what his response was. And we see it twice. And he wasn't seeing things from another perspective until God came and said, no, this is not the case. And he presented that to him. And another solution, I think this is the last solution that we see that God gave him, or that God gave to Elijah, is that God gave him a companion. If you go to verse 19, So he departed thence and found Elisha, the son of Shephat, who was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelve And he with the twelfth, and Elijah passed by him, and cast his mantle upon him. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah. And said, Let me pray, let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again, for what have I done to thee? And he returned back from him and took a yoke of oxen and slew them and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen and gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. So we see that God gave him a companion, a person to invest in. More than just a successor, we see that God gave him a friend and a helper. And More through as you see after this passage, you see most of the time that Elijah and Elisha are together. And so, again, understanding that this is how Elijah felt. He felt he was constrained, he felt under threat, he was he wanted to die, he thought he was the only one. And God changes perspective, and just to solidify that, he gave him someone to walk that road with him very closely. We find them together. Now, these this solution is so important because there's there's people that we need to invest in, to pour ourselves into. To find a companion to walk this road with. And again, going back to the reference of the of this book of dealing with with social media and and technology and with with youth and things like that. In dealing with it with a situation like this, a young person or anyone may come to the conclusion and say, like, well, I have friends. And this this man who wrote this book, one of the things that he's uh that that he says is that there's what he calls them, and this is a little weird, but he he calls them disembodied interactions. So when you have you may have a friend, you may have a virtual friend, someone that you text or you communicate, but that conversation is not a real conversation. I'll give you this example. I was talking to Andrew, who is Akira's the guy that's Akira's boyfriend, who's interested in in in Akira. And we've been talking over the last uh several months and just communicating and things like that. And it it's been good to have these conversations and at one point a few month a few weeks ago maybe I had a conversation with them And I was like, uh, you know, I told him, I said, it's just I I said I appreciate it, it's great, I said, but you know, I c I can't help it. I still feel that there's just something missing. And to a degree I felt a little bit bad because i i i uh I think maybe he took that a little bit personally and he was just kinda he asked me very directly, he was like, so what is still missing? He's like, I've enjoyed the conversations. And I said, no, I I said, I agree. I've enjoyed the conversations. They've been great. We've gotten to know each other and communicating. But it does not take the place of me sitting eyeball to eyeball with you and just talking to you. And I wish I could. I wish I could do that. And I told them that. And it's the same thing that we're talking about here that as you have a companion Yes, it's someone that you may be able to text with. And if that's the limitation because of distance or whatever, then that's going to be as good as it's going to get. But there is no replacement for Living, standing, face-to-face, interaction, real person-to-person communication. And how necessary it is. Again, we're social people. It's necessary. And in Elijah's life, that's what he needed as well. So how do we wrap this up? I've given you the symptoms so that you can take note of them. I hope that those are a help for you. I provided the the solutions that God gave to Elijah in hopes that that we can be a help uh when needed. But The truth of the matter is that you're going to encounter Christians and non-Christians alike that struggle just like Elijah was struggling. They struggle with despair. They they're gonna they struggle with depression and the hope is that this would provide a means to help. A help for the lost, a help for perhaps a brother in Christ, a help hopefully for somebody that you know.