Uh we are in the book of Job. You can turn to Job chapter number 15. We're on Eliphaz's second accusation. You know that uh the majority of this book is the uh discussion between uh Job's three friends and his uh himself, you know, just discussing and looking at What is the area of concern, you know, how they debate back and forth over what they believe is his greatest problem and what Job keeps trying to defend himself with regards to And uh because we have the Word of God and God has told us, we get to look at it from a bird's eye view and understand the whole situation. You know, that's not i i it very rarely in life do you get to know the whole situation. You you you traditionally or typically you're just looking at the one side. You're just hearing the one argument, you're just dealing with the one aspect. And so this gives us some insight into both sides, and I think uh imparts or shares some wisdom to us uh when we're dealing with others maybe how to respond or act more equitably, uh charitably, uh to have a little bit of grace. One of the greatest problems that Elifaz and Bildad and uh Zophar had was that they they they did not see any room for grace. They they they lived by a set of rules and in their set of rules they saw, well if you're going through this hardship then that means you're sinning and therefore this has to be the fact. And yet they they couldn't see any adjustment in that and they they wouldn't hear any change. And so we need to be a little bit more gracious than that when we're dealing with people. As they get this second time around, as usually happens when you get into a debate or a discussion, the longer it progresses, the more irritable people get. the the comebacks and the comments and such. And you you can kind of sense that if you're reading through this, and we don't we're not going to read through it in its entirety, but as you're reading it, you'll see here first of all that the discussion is a little bit shorter, it's a little faster, uh they cover their their argument quicker, and so there's kind of that they they almost like they sped up a little bit and then it's a little bit sharper in tone and a little more aggressive in accusation and so you see that kind of maybe a little bit of there you talk about the patience of Job well they're almost losing patience with each other here uh as they are debating over this topic But uh we want to see in chapter number fifteen, first of all, Eliphaz's second reprimand. Then we're going to see Job's fourth response, as this would be the fourth time as he answered these three men the first time around and now he's coming in at at the fourth time he's giving them an answer. And then we want to see our first responsibility as we as we learn from this. And so those are the three points that we're going to be looking at tonight. First of all uh we see the scolding over words. He begins here in chapter fifteen, verses one through five. He says, Then answered Eliphaz the Timanite and said, Should a wise man utter vain knowledge? And fill his belly with the east wind? Should he reason with unprofitable talk, or with speech wherewith he can do no good? Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God, for thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity. Thou choosest the tongue of the crafty. He says to him several things in these beginnings here, talking about Job's crafty words and the way in which Job is presenting it. And he's saying, Yeah, Job, you're pretty good at saying this, but I want you to know what you're saying is not helping you. He's attacking him here, and he says there's several things he says here in verse number two. He talks about this filling his belly from the east wind. Uh the idea there is the wind from the east would be a very hot, dry wind. It's a wind that would carry in the dry season. There wouldn't be any rain or moisture with it. There wouldn't be any benefit with it. It would be a hot wind. It would be hot air. It wouldn't be beneficial in any way. And that's what he's saying to him. He says, hey, all the stuff you're saying is not beneficial, Job. It's unprofitable there in verse number three. But maybe the most piercing or cutting thing that he said is in verse number four. He says, Yeah, yea, thou castest off fear. And restraineth prayer before God. You see, beloved, what he's saying to him here, he says, Job, if what you say is true, if in fact You are suffering unjustly. You are as pure as a driven snow, and yet you're still going through this. He says, Job, what reason is there for any of us to do good? What reason is there? You are casting off the fear. Any fear that man would have of being in your shoes by sinning and doing wrong, if that's going to happen to you anyway. Job, you're removing the fear. He says to him there about prayer. He's like, why should you pray? He says, you restrain his prayer before God. He's saying, listen. Why should we pray? Why should we do good? If in fact what you say is true, that you're as peer as can be, and yet you're still going through it. He's saying, what motivation would anybody have to do good? This is a very humanistic way of looking at this whole problem. And it it is the mindset of very many today And that is, you know, in some aspects there's truth here, but it's not always applicable, which we understand from the life of Job, but just the humanistic aspect or the idea of, well, if you do good, you're going to get good. But the problem is they think if you do good you you will not get bad. And you do bad you're going to get bad. Now we know that you reap what you sow. and uh that you should do unto others as you'd have them to do unto you and put it into modern proverb, what goes around comes around. We we understand that to be true. But what we also know from this story and from the Word of God that it rains on the just and the unjust. That just because you're going through hardship doesn't mean that you have done wrong or that you're in sin. And we know that to be true, but the accusation here to Job is saying, listen, you are disparaging God's good name. What nobody would have any reason to fear God and to do right if they're going to go through what you're going through anyway And that's something that we need to guard against and get a good understanding of as we go through this uh story of Job here, because some people get discouraged and they walk away from God because in their mind they thought, well, I'm a Christian And I'm trying to do right, and I'm still having hardship, I'm still going through trouble, I'm still experiencing trial, what good is it to do right? Well, it's right to do right all the time, right? Regardless. Amen. And the benefits far outweigh the burdens When you do right. But sometimes people will go through a hardship or a trial or a test and they'll say, Man, I was doing right and I'm still going through this. The thing is, is i i everybody's going to go through trials Everybody's going to go through tests. And the thing is, when you go through them with God, you've got God with you. You've got God's support. You've got God's help to carry you through. And you reap the blessings of honoring and glorifying Him through that, and you'll reap great reward and fruit later in life. You know, you go through tests and trials sometimes, and uh they Obviously, God knows what's coming next. And God is always preparing you and I. You see, just like the athlete that is preparing for his next race, He runs and he pushes himself to the very limit. I mean he wanted to quit five miles back. He he was tired and his muscles were hurting and He wanted to say, boy, this is dumb. Why am I doing this? I want to quit. This is too hard. But he pushes himself to his limit. Why? Because he's preparing for that next race. And beloved, God knows the race that you have to run. And God knows what's out in front of you. And He is ever preparing you and I for the race that's in front of us. And so some things we're going through today we don't even know, but it might be God building the strength within us to be able to go through or endure or to magnify his name in what's coming up in the future. It's still down the road. But we see him here attacking him. In verse number six He says, Job, your own words are condemning you. He says, Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I, yea, thine own lips testifieth against thee. He says, You're what even what you're saying is declaring your own guilt, Job. Job is acting, he accuses him of acting like he'll know it all in verses 7 through 9. He says, Art thou the first man that was born? He said, boy, have you been here since the beginning? Do you know everything? Or wast thou made before the hills? Hast thou heard the secret of God, and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself? What? Knowest thou that we know not? What understandest thou which is not in us? He says, boy. You you know everything somehow, Job, you got knowledge that we don't have? You think you have understanding that nobody else has? And he's attacking Job here and uh getting on to him about this This is Eliphar's kind of a knee-jerk reaction to Job's defense of himself, Job's which we read in the previous chapters, but Job defending himself uh he's under attack by these guys and he's defending himself and explaining and and and right away kind of he comes back with this knee-jerk reaction and kind of attacks him and then says boy what you think you know everything And he gives them some statements of the wise here. We see in verse number 10, the wisdom of the aged he describes. He says, boy. With us are both the gray head and the very aged men, much elder than thy father. He says, on our side, We have experience. We have aged men. Men that are even older than your dad. And and and yet you still try and Defy or or say that we don't know what we're talking about. He says we have the wisdom of age. He said we have the wisdom of experience. In verses 11 through 16, he says our Are the consolations of God small with thee? Now this is pretty amazing that Eliphaz describes their discussion with him as the consolations of God. I don't think they're very good comforters. We're going to see Job's thoughts on it in just a moment. But he's saying to them, hey, are the consolations of God nothing to thee? Is there any secret thing with thee? Why doth thine heart carry thee away? And what do thine eyes wink at? He said, boy, you're just winking at. You're almost like making fun of all the things that we have said to you. The consolations of God that God brought to you through us is nothing. He said, we have the experience Verse number 13, that thou turnest thy spirit against God. Now Job wasn't against God, was he? No, but that this is what they're saying. They were saying what we're saying to you is as the words of God. And he says, and when you're defying that, you're you're you're turning against God. And let us such words go out of thy mouth. Verse number 14, what is man that he should be clean? And he which is born of woman, that he should be righteous. Behold, he putth no trust in his saints. Yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight. How much more abominable And filthy is man which drinketh iniquity like water. He says, man, Job, how dare you declare yourself righteous? You know what? We know that we're not righteous. We know that we're unclean. Even our righteousness, the Bible says, is as filthy rags. Even what we do in our greatest work, our best work for God, is yet as filthy rags in comparison to the purity and the holiness of God Almighty. But we are made righteous with the purity and the holiness of Jesus Christ. And so his attack here against Job, which they're declaring to him, in some respects, again, you hear the tenets of truth mentioned occasionally through this. This is a true statement that we're all unrighteous. Man is a sinner. God looks down and all of earth is is corrupt with sin. And especially men that drink iniquity like water. He says, wow, how could we believed to be righteous. He implies that Job is walking in sin. And so he truly is not righteous. And they describe the wisdom of others in verses 17 through 19. He says, I will show thee, hear me, that which I have seen, I will declare He's saying, I'm going to tell you what I've seen, which wise men have told me from their fathers, and have not hid it, unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them. Now in this time period, they were very close-knit communities. And obviously a lot of education was done by word of mouth. the mom and dad carrying on the story and teaching their children and telling them about the history and teaching them about the word of God and and this was something that inside of a community was very valuable to them. Their history and what was going on. The communities were close-knit and they had that tight bond. And what he's describing here, he says, no stranger has come in and corrupted them. He says, What I'm telling you is what's been passed down from our fathers. This is truth that we've been we we've been handed And this hasn't been corrupted. There's nothing here that there's no stranger came into our community and taught these foolish things. These are things that are pure and clean right from our fathers and our forefathers. They've been handed down in our community. adding weight to what he was describing. Then he goes on and he describes the status of the wicked. Again, these are very true statements. But just because what Eliphaz said was true doesn't make it true about Job. A lot of what he said here is correct In other situations, or maybe applied in other places, but it was not correct with Job. We see several things about the wicked described here in the Really the remaining of these verses all the way through verse number 35, but we see the wicked are bound up with problems. Verses 20 and 21. He says, And the wicked man travaileth with pain all his days. Well, isn't that a true statement? That's the fact of the matter is, is, is, uh, boy, the way, the Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard You know you think you think you have it hard because some tiles or tests that you're going through or something you might be enduring. The Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard and all you have to do is is walk down on Skid Row or visit the prison or spend a little bit of time going through the inner city and and just look around. You can see the way of the transgressor is hard. Those are ready visible just beacons of of of light for that kind of a lifestyle. And you say, man, the way of the transgressor is hard. But you could look at either smaller segments of it in in other areas of society and and see that it it it is hard when men live in sin. They have constant trouble, he says. Yeah, the wicked man trailer was pain all his days. Verse number 20, the number of years is hidden to the oppressor. A dreadful sound is in his ears, in the prosperity of the destroyer shall come upon him. He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness. He's saying, boy, they dwell and they live in darkness. Verse number 23, he wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? Like walking around in darkness looking for the bread. Where where is it? Where is it? He knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at hand. Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid. They shall prevail against him as a king ready in battle. You know what's amazing here is that Elifaz is being a little bit passive-aggressive. You see, he's in a general way, he's describing the wicked. Which his description of a wicked man is true. It is right. Wouldn't you agree? It's right. That's the path of the wicked. But see what Eliphaz is saying. Is Job, you're the wicked man. So he's on the surface, he's kind of being kind and saying, well, you know, Job, these are true. A wicked man, this is what he's like But what he's really saying to Job is, you're the wicked man, Job. And he goes on and he says, boy, verses 27 through 28, the wicked try to hide from God. 29 to 30, the wicked are not going to prosper. They're going to just endure great hardship and loss. 31 to 35, the wicked are vain and they are deceived in their way. And these are true descriptions of wicked men. But they were not true of Job. So we move on now to chapter number 16, and we see Job's fourth response. His coming back a fourth time. He's going to respond to him. And, you know, says, okay, are you done? And he begins to provide an answer. Job opens up here chapter 16 and verse number one. We're going to read 1 through 5. He says, and Job answered and he said, Have I heard many such things? He said, I've heard a lot of stuff just like this. He said, boy, miserable comforters are ye all. You you you do not rate on the comfort scale. You guys are not helping at all. You guys are miserable at this task. Verse number three, he says, shall vain words have an end? And what emboldeth thee that thou answerest? He says, I also could speak as ye do If your souls were in my soulstead, I could heap up words against you. And shake my head at you. What he's saying here, he's almost being a little bit, uh, I don't know if placating is the right word, but He's saying I could speak the same words. What he's saying is like I hear what you're saying, and I could I could hear myself saying the same words as you I could be if I was in a situation and I was talking to somebody that was in the situation that I am, what you're saying has enough truth in it that I could indeed hear myself saying those same things to somebody. That that is something that could be true. And he's kind of saying, I understand what you're saying, Eliphaz. I I I could even I could say the exact same words that you're saying. He says, I could heap up words against you. I could shake my head at you. Look at verse number five. He says, but I would strengthen you with my mouth. And the movement of my lips should assuage your grief. We're going to come back to this in a minute when we talk about our responsibility, but beloved, it's much easier to tear down than it is to build up. And that's what he's saying here. He says, I could I could speak the same words as you. There may in some instances be truth in regards to what it is you're saying. He said, but what you need to remember Is that my heart's desire, even in the situation that you're in, it would have been to build somebody up. It would have been to be a help, not to tear them down, not to destroy them. I would want to help them So we see here his disappointment in his friends, verses 1 through 5, how disappointed he was in their miserable level of comfort and their heaping of words against him. They're shaking their heads and pointing their fingers at him and he said, boy, that things ought not be that way. But then we see the disc his description of his turmoil in verses 6. All the way through chapter 17 in verse number 10, Job kind of digs in and he says, here's what I'm doing. This is what I'm going through. It's amazing that uh he he he kinda is talking to Eliphaz and the other guys there, but then he begins to speak uh to God or about God. is he goes back and forth in between despair and dependence. We're going to see that a little bit in a minute, but we see in verse number eight He says, And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me. My leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face. He says here the very fact he's he's speaking about God or to God, and he says, the very fact that I am going through this trial. Is a witness against me. Just like Eliphaz and my other two good friends who stand here and are accusing me. He's saying the very fact that I got God the I I'm going through this and even just the fact that I'm going through this, it bears witness against me. It's telling the whole world that I must be in sin because I'm going through such terrible heartache. He said, my leanness there is rising up and bears witness to my face. The very fact that he was in such pain and that he had lost so much weight and uh that he was not healthy was just a testament against him and he said, boy, it's as though I have no defense at all. He has been left to the destroyer. Verses 10 through 12, he says, They have uh gapped upon me with their mouth. They've smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully They've gathered themselves together against me. You see Job outside the city here sitting on the ash heap. And often we think about him maybe being all alone. Except for these three friends. But here he describes himself here. He says, they have gathered themselves together against me. He said, They've smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully. The the idea that people would come by and look at Job and point fingers And even smack him down and say, I knew you were a dishonest man. I knew, you know, all the haters The haters are gonna hate, right? The haters that that didn't like Job because he was prosperous, the haters that that didn't uh care for Job's stand on uh you know what was right and what was wrong and and they they they were in the background uh throwing accusations and throwing stones before but now that job is sitting on the ash heap It's opened up the window for them to come by and laugh and mock and say, Ha ha, see I knew you were no good. God has revealed it. God has showed us who you really are. Here you are. They've smitten him. cast him down, they've uh smitten him on the cheek. He says, God hath delivered me to the ungodly and turned me over unto the hands of the wicked. He says, I was at ease. My life was going good, but he hath broken me asunder. He also hath taken me by my neck and shaken me to pieces and set me up for a mark. He says he's he's just broken me. And he set me up as a mark for people to just look at and mock and make fun of. In one respect, Job is battling these feelings in his heart. But you're going to see as we read through this, Job continues to go back to what he knows to be true. So, in some respects, he's battling his feelings, what he feels, because of all he's endured. And all of us have to deal with that. What we feel when we're going through. But what we must do in this Christian life is we must go back to and stand on what we know to be true, not on what we feel. And you're going to see that oftentimes. Job here is describing what he feels, but you'll see several times as we're reading through this that he goes back to what he knows to be true about God. So here you see him just really unloading and saying, man, it feels like God's dumped me on the trash heat. God's set me up as a mark. God has put broken me. He's destroyed me. I used to be in pretty good place and I was at ease, but now look what God has done to me. And you know, sometimes you're going to have to battle with your feelings. We're doing grief share right now. And this is something sometimes people especially going through great grief They battle with. Because in one respect, they feel like, well, if I really trusted God, if I really loved God, I wouldn't feel so bad. And then they feel guilty about feeling so bad and that the loss is so heavy. And so they're struggling with their feelings of loss, and why is it such a hard burden to carry? Lord, if I really believed you and I knew that I'm going to heaven, I know I'm going to see him again, but why is this so hard? And Satan can climb up on their shoulder and say, Boy, if you really loved God, you wouldn't feel like this. So what I'm saying is sometimes you have to battle and discern between your feelings and between truth. And Job here is battling with his feelings. He says, man, this is what I feel like. But you'll see him in the midst of this also turn back to what he knows to be true about God. And you're going to see that as we continue. He says, in verse number 17, he describes, he said, Boy, I'm going through all of this, and the worst of it is not my fault. In verse 17, he says, Not for any injustice in my hands. Also, my prayers are pure. He says, I have not done anything wrong to deserve this. My prayers are right, and yet I'm still going through this. Job's despair is real. You could read the remainder of these verses, 11 through 16, he uh talks about the hardship he's going through, the the darkness that he sees. He gets on down to the end here and he describes how he really is just ready for the worms to take him and eat him up. He says, I'm ready to be dead. There's really nothing for me here. That again, that battle between his feelings. He at points here seems as though he's lost all hope. You know, when you lose all hope, you've lost everything. And Christian, if the Christian has lost hope, who can have hope? We've got to be the carriers of hope to a world that is lost and without it. We need to be a beacon of light. We need to be a carrier of hope to this world. And that starts with us having hope. And the only way we are going to have hope in the face of hardship or trials is that we know the Word of God and that we stand on what is true and not on what we feel. Sometimes you might be in a dark night. Sometimes you might be going through a trial that is great and it's heavy, and you look and you say, Man, I don't see any light at the end of the tunnel. But we have to go back to the truths of the Word of God, that we know that God is on the throne. We know that He loves us and that He'll never leave us or forsake us. We know that he knows every hair on our head. And when one falls to the ground, we know that his children have never been left wanting. We know that he cares for us. And he's a friend that's to get closer than a brother, and that his will will be done, and that our job and responsibility is to glorify him. So in the midst of whatever you're going through, Remember to look at the truth of the Word of God and stand on that and push back the feelings that would encroach and want you to say that God has left you, God has departed from you. There is no hope, because there always is hope. Several contrasts that we see in this text with regards to him turning for between despair and depend dispendent dependency upon God. I just went back and grabbed a couple of them, but if you look at verse number 18 And compare that to verse number 20, chapter 16, verse number 18. He says, O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place. He says, Man, I've got no place to cry. I've got the earth has covered me over. There's nothing left. I've got no place to cry. But then look contrast that with verse number 20. He said, My friends scorn me, but mine eye poureth out tears unto God. You see, in his feelings, he says, I've got no place to cry, I've got no shoulder to cry on, nobody cares for me. But then what he knows to be true is that God is always there. And he says, my tears are falling on his shoulder. God is who hears and sees my cries. We see in verse number 17, he describes how he's ready to die. I'm sorry, in 17, chapter number one. He says, my breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for me. He said, boy, the graves ready I'm ready to go. This is the end. There's nothing left here for me in this life. But then look at verse number three. He says, Lay down now, put me in surety with thee. Who is he that will strike hands with me? He's talking to God. He says, put me in a surety with thee. He says, I'm relying on you, my surety. My strength, my hope, my redeemer. I'm lying down with you. I have you to hold on to. Would you give me your hand to grab? In verse number 7, chapter 17, verse number 7, he declares his weakness. He said, My eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are as a shadow. He's saying just a shadow. Sometimes when people get older, the older we get, the less physical prowess we have. When you see these young men, they they think they're gonna live forever and they're going to the gym and they're working out. And and we you see 'em, they're getting big and they're getting buff and they're they're they're they're you know, they got their their their muscles are showing and they they wear the the shirts that are that are like this so that you know they can you know poke out every once in a while. Uh but Have you ever heard anybody say, man, he's just a shadow of who he used to be I mean he used to be a strong strappy man, but now boy he he he's just a shadow of what he was. He he's no longer that that strong guy. He's no longer that that uh you know doesn't have the energy she once did. Because just just the life has gone out of her. The life has gone out of him And they're just a shadow of what they once were. They they no longer can do those things. And this is what he's transcribing here. His e his eyes are dim. He's just a shadow of what he once was. He doesn't have any of the strength he once did But then look in verse number nine. He says, the righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. So again, he's turning back to what he knows to be true about God, even though what he's feeling. This Verse right here is a verse that God gave me in my own devotions way back in the 1990s, early 1990s. When I was struggling with some sin in my life, and I felt like I was never going to get victory. I was always going to be battling this. And it's just it I I'm sick of battling this sin. It's so hard and and I keep failing God. And I was fed up with myself. And God gave me this verse in my devotions. He that has strong hands, he that has clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. He said, man. All I gotta do is get clean hands. And if I can keep my hands clean today, I'll be a little stronger tomorrow. And if I can keep my hands clean tomorrow, I'll be a little stronger the next day. And if I can keep my hands clean that day, I'll be a little stronger. And the fact of the matter is, is that the battle over sin does get a lot easier. If you can keep your hands clean. If you keep letting Satan win every single day And you keep giving him place in your heart and in your life, and you open the door for, you know, the prudent man foresee it the evil and hideth himself. If you don't put some protections up, if you don't guard yourself, if you keep allowing Satan to just come right in, but if you can just get clean hands one day at a time, every day that you have clean hands, you get stronger and stronger. And that verse by itself changed my life as a young college student. To begin to give me victory in my life over sin that God wanted to get out. And in context here, Job's just talking about the strength that God would give him. Understanding his hands were clean. He was not guilty. And therefore God was going to come on the scene and God was going to strengthen him. So he's going back and forth between what he felt in his heart about being forsaken and what he knew to be true about God, that he was there with him through it all. Now as we see here, we're going to wrap this up talking about our first responsibility. Job's friends were miserable comforters. They came and they talked, but they did not help. Matter-of-fact, they heaped words up against him. They stood back and they shook their heads and they pointed fingers at him, but they didn't help him. What they should have done is they should have strengthened Job with their lips. They should have eased Job's sorrow with their love. But they didn't. So our first responsibility, beloved, is to edify, to build up. That is what we need to remember. When men and women are going through hardship or trial, we need to remember to work and function inside the realm of grace, the grace that God has with us. And give that grace and mercy to others. Our responsibility is to edify Paul, the great persecutor of the church. Who was more zealous than any in attacking the church when he was lost and didn't know Jesus Christ? But when he got saved, when he had that uh met Jesus on the road to Damascus His life changed and he was no longer a persecutor of the church. He says in 2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse number 8. For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority which the Lord hath given us for edification and not for your destruction. You see, at one time he was destroying them. He said, but what God has given me, he has given me for your edification In 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse number 9, he says, Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you, we speak before God in Christ, but we do all things, dearly beloved, for your edifying. Paul's ministry was to edify the church, was to build up. And we, as God's people, need to remember that in all of our dealings with people. In all of our ministry in the church, our gifts and our skills and what we bring to the table should all be used for the edification of the body of Christ. We should never allow Satan to use us for the destruction of the body of Christ to in any way harm the church. And you understand, beloved, the church is the people. And if we are in any way harming somebody else in the church, we're harming the body of Christ, and we're not to do that, we're to edify the body. The gifts that are given are given for this purpose. Ephesians 4. 12. And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and some teachers for the perfecting of the saints for the work of the ministry. For the, do you know it? Edifying. For the edifying of the body of Christ. That's what we're supposed to be doing. We edify when we share the Word of God. It would be a good Bible study for somebody just to go through the New Testament and look up the word edify. or edification and see uh your responsibility with regards to that and how much God's word says about that. But we edify when we share the word of God Prophecy in the New Testament was given to the believers as a sign for a period of time where men had the gift of prophecy That's one of the gifts that is gone. That is the gift to foretell, to tell what's coming. I don't believe that men have the gift of prophecy today. We have a completed book, the Bible says. This this is done. God is not uh Giving men the ability to foretell coming events. All you have to do is listen to those people that foretell, and when they're wrong, they should be out of a job, but it's for some reason they get to keep on talking They keep on the radio and all this. They but they the gift of prophecy was given uh as a sign. But even after that, I believe the Bible says here that given some prophets And the idea of prophesying several times when it's speaking of it in the New Testament, what it's talking about is sharing the Word of God. Not foretelling. But forth telling. Taking what is already known and sharing it. That's many times what it's speaking of in, for instance, In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse number 4, verse number 3, he says, But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification. He that prophesieth speaketh to men to edification. So we are to edify the idea of speaking to men to their edification. What is that? That is Forth telling. Not foretelling. Forth telling is taking the word of God and sharing it with others. That's how we edify. It's not just a matter of encouraging. Encouraging is great, and we should do that, and that could be an aspect of it. But biblical edification takes place when we share the Word of God, when people's lives are strengthened with that Quick and powerful sword, the word of God, that is a living word that changes lives. He that prophesieth edifieth the church, 1 Corinthians 14, 4. 1 Corinthians 14, 5. I would that ye prophesied that the church may receive edifying, that the church may receive edifying. In 1 Corinthians 14, 12, even so ye, for as much as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to edifying of the church. He says, Boy, you want a spiritual gift? You're searching after these gifts and you want a spiritual gift so that you can do something. See what you ought to be searching after is the ability to edify the church. That's what ought to be your goal. Not that you might have more spiritual gifts than somebody else in the church, but that ye may be used of God greatly to edify. To edify, that is, to share the word of God with others. 1 Corinthians 14, 26, let all things be done unto edifying. I think it's pretty clear that we have a job to edify, amen. And that's what we should be doing. That's our first responsibility. Unlike Job's friend, to drop the ball on this, we should edify one another. You and I have a choice in what we want to talk about, in what we should pursue, what we should go after. Turn your Bibles to Romans chapter 14, if you would. Romans chapter 14. I want to show you this verse. I'm bringing it to a conclusion here. We're going to look at several verses here in Romans chapter fourteen. You guys are gonna be there before me. Alright, there's several verses here I want you to to see. So beginning in verse number 19 He says, let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. So what we're supposed to be pursuing, what we're supposed to be going after, are things that make for peace and things that edify. If we allowed that to control our conversation and allowed that to control our conduct, it would change a lot of people's activity, a lot of people's conversation, if what we're communicating about is to for peace and for edification. Look back at verse number one, chapter fourteen and verse number one. He says, Him that is weak in the faith, recede ye, but not to doubtful disputations. When I read that, I just there are some people that really love to dig into the doubtful disputations. Again, remember what we're supposed to pursue in chapter 14 here in context, what we're supposed to pursue is the things that lead towards peace and edification. And here he's saying, listen, there's some things that maybe the Bible is not 100% clear on. Maybe the Bible doesn't dogmatically declare to be sin. And you really shouldn't major on that and try and split hairs over that. You shouldn't be causing a problem with regards to that. Those uh would be d What was in the words there? Doubtful disputations. Some people love to just argue about things that don't matter a whole lot I remember back in Bible college, guys standing around the dorm, they would love to get into these Bible discussions about foolish and unlearned things. I said, you know, the Bible tells us not to be doing this. You guys are idiots. And uh I would go to work and they would stay there and argue in the dorm, right? But that over the years I've seen that. Uh even here, sometimes people just get a I had a guy get mad because we had Christmas trees up here in January. Christmas is gone. Why do we have Christmas trees on the stage in January? So, well, they're pine trees. Pine trees grow year round. I mean, there's no lights on them or anything. I I don't know. I mean I mean who really cares about whether there's a tree on the you know, whether it's a pine tree or whether it's a uh a maple tree. I mean what what's the difference? I mean it's it's some greenery. It just looks pretty. Uh and nobody's trying to make a statement one way or the other. You know, it's just doubtful disputations. People wanting to to make a big deal out of something so small. When there's a whole lot of things that we could make a big deal out of, but what he says, hey, what you should do is pursue peace and pursue edification. That's what our goal ought to be. In context here you see that he's talking about the eating of meat. For one believeth, verse number two, for one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. He's saying, Listen, here's an area where Some people might have a cause for offense, or they might say, well, I should do this or I shouldn't do that. He says there's no reason to cause an offense over that. What we ought to do is pursue peace and pursue edification. Amen? We ought to stick that in our mind. Pursue peace and pursue edification. Put it somewhere and ask the Lord to bring it back to memory every time we open our mouth. Is this pursuing peace and edification? Sometimes when I'm preaching I think it would be good if the Lord would tell me that's not pursuing peace or edification. I mean I need the Lord to like put it in my mind, say, hey, you need to not go down that road. You need to not say that. And sometimes my mouth is moving faster than I'm not maybe listening to the Holy Spirit as well. And I I some things come out that shouldn't. I try not to let that happen, but it does happen. And uh we ought to guard against that, especially in our communication one with another 1 Timothy 1 verse 4 says, Neither give heed to fables or endless genealogies which minister questions. Rather than godly edifying, which is in faith, so do. He says, hey, you want to just dig up these endless genealogies? You want to talk about endless questions? You want to just try and just pursue? No. Pursue edification. Pursue peace. Not only does the word of God edify, but I want you to know that love edifies. 1 Corinthians 8, verse 01. Now as touching things offered to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifies. So this real practical. How do you edify? You edify by sharing this book This word edifies. If we can find a way to share it, send somebody the verse you got out of your devotions. Just share it. I was talking to a missionary this week. And he said he was on his knees praying and asking God about the call to the mission field. And where they should go and exactly what God wanted to do. And he said, I I read in my devotions the verse that to me, and I don't remember the exact verse, but to me was was God was saying, This is it, this is where you need to go And he said, I stood up and I went into the other room and I told my wife, I believe that this is what God wants us to do. And he said, right then my phone dinged. I look down, and just randomly, a guy I haven't talked to in a long time, a friend of mine, texts me a random verse. No context, no reason for him to text me this verse. But the verse was the exact verse that clarified God sending me to the mission field. It edifies. Let God use you to edify somebody, to encourage somebody, to give them strength and direction in their days. Love them enough to do it. Love edifies. This is our theme for the year Loving God and loving your neighbors yourself. Love, beloved, is never going to look to destroy or tear down like Job's friends were doing. You were just attacking them. Love's not gonna do that. Love's gonna look to try and build up. Ephesians 4. 29 says, Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace to the hearers. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. Wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also ye do. Job needed edification. Would you turn back to the book of Job? I got one more verse I'm going to show you and we're going to be done. It's really an encouraging verse. As I said, we often go back and forth. But Job chapter number 16, Job was going back and forth between his feelings, his despair, and his dependency upon God, what he knew to be true about God. Look at what he says about God in the midst of all this that he felt he was completely alone and had no hope. But then look at what he says about him in verse number chapter 16, verses 19 through 21. He says, also now behold my witness is in heaven. He said, listen, you guys can say whatever you want, but my witness The truth is in heaven, God knows, and my record is on high. He said, My friends scorn me, but mine eye poureth out tears unto God. Verse number 21, he says, Oh, that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for his neighbor. Oh, that one might plead for a man with God. You know, his friends stood there as his accusers. But what he was saying is, I have an advocate. You guys are my accusers, but I have an advocate, and my advocate's in heaven. The record's in heaven. The witness that's going to stand and take the take the throne or take the uh The witness stand for me is Jesus Christ Himself. He is my advocate, and he's standing there, and he's going to plead with God for me. He's going to plead with God for me. We know, according to Romans chapter 8, and verse number 26, likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray, even as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. The Spirit of God is pleading To God the Father for us, we know according to verse number 34, who is he, Romans 8. 34, who is he that condemneth It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. Jesus is your advocate He knows the truth. And he's standing at the right hand of the Father, and he is pleading your case and my case. And on our best day, we are not very good clients. But Jesus is still arguing on our behalf as a blood-bought, born-again sinner who has accepted his blood to pay for our sin Oh beloved, we have an advocate with the Father. I would say when you're going through life's trials Remember to push back the feelings and rely on the truth, what we know to be true about God. Or just stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed and massive pianos to come and play.