Well, we're going to begin this morning in 2 Corinthians chapter number 4. 2 Corinthians chapter number 4. Well, if there's anything that a Christian in this world should be known for, it ought to be. That we're looking for the world to come. We ought to be known as somebody that's not living for today, but living for the eternal. Looking towards tomorrow, not simply the temporal. David Brainerd once said, I love to live on the brink of eternity Living his life each and every day like he was standing on the premises of eternity. We know, beloved, that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord, and we know that At the moment of our death, we're going to go and be with God. If you've put your faith and trust in Him and you know that He is your Lord and Savior and He's forgiven you of your sins, then the fact of the matter is, is at the moment of your death, you're going to go and you're going to be in heaven. The Bible says, so shall we ever be with the Lord. We're going to spend an eternity in heaven. We need to be living right now, today, in light of that fact. We need to be emphasizing The eternal. Emphasizing the eternal. In 2 Corinthians chapter number 4, the Bible says in verse number 18, Well, we look not at things which are seen, but at things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal. That is, that they're here, they're right now, they're going to pass away, they are temporary. But the things which are not seen Are eternal. I would like to preach to you for a few minutes this morning on that thought, emphasizing the eternal. That ought to be something that is the heartbeat of every Christian. that we are looking, focusing on, what we're putting a priority on in our life, what we are emphasizing in our life is those things that are of eternal value. Not temporal. Would you ask the Lord to speak to your heart as I open this message for prayer? Lord, we come to you right now and I submit myself to you an unworthy vessel. Preaching a worthy book and a worthy message, Lord, I pray that you would take your word and you would speak to our hearts. God, would you allow me to get out of the way? I pray that you would. Use the Holy Spirit to reach down into the soul of your people, each and every one where they're at, and I pray the importance of this message for us as individuals to be emphasizing the eternal in each and every day when this world gets so captivating and we get so enthralled with the things of today, may we pull our eyes away from that. and look at eternity and live each day on the brink of it. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to preach for a few minutes on emphasizing the eternal. I think it would be prudent to begin with the fact of reminding you that God is from everlasting to everlasting That God is eternal. In Psalms 90 and verse number 2, he says, before the mountains were brought forth, or Ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Understand, beloved, that God is God was and God always will be. God is eternal. In Psalms 106, 48, he says, Blessed be the Lord of God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Back when there was no more back from our standpoint, back before there was time There was God. In Genesis 1. 4, God divided the light from the darkness. The light he called day, and the darkness he called night. But the Bible tells us in Genesis chapter 1 and verse number 14 that God separated the day from night and that God established this for us to be able to establish the passing of time. He says, and God said, Let there be light in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from night, and let them be for signs And for seasons, for days and years. God established the measurement of time when he established the 24-hour period of light and darkness There he established the beginning of what we would call time. You can go back in history and you look at the history books and there's a period in which They it's pretty much all conjecture. We don't really have any writings from that time, or we don't really have any knowledge from that time. We know that something was happening, but we don't know what But there's a time when we don't have any records. There was a time when all we have is God's word on it, which is sufficient. Amen. I wish the world would stop looking for somebody else's word and just trust what God said. And then We carry on and we're measuring time. Our days are numbered, the Bible says. We know that right now we measure things by time, but we need to understand that God is and always will be. That's why it is so vitally important that we, the Bible says, set our affection on things above. We need to be looking. To tomorrow. We need to be living for eternity. Not right now. Not just today Not just to get through the next 24 hours. I know sometimes life is so heavy and so hard that we get consumed with, man, if I can just make it till Friday I just want to make it till Friday. I just, oh, you know, we get that, thank God it's Friday mentality, and we're living just to get through the week. But beloved, we need to be living for eternity We don't know how quickly we're going to be there. This may be the last Sunday service that you ever get to attend. Praise God, you were in church today. There are some that are out on the golf course today, or they're out on a boat today, or they're out in the woods today. mowing their grass today, they're living for the temporal, for the right now, for things that aren't going to matter, where the hill of beans in eternity We need to be living for eternity. It's high time God's people get back to emphasizing the eternal. Only one life will soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. That's a statement that has been around forever. When I was a young boy, I was in my father's church and we had a little preacher's club. the the little boys and young men that wanted to learn how to preach and we had a preacher's club and once a month we would get up after church on a Sunday night and we would have opportunity to preach and occasionally maybe preach you know the first five minutes of a of a service or something and we had a little preacher's club and it was a it was a fun time and we enjoyed challenging one another and I was studying for a message and preparing to preach and I was really struggling because I couldn't find the Bible verse that I wanted, and I went to my dad and I said, Dad, where in the Bible does it say only one life will soon be passed and only what's done for Christ will last And they say, well that's a biblical principle, but that verse is not in the Bible. That is not that that is not scripture. Uh I had heard it so much I thought it was God, you know, god said it, man Oh that but it is a biblical principle. It is a fact of the matter is this life is soon going to be over. What is your life but a vape vapor that appears for a little time then vanisheth away and seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Beloved, we need to be living with eternity in view. Instead of living for today. Would you turn in your Bibles to 2 Peter chapter number 3? 2 Peter chapter number 3. This is where I'll have you remain for the balance of the service. We're going to Look here at the Word of God and see what God tells us here. But beloved, the fact of the matter is, is too many Christians today are living for retirement instead of living for the resurrection. They're looking for that day when they can take it easy instead of with a day that they are going to be in eternity. Look with me at the warning that we see in 2 Peter chapter number 3, beginning in verse number 8. We are going to read a number of verses here, so stay with me. But he says But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. Again, reminding us of what I told you at the very beginning, that God is from everlasting to everlasting. He is not measured by time like we are. We like to put things into windows, but God does not need to fit into that. God doesn't know time He says in verse number 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Can I tell you that God knows that eternity is coming and he does not want anybody to spend an eternity in the place called hell. Hell was prepared for the devil and his angels. Hell is the place that God was going to punish these rebellious angels who turned against him. And he provided a way that man could escape hell. All they have to do is put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, his shed blood on the cross. And he's not willing that any should perish. He says, hey, eternity's coming Eternity is coming. I want you to be ready. Please be ready. He's not willing that any should perish, beloved. He tells us here, but the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Can I tell you, beloved, everything temporal, everything here on earth is going to burn up. It's going to be gone. That brand new car that you longed for and looked for and saved for and sacrificed for for so long. is going to burn up. That home, the dream home that you wanted that has everything just like you like and then you renovated it and made it exactly what you wanted. All the investment of time and energy and effort in that place is going to burn up. That boat, them golf clubs, that motorcycle, it's all gonna burn up. Three years ago I bought a jet ski. Paid five hundred dollars for it. You know the old saying you get what you pay for? It's still setting on a trailer. I put it in the water twice and had to push it out because the thing doesn't work. It's been th it's been sitting on a trailer in the back of the yard for three years because it's not the priority. I bought it for Min and Boys Camp Out. I was hoping to give the guys rides. We did get to ride it for about fifteen minutes and it quit And uh we took it out for a ride and all the guys are down there ready to go and we gave a couple rides and then all of a sudden, oh, it's it's done. Sorry guys. Uh we didn't get to ride it very much. And for three years it's been sitting there. Listen The things you value in this world so much they're going to burn up. They're going to burn up. Not going to amount to anything. We see in verse number 11 there He warns us. He says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved. He says, come on, you recognize that this world is going to end. What manner of person ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness? He says, What kind of a child of God are you? You're living for this temporal world that's going to burn up. What kind of an individual are you be? Understanding, knowing the truth that The end is coming. Heaven is nearer than it was yesterday. Understanding this, he says, what is it that you're emphasizing in your life Verse number 12, look for the hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. He says, we're to be looking for that. We should be hastening the day, and I'm not going to preach on that, but we looking and longing for the day that He's going to come. Verse number 13. Nevertheless, We, according to his promise, look for a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. Beloved, if the world's coming to an end, and it is, if there is a new heaven and a new earth, and there will be, And what are we living for? Why are we investing so much time, energy, and effort in something that's going to be here, that's going to burn up, that's going to be gone? Why wouldn't we wait and try and just invest in what will be You guys know Mary, well Melissa was driving, but she crashed her car last week, right? Last uh somebody rear ended her, uh totaled it. We took it to the shop this week. Uh but do you know that last Sunday I put $250 in that car. On Tuesday they crashed it. If I would have known That on Tuesday the car was going to be totaled, do you think I would have spent about four hours worth of labor and put a new harmonic balancer, new plugs, new wires, and changed the oil in that thing? We just put a $160 battery in it in June. Do you think if I would have known the car was going to be totaled here that we would have done that? No, and that's what God's saying. He says, seeing these things are so, if you understand that God's coming back and you're on your way to heaven Then why are you so consumed with this world, with these things that are here? Why aren't you living for and saving and investing and putting things into eternity? That's good preaching. That's what we ought to be living for. I haven't even got to the outline yet. It's just an introduction. But we won't be here very long. Is that okay with you guys? Everybody said amen, right? Amen, amen. Well, let's get to the outline. Listen, if if if there's if as God's people we're supposed to be emphasizing the eternal, what do we see that God tells us here in Peter about emphasizing the eternal. First of all, I want you to see that he tells us in verse number 14 that we need to be diligent. He says, Wherefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent. Okay, we just in the context we just read he says hey this world's gonna burn up heaven is i is sure hell is hot we've got to avoid that and we're gonna go on and be in glory if if if we see these things are so He says, seeing you look for such things, be diligent, that you may be found of him in peace, without spot. and blameless. To be diligent is to be eager. It is to strive earnestly for, to be zealous seeking after. Listen, the believer is to be diligent, eager, earnest. Could I say it this way? He's to be emphasizing the eternal Eagerly emphasizing the eternal. He gives us two things here that we're to be diligent about He says that we be found in him in peace. Beloved, we're to be diligent in light of the fact that eternity is sure and it's not that far away We're going to be there. We could be there tomorrow. No man knoweth the day or hour, and Jesus Christ may come as a thief in the night. This may be the last service that Hunt Valley Baptist Church ever has And you know what? That'd be fine with me. Somebody else can have the new carpet. Amen. We are out of here. But this may be the last service. We don't know when it's going to be. He says, but because you don't know and because it is sure, there's some things you ought to be diligent about. First of all, he says you be diligent about peace. The believer must be found in peace, peace with God and peace with man. Listen, I'm going to come back to peace with God, but listen, Christian, we need to have peace with one another. There is far too much aminosity between brothers and sisters in Christ. There's far too much anger and bitterness and and complaining and problems. It's just flat out foolishness. Could I just encourage you to grow up, get over it, take those hurt feelings and cast them to the side. Listen, eternity is just around the corner. We can't be worrying about somebody that happened to have left their drink on top of our car and it left a ring on our paint. The car's gonna burn up anyway. You know, I mean, yeah, I like a nice car and I try and keep it nice and wax it and polish it, but listen, it's a possession. That's not what's important. People are what is important. We've got to be at peace with one another, but I want you to understand real peace with one another starts when we have peace with God. We need to have peace with God. If we're going to have peace with God, we can't be living in rebellion to his way. We need to be submitting to God's plan for our life. We need to be living the way God says to live, because eternity is sure, and it's just around the corner. We need to be submitting to God. Our submission to God begins with conversion. This world is full of division because there is no peace with God. But beloved, the mission of the church needs to be converts, not cooperation. The mission of the church needs to be converts, not cooperation. The reason our culture is unraveling and division is so strong, it is not political. It's spiritual. It's a spiritual battle, and what's going to change our culture is when people are converted and they're saved and they put their faith and trust in Christ. Groups like the moral majority and others are trying to bring about change in this country by great gatherings of people, by political action groups. But what we need is prayer groups. The answer is and always has been God, it's never been the government. We need to get our eyes off of Capitol Hill and get them on Calvary's Hill. We need to get to the place where we have peace with God, and then we can have peace with our fellow men. I'm talking to Christians who are upset because we can't read the Bible in the public school, but they're saying Christians don't read the Bible in their own home. I'm saying we'll stand up and complain about society and the problems that are out there, but we're not taking advantage of or changing anything in our own lives. We need to stop praying that God would save America and start praying that God would save Americans. Because it's when the life is converted that their life is changed and men begin to live differently. We begin to live in submission to God instead of rebellion to God, and then there's peace with God, and then there's peace with one another. Converted people have the power to live and to do right. Many churches today are more concerned about a social gospel than they are about the saving gospel. Seminars have replaced our preaching. Workshops have replaced our worship. We need to get back to having an emphasis on the eternal. And worshiping God. Beloved, he says to be diligent in pursuing peace. Are you Are you at peace with God? Are you living in rebellion or submission to the thrice holy God? Not only does he say to pursue peace, but he says to pursue purity. He says that you may be found in him in peace, without what? What does it say there? Without spot. There's one of us. The rest of you are you wake? What does the Bible say? Without spot Spot. That's one without one spot. That's pretty pure. That's pretty clean. Without one spot. He's calling for his people to live holy in light of the fact that eternity is right around the corner. We need to emphasize the eternal and strive to live pure and clean and holy lives for God. Look back at verse number eleven. He says, seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, he's saying, seeing that everything here is gone, it's going to burn up, right? What manner of person ought you to be? He says, to be in all holy. Conversation and godliness. The kind of person you ought to be is a holy person. A godly person. A one without spot or blemish. Hey listen, if there is no eternity, if there's no tomorrow to worry about, if if it's as the atheist says, and when you when you die you just buried in the ground and that's the end, you just cease to exist. If that is in fact the truth, then let's just close up shop. Let's just quit. Let's just go live our lives, eat, drink, and be merry and have a good time, because if there is no purpose, if there is no plan, if there is no God, then none of it matters But if God is real, and can I ask you this morning, is God real? Has God made a difference in your life? Do you know that heaven is just around the corner? If we know those things and we know it to be true, then we've got to be living, emphasizing the eternal, living holy lives. If we're going to make a difference in this world, we need to be different. The Bible says that we are to be salt and we are to be light. Beloved, if we're just like the world, what does the world have to turn to? We're supposed to make a difference Leviticus 11. 45 says, Therefore be ye holy, for I am holy. I had 20 verses on holiness. I'm not going to read them all this morning. But the Bible tells us over and over again that God's expectation for you and I is that we live holy, separated lives without spot or blemish. If we're emphasizing the eternal, we're going to be living holy lives. Because we know that we're going to see him face to face. It's just around the corner. 2 Corinthians 7:1. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. The same two principles that we just saw this morning are addressed in Hebrews 12. 14. He says, follow peace with all men and holiness Look what he says here, and you don't have to turn there, but Hebrews 12. 14, he says, follow peace and holiness, and he says, without which no man shall see the Lord. I don't know what specifically it is about those two things, but specifically, importantly, two places in the New Testament he addresses that: that God's people should be known as a people of peace and should be known as a people of purity. You ought to be holy. You ought to be peaceful. You ought to be able to get along with one another. By this shall men know that ye are my disciples. How? Can anybody tell me? That you love one another. The love of the brethren. He says, without these two things, the world's not going to see God. If we want God, then we want them to see God in us so that men can be drawn to Him, so that their lives can be changed If we're going to emphasize the eternal beloved, he tells us we need to be diligent. Secondly, I want you to see that he says we need to be devoted. Look at verse number 17. He says, ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things. Again, the same statement. He says, you understand this to be a fact. Beware lest ye also be led away with error of the wicked, and fall from your own steadfastness. He said, hey, we know this world's gonna burn up. We know that eternity is right around the corner We know that we're supposed to be living for that. He says, What can you do? You need to be devoted. He says, watch it, because there's going to be people that'll come and try and pull you away. There's going to be a distraction that's going to come in your life and you're going to fall from your own steadfastness. You used to be fervently serving God. But now you're you're just barely doing anything. You used to be on fire for God, but now you're barely a little bitty light or a flicker of a candle, maybe the fire might have just about gone off. You've fallen from your own steadfastness. You began living for today because of the distractions and how this world captivates our heart We are like demons having loved this present world, living for today instead of living for eternity. Where are the devoted followers of Christ? You know, beloved, there are people who further faith Will crawl on their knees for miles, where their knees are literally being shredded by the rocks and stones that they're crawling across for a false faith. They have such a level of devotion and they'll crawl for miles I think we have a book in the bookstore 50 Years in the Church of Rome, and I'd encourage anybody to believe it, to read it. It'll give you a picture into that church. A priest who is 50 years in the church of Rome and he talks about his devotion to that faith and how he used to beat his own back. With a whip. He would strap uh spikes on his on his thighs that throughout the day cut into his thighs and And drew blood, and he could feel the blood running down inside of his pants. And he did that as a so as a form of Curtition because he wanted to be as holy as he could be, and he thought that's how he was holy There are those for false faith which strap a bomb to their body and go and sacrifice themselves and try and kill somebody else. I'm talking about a level of devotion that Christianity hasn't seen in generations. Today's Christians want to say, oh, I can be a Christian and live my own life. I can be a Christian and do what I want to do. I can be a Christian and don't have to go to church. I can be a Christian and not do what you say. I can be a Christian and we're all declaring our own holiness. Where is the devotion to God and the desire to please Him most of all? We've got to get back to emphasizing the eternal. We've let the temporal steal our devotion to God. We're living for today. For retirement, for vacation time, to go see some sights. The Bible says in the heaven that I hath not seen, and the The ear hath not heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man that which God hath created for or made for them that love him. You can't even imagine in your wildest dreams the beauty and the grandeur of heaven. I can imagine some pretty amazing stuff. But God says you you have yet to see anything. You ain't seen nothing yet. And we're we're living to see Niagara Falls And beloved, there's nothing wrong with taking a vacation. You got to get away, you've got to have a break. There's nothing wrong with going and seeing the beauty of this world that God created. Hey, it is it is the heavens declare the majesty of God. And they bring honor and glory to God, and there's nothing wrong with beholding those things, but what I'm saying is too many of us are living for that next break instead of living for eternity. We've got the mentality of Esau. The Bible says he was a profane. That means worldly person. Who for a morsel of meat traded away his birthright. The blessing of God given away for a little bit of food For a morsel of meat. Too many of us are living that way. Living for today with no thought of tomorrow, much less, eternity. Someone said, you must look a lot farther than the horizon to find the meaning of life. And Jim Elliott wrote in his diary. He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. Are you fighting for and trying to hold on to this life which we know is going to be gone? Or would you be willing to give up this life For the life we know that's coming. And emphasizing the eternal. Are you devoted to him this morning? Are you as devoted as you should be? Are you as devoted as you could be? Benny Crosby, the great hymn writer, was asked if she wanted her sight back, and she said no. You said, because when the first face that I want these eyes to see is the face of my Savior. I want to wait. If you told me I could have my sight back today, she said I would I wouldn't take it because I've longed for the day when I stand in the presence of Jesus my Savior and my sight is restored. and I see his face. She said, that's what I want. See a lot of us have want list. But being with Jesus isn't isn't on it. That's the difference. Living for the temporal or living for eternity. Lastly, I want you to see that we're to be developing. We're to be developing. He says in verse number 18, in light of all these things. Heaven is just around the corner. Between now and then, he says, but grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to him be glory both now and forever. To grow is to develop, to become stronger, to mature. It's one of the greatest joys of parenthood to watch a child grow. It's neat seeing the little kids around. James in the foyer today eating his eating his coat. You know, Dixie running her poor uncle to death. Uncle Doug's just trying to keep up with her and she's just going everywhere. Says, Doug, he she's gonna either keep you young or send you to heaven. I'll tell you that right now One or the other. Dixie running around all all excited. But do you know how a parent is with a child and you look down and you see them take their first steps? He took his first step. Look, come on, come on, come to daddy, come to daddy. Oh, he walked all the way across the room. She walked all the way across the room. He said his first word, which was Pastor. No He said his first word. Oh, he he's he's he's just now starting to, you know, formulate sentences like I'm hungry You know, sim simple sentences, but he's he's starting to form Oh look at he's growing and you see the joy that we see in our own children as they begin to grow and mature and they take different steps I could see God up in heaven looking down at the saints that have turned and put their faith and trust in Him. And they say, Jesus says, Hey angels, did you see that? Look at Him. That new believer's in the book Look at him, he's reading, he's studying. Look at him, he just learned about compassion. He just learned about the love of Christ And he's motivated to serve me. Oh, look at how he's growing. Look at he's being a witness. Hey guys, did you see that? Look, there he goes. He's going to tell somebody about me. What I'm saying is that you bring joy to the heart of your Savior When you're growing, when you're growing, growing in grace is to develop in the graces that are the Christian life. I don't know how many of you here's the problem with a lot of these large seeker sensitive type churches That draw big crowds and I'm, hey, I'm all for reaching as many people as we can reach. But not at the expense of holiness. No. Not at the expense of godliness. The problem with a lot of these seeker-sensitive churches is they they keep babes in Christ. Their people get saved and they don't grow at all. I don't know how many of you know this name or not, but Stephen Frederick is a pastor of Elevation Church, very large church. And he told his people in a Sunday morning message, which I heard and listened to, he said, if you know this morning that you're on your way to heaven, Elevation Church has ceased to exist for you. We're not here for you. We are here to reach the lost. Now, beloved, that's the message. That's the mission of the church. We are to reach the lost. But that's only the first step of the Great Commission. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. Yes, we are supposed to do that. But then you're supposed to baptize them and teach them to observe All things whatsoever I commanded you, can I tell you that the salvation of the sinner is the very first step? Right. It's just the beginning. The church is here to encourage, exhort, and help uh God's people to walk the narrow path between now and the day when we're called into eternity. We need to be growing, not remaining babes in Christ. The carnal church and its worldly methods will not produce mature saints. The agenda of the church cannot be set by what people want. It has to be set by what God wants. You see, the if you read these church growth uh books They're really centered around what do the people want. You you've got to uh decorate the children's Ministry, it's gotta be fun, it's gotta be exciting, and you need to have devices in there, you need to have certain things in there, you need to have this and It's all about establishing or meeting the expectations of those that come in, but what we need to do is be meeting the expectations of God. And we as God's people line up with Him, not line up with what we want. I'm going to ask you, are you growing as a Christian? Are you growing? Are you closer to God today than you were last year? Have you learned more about God's Word? The growing Christian lines up with John 3. 30. He must increase and I must decrease. As we're growing, we decrease in our own heart and minds, and God increases in our emphasis and focus. This world begins to have less and less of a hold on you. The more you grow, the closer you are to God. You and I are to never stop growing, no matter how old we are. There's an 81-year-old man who attended a missions conference. At 81, he was in a missions conference, and there was 2,000 people present at this missions conference. A missionary from Zula was there and he called and said, we need workers. We need people to come and establish a church in a village. At 81, this man came forward and tears running down his face, and he said, if God will have me, I'll go. Send me. He sold his house, the stability that people worked their whole life to have. Sold his earth these earthly possessions at 81 And move to establish a church among this primitive group of people. During his time of service, which God gave him 14 years, 14 more years on the mission field. During that 14 years he went blind. He lost his sight. Yet he continued to minister. He continued to serve God. When he finally had to come home, he left there among the Zulu people a thriving and flourishing church with many, many souls on their way to heaven Can I tell you? Well let me ask you. I w uh what do you think? He came back and within a few months he went home to glory. Do you think when he opened his eyes in heaven, he thought, Boy, I sure wish I would have just stayed back and relaxed for the last 14 years of my life I wish I would have just took it easy and lived for the world. Lived to enjoy my retirement. Live to bask in the glory of what I had accomplished. Or do you think instead he stood there before his Savior and he says, I'm so glad? That I threw away everything this world had to offer, and I gave the last 14 years of my life to God. And what I did for that last 14 years impacted lives for eternity. Beloved, we've got to emphasize eternity. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?