Chapter five Sometimes in life things happen. Seems like at least you've all heard, I'm sure, they happen in threes I don't know if that's true or not. It just seems like I do. Uh certainly the phrase uh that when it rains it pours comes from somewhere. from this idea or aspect that uh you know it couldn't just be one thing. It's not just a deer that hit my car, right? It's uh it's it's a it's a whole list of things. we we we get to the point sometimes you start looking around the corner like okay the first thing happened where's the second thing coming from, you know. It it just life kinda hits us in waves like that and it just seems uh to be a lot and Uh I I don't know. You you at times I'm sure are like me and that as a Christian I know God's in control and I uh I want to be optimistic and I want to be, you know, upbeat and just say, well the Lord knows and not worry about it. But the fact of the matter is sometimes I get discouraged I kind of uh I look at like I get the spirit that Gideon had, you know, where Gideon said, If the Lord be for us Why have all these things befallen us? You know, I kinda kind of get that in my mind, like, okay, if God's on my side, then why am I going through this? Then then why am I happening to endure this? Why Do I not have an answer for this medical need? Why is it that this is broken down? Why is it that my daughter's car doesn't work again? Every week she tells me there's something going wrong with my car. It's good she's getting all the quirks out because she's leaving for college here in a few weeks and uh hopefully we have them worked out. But listen, you you know you're like what what's going on? And and you just feel like, man, if God's forced, why am I going through all of this The fact of the matter is, is the poet said it like this, it takes so little to make me sad. Just a slight word or a doubting sneer, just a scornful smile on some lips that I hold dear. And our footsteps lay, though the goal seemed near, and we lose courage, and all the hope that we had. So little it takes to make me sad. Sometimes that's the case. It seems like the smallest turn of events or things that happen and it gets us down, it gets us discouraged. It's something that's hard to bear. But the poet goes on, and we can take these two verses of this from the poet here as maybe a word of caution. Be careful that we don't let the little things cause us to stumble, that we don't let the small things, the little rain cloud, destroy all of our day. But what I want us to focus on tonight is the second part of this verse, and we'll get to the Word of God in just a second, but he says, it takes so little to make us glad. Just a cheering clasp by a friendly hand. Just a word from one who understands. And we finish the task we long had planned, and we lose the doubt and the fear that we had, so little it takes to make us glad. What I'm saying tonight is we as humans sometimes can be a little emotional. Sometimes it doesn't take too much to get us discouraged or downhearted. But here's the encouragement for tonight for all of us. It doesn't take that much to encourage somebody. You don't have to, you know, take care of all of the world's problems to be an encouragement to one person. It can be just a encouraging word. It can be just a note of, boy, I understand what it is you're going through and I'm praying for you or I've been there. It can be just a clasped hand of somebody who understands. It can be just a friend who comes alongside you for just a moment or two. And so tonight I would like to speak to you on encourage one another. And we see in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 Familiar verse, but verse number eleven he says, Wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also ye do. Well, we come to you tonight and for just a moment we want to contemplate and consider this expectation you have on us to be an encouragement to one another. Lord, I pray we would understand how easy it is and how much of an impact we can have. Sometimes the smallest thing can make the biggest difference in somebody's life. And I pray you would help us to be willing to go out of our way and give us eyes to see the need and the opportunity to be an encouragement. Lord, would you bless this time in your word in Jesus' name? Amen. I would have you see first that there is an expectation to be fulfilled here. He says, wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify one another. But note that he says, even as also ye do. You see, Paul did not want his encouragement to be taken as reproof. And he was saying, listen, I understand that you guys are doing this. That you guys do encourage one another. So he says, basically he's saying, this is what you should be doing, and I know that you are. And I I am thankful for the spirit that Hunt Valley Baptist Church has. And tonight, as I say, here's what you should be doing, I'm also saying, like Paul, and I know that you are. I know that as a church family you certainly encourage one another, that you're there for one another. That's one of the blessed things that we have in a church family, to have that compassion and concern for each other and to Weep with those that weep and rejoice with those that rejoice, and we do so do so together as a family. What a privilege it is ours to do so. And I'm thankful tonight that Paul could write this to Hunt Valley Baptist Church He says, comfort one another, edify one another, even as I know ye do. We see here this word comfort. That word comfort is pericleo, very similar or close to periclete, that word used for the Holy Spirit, where the Holy Spirit is our comforter and he comes alongside of us. Literally to bear one another up, to be alongside and comfort one another It is our privilege and our responsibility to be a comfort to one another. First Thessalonians 4:18, wherefore comfort one another with these words, the encouragement to remind each other of the coming Savior and the day when we'll be reunited in the clouds and those loved ones that have gone on before, we get to see them again. He says, hey, use these words and comfort one another. Paul over and over again in his books he said, I thank God on every remembrance of you. And he was over and over again thanking God for the the Friends that he had in the faith, and those believers who ultimately were a comfort to him in Colossians chapter 4, verses 10 and 11, he said, These also are my fellow workers. unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me. They've been a comfort unto me, brother Randy King, brother King, Pastor King. I was trying to remember his first name. Pastor King, he'll call me just every couple months. Just out of the clear blue, randomly. He'll just, in his very excited way, you know, he'll on a Monday, he'll be like, hey, preacher, uh, it's Monday, I just called to say, don't quit And I'll be like, okay, and he's like, that's all I got, gotta go, see ya. Okay Thanks, brother. See ya. And I mean on a Thursday afternoon he'll just call me up. Hadn't talked to him in two months and he's like, Hey I'm driving down the road and I just saw a billboard that said God loves meat. Just wanted you to know that. Okay, gotta go. See ya. Okay, Brother King, thank you. But he's just calling me to say I'm thinking of you. I know what it's like being a pastor. I know I know what you're enduring. I know what you're going through getting ready for church on Thursday night and just letting you know I'm praying for you as I'm going down the road here. I I appreciate that. It's a blessing to have somebody who is a friend in the face, somebody who is an encouragement, somebody that is a comfort. I'm thankful that we have in the family of God brothers and sisters in Christ that comfort one another We see the second expectation here is not just to comfort, but to to edify. He says Edify one another. Yeah, we comfort one another. We ought to edify one another as well. That word edify is the good the Greek word there literally is to build up. To build, to edify us, to build up one another. We're to build one another up. You know, it takes humility to be a builder of people, to build somebody else. You know, we're working on Vacation Bible School and this week we'll be down there throughout the week and And of course, Friday at work party and Saturday, you know, finishing up the final details and all of the hours invested in building this vacation Bible school set. But do you know next week after it's all over? You know how quick it's going to come down? It comes down so fast. And what I'm saying is it's so much easier to tear something down than it is to build up. And we have got to be builders. We're told to edify one another. You know, young people, you really need to think about this. Because it seems like it it takes some real maturity to to get past the point where you stop trying to make yourself look better. By making other people look smaller. This seems like a lot of young people are that is how they feel like I can look stronger if I can make them look weaker. I can look better if I can make them look smaller. And so we go on the offensive and we attack those that we're supposed to edify. That's not right. And we shouldn't be doing that. Young people, you shouldn't be doing that. You need to ask God to help you to be a builder. to edify other people, to be that source of encouragement that builds other people up. Everybody has weaknesses Everybody has things that could be picked apart and people could be torn down or taken down a notch or two. Every one of us. But it's not our job to do that. We're told to edify. That is to build up. And we need to do that in the church as well. You know everybody in the church has areas where they're not as strong as you. But you have areas where you're not as strong as somebody else. And you could look at somebody and be, well, you know, they don't do this or they don't do that or uh you know they haven't you know used their talent for God or they're not doing this. Listen. Stop focusing on those things. Look for opportunities to edify them, to build them up. That's what we're supposed to do in the church. That's what encouraging one another is. We need to be builders. Romans 14. 19 says, Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace and the things wherewith one may edify another. That's what we're supposed to be looking for. We're supposed to follow after peace and we're supposed to follow after that which edifies. Just today I had somebody tell me, well, I uh I went the way of peace. There was a situation and I decided that, well, I'm gonna do what is going to bring about peace. And that's what we're supposed to do. Sometimes our flesh gets in the way and it's not peace that we want, right? It's we want to get even. Or we want to win the argument. You know, sometimes it would do us good, husbands and wives, to be less worried about winning and more worried about peace. We could have some more peace in the home if it wasn't so much about uh getting my say in and uh doing what I you know th my point is this. Yeah. But now look at the mess you've created. Now you're not going to talk to each other for three days. Yeah, you made your point. Good job. But now you're gonna have to apologize. You could have done that which pursued peace and done that which edifies, build up. I've written a couple of articles on the power of praise. Man, I love that song you guys sang this morning about God, praising God. That was so powerful. Praising God. But you know, there's so much power in praise. Parents. Edifying, building up. You know, there's power and praise. And as parents, it's our job, our responsibility to train, and so we look for weakness. We look for the problem. Because we've got to fix it. But if we aren't careful It's always the problem we're dealing with. We're l missing the edification, we're missing the building up. And we've got to do that aspect as well because they do have some things they do, right? They do have some things that they're good at. They do have some areas where they can be praised, where they can be encouraged. where they can be strengthened. And as parents, we need to be able to do that. Edify means to build up. We need to build up. Jesus is our example. Romans 15, verse 7 says, Wherefore receive ye one another as Christ also received us. Boy, to accept one another as Christ accepts one another. You think about that brother or sister that you have a problem with. And I mean in Christ, not your actual brother or sister, although there's sometimes that challenge too, right? But you have that situation. You know what? Does God love them Does God accept them? He does. So we need to look at them through the eyes of Jesus Christ. All right, Keith and Ms. Lee Ann, you guys uh I got on to Brothers and Sisters and started something here. I don't know. No, they have a fun relationship picking at each other. Uh but you know we we Are to receive one another as Christ received us. Those words there in Romans 15, 17 literally means to grant one access to your heart. Sometimes that can be hard. To grant someone access to your heart. Especially because we've all, every single person in here with any age at all, uh can tell you about times where they were hurt. And what happens is when we get hurt, we start to think, okay, I'm just gonna put up a wall I'm going to protect me. I'm not going to open my heart. I'm not going to expose myself that way and allow others to get that close because it's happened before and I got hurt. But can I tell you that that's your human nature, not your heavenly nature? Because the heavenly nature responds like Christ would, and that is to open oneself up, to be uh what other people's need to be that source of encouragement and that help letting people in even if it means maybe you're gonna get hurt but we have to just put that in God's hands and say listen it's for the Lord It's not about me. We've got to be careful that our heart, we don't allow some things to rest in there. And I don't I don't see this problem. I'm just throwing it out. But you know we've got to be careful that we don't allow prejudices to dwell or exist in our heart. And sometimes you might have to ask the Lord to give you some real insight to determine if they are there. You might in your mind think, well, I'm not prejudiced in any way. against any nationality or against anybody that, you know, it could be against poor people. It could be against rich people. It could be against it just whatever you want. You you've got some type of prejudice in your heart in your response. You've got to be guard against that. There's no room for that in the family of God. And if we're going to be the right kind of an encouragement to our brothers and sisters, if we're going to open ourselves up, we need to open up to all of our brothers and sisters. Not to just the one that we like, not to the just the one who's our buddy, but to the church family at large. We can't allow any prejudices to exist. Colossians 3, 10 and 11 is that passage where he says, we put on the new man. We were renewed after the image of him that created us. We are where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcised, barbarian, bond nor free. He says, hey, it doesn't matter who. All men. We can't allow prejudice to exist. We know in the book of James that we're not to allow partiality to exist. And we've got to be careful that we don't allow partiality, that is giving favoritism to one person or another over for one particular reason The example in the book of James, you know, is based on wealth. You give partiality, you give the seat of honor to somebody because they have money. Well that's not supposed to be in the church house. The old statement that listen the ground's level at the foot of the cross. Every one of us came into the family of God the exact same way, and that's through Jesus Christ, and every one of us had to walk that same road, and every one of us were sinners when we got there, and and we can have a common bond in Jesus Christ. And that is the privilege of it, the exciting thing of it in in in a church. You can have somebody who maybe is worth millions like Miss Trudy, or you can have somebody who uh is worth nothing Uh like Galena. Uh you know, it doesn't matter and they're sitting right next to each other They can have a common bond in Christ. It doesn't matter how much wealth you have. Yeah, you could tear up later for some money, amen It doesn't matter. It doesn't make a difference because the ground's level at the foot of the cross and we're not to give partiality. That's one of the reasons that I don't ever look at the giving of the church You may think, man, Pastor hasn't given me any favoritism. He doesn't, you know, I I gave this much to this or to that. I don't look at that. I don't know because I want to have the same concern for every member, whether you've given anything to the church or not. My my I'm called of God to love and to minister to every single member, and I don't want to I don't want to have the temptation To give favoritism towards this person because I know they're a big giver, and to neglect this person because I know they don't ever put anything in the plate. I don't want to have that burden on my mind. I don't want to have to think about it. I let Gus do that. No, I'm just kidding. I don't know that he looks at it either, but he has access to it. I don't even have access to it. I can't even go look at it if I wanted to. I don't have the sign-ins and all that. I I try and stay away from the money That way I don't have uh temptations and nobody can accuse me either because I don't have access and that's just one way of protecting the church. But I don't I you know sometimes I'm tempted to look. Like, yeah, I wanna know uh you know they'll tell me we we had a thirty thousand dollar offering and I'm like okay I want to know who put that in Yeah, Miss Trudy again, sure enough. We're to love one another. Every person that comes through that door ought to feel the love of God. And that love of God is not something that's just in the air. It's how we love them. And that's how we're supposed to do it. Romans 12, 10 tells us to honor one another, be kindly affectionate to one another in bodily love, in honor, preferring one another. Boy, when we encourage and we edify, that's honoring one another. That's building somebody else up. That's letting somebody else shine. It's not about us. I think about this in the aspect of a child where a parent, this I think is one of the most pure examples of that, because a parent literally wants their child to do better than themselves. We're we're we're thrilled and excited when our children go further than us and when they they excel beyond us and when they accomplish more than us. But sometimes when we're not talking about the kids, when we're talking about others, there's jealousy gets in there. There's envy gets in there And we have to guard our heart and don't let that in. We've got to be thrilled that that God is using somebody in a great way and and just continue to edify and build them up. Listen, when the church moves forward, we all move forward. In vacation Bible school here in a week, maybe in somebody else's class, they saw three people saved and and you had nobody saved in your class. Listen, we're all moving forward. We as a church saw three people saved because everybody that prayed and everybody that worked on their classrooms and everybody that gave so that The church could buy the prizes and buy the decorations and everybody that that labored in any aspect has a part in that Yes, the teacher maybe taught the lesson and a worker maybe gave some some particular advice or talked to them and brought them up here and some discipler got to bring them in and lead them to Christ. But we all have a part in it. Or to honor preferring one another. We're told to bear one another's burdens. But we're also told to forbear one another, who is a burden. Supposed to forbear one another. So that's a whole nother aspect. Have some patience with one another. Be willing to forgive one another. You know, the longer we as a church, the fact of the matter is, is my future is tied up in this family. And your future is tied up in this family. This is the family of God. And the longer we're together, The more you're going to learn about your brother or sister in Christ, and you're going to find out that they're not perfect. But sometimes they give you eggs that are small. I mean They rip you off. I mean they No sometimes what they do is not perfect. You you're like, what why would they do that? There that something's going to happen in your mind. Well they shouldn't do that, but listen, they're not perfect, but neither are you. And so we forbear one another. Why? Because we're the family of God and we learn how to forgive one another be so that we can move forward together as a family of God. We've been married a long time There's been a couple times that I had to forgive her. And there's been many times that she had to forgive me. But we decide to do that so we can remain happily married. You forgive and you let go You haven't forgiven if you're still hanging on. If you can't go talk to that person. If you can't sit down and have a meal with them. You can't enjoy any time with them. You really haven't forgiven and let it go. As a family of God, if we're going to really encourage one another, if we're going to be a comfort and edify one another as the Word of God tells us to do so, we've got to be willing and able to forgive and to forbear one another. Because sometimes Somebody's gonna step on your toe, park in your spot, or sit in your seat, or spill water on You're bulletin. I I don't know. Try to think of something there. If something's gonna happen that you don't like. And you just have to say, okay. I was eating lunch with somebody this oh it was with the pastor we had on Thursday night. We took him out and he kept being kind of like he we're just trying to get to know each other a little bit and I was asking him Bible questions and asking him where he stands on certain things, just trying to learn him a little bit. And um, you know, several times he put some qualifiers in there, like I don't I don't I don't want to be offensive, but I said, Listen, you're not gonna offend me, you know Um, if I don't like you I just won't have you preach. I said, that's not gonna bother me, you know. And we we had a good time talking, but I I I told him, I says, Yeah One of the first verses I learned was, Great peace have they which love thy law and nothing shall offend them because my dad quoted that to me over and over and over again. Why? Because I had a problem getting offended. As a young person I had a problem with that. And God and through the Word of God and the Board of Education. I learned how not to get offended. And it really I I don't get offended that much. It's very hard to. But we had a good conversation, we enjoyed that. But you know, sometimes y something's gonna happen. You gotta learn to forgive and let it go In the family of God. Have a forgiving spirit. Bear one another's burdens. Dealing with our brothers and sisters in Christ. And this idea of bearing one another's burdens, there's one thing specifically spoken of in Galatians. He says in Galatians 6, 1 and 2, brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault. Ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted, bear ye one another's burdens. So in context, this is literally dealing with a fallen brother with a brother or sister who was overtaken in a fault. And he says, Ye which are spiritual, restore such an one. You see, we should be going after and loving the fallen brother. Not kicking him while he's down. Not saying good riddance. Not saying, well, he got what he deserved. Do you understand, beloved? If any of us got what we deserved, we would be in hell. It's only by the grace of God that we are where we are. And we're really not all that much. And we've got to keep that in mind, otherwise we get we think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think, and we'll look down on a brother or sister in Christ. And what we need to be doing is helping them to come along by God's grace and with his strength, be that source of encouragement, that edifying brother, that comforting brother, that strengthening brother So that they one day when you're weak, they come alongside you. They can be that encouragement for you. They can be that help for you. That's what the family of God is. And I'm so glad that I'm a part of the family of God. But you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.