So it's always always encouraging when you're going to give a session that there's a stampede out of the room. So I appreciate that. Amen. I couldn't even get our own people say. So who knows what's going to happen here. But uh I do appreciate the opportunity. Boy, I enjoyed that last uh session very much. And uh that's really the heart of the matter, isn't it? Our own walk with God, and and that's what's going to make our marriages what they ought to be. So uh if you notice, uh my notes are on page 15 So there's nothing there. So I'll give you some out an outline here uh this morning. I want to ex uh this afternoon, I want to explain the TH thing. It's interesting because some people call me that. When I first started uh in the ministry. And I've dealt with this my my entire life that my first name is spelled T E R R R I. It's Terry, right? So every time in school when yep would you mind something now. Okay. That's fine. Does that work? Is that better? Okay. Anyway, every time my my first name is spelled T-E-R-R-I, and uh so every time that we I went to school as a new teacher, they'd always say, Where is she? Where is she? Uh in high school one time I went out for the golf team and uh it was the first day of of I wasn't a good golfer, so that's a whole other story. But uh it was the first day of golf practice and the guy that was the coach uh stood up and said we have something for the first time in in the history of our golf team. We have a girl on the team And I was wondering, wow, wow, where is she? I'm thinking, where is she? I said, yes, Terry Moore. Like, that's me Okay, anyway. But uh so when I got in the ministry, just on certain things I would put T H so people don't think, oh, is this a woman preacher? I'm not going to a church with a woman preacher, that sort of thing. Uh but anyway, it kind of stuck a little bit. Not that I intended it to, so there are some folks that uh call me that, know me by that, and that's that's fine. But uh appreciate your comment, I appreciate your staying. And uh I have this subject on the empty nest, and it is not uh uh it's not as uh pastor starr said it's it's not just on those that are in the emptiness it's really for everybody and so I I hope that uh this session will be a help to you Like I said, I will I have uh an outline if you if you take notes and all, it's kind of a teaching type session. So I hope it'll be uh a blessing to you. Alright, we good? Am I loud enough? We're good? Everybody can hear me? Let's go ahead and open our Bibles to uh Ecclesiastes. Am I early or we good? We good to go? All right. Ecclesiastes chapter three Ecclesiastes three. Well, here's the people that are forced to come back. Are they coming back? This actually not this one either. Well you hear that. I hear all kinds of something else about the channel. Okay. Okay. We good? Check one two. Oh where is um put a where's our where is our guest speaker this mic Well maybe we can sit here and listen to his session. Maybe get more people in the room. Give it a second. Or just keep going. He's going after him. If you can hear me, I'll go. You can hear me? Okay. Ecclesiastes chapter three. Now, uh, I was going to read we're going to just read one verse and we'll go from there Uh I was going to read verses one through eight, but uh I noticed a few verses that I thought in the uh setting of a marriage matters conference that without having to stop and explain them they might not go over real well. For example, verse three, a time to kill. We just heard about that, right? And then and then I thought of verse eight, a time to love and the time to hate. So, yeah, without dealing with those things in the context, let's just look at one verse, Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 1 Notice we read, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. Alright, I want us to read that together when I say begin. Okay? Ready? Begin. To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. Alright, let's pray and we'll begin Father, we thank you for the opportunity to be here. Thank you, Lord, for the privilege of just preaching, teaching this session. Lord, you know my heart. My desire is to be used of thee and to be a blessing to people. And so we know you are the one that does the blessing. So use this message to speak to our hearts and help us uh to prepare for either whether we're in the emptiness or for the future emptiness that may possibly and probably come. So please again we recognize that without you we can do nothing. We need thee. I ask for a filling of thy spirit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, just recently I came across an article that was published in September 2025, just a little bit ago. About it uh it was by a divorce lawyer named Joe Dillard. Now there was no indication that this man was saved or Christian or Uh but the article spoke of a phenomenon that he called and that's known as gray divorce. Now, I never heard of that. Has anybody ever heard of that? Grey divorce. We're going to hear about it now. He writes this: quote, with the overall divorce rate, while the overall divorce rate has flattened for most age groups There is one segment of the population where divorce rates are actually increasing. Americans getting divorced at 60 plus. It is a phenomenon known as gray divorce. Now that startled me. Did a little more digging and I found that the Pew Research Center reported that race For adults 50 and older ending their marriages has roughly doubled since the 1990s. That's interesting, isn't it? Now the article reveals this, the one that was written by that divorce lawyer. He said that the number one reason that the divorce numbers are are so high for this age group Uh it's not due to infidelity, it's not due to financial difficulties or or some major blowout that they had that led to the divorce The number one reason is what has been called empty nest syndrome. I thought that's interesting. But it's a very real thing. We may not call it that. I know it's not a biblical phrase. But what's being dealt with is out there. Empty nest syndrome. Now the Mayo Clinic defines emptiness syndrome as this. It's a complex emotional experience where parents grapple with feelings of grief Loneliness and loss during the phase when their last child moves out. You know, I did a little bit more research and I found something in the Journal of Marriage and Family, and it said that uh after the children leave home, couples are forty percent more likely to get divorced. That's an amazing thing. It's sad. But you know, it doesn't have to be that way, and it should be that way, especially for those of us that are believers, those of us that are Christians Matter of fact, let me just add this here. The goal is not just to stay married. The goal should be to have a Christ-honoring marriage That people see the love of Jesus Christ between uh you and your spouse. Now, while every transition in life brings with it challenges, really the empty nest should not be a time of grief. It should not be a time of loneliness or depression. Instead, it really should be a time of joy. And I'll even say, I'll just go ahead on a limb and say, I would say the very best time of your marriage. If it's dealt with biblically. You know, we read in Proverbs 5. 18, let thy fountain be blessed and rejoice with the wife of thy youth. And we should do that. We should rejoice with our wife, with our spouse. And so this afternoon, I want to give this message. If you're taking notes, here's the title of it: Enjoying the Empty Nest Not just being in the emptiness, but enjoying it. Now we just read a verse together in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 in verse 1. And reminded, we are reminded that there are seasons of life. We read to everything, there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven. So after seasons, as you and I journey through this thing God has given to us, this gift, if you will, of life, we we go through stages, we go through seasons, if you will And understand that's a normal thing. Nothing that God creates is designed to stay stagnant Or remain the same. Nothing is. Everything that God has created is designed to grow and to change and to mature. We could even say it reproduced as well. And this is the nature of life. As a matter of fact, stagnation is often a sign of a disconnect from God. Here's what I mean. For example, boys, right, they're not to remain boys I know some people want to keep them boys, but uh they're not to remain boys, they are to become men. Uh little girls are not to remain little girls. Uh and if they do, we say there's something wrong there. Because it's not supposed to be that way So life is always changing. How many like change? I don't like change, but does anybody really like change? That's wonderful I mean you don't like change too much, right? I like the same thing. That's kind of the way I am. But life is changes. Now, some of those changes in life we look forward to And we could say we enjoy, we embrace, and they seem to be more natural and easy, while others of the changes that you and I face seem to be more difficult Sometimes challenging, and we we can tend to resist them. But the truth of the matter is, God ordained changes are always good. Uh they always are. And every season of life, every change, as hard as it may seem, every season, every change should be enjoyable. Even, and should I say especially the time we call the empty nest. But again, it's only going to be enjoyable, this phase, this season of life If we are ready for it. You say, what do you mean ready for it? Well that's what this is all about. So I want to consider three simple things. that will help you and help me enjoy the empty nest. Number one, if you would, write this down. Preparing for the empty nest. Now I understand, you know, the Bible's clear, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know if we have another day. Life is short, it's a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanisheth away We have no idea how long we're going to live, only God knows that. And we may never make it to the emptiness, but let's just assume for a moment that we will Uh and plan for the future. And so in order for the emptiness to be enjoyable, understand something. We have to prepare for it. You have to be ready for it Because the reason that couples struggle, the reason that we see these divorce rates, if you will, I understand that's amongst the world, but the reason they struggle with it so much is because they never prepared for it They were never ready for it. And so you may say this morning, okay, or this afternoon, how how do I prepare for it? Well, let me give you some ways to prepare for it. Two ways. The first way to prepare for the empty and that's letter A is this Keep the relationship with your spouse a priority. Keep the relationship with your spouse A a priority. Now you remember when you started dating or courting or whatever, right? Boy, she was a priority then, wasn't she? I mean that's the way that's the nature of the thing, right? It started off that way. We were you both of you with one another. And uh when you were courting and then first married men, that it was it. The marriage was it. That was the priority I mean you communicated all the time, you spent lots of time together, perhaps on the phone, you went on dates, you probably hung on the phone with each other for hours. That's a normal thing to do Maybe if you're in the texting generation, you're texting one another. But what happens for many couples, not everyone, but for many is this The Lord blesses us with children. And we're excited about that because you know it's a blessing of the Lord. Children are heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. And of course, depending on who you are and how the Lord blesses, sometimes there's a one, and then maybe another, and then another, and another, and another. We have one family, of course, in our church as uh going to have their twelfth. uh this uh this year. Uh my my my daughter as well and her husband. Uh we have uh uh it's seven or eight is it now. How many is it? It's eight, right? David I anyway. Point is this, they come, don't they? They come, I mean, and they can keep coming. And and understand, we all get this. When a child comes comes, that changes everything. I mean life changes. Again, here's one of these changes. And uh life gets busy I remember our young adult uh teacher, Sunday school teacher, he had said that these young adults, you know, they they start going to college. They don't have any kids, they don't have a house or anything, they don't want to college, they say, life is so busy Oh we just have so much going on. And you know you kind of chuckle and say, well just wait, you know. Wait till marriage and kids and job and all of that. And so think about it, the child comes or children come and and you have these little human beings. that uh need you for just about everything, at least in the early stages of life. I mean, you have to feed them, you have to dress them, you have to clean up their message, you have to correct them, you have to discipline them and discipline them and discipline them. You have to make decisions for them. And And remember, all that time that you once had with your spouse is suddenly swallowed up. Add to that work and everything else. And if you're not careful, if we're not careful as a couple, life can become about the kids. And that's dangerous. And your marriage relationship gets swallowed up. Because you're so busy. And that's a problem. It's especially a problem when the empty nest comes. Let me show you why. I was reading one author that said this about this problem. He wrote, empty Ness syndrome occurs When you spent the better part of your marriage raising kids, and now your youngest child goes off to college or gets married, and you find yourself without the children to focus on Suddenly you find yourself uncomfortable being around this person that you no longer know. When a couple is working andor raising kids, they're very busy, perhaps so busy that they don't notice that they're growing farther apart which with each passing year, and now when the kids are gone and they have a lot more time on their hands, uh they realize they no longer know or even like the husband or wife they have. That can happen. If you're all about the kids. You see, you must, we must make it a priority to keep the relationship with our spouse a priority. You see, your children need to know, and I am saying this, that your spouse comes before them. They need to know that That mom, uh that dad's number one to you, and dad, mom's number one to you, not them. Now we love them, I hope you understand the what I'm trying to say here. But but think about this for a moment. The average empty nester begins at 49 years old. Now, God willing, that means you're going to spend much more of your life with your spouse that you are going to spend with your child with your children. And so do not, I repeat, do not feel guilty about prioritizing your spouse. Mom comes first, dad comes first, and so forth. Now, let me give you a couple suggestions on how to do this. And I understand that what I'm about to say is not easy. And it's going to require couples to do some deliberate things, but you need to do them. First of all, you need to do this. Make alone time for one another Alone time. Uh you know, I mentioned a couple that's with us, John and Jess Howard. She's having her 12th. For twelve, right? Uh and they're here. Do you do you get it? They're here. They made it a point to come here realizing that our relationship must be a priority. We must be a priority. And so somehow, somewhere along the line, in all the busyness of night and the life, you must make it a priority to spend time alone with one another. Maybe have a weekend away once a year. A day or two here. Take a vacation together. Have a date night to do something like that. Or yeah, get a babysitter, find a trustworthy uh family in the church that will watch your kids. And do you and I know because we have some large families that we deal with. Some would say, we can't afford that. We don't have time for that. And I say, you can't afford not to do that. And you must make time for that. You know, it's interesting how much we can plan with the kids All the events we're going to do this and go here and go there and so forth. Plan things with your spouse. Make it a point. You must do this. You must Make it alone time for one another. Then number two, regularly communicate with one another. And I'm going to hear some things on communication. I'm looking forward to that. I never had met Brother Hanks, but l I've read much of his material and I'm looking forward to the communication. But that's what you have to do. If we're planning for the, preparing for the emptiness, you have to regularly communicate with one another. Have some times, just regular times, and it could be small segments, where you just sit down with your spouse and talk. A cup of coffee, you know? 15 minutes here or there. Whatever it is, make the time to talk to one another. Your marriage needs this. And uh husband, your wife desperately needs this. I want you to think about this, uh as a husband, and you know, while while husbands, most young husbands are at work And uh of course uh the wife is home with all the little ones and and uh uh anybody would like to exchange places with your wife in that that situation? Not much of not many of us would But think about it, while you're at work, she's there dealing with the kids, listening to the bickering, correcting problems, disciplining them all day long Understand something. She needs adult conversation. She needs somebody she can talk to and not have to yell at, if you will. And more than that, she needs you She needs you as a husband. Do not make your life solely about the children. So we see A, letter A, keep your relationship with your spouse a priority by doing those two things. And then letter B, another thing you could do to prepare for the emptiness, is this: don't sweep marital problems under the carpet. Because of the busyness of life. I'll say that again. Don't sweep marital problems. You say I don't have any marital problems. Well then you really need to be here. And it's a good thing you're here But don't sweep marital problems under the carpet because of the busyness of life. You see that what happens is this, the problems that most couples face in the empty nest years are mostly the result of unaddressed, unresolved problems in the previous years. That's what it is. You see what happens is because life is so busy, we're running here, we're running there, we're doing this, we gotta deal with piano practice and sports or whatever it may be And you have other, quote, other giants to slay, the tendency is for marital problems and conflicts and disagreements to get ignored Uh to go to go unaddressed, to get swept under the carpet and not dealt with. And again, i if that's the case, here's what's going to happen. When the emptiness does come, those problems are going to be magnified more than ever. More than ever Because the distractions will be gone. And it's now just you and your spouse. Let's not forget the Bible principle that unaddressed sin does not get better on its own. Never does. It it doesn't magically go away because we ignore it. Proverbs twenty-eight thirteen, he that covereth his sin Sin shall not prosper, but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. So understand if you don't deal with marital problems, marital conflicts, uh Now you're setting yourself up for failure later. You must prepare for the empty nest. And then number two, not only preparing for the emptiness, by keeping the relationship with your spouse a priority, and not sweeping marital problems under the carpet, number two, let's talk about entering the the emptiness. Now, how many are empty nessers right now? Most maybe in here? Okay. How many are not quite there yet? Okay, just a few. Ah, very good. Um well, believe it or not Entering the empty nest is not easy. And I'm going to tell you why here in a moment. There is a plethora of emotions that you have to deal with. The first uh we have three three kids and uh uh we have my oldest daughter has three uh three, two boys and a girl. My son has three boys, and then uh uh Sam and Justine, Pastor Nickebacher of course have their herd. And uh but when they were it Justine was the first one to to kind of leave the home She's the second in order of age, but my oldest stayed home and she was working at the church and she was the first one to go to college. She went off to Crown College. And uh I remember when I I'll never forget the fur how many remember the first one that left? Right? Man, that's that's not easy, right? It wasn't easy for us. And so, of course, we we we drove her down and spent time with her and kind of, you know, we knew it was getting kind of towards the end of the day and you know how it is, you don't want to Face those goodbyes and and all that, but you gotta do it eventually. And so we're dreading that time, but there it is, it came. And uh I remember standing there at her dorm. We were there and uh we we said goodbye. Everybody's crying And then, of course, we watched her walk into her storm, and we get in the car, and we look up at the window, and there she is standing at the window looking at us. And of course we're crying and and we drove off and the entire ride home, I think it was what, ten or eleven hours, I forget what it is to go down there. The boy was really quiet It was real quiet. I mean, not that we didn't talk at all, but it was quiet. And so we we get back home, and I did not expect this to happen, but uh of course we get there and we get in the house and then I walk up and I look into her empty bedroom. And boom, there it goes again. Just crying. But my point is this, from that point forward, the whole dynamic of our family was changed. It's just different. It's not all of us anymore. You know, sitting at the table, doing stuff together. The whole feeling of it, the whole dynamic absolutely changed. And by the way, forever. It'll never be the same. And uh of course when our when our last child got married and moved out, establishing their own home, then we became uh uh official empty nesters. And again, I'm just speaking for me, and uh I think my wife would would uh would uh agree. It was it was kind of weird In it was in good ways and bad ways. But boy, was it an adjustment? Let me tell you some of the good ways. No more listening to bickering and arguing. Amen. No more correcting and disciplining. Uh-huh. No more telling people what to do. No more worrying about certain things. No, you still worry. It's just a different different type of worry. No more feeling the responsibility of their actions. No more paying for their meals. Yeah, I couldn't believe how cheap it was for the two of us to go out to eat. Well, no, it's not cheap anymore, but ma'am value. Fifteen bucks we got a couple of happy meals or whatever, you know. Uh value meal is probably more like it But no more paying for their clothes. The school bills were all paid. Amen. Man, that was exciting. But then there were some other things too. I couldn't blame anybody for things anymore. Who left that there? Ah, one of the kids probably. Who forgot to do that? I think it was this one. I couldn't get away with that anymore. So we got a dog and now I'm blaming the dog. I shouldn't say dogs. I had nobody to give chores to do to help. That was gone. I had nobody to help me shovel the snow. Well I tell ya, this last one first in the day I was born, you know. That was not snow. That was rocks or whatever it was. I don't know what it was. But all that was gone, no one to help me. We have a wood stove, so every every spring and summer I spent it cutting wood and getting ready for that. And I used to have my son and we'd do that together, but guess what? It's all me now Getting the wood, cutting the wood, bringing it, hauling it. Rake and leaves, the same thing, it's just me and my rake. I got a couple rakes, but guess what? I'm the only animal. Cut the grass, right? Go get me this son, I forgot it. My daughter, could you go pick me that? It's only you know it's on the shelf over there. Could you get that for me? That's all gone. Those days are over. You know, I I was saying this to my wife a little bit ago, it's come up a couple times. I I remember when we our kids had reached a certain age. You know, you go through the raising of them and the wiping of noses and cleaning and all that stuff and you get through all that. And I remember when they got to a certain age, and I we talked about this not long ago And I had said, I wish we could freeze life right here for a little while. Because it's this is this is fun. I mean, they're almost adults, and we're we can talk and reason with them, go places, as you know, they kind of got what they're doing. And man, this is a wonderful stage of life. I wish we could just freeze it. But you can't. That's not how it works, is it? Life goes on, and by the way, we must embrace it. We must. Paul said in Philippians 4. 11, not that I speak in respect of want, for I've learned, watch this, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. When that empty nest occurs, we have to embrace it because it's the next stage of life. Here's some things you should do in order to embrace it, okay? Three things, real quick. Number one, or letter A, have the right attitude. Have the right attitude. It's not a time to grieve. It's not a time to feel lonely. It's not a time to feel depressed. It's not a time to feel like you have no longer have purpose in life. Really, the the emptiness is simply the next phase that God has brought into your life, and we should rejoice in it. Now I've been trying to be transparent. I will again here. You know, everybody deals with the emptiness differently. And we love our children very much. In fact our daughters in one of the sessions. Oh no, she's in she's right back here So don't take this the wrong way, baby. But when the nest was empty, we were excited. I'm serious. We were like, woo-hoo. Amen. I mean, we we felt somewhat relieved, we did. It it felt like we crossed some kind of finish line, if you know what I mean. And uh it was like this burden of responsibility was lifted off our shoulders to a degree And by the way, that's the way it's supposed to be. It's supposed to be. We should not grieve when they're gone. We should be happy when it happens. We have to embrace it. Why is that? Because that's why God gave them to us. He did not give our us our children for us to keep them He gave them to us so we would raise them for his glory and then release them to his care and they move on and we move on to the next season of life and we should rejoice in that. The nest is empty. We have this weeping cherry tree in our our front yard And uh it's beautiful. It's probably from where I'm standing from the floor, I'm just about that high or so. And beautiful leaves, it's just nice, it's gotten bigger over the years and uh And I noticed when the uh when the leaves fell off this year, we we saw about three birds' nests in the tree. And uh, do you know birds make a nest for only one reason: for laying their eggs and raising their chicks. That's it. Once the chicks are out of the nest, the purpose for the nest is complete Now I have not yet, and I've watched this thing since they left that nest. I have yet seen mommy and daddy bird go back in the nest and go, Oh, I'm so sad these first don't come back. They don't do that at all. They move on. to bigger and better things. They move on with life. I am told what I read that most birds, if not all of them, Once the NAS is empty, that's it. They never use it again because it's the new stage. Now I get it, they may have something another year, but the point is this, is we should have the right attitude as well. We should rejoice in that. They're gone, and hopefully they're serving the Lord and they're doing what they're supposed to do, whether they are or not. But we're in this stage, and so understand, embrace it by having the right attitude And a matter of being, not only have the right attitude, embrace the changes. Man, there's changes that take place in the empty nest. Two of them I can think of. One, there's parenting changes. You see, when your children, and I think uh Pastor Bishop is doing a whole session on this, when your children establish their own home, your role as a parent changes. You become more of a counselor than a commander. I don't like that. As for racing, we get used to commanding. We kind of enjoy it. But when they move on, it changes from counselor, uh from commander to counselor. And uh you cannot you cannot try to control them. You can't. So there's parenting changes, and then there's life changes Uh the house is quiet. Kinda weird. You know, so quiet then we go when we go see the niggas. It's like, whoa man, this is like a tornado in here. I mean it's a tsunami here, you know? Because we're not used to that You come home, it's all quiet. We we notice that. It's just a change. It's quiet. I notice this too. Food lasts longer. Cooking for two? That's weird. It's different. It's an adjustment. Shopping for two is different. I for you know, I forgot Did a gallon of milk went bad. Yeah, I used to laugh at folks that were older saying, they had a quart of milk. Who buys a quart of milk? Who buys Kansas soda? I mean you get a better value out of the leader. You get more for your buck with the gallon. Why are you doing that? Because it goes bad. That's why, duh I didn't know that until I got in the FC Nest. I mean again, these are all life changes that that that occur. And again, we we must embrace them and adjust to these changes because it's part of God's plan. So as we're entering the empty nest, have the right attitude, embrace the changes, and then thirdly, let your kids go. Hello? Let them go. I'm not saying ignore them and cut them off. I'm not talking about that. Genesis 2. 24, therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. You raise them to go out and live their lives. Let them do it. Let them go. Listen, they're going to do things you don't agree with. They're going to make decisions that you wouldn't make, that you would have done differently. They're going to raise your grandkids differently than you raised them. That's going to happen. But let them go. Leave and cleave and let them learn about life on their own. God never designed for you to keep your children their entire lives. Never did. And so when the emptiness comes and you enter into it, embrace it. Have the right attitude and let them go. And in number three, we're done here. Not only preparing for the empty nest, entering into the empty nest, then lastly we could say living with an empty nest. Remember the and the emptiness is not an ending, it's a beginning. And oh You're gone. Life is over. Oh my god, do you're missing it. You're missing it. The emptiness is a new beginning. It's a new stage of life. It's a time where we can and we should enjoy more time with our spouse. I mean do more fun things, do more go more places. I mean you now have the freedom to go and do things that you didn't have the freedom to do before because of the kids. Uh you probably more likely have more money to do things now after they spent it all and before, amen. But you can do that It's a time when you and your spouse can serve God like you never did before because you have less earthly responsibilities and less earthly distractions. Man, you can put your whole heart into serving the Lord as a couple. You can get more involved with your local church, serving in a ministry. You could be a greater help there. You can do more visiting now. You can serve more. You can be a help with your to your pastor. I mean with with more life experience and more wisdom than you've ever had, and more biblical knowledge than when you were younger. You can do more now in the emptiness state for the kingdom of God than you could before, in a sense. And you can give more to the work of God as well. Think of the empty nest as a great opportunity to serve the Lord in a greater way. In this stage of life, and enjoy it. I'm going to throw out this com this disclaimer though, because I've seen it in our church and I've seen it in others, other people Don't make the mistake that many empty nesters make. And that is they see this time of their life as a time to fulfill their bucket list. And all their earthly desires to the forsaking of God. I'm not saying don't do some things. Do some things. Enjoy. But don't forsake the Lord. Don't say, Well now I did my I paid my dues and so now life is about me. It's never about us. It's always about the Lord. And so don't make that mistake uh of doing that. No matter what season of life that we are in, listen, our lives should be given to him Whether we're newly wed or before we're married or after we're saved, all of that, or empty nesters, or somewhere in between. Our life is about Him. For me to live as Christ and to die. is gain. That's how we can enjoy the empty nest. Prepare for it. Think about what's coming. Make sure your relationship with your spouse is a priority. Don't sweep those marital problems under the carpet because of the busyness of lights. When your emptiness, when the emptiness comes, have the right attitude. Embrace the changes. Let your kids go. And enjoy it by seeing this time as a time, yes, to enjoy with your spouse more than ever. But a time to serve the Lord. You see, when the kids leave the home, it is a time of transition. You're going to deal with a lot of emotions. Some of you going through it, you have as as we have as well. But don't fear that time. Look forward to that time. And as much, if not more, than any other time in your life. But that's only going to happen. If you're ready for it. So I asked you, those in the emptiness, are you enjoying it? Are you depressed and discouraged in trying to live in the past? Enjoy the emptiness. It's a wonderful time of life Amen. So those not in the emptiness, you better do things to prepare for it now. Don't forget about your spouse now. Uh don't get so caught up with the kids that you have a stra you you're looking at one another that looks like a stranger in your home When it becomes time for the emptiness, do the things to get ready for it now. Amen. Let's pray to you. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you for loving us. And thank you for the seasons of life. Lord, some seasons are easy, some are difficult, but may we never resist those God-ordained seasons. May we embrace them. And Lord, if you allow us to get to the place, some that are in this room, to the to the place of the empty nest, I pray, Lord, that we would embrace it and enjoy it by doing some of the things we spoke of this afternoon. Bless what we heard to our hearts. Bless the rest of the conference. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. God bless you. Thank you so much.