In uh 2 Samuel chapter number 22, um I guess I want to start at the beginning of the chapter just to read one verse here at the very beginning, just to kind of Show you what we're talking about, and then we're going to jump down to our text. But uh in chapter number 22, the very first verse, he says, And David spake unto the Lord the words of this song. So this passage of scripture that David is singing uh this song of praise that This expression of gratitude, this thankfulness to God. And he's singing this in the midst of a hard time. He's talking about what he had endured, what he had been through. And then we're going to go down to the text this evening, and uh I want to show this to you. Let's begin reading maybe in verse number 30. And we'll read through verse number 38, with 37 being our text and what I would like to focus on this evening. But in verse number 30 he says, For by thee have I run through a troop. But my God, I have leaped over a wall. As for God, his way is perfect. I mean, you think about him saying this in light of what he did endured. David had been on the run from Saul for years, living in caves. You know the the the strongest leader of the strongest group uh in the world at that time and they's uh on the run from him hiding in caves living with a band of disgruntled men and uh you know in fear for his life and it wasn't easy. It wasn't just for a week or two. It was an extended period of time. And yet David is praising God. He says, his way is perfect. God knows. The word of the Lord is tried, and he is a buckler to all them that trust in him. For who is God, save the Lord, and who is a rock, save our God? God is my strength and power, and he He maketh my way perfect. He maketh my feet like hindsfeet and setteth me upon my high places. He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine enemies. Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation, and thy gentleness hath made me great. Thou hast enlarged my steps under me. So that my feet did not slip. I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and turned not again until I had consumed them. David speaking here to the Lord in this song of praise and thanksgiving, he talks about how God had enlarged his steps. We see this is actually repeated in the book of Psalms. In the book of Psalms, it's actually a direct quote in Psalms chapter 1. eighteen verse number thirty-six he says, Thou hast enlarged my steps under me that my feet did not slip. A very large portion of this passage of scripture is repeated in Psalm Chapter 18. But David on the run from Saul is expressing gratitude to God and talks about how God had enlarged him. God had enabled his ability and strength and capacity and so on to grow. And this evening I would like to talk about the idea of enlargement. Praying and seeking for enlargement. Now, some people have successfully been working towards that end for some time. That's not necessarily what I'm talking about, uh but enlargement in our life, in our capacity. And, you know, as he talked about God's ability to do this for him, I want you to understand there's nothing wrong With God's blessing on the individual. There's nothing wrong with enlargement, with God bestowing greater and greater blessings on somebody. Increasing somebody's capacity or somebody's means or somebody's ability or increasing somebody in different ways. There's nothing wrong with that idea of Enlargement. In fact, the matter is, is God wants to bless us. God seeks and desires to bless us, to enlarge our means. There's nothing wrong with asking for God to bless, for asking for enlargement. You know, sometimes we may battle that in our hearts and minds. As a pastor, I may pray, God, I would like you to grow the church. Lord, I would like you to enlarge our ministry. I would like you to do this and And and sometimes I I design or think about or implement a ministry with the sole purpose of trying to increase our influence And in one capacity, some people would look at that and say, well, isn't that kind of narcissistic? Or isn't that kind of uh uh you're just tootin your own horn or you're trying to Build your your own kingdom. And certainly there's people who have been guilty of that goal or that ambition, but I want you to understand there's nothing wrong with seeking God's blessing. Seeking God's enlargement. Elisha prayed for a double portion of Elijah's ministry. Say, God, you blessed him greatly I would like you to bless me double that much. I would like to have, Lord, would you do that for me? And God, we saw, answered that request. I think the real problem is that we don't believe. And so we don't We don't believe that God could do it in us or through us. We don't believe that God would do it for us. You know the Bible says there that you have not because you ask not And sometimes I think the reason that we're not asking is we just don't believe that God would really do it for us. But God does want to do it. But if God was going to do this for us, what areas should we do should we seek enlargement in? What areas would be beneficial? What areas should we ask God, Lord, would you enlarge me? Lord, would you do things This for me. And as I consider our church as a whole, and where we're at right now, and in a few minutes we're going to have prayer time, and I'm going to ask you you to pray. Pray for Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Pray for the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church and pray for you yourself in light of the thoughts that I share with you this evening at asking God to enlarge us. There's several things in the scriptures that I want to show you where men asked to be enlarged. And I think if we just took those, we So turn your Bibles if you would to First Chronicles chapter four. First Chronicles chapter number four. I've taught on this before. We've taken time, and I think I preached four messages on this verse alone, 1 Chronicles chapter 4, and verse number 10. He says, there, and Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh, that thou wouldst bless me indeed. And enlarge my coast, and that thy hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me What's the last sentence? And God granted him that which he requested. We see four things there that he asked God for, and the first is that uh well the second of the list here is that he would enlarge my coast. And that's the idea we're going to look at this evening with praying for enlargement. But we see that uh Jabez prayed this prayer and he asked for God to enlarge him. Enlarge my coast, Lord, enlarge my coast. And God granted him his request. What it means to enlarge your coast, that word coast literally means uh boundary, uh territory, an enclosed area. Uh have you maybe how many of you have a garden? Have you at some point in your life with your garden decided, you know what, this year I want to make the garden a little bit bigger? So you enlarge the coast. You enlarge the boundary of that garden. And you say, okay, I want to, I want to, instead of having two rows of corn, I want to have eight rows of corn. Or instead of Thir three rows of potatoes, I want to have six rows of potatoes. And you enlarge the area so that you can have more uh uh ground to be able to bring forth more fruit This is what the prayer is. Jav is saying, Lord, would you please enlarge the boundary, the limit, enlarge my ability to minister. To move back to boundary. It quite literally means the opportunities that we have Would you enlarge my coast? Would you give me more opportunities to serve? Would you give me more opportunities to do for you? This is why we continually look at new missionaries. Why we continually decide, okay, we want to, as our goal, we want to try and take on at least two missionaries every year. We want to continue to go forward. Why? Because we want more missionaries? Because we want to cost more money every year. We want our missions budget to just you know, it end up costing us more money every year. Is that why we want to support two more missionaries? No, we want to enlarge our boundary. We want to impact and influence more people. We want to get the gospel to another area. We want to reach another group of people with the with the gospel. And so we ask, Lord, would you allow us to take on two more missionaries this year so that We could reach two more areas. And yes, that means it's going to take a little bit more time and it's going to cost a little bit more money. And we've got two more names on the list that we've got to pray for. And that means we've got more effort that we've got to do. But the possibility, the opportunity is that we would have more return. We would have more fruit added to your account, just like in the garden, when you extend the boundary, you know that means more work. You know that means more weeding. You know that means more watering. That means more effort to get that stuff out of the ground. But it's opportunity to get more return. It's an opportunity to see more accomplished for God. That's why we have things like the men's retreat. That we tell all these other churches about and try and bring in these other churches to be a part of that so that we can Increase the opportunity, the the option, the the ability to at least maybe minister to a broader scope of people, to impact a greater group of people. That's why we wanted to have a ladies' conference this year And additionally the goal was to bring in other churches, but in the middle of COVID we're not really pushing hard in that aspect. But uh we'll do it for our church family, but the goal is that we'll impact and influence more people. Gives us another opportunity. Lord, will you enlarge our opportunities, enlarge our coast? You understand that means more work. That means more effort. But the opportunity is more return. We get more return. We get greater blessing. When we ask for more, it means more responsibility and more work. The problem is, is most people want more recognition, not more responsibility. That's the problem. We need to ask God, Lord, would you enlarge my life so I can make a greater impact for you? It's not so that we can build greater buildings or possess or hold more land. It's so that we could impact and influence More people for Christ. Enlarge our coast. Whatever, however, God sees fit to do so. There's nothing wrong with asking God, Lord, would you Enlarge our coast. However, you see fit, God, we're saying we're willing to do the work, we're willing to assume the responsibility, we're willing to put forth the effort. Lord, if you would enlarge our coast, allow us. To reach more people for you. Then I want you to see, secondly, that we should ask for an enlarged heart. Turn to first Kings chapter 4 In verse number twenty-nine. This is Solomon here You know the story where God asked Solomon, what would you like? And he said a new car, new chariot. He said, What can I do for you? He says, I I need I don't know how to go out or come in. I need wisdom. He says in 1 Kings chapter 4 and verse number 29. He says, and God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding, exceeding much And what's the next four words? Largeness of heart. Even as the sand that is on the on the seashore. And Psalms 119, verse number 32, says, I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. Solomon was asking God, Lord, would you enlarge my heart? The ability here What we're dealing with specifically here really is just a matter of capacity. Initially we're saying, enlarge my coast, Lord, give me more opportunities. Some people say, well, I couldn't do that because I'm already reached my limit. Then we need to ask God, would you increase my capacity? Would you give me more ability? Would you help me in the areas where I'm struggling? Would you give me the capacity In my heart to understand and to know and to do, to go beyond our own ability or beyond that which is normal, to love people. To have a large heart. What a description is given to us here in comparison. He says, as the sand of the seashore I read one commentator on this passage of scripture today, and it was literally about eight or nine paragraphs where he was simply describing. the magnitude of the sand on the seashore. And of course he started with picking one little segment of beach or along one little small river and Reach down into the ground and and if you could pick up one small handful and there in your hand try and count the grains of sand that are in your hand and any of us would lose heart before we finished counting all of just what was in our hand. And then you try and think about, well, how many grains of sand are in this palm of my hand, but then how many handfuls are on this one pass passage of uh one section of beach or this one uh along this one riverside and then how many rivers and how many beaches are there in this state And how many rivers or beaches are there in America or the world? And the magnitude is just unimaginable. You think about how he said God said, Hey, I increased him. I guess that's why he said to Solomon was the wisest man that ever lived. Because what God gave him, he increased his capacity. God will do that for you. God will do that for you. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. God will give you the wisdom that you need. He'll give you the capacity that you need to do what He would like you to accomplish for Him. You know, I think about it just like a computer or a camera or even nowadays a phone. I mean you think about the capacity that it it has. You know, maybe your initial phone came with you know sixty-four gig of memory. And then you fill it up with photos or you know pictures or whatever. But you take your your camera or your computer and you can upgrade that memory You can increase the capacity. You know, we have a camera up there, and uh there's a memory stick in the camera that's holds 256 gig of capacity. And if that's not enough, there's a second drive you can put another one in. You can increase the capacity. What I'm saying is the camera is just still the same. The slot the memory goes in is still the same, but the capacity was increased. And God's not saying here that that physical beating organ in in your in your body would increase in size, but that our capacity would increase. Our capacity to love the unlovable. Our capacity to love and have a heart for people on the mission field that we've never ever seen. We've never been there. How could we love them? Our capacity to love that kid in Sunday school who tries your patience. Who just takes everything you have to keep from, you know, losing it in front of the kids. The capacity to love them and to see the potential that's there and to desire to try and minister to them and somehow break through that hard heart that's there and get them to turn and turn towards God and you look at that and you labor and you love and you pray. Why? Because you've got an increased capacity. That's not normal. That would be normal thing would be to, okay, get him out of here I don't want anything to do with them. But God gives us the capacity to love through and beyond those times. You know, the church of God is made up of many different types of people. We've got people from all walks of life. People, educated people, less educated people. We've got people very, very wealthy and people not so very wealthy. We've got people uh from different countries in in uh represented in our church. But how do you love them all with capacity given to you by God? We need to ask God, Lord, would you love You enlarge my heart? Would you enlarge my heart? Would you give me a greater capacity? Lord, would you enlarge my coast? Would you give me greater opportunities? And lastly, tonight I want you to turn back to our text in 2 Samuel. chapter 22 verse number 37 he says that thou hast enlarged my steps under me so that my feet did not slip This word steps in the Hebrew literally is pace or stride. Literally means pace or stride in Second Samuel. twenty-two verse thirty-seven. Have you ever been walking with somebody who had a pretty long stride? I mean they're getting there. They're getting there, man. They're they're on their way. I mean they're and you're just you feel like you're running, trying to keep up. But he's what he's praying here. He says, Lord, would you allow me to accomplish more in one day? than it's normal? Would you allow me to cover more ground? Would you maximize my hours? Would you allow me to see the project that needs to be done? And would you Lord, would you enlarge my steps under me? Give me a bigger stride. Allow me to cover more ground. Allow me to accomplish more more for you in the limited time that I have. God, I I want to do all this. Many times the opportunity is not there, or many times the capacity is not enough. But sometimes I just feel like I can't get it all done. But God, would you enlarge my steps? Enlarge my steps. Allow me to accomplish more in the time that I have. Get more done in less time. You know it's amazing how much you can accomplish when you really have to. How much you can accomplish in a day when you're on the line and it all has to happen and and you I was talking to Alicia about this because this seems like in college where they really push you. You know, it's kind of shocking what you can get done in a day. You know, you have to write a paper and you got to study for a test and you went to classes all morning. and you worked a full time job and you still had time to sit in the snack shop and fellowship for a few minutes and and then you s you stopped on the way home and visited somebody and I mean you you're thinking how did I get all that done and then you're sometimes later you're you're You're at home and you're like, man, it feels like I have no time. I can't, but you're not accomplishing anything. And you think, where did all my time go? You know, the greatest satisfaction is generally had on the days where there's the greatest accomplishment. You know the days that you just sat around? You know, it's occasionally it's nice to it's nice to rest. It's a you gotta you gotta recoup now again. But you know the greatest satisfaction comes when your man, when you get to the end of the day and you're like, man, we got this done, we got that done, we got this accomplished, you know, tomorrow morning we're going to finish up that roof over there. And it's been two long weeks. We started a week too early as the problem last week was really hot. This week It's been beautiful. You know. I'm like, man, why didn't we wait a week? 'Cause the first couple days last week were so warm. But uh I'm excited that we're getting it done and that sense of accomplishment and and the house looks all sharp and everybody came and invested time and energy and we we we just kept plugging away at it and we've accomplished it. It's been on the schedule for a while, but we've got it done There's there's satisfaction in that. You've got to ask God, Lord, would you enlarge my step? Would you allow me to get more done in the time I have? Give me a little bit faster pace, Lord. Give me a little bit bigger stride. Whatever I need to do, Lord, to accomplish what I need to accomplish. Ask God for those profitable days. So tonight, will you ask God to enlarge your coast? To give you more opportunities to serve Him. Would you ask God to enlarge your heart? To give you more capacity to do for him. And ask God to enlarge your steps. To give you. To accomplish more in the time you have. You know, let me just warn you As we close this evening and go to our prayer time, and I'm asking you to pray for this individually. I'm also asking you to pray for this for hundreds of Valley Baptist Church. But let me warn you that when we ask of God, that many times Enlargement comes through distress. Enlargement comes through pressure. You know how do you build your muscles as a bodybuilder? You lift something that's too heavy for you. Pull that muscle. Stretch that thing out. And it builds. It's distress. You put the muscle under distress Many times God does that for us. Our heart is enlarged when we've gone through a trial. So I just want to warn you in Psalms chapter 4 and verse number 1, you don't have to turn there, but a psalm of David, he says, Hear me when I call, O God, my righteousness. Thou hast enlarged me. When I was in distress. You see, David went through it, but he saw what God did through it So as we as a church ask God to do this, and as you as an individual ask this of God, I'm just warning you ahead of time, it might mean testing time. It might mean some distress so that we can be enlarged. Dear Lord Jesus, we come to you now and have a moment of invitation, and we ask you, God, that you would help us as a church to be willing to assume the responsibility. If you would give us the opportunity. I think many times maybe the opportunity might be there, but we don't want any more Responsibility. We don't want any more jobs. We don't desire to. We want to see more done, but maybe not by us. Lord, I pray that you would give us a vision. For what you want to do, and that you would enlarge us as a church and each of us individually. I believe ultimately as a church it'll happen as we as individuals Individuals seek that you do this in our hearts. I pray that you would use these thoughts this evening in Jesus' name. Amen.