Amen. Well, we are starting a study in Ephesians tonight. Um Timothy, would you mind come and up here and hand these out for me. We've got some simple notes for you, just basic outline here. W yeah, one per person there. Um so this something new I'm gonna try and just kinda give you a place to keep notes, but also something fun. On the back is a crossword puzzle. uh from tonight's teaching. The crossword puzzle is for you to do at home in when you review, not to be doing during the service, okay? Uh we might should produce those separately and give them out uh afterwards. I d I don't know, but uh there is a quasford puzzle there. We're gonna kinda add that to our study on the book of Ephesians to help us maybe retain some things uh that we're going through here. Um but I thought that you might enjoy that and uh the outline there just some very basic uh things to Give you a little bit of direction of where we're where we're headed. Ephesians. Ephesians. It's a heavenly position manifested in holy practice. That's what we're going to see as we walk through the book of Ephesians, the heavenly position that we have in Jesus Christ, as it's manifest in the life of the believer into holy practice Tonight we're going to just be looking at the first first two verses, really as we're dealing with the introduction, but we have Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 1 and 2. He says, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus. And to the faithful in Christ Jesus, grace be to you. We were just singing about that grace, and I couldn't help but think about the notes tonight. We're going to get into that a little bit. And peace from God our Father, from the Lord Jesus Christ. In this introductory look at the book of Ephesians, this is a powerful book filled with life lessons for us. There's certainly much that can be gained and learned from this book for the believer. It is rich in uh expounding upon the relationships that we have in Christ. We see the believer as he's seated with Christ in verses chapters 1 through 3. We see as he is walking with Christ in chapters 4 through 5, and standing for Christ in chapter number 6. It's a progression of the Christian life. And as we take from this book and learn from it, hopefully these things will come present and be part of our life. Not written, Ephesians wasn't written to address a particular problem like many of the books in the New Testament addressed to the churches. But really was more about encouraging believers to walk. in maturity, to do and be what God wants them to be in light of Christ that they are in Now we're going to begin here just simply by looking at the author. The authorship, it's hard to believe. What does the first verse there say? Paul On Apostle of Jesus Christ. Kind of peculiar that the authorship would actually be questioned by anybody, but in fact it is. There's some that raised question, those that would consider themselves to be higher critics, you know, they want to uh pick apart the synapsis of scripture and and look at uh the tenses of words and say, well Paul never used this tense of word in any other thing, so Paul couldn't be the author of this. Uh they say some of the like the phraseology, you know, just a little bit of the way something is phrased is a little bit different than the way Paul might have said it. And so possibly it was somebody different. It's so close that they think that those that are critics of it, they think that, well, it's so close to Paul that It's probably one that Paul taught. Like maybe Timothy or Onistamus or something like that. Maybe they were the authors. Why do we have to question it? I mean God has given us a word of God that we believe is inspired, that God uh says for us here is the word of God. Uh Why is it that we would be a question that Paul was the author, but there are those that that question it for one reason or another. And uh we of course know that it's very clear that Paul wrote it. This was one of the prison epistles, one of the four, the prison epistles, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Philemon, the the books that he wrote, uh, well incarcerated, well in prison, had some extra time on his hands, and so he sat down and wrote some letters which God had planned to be in part of the scriptures for us. He was during his imprisonment in AD sixty, sixty one in that time frame. Now Paul was in a maritime prison in Rome. Now I have a picture here of the Maritime Prison uh and I've actually stood in front of that and looked down inside. When you look down inside, this is what you see. the second picture here. So when you're looking over the little fence there, you're looking down into this hole and it kind of gives you a a picture of what it would have been like. Now you remember of course that according to Acts that Paul was not in this prison for his whole time in Rome. You know that for the m largest portion of his time in Rome, where was he? Do you anybody remember? He was in house arrest, right? Yeah, he was in a he was in a house and he was kept b by a guard who kind of watched him and he had a little bit of freedom. He had some measure of freedom. Guards would watch him, but he was kind of under house arrest. And they believed that he was under house arrest for an extended period of time and then possibly was released. Or went from house arrest to the maritime prison. The maritime prison was a prison that was used for those that basically had been condemned to death And they would be sent there for holding for a short time, and then they would be executed. And it's believed that both Paul and Peter, now this is not scripture. uh but both Paul and Peter were in this prison for a period of time uh before their actual execution. And uh so historical documents is where that comes from that uh it's believed that they were both held in here for at least a period of time in before they were ultimately executed. We see, we of course know that Paul is the author. It's very clearly given to us there. So we talk about his apostleship. He says, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Listen, Paul, we know he was born a Jew. We know that he was born in Tartars. We know that he was trained. He was well learned. He sat at the feet of Gameleo. He was a Pharisee among Pharisees. Uh as far as somebody that had a desire to learn and to know what God said, he was certainly in the forefront. He desired that and went after it with passion. And he believed he was doing right until he he met Jesus on the road to Damascus and realized that all the zeal and passion he had was for the wrong direction. And then when he realized what he was doing, he put all that zeal and energy into serving God. That's the nice thing is when you when you can lead somebody to the Lord who was very zealous for wrong or for Satan or for that type of thing, usually you can c turn those energies towards doing something for God and they can be many times the most passionate and the greatest Christians that there are. Why? Because they know what God saved them from. They know what God took them out of. And uh Paul realizing this and and pursuing it and following after God with a passion uh as an apostle of Jesus Christ. We know he was called of God. In 1 Timothy 1, verse number 12, he says, And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me from the that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry. Listen, Paul was put into the ministry by God. He was called of God. And he had a purpose. Paul would have been directly responsible for many of the saints. there in Ephesus to have been brought to Christ or maybe directly led them to Christ. He would have been their spiritual father, you could say. brought them or introduced them to Christ. And so there would have been a lot of respect for Paul and his writings in the church of Ephesus. Those there that had been influenced by Paul just like You all when somebody has had the privilege to influence you spiritually, you respect that person. You're thankful for the influence that they had on your life and you You weigh highly and consider with great regard statements that they may make. Uh maybe you s you call somebody uh that has influenced you maybe in the past and they're not immediately in your life, but they are part of your life from a distance and you would say, Boy, I'm gonna call them. I have several people like that that I respect their opinion and I looked for that. And so when I'm in the middle of something or if I need some wisdom, I will call them. I respect what they have to say. And the the church there in Ephesus would have respected the words of Paul because he was directly responsible for bringing many of them to Christ. He was an apostle, it's evident The evidence of his apostleship is very clear through his writings. First of all, in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse number 12, he says, Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you. He says the signs of the apostle, uh yeah, I'm an apostle, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, and the signs, the evidences are very clear. There there wasn't really any question for those that were calling uh or looking at Paul about his apostleship. In what he did. You know, was Paul perfect? I don't think he was. I think Paul has he had his own demons to deal with. We know he had a thorn in the flesh, but we what I'm saying is he was a man like were men. He he had a sinful nature like we have sinful nature. And Paul didn't live the rest of his life from the day that he met Christ on the road to Damascus. until he was killed for his faith. He didn't he didn't live all those years without sin, without any problems, without any battles. Uh spiritual battles, I'm saying, and I'm just putting that out there as encouragement for you and I to realize, listen, uh Paul was victorious in Christ Jesus, and we can be as well. He dealt with passions just like we have passions. He had desires just like we do. And he didn't have a special uh endowment of grace beyond what's available to you and I. We serve the same God, and we have the same grace that God said to him, My grace is sufficient for thee. And that same grace is sufficient for you and I today. It is a promise that we have, and God's grace will carry us through. He was an apostle, and his authority as an apostle came from God. We see that here. He says, from God, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God to the saints which are at Ephesus. In Galatians chapter 1 and verse number 1, Paul addresses them, he says, Paul an apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ. So Paul, an apostle, made an apostle by Jesus Christ. Can I tell you that God had a plan for Paul from the beginning From when he was born, God had a plan for Paul. And Paul was fulfilling God's will for his life. He was doing what God called him to do while he was here on earth. Galatians chapter 1, verse number 15 and 16 says, But when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb And called me by his grace to reveal his son in me that I might preach him among the heathen, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood He says, God called me from my mother's womb. What I'm asking you tonight is, are you fulfilling God's plan for your life? Right now. I know we would say, well, I'm a believer. I love the Lord. I I'm a follower of Christ. But are you fulfilling God's plan for your life? Are you doing that for which Christ saved your soul? That God has you here on earth. Are you fulfilling that plan in your life right now? Because we God has a plan. For each and every one of us. That which he would like us to fulfill. And we're not just existing here. We have something we want to accomplish for our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Are you doing what God has saved your soul? to do. We see here this first of all, the authorship that it was Paul, but he was writing to a group of people We're going to call the audience. Who was he writing to? We see, first of all, their position physically. We know that they were in Ephesus. They were in the city of Ephesus. I have here a map of Ephesus for you to take a look at. Ephesus is located obviously in the coastal region of Asia Minor. which would today be Turkey. There's a couple of I mean I can't read it from here back there. I don't know that you can see it here. Yeah, you most of you could read that probably. Can you read that, Armando? If you can't, you can turn around and look that way. Uh all the way at the top left hand side there is Ephesus, right on the edge of the coast there. Uh the the other orange one that's kind of muted is Antioch Um but in the far top right hand side it shows that that region is Turkey. So it's modern day Turkey is where it's at and it's all the way on the edge of that on the edge of that map there. Um they were located physically in in Ephesus Now, Ephesus is known for several things, several things that weren't good, like the Temple of Diana. the uh the Roman name, the Greek name was Artemis. Uh in Acts chapter nineteen verse number thirty-five the Bible says And when the town clerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of Ephesus is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana? And of the image which fell down from Jupiter. So this goddess of Diana is believed to have fallen from Jupiter, and uh, you know, they worshipped her and There is this temple. This is a rendering of what they believe it may have looked like when it was new or or freshly built. It was believed to be one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. It was a magnificent structure, for sure. It was originally 425 feet long, 239 feet wide. These pillars around the outside were marble, solid marble, 55 feet tall, and there were a hundred pillars around the outside of this People would travel from all over the world to see and be a part of what took place in this temple. And it it's uh debauchery and immorality very prevalent as part of the worship practices of what took place in this temple. Um and That was what Ephesus was known for. One of the large things. This particular thing brought much uh commerce to the city. It was known for that. It it it cultivated and and w provoked great commerce because it brought people to the city, plus all the wares and things that got sold because of it, uh all of those things that that tied in with it. That made This city of Ephesus, a strategic commercial center for Asia Minor. Not just because of this, but because it was a port city. It was a great port. Also, there was the largest theater in the Greek world. Here is a picture of the theater. This is currently, this is what it looks like. Uh they could see twenty-five thousand people in this theater. They say even today the acoustics in that the in all of its marble, all of the seats, all of the pathways, all of its marble And so the sound, they said if you were standing on the stage and talking in a normal voice, you could hear that all the way in the top seats in the back. because of how it's designed, the structure there. It's built into the side of the hill. Now in the top of that picture he's looking at right there, we're gonna see a better one in just a second, but But you see on the right side of the screen, that little white line that kind of jets out towards the edge of the coast. You can see the water at the very top edge there. There was a main road that went through there and it went right out to the water. I think I have another photo that's gonna show that a little bit clearer in just a moment. But uh Ephesus was a was a was a commercial city, uh uh a commerce and a lot of things came in through that port. uh that into the region and so on. Um so it this notable thing was the port there that was high that the region It was full of silt and so they had to continually dredge the the water in order to keep the uh draft you know deep enough on the boats that they could get in without getting hung up. But they made this uh so that they could get in there and became a great commerce because of that The theater there was not only a place for entertainment, but it came a a great place of assembly for all civic, political, or religious conflict. Anytime there was uh some big debate or any problems or you know whatever needed to be discussed, that's where the people went. They they went there. If you remember when Paul was in Ephesus he was preaching and his preaching uh you remember the story in the book of Acts from in the New Testament survey? when he was preaching and they took all of their books about magic and all their books about heathen worship and they piled them all in a pile and burned them? Uh one author said it was as much as a m in today's value a million dollars worth of material that got consumed by the fire. And then if you remember when we were talking about it in the book of Acts there that they uh the uh the silversmith, what was his name? Anybody remember the silversmith? I'm sorry Come on, you guys remember? You don't remember. The Silversmith, they don't Demetri's? Is that it? The Silversmith? Uh we'll we'll look it up in a second Uh but he he remember he got mad about it because he's like, hey, there I think it's Acts chapter twenty if somebody wants to look. But that he got mad and he says, Rook, you guys, they're They're costing us money. We're we're building all of these these artifacts for the who's gonna buy 'em? Who's gonna buy the t these things from the temple and and we're gonna lose in all of this? And there was there was much uproar in the city. And then God warns Paul, and Paul goes and hides, but they do capture two of Paul's co-workers, two of Paul's friends. And the Bible says that they take him into the theater. In the book of Acts. They take them into the theater, and when they take them into the theater, uh, that's the theater they're talking about. All the way in the book of Acts. That's where they were standing. They were in that theater right there. They pulled them in. Is it? Demetrius, yeah. Well the wonders never cease. Actually got it right. But um so they went into that theater and then Paul is warned he was gonna go in there and Paul was warned, you know, don't don't go in there, they're gonna kill you They might let your friends go, but if you go in there they're going to kill you. So Paul goes away, he escapes another way because the people were all up for her, because the preaching of God was was powerfully moving and changing the lives of men and the hold that Satan had on that community was being lost. And you know, Satan doesn't take it sitting down. When when a missionary goes into a region and God begins to work, boy, Satan, he gets upset and he begins to stir up some problems and many times can can do great damage. uh but greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And God allowed him to escape and uh to be freed from that So we know that Paul uh visited Ephesus uh on his second missionary journey, and that he spent nearly three years there. uh with the church at his third missionary journey. His first, his second missionary journey, we remember that stop was real short. He was there briefly. They wanted him to stay longer. Would you please stay? Would you please stay And he's like, No, I gotta go. I w I gotta get to Jerusalem. I I gotta be at Jerusalem. And so he went back, but then he goes there and he spends almost three years there on his third missionary journey. Um In Acts chapter 20, verse number 31, he says, Therefore watch and remember that by the space of three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. So he says, hey, I was there three years ministering, and you guys know I did so faithfully and consistently. So their their position physically was Ephesus. That's where the church was. But he noticed Or he commented on something else, and that was their position spiritually. He says, Hey, to the saints. The letter was written to the saints at Ephesus. Not just to everybody in the city of Ephesus, but to the saints at Ephesus, and this literally is an acknowledgement of their position in Christ. Now that's going to be important here in just a moment, and as we go through this book, we're going to see that over and over again is that idea of in Christ. Their position was in Christ. The church at Ephesus had a strong testimony throughout the known world during that time. Some of the saints that were there was Aquila and Priscilla, Apollos, Ticius, Timothy, and John. Mm people that were known and associated with that church. It had a strong testimony. These were saints of God and uh people knew it. A saint beloved is one who's called out of this world to live a new life in Jesus Christ. We have a new position and we're to live a new life in Christ. Ephesus, that city is known for its pagan worship. It's known for the prevalence of immorality. It's known for the theater that was there. It's known for the commerce that was there. But can I tell you something, beloved, the reason? That we still talk about the city of Ephesus today was not because of any of those things. The reason we still talk about Ephesus today was because the work that God did there. The work that God did in the lives of people where saints were saved, a church was established, and lives were changed, and it was recorded for us in a page of Scripture. And that's why today there are cruise lines that you can get onto and a cruise will actually dock in the city of Ephesus. Why? So that you can go see this theater and you can walk those streets and see the places that are talked about. in the pages of scripture. Because of what God did, not because of what the world was doing. This world and all that it has, it it it passes away and it falls off the scene and it means nothing. But like the Word of God that is forever settled in heaven, the work of God that's done in the lives of people is an eternal work. And it is something that will last. There's value. There's value in that. We see they were saints. This is an acknowledgement of their position. But then he acknowledges their practice as well. Notice he says the faithful in Christ Jesus. Not only were they positionally in Christ's and saved and knew that their sins were forgiven and that they were on their way to heaven, but They had developed a Christian life. They had begun to walk faithfully, and faithfulness is the most critical aspect of the Christian life. It is counterstood that a man be found Faithful. Boy, we need faithfulness. We need faithfulness. We need faithfulness. People need to be faithful to their walk with God. Faithful. I was talking to the uh my college class on Tuesday night, and I said, listen, you have got to be faithful in spiritual maintenance. That's just the reality of the Christian life. Any Christian left to himself for any length of time is going to backslide We have to pursue spiritual maintenance. You you cannot uh expect a person to be missing church. and still be strong for God. You cannot expect somebody who is no longer reading their Bible, not spending time in prayer, be a spiritual, godly Christian. Why? Because we drift That's the nature of it. And just like anything else we have in this life, you take a car and run it for 60,000 miles and don't ever change the oil, your car is going to explode. It's it's just it's gonna go. You have to do maintenance. Yeah, you can get three hundred thousand plus out of your car today if you'll do some maintenance on it. Amen. Are you guys awake? Yeah, let's do some maintenance. Well you gotta do the same thing spiritually. Or you will backslide. You have to on purpose determine I'm going to be faithful to read God's word. I'm going to be faithful to spend some time in prayer. I'm going to be faithful to ask God to speak to my heart. Bring about change in my life. I'm going to be faithful to the house of God and to the work of God. Those that were faithful in Jesus Christ. This could have inadvertently or secondarily included people that were in a greater region. We know that it was common practice for the letters of Paul to be carried about and read in other churches, in the other churches of Asia Minor in that in that region, and could have been that he was including those, not just the Saints at Ephesus, but the faithful, all those that are faithful in Christ. And that of course I hope would include you and I. Paul said in Colossians He said, hey, when you guys read this letter, read also the one from Laodicea in Colossians 4. 16. He says, and when this epistle, talking about Colossians, he says, and when this epistle is read among you, Cause that it be read also in the church of Laodiceans, and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. He says, No, listen, when you have this letter, be sure you read it over there. And by the way, I want you guys to read the letter that I sent them. And so they would exchange these letters. Now, i if you uh make notes in your Bible and you wanted to Colossians 4. 16, it's believed that that like I've on my Bible I've circled and right next to that I wrote Ephesus. Because it's believed that or Ephesians, whichever way you want to note it, but that that is talking about the church of Ephesus. And he's saying, hey, we When you guys read this letter, be sure and read the one that I wrote for them. And so they would exchange these letters around and more and more people would read them. So then we see the address that he gives us give to us here, not the address, but the address, what he says to them. Some important key things from the book here. The word in Christ. Is found ten times if you just if you just take that in Christ. But it's all through the book in many other forms, if you include in him. Or you include in the Lord. If you include those types of phrases that would also communicate the same idea, it's all through the book. And the idea of being in Christ communicates our position that we've been accepted in the family of God. It communicates our provision. Listen, we have all that Christ has as joint heirs, as the uh you know, the a part of the family of God. He is the one that's going to supply and meet all of our needs according to his riches and glory. It communicates that we've been accepted. It communicates our bountiful blessings, our provision, it communicates our purpose. We're called. We're called to live mature lives. To live mature, holy, to live in unity We're in Christ. If we're in Christ, we're going to be unified. Unified in Christ. That's the message that He communicates through this for them. Key word there in Christ. Key verse, very familiar verses for us. Ephesians 2, 8, 9, and 10. 10's probably a little less familiar, but for by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ, in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in him. He wishes great blessings. Uh his wish for blessings upon them, the blessings of grace, the blessings of peace. This notable combination of words, both grace and peace. It's very interesting. Grace is found 12 times, and peace is found seven times. The commentator John Phillips said this. The word grace occurs a dozen times in this letter. Paul customarily replaced the regular Greek salutation, rejoice. which is in Greek C-H-I-A-R-E, with the phonetically similar word grace, C-H-A-R-I-S, The regular Jewish salutation was peace, shalom. Paul joined Jews and Gentiles in the bond of love in every greeting. It's just amazing thought to me to think about that idea that Paul, who was who was a Jew but was called to reach the Gentiles. In the wisdom from God or whatever, chose to in his greeting combine both grace and peace. A normal greeting for a Greek and a normal greeting for a Jew, and puts them both together. That says, hey, I'm I'm reaching all of you. I'm greeting all of you with this, the love of God. It's an amazing thing to think about the wisdom that's in that and how Paul was used of God to do that. He preached about grace of God, many and because of that, many were converted. Beloved, when sinful man is faced with the grace of God, the attraction of this world dims. Those things, those those bright lights, the things that seem to hold so much value to the world When they're faced with the real reality of the grace of God, what God did for them, those things dim and they see the love of God for what it is. Peace of God only comes after you've accepted God's grace. And then you're blessed to have both. He notes the source of that blessing. He says, God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ, bringing again, closing that great divide between Jew and Gentile. He reminds us, listen, we all only have one we only have one father. Whether you're Jew, whether you're Greek, doesn't matter. We have one Father. Our Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. He combines them together. It doesn't begin with correction. He doesn't write off start dealing with conflict or note some great crisis. It begins with identity. Identifying himself, but also identifying the believers, the duty they have And the disposition of dignity, the dignity they have in Christ Jesus. That is what every believer must do, and what we must all pursue to live. We are indeed seated in heavenly places, but we still walk in a dark world. We're called out of darkness, but we still live in a dark place. We're surrounded by it on every hand. We've got a heavenly position, but are we living wholly in our lives? So the question for us tonight is: Is your daily walk a reflection of one who's in Christ? Could Paul be greeting you and I? A believer who is positionally in Christ, who practically is faithful as Christ expects us to be? Ephesians was a wicked city. But even in the midst of that wicked city, God put a church there. And what that means for us Is that in our wicked day, we can still be a light. We can still stand strong. We don't have to give in. We don't have to say man is so bad nobody can follow the Lord anymore. Things are so bad we can't have our our convictions anymore, boy, it's just the world has gone to pot. There's nothing we can do. Uh no. The city of Ephesus was a very wicked place. It it rivaled Corinth. And yet God put a church there. And the church thrived. And the Word of God did great things in that place. And God can do it here in America. And in Cockysville, in Hunt Valley, because this is quick and powerful, sharper than a two-edged sword, this works in the hearts of men. Let's see God do great things through us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?