I'd like to look at Nehemiah chapter 3 and learn that truth. Kind of see it in real life. See it an example for us. But before we get to Nehemiah chapter 3, we have to go back and like, where is Nehemiah? Now, with Old Testament survey last year you probably remember oh I I know exactly where Nehemiah is. Uh anybody have the date without looking it up? No? Alright, I'll give it to you. But before we get there, we gotta go back to Abraham. Abraham, God made a promise to him. The Ca Canaan would be the promised land. He said, you know, get up out of uh the Caldees, go over, and I'll show you the land that I'm going to give to you and your family. And Abraham goes, and then Isaac comes along, and Jacob comes along, and the twelve sons of Jacob. You remember the story of Joshua uh excuse me, not Joshua, but Joseph. Being going down before them to Egypt as a slave, I note that he didn't sign up for that mission. But where he found himself, he decided to serve the Lord and He found favor because the Lord was with him, he found favor even in the prison keepers' eyes. And the Lord used him to spare many people from starvation. You think of the time of the children of Israel in Egypt, after the whole family moves down to Egypt and they grow to a big nation and four hundred years go by. And a Pharaoh arises that starts making their lives very difficult, and the people cry out to God, and I'm so thankful God gives mercy when we cry out to Him. And he sends a deliverer, Moses, and uses him to lead him out of Egypt. I love the stories of Genesis and Exodus. Oh, they're so fun to read. All the action and how things started, and just so neat what was going on Then they go out in the wilderness, and God leads them to Mount Sinai, and God says, I will be your God, and you will be my people, and he makes that covenant with them. And he brings them up to the edge of the promised land, and the people turn back because of unbelief. And I would hate to have that on my tombstone that I I turned back from what God had for me because I just I just wouldn't trust him, even though I've seen all that he's done in the past. Well, they wander in the wilderness for 40 years until the older generation passes off. And then Joshua comes on the scene as the new leader, leads them across the Jordan River. Again, on dry land. They march around the city of Jericho, and God knocks the walls down. They start to conquer the land of Canaan that God had promised to Abraham hundreds of years before. And God makes good on his promises. God always does. And God's not going to start with you breaking his promises. Well the time goes by and they conquer the land and then the elders that outlive Joshua, they pass off the scene, and then the time of the judges comes along. And I don't really enjoy reading the book of Judges as much as Genesis and Exodus. Because the people just keep following their own heart's desire, following the gods of the people around them. And God sends in uh a nation to conquer them, to make their lives difficult, and and after a time you'd think they would do it pretty quickly. But after a time they cry out to God for mercy and I'm thankful that God always shows mercy to those who come to Him for it. And God sends a deliverer, a judge, to to bring them out of the oppression that they're in and to bring peace and rest to the land. And you think you'd only go through one or two of those cycles. But I think they're a lot like I am, just kind of stubborn, set in my ways. And time and time again you see this cycle where they get go into sin and then they cry out for deliverance and God sends them the deliverer and then they go back into sin. Well, towards the end of the time the judges, Samuel the prophet, comes on the scene, and God allows Samuel to anoint Saul to be the king, because the people wanted to be like the nations around them and have a king. And Samuel said, That's not good for you, you're not going to like it. And they said, We want it anyway. And God gave them what they wanted. Well Saul was a king, he s he started okay, but he didn't end well. And God told Samuel, Go anoint another man, a man who's going to be after my own heart, David. And God did something special with David in 2 Samuel chapter 7. He said, Thy throne shall be established forever. And one day King Jesus is going to come and he's going to sit on the throne of David in Jerusalem, and God's going to make good that promise. And the son of David's going to reign over the whole earth. Well, David had a son Solomon, and Solomon had a son Rehoboam, and Rehoboam made a foolish decision off the get go. He listened to the counsel of his peers, rather than the counsel of the wise counselors that counseled Solomon. And he makes a foolish decision, and the kingdom splits in the northern tribes and the southern tribes. Two hundred years go by the Kings of Israel, the northern tribes, they lead them into idolatry, and in 722, God allows the Assyrians to come in and conquer the northern tribes, scatter the people all over the Middle East. They march on Jerusalem. Hezekiah is the king in Judah at that time. That's the story when Sennacherib's out there and Hezekiah lays out the letter before the Lord and that night 185,000 of the Assyrian army is wiped out. And they go back home. God allowed Judah and the southern tribes to go on a little bit longer. They last another 113 to 130 years longer. But eventually, because of sin, God allowed Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians to come and conquer Jerusalem, carry away Daniel and his friends, take the temple gold and the silver. Destroy the temple, destroy the walls of Jerusalem, and Israel is no more a sovereign nation. God's people aren't being the lights of the world like God wanted them to be. And seventy years go by, the cap the we call it the Babylonian captivity. And then Cyrus, king of Persia, who's in charge of the world at this point, he makes a proclamation that says, I want the Jews to go back home and I want them to rebuild the temple. And so a group with Zerubbabel go back in 536 BC. Twenty years go by and the temple's rebuilt and dedicated Ezra the priest brings another group back, and then the third return back to Jerusalem is in four hundred forty-four BC with Nehemiah. The people who were left in the land of Israel, we read in chapter 1, they're in great affliction, they're in reproach. The city walls are broken down, the gates are burnt with fire. I note that God had a work to do in Nehemiah's day. The wall of Jerusalem needs to be rebuilt. Oh they had the temple that was rebuilt, and although it was not as grand as Solomon's, they were still worshiping there. Although God is able, I note that God didn't rebuild the wall himself. He uses people. He used people then, and he still uses people today. And he found people who would serve him. In chapter 1, you read about the heart of Nehemiah. You see how he saw the need? You see how he felt and how it impacted him in his heart and his emotions, and how he prayed and wept over the reproach of God's people. And then chapter two you see him volunteer himself. Send me to Judah so I can rebuild the city. And the king allows him to go. But Nehemiah didn't do it alone. He didn't build a whole wall around the city by himself. No, there was a group of people who rallied around. And chapter three gives us the names and the locations of people who worked on the wall. It's a summary of the work. Later on in later chapters you find some of the details of the story of the building of the walls. But here we have the names and locations of people who helped to get the work done. Just a note before we jump in, and around eleven years ago there was an archaeologist who announced she uncovered what is thought to be part of Nehemiah's wall that they built here in this chapter. They dug out a wall and it was five meters thick, about fifteen feet thick. And Josephus, the historian, says that the city wall around Jerusalem, if you walk all the way around, it'd be about four and a half miles. in circumference. So imagine that much building material. 15 feet thick, four and a half miles long. That's a big job. That's a big undertaking. But the people rallied around the leadership and they got to work. And they all worked together. And I believe it teaches us this principle. Everybody has a place in God's work. Let's pray and then let's jump in and see this in real life. Lord, thank you for this evening. Thank you for your word that teaches us about who you are, about what the world around us, but it also teaches us about ourselves and our hearts. Lord, I pray that you would use your word tonight to give direction, to give encouragement. Lord, that you would work in our hearts to make us more like Christ, and Lord, that we would be better fitted for the task that you've appointed to us. Lord, I pray that you bless now the rest of our time this evening. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Let's look at some of the folks in the chapter and just see see different principles that we can glean. In verse 1 of Nehemiah chapter 3, it says, Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests. And they built it the sheep gate, they sanctified it, and set up the doors of it. Even unto the Tower of Mia they sanctified it, unto the Tower of Hanniel. I note that those responsible for temple worship were the first in line to roll up their sleeves and to get to work. I I think Elisha realized that as the high priest He held a position in a society where others would look to him to see what he was going to do when Nehemiah said, Hey, let's get together and build this wall. And so taking his influence, he said, Well, I'm going to be first in line. I mean here he is in verse 1, first in line to get get working at it. Their example shows that there's not a spiritual snobbery. I'm too good to stack stones into clear rubble. I'm a priest. I'm here to worship God. I'm here to sacrifice lambs. I'm here up in the temple on the Temple Mountain. I'm here to I'm here to worship God and the common people can do the common things of building a wall. They could have, but I believe when it comes to the work of God, there's less of a division between what we think is spiritual and non-spiritual work. And 1 Corinthians 10 31 says, whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. And I believe God wants us to do everything, including grocery shopping and washing the dishes. and going to work and mowing the yard. I believe God wants us to do everything, teaching Sunday school, working on the bus route, handing out a track. I believe God wants us to do everything to his glory. And I believe how we do some of those things impacts Some of the more spiritual work that we do. Here's some priests that said, you know what, this is what God wants done at this time. God's at work. Let's rise and let's build. Let's roll up our sleeves and let's get involved. All of us have some influence in other people's lives. Say, well not me, I just sit in the corner and nobody nobody watches me. I'm just kind of a nobody. Well no, uh if you have a spouse, uh a friend, a child, a coworker, if you're a teacher, what every one of us, if you know anybody in your life, if you're here, you have influence. People see you when you come to church and they see, hey, you know, he's always here. You know, I pre- I preach just their faithfulness. If nothing else, just even the presence. But all of us have influence in other people's lives where we don't know who all is watching. Pastor mentioned acting like his dad. And I see that in my in my own life. I say wow, that sounded like my dad. I'm picking up things even though I didn't realize I was. There was influence there even though I wouldn't couldn't uh put a finger on it. And all of us have influence. How are we using it? Are we using our influence to always keep in mind, hey, I want to be first in line to serve the Lord? Because that's where the priests were at. Secondly, I note in verse 2, it says, next unto him builded the men of Jericho. Down in verse 7, the last half of the verse says the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah Here's groups from different villages. Gibeon's five miles from Jerusalem. Mystah's ten miles away. Jericho, we know Jericho. Over twenty miles away from Jerusalem. They packed up their tools, they moved up to Jerusalem because twenty miles is too far to commute back in Bible time days. And they they moved up there to work on the walls. I note from these these men that there shouldn't be a territorial attitude. in God's word. You know where if if if they're not right here, if they're not part of my church, I'm I'm just you know, they can go do their own thing, but I'm not gonna be involved. No, they realize that God has a little bigger view than just their myopic circle that they're living in. You know, there's a whole lot of One thing that's neat on deputation is we get to see a lot of churches. We get to see some some that aren't all exactly the same. You know, they they might actually sing three songs instead of two on a Sunday evening. What? Is this Baptist anymore? I don't. But the men of Jericho didn't c w whine and complain that nobody came to help us rebuild the wall of Jericho when God knocked it down hundreds of years ago. We don't have that kind of attitude. We don't see the attitude of of the men from Jericho saying, you know what, I'm not going to see the results of my work every day. So I I'm just not going to help out up there in Jerusalem. Yeah, I like to see the results of what I do. It's great. You mow the yard, you put away the mower, and you look at it and you say, wow, that looks really good. I actually accomplished something. And then in three days it means mowed again But there's there's this instant satisfaction and you see it and you see the results of it. It's neat when you you you build a building, you renovate a building and you get it done. Say wow look what you know look what look what we did. We renovated our church, our ascending church building uh several years ago. And I look around and I say, wow, I get to help on that project and I remember this man in the church, he he worked on that and And uh it's just neat to see when you work on something and you see the results of it. But the men of Jericho, they were going up over twenty miles and they would come to Jerusalem maybe two, three times a year to worship at the you know the festivals and the feast days But they weren't waking up every day and saying, Hey look, look what we helped build. They were going back home after the work was done. And now all of us like to see the investment of what we do right here. But I I just can't help but think that missions is helping God's work go forward even though we're not going to see the immediate results of it. Oh, we see prayer letters, we pray for them, we we we hear about people being saved and the church chartered and different things going on. But sometimes we feel like, oh, you know, here we are, we're given, and we don't know what's going to happen yet. The men of Jericho, they said, you know what, we're going to realize that Jerusalem, that's the place where God chose to set his name, and we want to see Jerusalem re-established. God's work is going on here. We want to be a part of it. We're not going to have this territorial, well they're not in my exact circle attitude. The next group I want to note, and we don't have time to look at all of them. Well, I have time to look at all of them, but you you don't. In verse verse nine, next unto them prepared Raphaea the son of Hur, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem. If you look down at verse twelve, excuse me. And next unto him repaired Shalom, the son of Helohesh, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters. Verses 14 through 19, if you read them, and I won't for sake of hard pronunciation, you'll find a ruler of a city in each one of those. You know, a mayor or a governor type politician. And now here's some politicians who are getting together and working on the wall. You have both rulers of Jerusalem. I don't know how they did politics back then, if they're electing people or appointing, I'm not sure how it all worked But here you have two different rulers and they're working together on it. Maybe they differed in how to run the sanitation department and different things in the city, but they said, hey, here's something that's important. We can work together on that. And sometimes we let smaller things get in the way of getting the bitter bigger things done. But here are the rulers who didn't. They said, what what needs done? This wall needs rebuilt. Let's forget about some of these other things until we get that done. Now should we take care of the details? Yes. But let's make sure first things first. And let's take care of the big things. If it in verse 12, did you note the last few words, he and his daughters? I think that's significant. You know, I think about me and my daughters. I want my daughters to be involved in serving the Lord. It's it's fun to sing with them. It's fun to travel with them most of the time. It's a lot of fun. We have a good time together. I want my girls to grow up and to serve the Lord with me. And here's Shalom, he and his daughters, they're working together. You know, ladies, there is place in God's work for you as much as there is for men. You might say, well, you can't be a pastor or a deacon. I understand God has some roles laid out in Scripture. But do you really want the guys decorating the church? Or counseling counseling other ladies? encouragement. Think of the influence of a mother on her children. If you have a godly mother, you realize how much influence that a godly lady has, to to win a win a child to the Lord, to set a godly example. And I think all of us would say, yeah, there's place in God's work for ladies. And we could look at others in verse 5. Verse 5 says, next unto them the Chacoites repaired. Zacoah was a village about seven miles from Jerusalem, and there was a group that went up there and they helped work on the wall. But did you read the last half of the verse? But their nobles put not their necks to the work of their Lord. You know imagine you're standing up on the wall of Nehemiah and he is his scroll out, he's writing down these names and locations and Nehemiah says, Hey, who's that group over there? They're from Tocoa. You can tell by you know their outfits and stuff. And they say, oh, who are the guys in the back doing the old supervisor thing, you know, drinking coffee and eating donuts and just kinda standing around? And oh, I think those are the nobles, Nehemiah. And he writes it down for us to read. Hundreds of years later, thousands of years later, the nobles didn't get in the harness and pull their share of the load. They were there, but they weren't really there They weren't really participating with their heart. I don't know why. The Bible just gives us the facts. They just didn't. And at the end of the day, our intention may be But what actually was. We might have, oh I have a good idea, I have a good plan, but what did it actually do? And the nobles might have had all the intention of the w in the world of doing something, but what we have written down is that they just didn't really get involved like they should have. They weren't up front-leading their folks. But the neat thing is, down in verse 27, the Bible records, after them the Tokoites repaired another piece. So even though the the people of Sequoia didn't have leadership that said, hey, let's go get involved, let's jump in wholehearted, the people still said We're going to get involved. And perhaps you come from a home where mom and dad didn't take you to church. Maybe you came from a home where you are fighting against the current to live for the Lord. Well, even without leadership that pointed them towards it, the people still said, we're not only going to do one, we're going to get involved, we're going to do a second piece. I note down in verse verse four. We could find him in verse four and in verse twenty-one. But I'll read in verse four. Next unto them repaired Mermoth, the son of Eurijah, the son of Kaz. In verse 21 it says, After him repaired Merrimauth. The son of Eurajah, the son of cause, another peace. Here's a man who had ancestors who returned, and the first return was the rubbable to Jerusalem. Ezra chapter 2 tells us that Merrimaz's family were descendants of priests. But for Merrimouth, that wasn't good enough that mom and dad served God, and that grandpa and grandma served God, and that great-great-great-grandpa was a priest. Merrimauth said, as for me and my house, I'm going to serve the Lord. And every young person growing up in a Christian home, praise the Lord for that. Praise the Lord. The older I get, the more I realize how valuable it is that my parents made sure we were in church every time the doors were open. And the sacrifice that that is. When you're tired and you w you'd rather just you know what, we're just not gonna go tonight. But they still we still all went. And the older I get, the more I value that. And young people have to come to the place where they make the decision for myself, I'm going to serve the Lord. Mom and Dad did, that's great, I'm going to do it. Mom and Dad didn't? As for me and my house, I'm going to serve the Lord. I'm going to choose to serve God. We could read of others, but Down in verse 31 and 32, you find goldsmiths, you find the merchants, you find people who were not naturally skilled at being masons, building a wall. But they said, you know what, I'm skilled in other areas, but this is what needs done. And sometimes you Pastor, I'm good at underwater basket weaving. If you ever need some baskets woven underwater, I'm your man. They say, well actually we we just need some tables wiped down and chairs put away after fellowship. Oh I could do that. It's not what my PhD is in, but I I could do that. Well we need someone to greet people when they come into church. Well, you know, I I didn't go to college for that. That's okay. You know, if you can hold the door open and hand somebody a bulletin and have a smile on your face while you do it, I think you might qualify. So I might not be gifted, or I might not say, well that's not where my gifts are. Well, we should find where our gifts are and and run, you know, run down those avenues. And God fits us for our tasks, but we also should just have a will and heart. Because if we don't have a will and heart, the rest of it really doesn't matter too much. That was all introduction. Now let's get into the message. God has a job for us to do. It's not to rebuild a wall. It's to preach the gospel to every creature, to baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and to teach them to keep the teachings of the Word of God. The Great Commission found at the end of Matthew Every time the church gathers together to hear the Word of God preached, we come with an open heart and a willingness to obey. We're doing part of the Great Commission. We're being challenged to keep the teachings of Christ. A few observations that apply to our part in doing God's work today. First, let's be united in our goal. Work of God requires unity. In this chapter, you find 28 times phrases like these. After them, after him, next to him, next unto them. You find that the people had a common goal to get the wall rebuilt, and they had to work side by side in it. Nobody's big enough to get it all done by themselves. The work of God requires unity, so let's be united in our goal. Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. Ephesians 4. 3, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And if I'll walk in the Spirit and you'll walk in the Spirit He'll keep the peace. And as we submit one one to another, he'll bring peace and we'll get the job done. Of course, unity is only pot possible if we're in agreement about what we're building. I'm not on the same foundation as the Catholics or a Jehovah's Witness, and I can't join up with them because we're on a different foundation. I'm on Jesus Christ. But if I'm on the same foundation as someone else, Why would I be disunited? Why would I fight rather than say, you know what? Let's work together. So first, let's be united in our goal. Second, let's be content in our role. The work of God requires contentment. I note what Paul wrote in prison. He said, Not that I speak in respect of want, for I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I mean that's powerful enough, but to think that Paul was in prison when he wrote that. We have different roles. Every person in this chapter has a specific place in the work. Hey, can you go work by the sheep? Gate, hey, can you work over here by the wall? And here's can you work on the wall and on the tower and on the gate over here? And they all had a different location, and every place on the wall needed to be rebuilt Each person had a specific role in the work. Some had to clear away debris, other people had to quarry the rock and carry it, transport it up to the wall and Others had to lay the stone, make sure that they're going the right way. You had to have somebody that lays out the mason line, make sure the wall's building, you know, it's not teetering over. It's it's going up the way it's supposed to. And everybody needs to eat and drink. This was a big operation and everybody had a place in it and everybody had a location. So let's be content with the places and the roles God's given us. You can read in Romans 12 or 1 Corinthians 12 about the members of the church that God set in the body and the body as a whole. But the members are many, and they have different roles and different things to do. God has set members, every one of them in the body, as it has pleased him. So if God says it's good for me to do what I'm doing here, Then why why can't I be content with that? If God thought, you know what, I didn't gift you to do that, why would I chafe against it and say, well, I want to do it anyway? I'm gonna put a plug-in for orchestra in four years. If you have the talent, put it to use. Just use it. I grew up playing cello in church orchestra. You could play all the wrong notes and nobody would hear you. It was wonderful. And you just improve as you practice. I'm not saying play wrong notes in church. I'm just saying you could mess up and there was no pressure. But let's use the talents that God's given us and be content with it. Well, I can't play the flute. That's okay. You can play the the jaw harp, the harmonica. I don't know. We often look at other people and their opportunities and their talents, and we say, well, I want to do that. I wish I had that opportunity. I wish I could do the way they do it. Well, God built me to be someone else. And I should be content with that, not discontent with it. Lastly, let's be faithful and let's be fervent till all is made whole. God's at work. The men and women that worked to rebuild this wall, they were faithful. They were in their place. They completed their section of the wall. Fifty-two days and they got it done. I've seen interstate highway programs that taken t ten years and they're still not done. And here they are building a wall four miles, four and a half miles long, fifteen feet thick. They build around the city fifty less than two months and they get the job done without diesel engines, without heavy machinery, and they get this wall rebuilt. The enemy tried to stop them, insult them, attack them, and they just kept at it. They just kept going. They were faithful. And they were fervent. They didn't just sit around and say, well, you know, they're up there working, but I'm going to take a couple days off, vacation, you know, go down to the Jordan River, have a little fishing expedition down there. No, this was the time to get the work done And they were fervent at it. They said, you know what, I might not be as fast as these folks over here, but I'm going to work on my part of the wall. There's a group who built 1,500 feet of wall. I think that's significant. because it's listed for us. And I bet uh I I would imagine that there would be some others down the way that say, Man, they have it so easy down there. You know, the foundation's already laid for 'em, it's flat, they're right next to the quarry, they just gotta heave the rocks up there and they're done with their work and Of course that's why they're going so fast. But let me be fervent about what I have here and do a hundred percent, run at a hundred percent right here. Let's be faithful and fervent till everything's made whole because one day King Jesus is gonna return in the rapture. We'll stand before him at the Bhima seat. The tribulation will happen on earth, seven years will go by, Armageddon, Jesus will return, riding a white horse, and we'll ride with him. He'll come and he'll reign for a thousand years. At the end of that, Satan will be loosed for a final battle. He'll gather many, deceive many, bring them on as an army to march on Jerusalem to overthrow Christ, and the fire of God will descend from heaven and destroy that army. And Satan and the will be cast into the cast into the bottomless pit. And that will be a wonderful day. Because he's not coming back out. And then the great white throne judgment will happen, and that will be a fearful day, because all the dead, small and great, will stand before God. And if their name is not in the book of life, they also too they too will go to the lake of fire. And then after that, just all of eternity is ushered in. New heaven, new earth, new Jerusalem. Just imagine with me for a moment standing around the throne of God in heaven. And it's not just you and me, there's millions of people surrounding the throne, worshiping God together. And you see people from every nation and kindred and people and tongue represented there. And you say, Whoa, man, there's there's there's so many people here. You walk up to somebody say, hey. I mean, where are you? How did you get saved? I imagine we'll have testimony time in heaven. I don't know if that fits in your theology. If we have time for it in church, I I I think we might have time for it in heaven to praise the Lord for what he's done here on earth Imagine you walk up to somebody and say, tell me how you got saved. Say, well, I grew up in a country called Belize, you know, and I just lived up in this little village. And one day this man named Jonathan, he came up to my village and He gave me this little piece of paper, and it said how I was a sinner, and I didn't really like that. And so I set I set it down and I didn't look at it for a couple months, but then one day I just had this gnawing feeling inside of me and And my sin was bothering me, and I went and picked it up and I read it that my sin has a solution and his name is Jesus Christ, and he came to die for my sin. And to wash it away to f free me from sin, to give me eternal life, and and I got saved. And you say, well, praise the Lord. You know that God used a man named Jonathan to get the trap. Wait a minute. Our church used to support a missionary named Jonathan to Belize. Yeah, uh, what was it? Uh Shirtzer, that was his last name. And then like in your mind this light bulb goes off. And you say, well, my church used to support this missionary who took this track to give it to this person and believes and this person got saved. And you see how God put it all together. How here I am outside Baltimore, Maryland, working on my part of the wall, serving God here. I'm supporting the missionary who's going to Belize. And I get through it on my account for the work that he was doing. And I got to be a part of this believer standing next to me around the great uh around the throne in heaven. And you say, wow, ain't God good? Isn't God good to let me be a part of his work? Everybody has a place in God's work. Let's be united in our goal, not swabbling over little things. Let's be content in our role, not discontent about where God's put me. And let's be faithful and let's be fervent. I don't want to be on the sideline in heaven and say, well, I'm here. I want to be involved in God's work now, and we can praise them all the better when we get to heaven. Pastor, would you come and close the service?