We're going to read a passage of scripture here which unfolds the story. I had a devotional that I sent out or we got sent for you dealing with this chapter and the title of it was Evil Envy and that's the title of tonight's message, The Evils of Envy. The evils And this is a very clear passage of scripture where this can be seen and something that I know that uh every single thing is. And I hope to give us some insight into this and challenge our hearts to We're going to read from chapter twenty-nine, verse number twenty-nine, on through verse number thirteen of chapter number thirty, where the story and and we see the envy take place. Uh just to give you a little bit of background, we of course uh know the the story here and and we understand that uh you know Jacob Went to work with four who would be his father in law and desired uh to marry Rachel and And he was willing to work seven years for her. Amen. He said, no problem. And the scripture says that it seemeth but a day to him. I mean it was quick. He worked. I mean that's that's uh a uh love right there. And then he was tricked and I don't know if Leah was You know, pretty homely or I don't know if if Laban felt that listen if I if I don't get Leah out of here right now I'm gonna be stuck with her forever. I don't know what his motivation was, but For some reason he chose to trick him and and and uh on his wedding night, he found that he had married the wrong woman. Boy, what a mess to find that out on your wedding night that you've married the wrong one. Hopefully that's not how you felt on your wedding night. Oh no, I married the wrong one. Listen, I told you when I came that I l I loved Rachel and and I want to marry Rachel and of course his father-in-law said, Well you you can do that, that'll be fine, but listen you've already got a wife for the seven years you worked uh you're gonna have to work another seven years. And he did it again. So I don't know if that means he didn't have much common sense or you know they say love but love, you know, it it's uh It causes common sense to go out the window. But he worked another seven years for Rachel. Fourteen years he worked for her. That's the kind of love that he had for Rachel. But then we see Rachel here taken with envy. Now we're reading a lengthy passage of scripture and I'm gonna put my glasses on So this is the first first time but more than more than one page here. Uh so uh this is like sticking a magnifying glass on my face though. It's uh it makes a big difference. I don't have some background down, you know So uh I'm gonna use these glasses. Hopefully it doesn't distract you. After a while you get used to it, and I'll get used to it and it won't be a big deal, right? But you should be in chapter twenty-nine, verse number twenty-nine as we pick up the story here, okay? Chapter 29, verse number 29, the story starts out, and he says, And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, Bilhah, his handmaid to be her maid. And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years. And when the Lord saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb, but Rachel, Rachel was barren. Now this here is talking about the uh contrastive language that we talked about a week ago. that it wasn't a hatred as in he just despised her and hated her as that. It was comparative language. I said the wrong word there, comparative language, in comparison to the love that he had for Rachel. It was like he hated Leah because he loved Rachel so much. That's how much Rachel was loved. So we see here in verse number 32, and Leah conceived and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben. For she had surely the Lord hath looked upon her affliction. Now therefore my husband will love me. You see her longing here for the lower husband And she conceived again and bare a son, and said, Because the Lord hath heard that I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also. And she called his name Simeon And she conceived again and bare a son, and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore was his name called Levi. And she conceived again and bare a son, and she said, Now will I praise the Lord, for therefore she called his name Judah, and left bearing. And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister. And said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, Am I in God's stead? Who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb? And he she said, Behold, my maiden Vilha, go in unto her. And she shall bear upon my knees that I may also have children by her. And she gave him Bilhah, her handmaid to wife, and Jacob went in unto her, and Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son, therefore called she his name Dan And Bilhah, Rachel's maid, conceived again and bare Jacob a second son. And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed. And she called his name Naphtali. When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilphah, her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife. And Zilphah, Leah's maid, bare Jacob a son. And Leah said, A troop cometh And she called his name Gad. And Zilpha, Leah's maid, bare Jacob's second son. And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed. And she called his name Asher. What a story. It's one of the reasons you know that God gave us the Bible. For who else would record uh details like this of his chosen people? Who else would give this failings of these his children the foundation, the beginning of his nation? Laying out for us the all of the wickedness that took place here, motive motivated by envy. Let me summarize the story here for you. We see that the cause of this envy was because she was barren. Leah was blessed to have kids. I want you to understand that the barren womb and the blessing of children was both ordained by God. God was the one that was in control of both, and there was a purpose, there was a reason in which God chose not to give. Rachel children. And to bless Leah with children. She had this complaint. She said, Give me children, or else I die. You see, envy brings us to a place where we get a uh overzealous, we get overly desirous of something or to have or to obtain something to where that becomes a consuming desire in our life. I don't know how much more I might touch on it as we get through it, so let me just throw it out here. Envy is a sin because it takes what is a desire in our heart And takes it beyond a godly desire or a desire. There's nothing wrong with for her to desire to have children. There's nothing wrong with that desire. But it takes it beyond that, and envy takes it to a place where we desire something many times at the cost of somebody else. At somebody else's hurt. Somebody put it like this. It's I want the grass greener on my side of the fence, and I want your grass to be brown. That's what envy does. Envy looks at others and draws conclusions and motivates us to take actions that are outside of the will of God and what God would have for us to do. She had a inordinate desire to have children beyond any reasonable terms to the point where she said, if I can't have children, I'm ready to die. It is a longing for that which God has not planned for us. A longing or a desire to have that which God has not planned for us to have will turn into envy. She completely forgot about the manifold blessings that God had given her. I belabored the fact of illustrating and talking about how much she was loved by Jacob. If you think about all that Jacob did, His passions and his love for her was so great. But you see, she wasn't content with that. She had so many blessings, but she disregarded them all and looked for children. She completely forgot what God had already given her. And we see the contagious nature of sin. It's amazing to me as we understand that sin begets sin. Because she envied, because she was living dissatisfied with what God had given her. She sends her handmaid into her husband. Now, we could go back a few chapters to chapter number sixteen and we see this take place, the same thing. Take place by somebody else, right? Abraham and Sarah. It wasn't right back then. And I don't know if this was an accepted practice of the day. Culturally, it might have been accepted, but do you understand as far as God's people, this was not God's will? And it's amazing to me the language that they use in here, talking about how God had heard my cry and given me child. God is not the one that did it. They went outside of God's will and outside of God's plan to make that happen. You can call it God. Many times God gets blamed for a lot of things that he didn't plan. I don't know if the motivation or the idea came from Abraham and Sarah. Maybe in their minds they thought, well, Abraham and Sarah did this. You know, Ishmael came from that. Let's let's let's do it this way. And then you see Rachel does it. And not to be outdone by her sister, Leah had given off bearing the scripture. It says for some reason her womb was shut up for a time. She couldn't have any more kids, and she already had four kids from God. But now Rachel's having kids. And I can't let I mean any any love I get from Jacob's gonna be gone if Rachel has kids and I don't have any more kids, so she does the same thing And send Zilfa in. You see, it's amazing how our sin influences others. If you don't wonder about it, just think about the way that most churches are going today. They're all following each other down a path away from God. They're all just pursuing this just this morning. One of the visitors we had here this morning says that she had come from a different a different church, but she said, You know, I just can't find a church anymore That just has God-honoring music. She said the music here was such a refreshing thing. It was such a touched my heart She says you just can't hardly find a church anymore that has music that just sings the old hymns of the faith. Churches one by one are they're saying, Oh, that church over there is doing it, and it's okay. Let's do it And do you understand, beloved, when we go off into sin and we do wrong and we do what not what God wants us to do, let me just get real personal. When we stay home on Sunday night when God wants us in church, There's other believers in the church that say, you know what? So-and-so is a godly man. So-and-so is a godly Christian. I I would look up to them. I respect them. And when they stayed home from church and they still love God, I can stay home from church and still love God. Come on. Right. Oh, oh, you know what? They go do that. And it's okay for them. I mean, they say amen in church. They carry their Bible. They're faithful to God's house. I look up to them, and then I find out that they participate in this sin. It must be okay to do that. None of us live unto ourselves, brethren. We see it very clearly here that sin begets sin and we influence those around us. We've got to be careful what we do and then also listen for yourself. Don't follow somebody else just because they call themselves a believer, if they're not living right, you don't follow them. If they don't do what God wants you to do what God is asking or wanting of them, don't follow them off a cliff. You know, the age-old saying, well, if your if your brother told you to jump off the house, would you do it? You know, well my brother told me to, you know, the arguments with kids, dad and mom saying, Well, you don't do everything your brother says. You don't do everything some other believer does. You need to follow God. By the way, if your pastor is going the wrong direction, you follow God. You follow God. No one knows how far reaching the effect of a bad example is. Just one Christian off the path, and others are sure to follow. So I want to give you several thoughts here with regards to us. As we think about or contemplate this idea of envy in our lives. Envy. You see, let me first give you the cause, the cause of envy. The cause. What causes envy in our in our lives? First of all, it is favoring our lust. Favoring our lust. The Bible says here, and when Rachel saw, envy was born in her heart. She had a desire for children and she saw that Leah was having children. Her eye affected her heart. She looked and she saw something out there, something she desired, and you understand the devil's real good at putting in front of you that which you already have a desire for. If there's there's something I was telling somebody the other day that, you know what, it doesn't matter how beautiful you dress it up, it doesn't matter how many lights you put on it, it doesn't matter how pretty it is If you put me in a place that has alcohol, I am not drawn to drink any of it. It doesn't just does not tempt me at all. Not tempted one bit. Alcohol's never been a temptation for me. It just doesn't it n has no attraction for me. The devil is not going to put alcohol in front of me to try and get me. But the devil knows what's in my heart, the desires that I have, and he'll put what's in front what's in my heart in front of me To draw me away. And he will do the same for you as well, whatever desire might be in your heart. He'll put those in, and you begin to favor that lust. You begin to look at it, living for our own lust. Envy is a work of the flesh. In Titus 3, chapter 3, he says, For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lust and pleasures living in malice and envy. He says here serving diverse lust and pleasures serving those pleasures, living in envy, looking for envy, following after, favoring envy. You know, it's emotional immaturity. You know the story of Joseph in Acts 7, verse number 9, that tells us that because of envy, Joseph's brothers sold them into slavery. They envied the relationship that he had with God. They envied the relationship that he had with their father. And that envy, you see, it brings you to a place where you will do something that you should not do and cause hurt to others In seeking and searching for your own satisfaction. You know, there's the difference here is desire. Desire is okay. It's not wrong. Let's say Joseph's brother looked at the relationship that Joseph had with God. And desired to have that kind of relationship. And they said, you know what? I'm going to get up early and I'm going to walk with God. I want to know God like Joseph knows God, and they were provoked unto love and good works because of what they saw in Joseph's life. That desire is not wrong. The sin comes when we allow envy to take over. And we are willing to, at the hurt of somebody else, get or try and get what we want. And you know, as we see in our story right here over and over again, that the gratification of what they thought they wanted didn't bring them happiness. The the meeting of that desire that you have that turns into envy will not bring you what you think it will And we f favor our lust. As I studied this out, uh I looked at, you know, a lot of different things with regards to to envy. And you know, in Mumbai. There is the most expensive house in the world. There is also the largest slum in the world. And as we were driving through Mumbai, we got to at least from the city streets kinda look up into this this house. He's like that's the house right there. We drove we drove by it. The richest man in in in India, and at one time the richest man in the world, back in 2007, owns that house. It's worth two billion dollars. It's twenty-seven stories. Four hundred thousand square feet. There are many people in Mumbai that envy that. It's caused a lot of contention because that house is a house for six people and six hundred staff. Those six people have six hundred people that live and work there to take care of the house and and you know, drivers and uh security and prepare food and all all six hundred people to take care of the a hundred a hundred people to take care of one person. Many people in in uh Mumbai envy that. They look at that and they say, how could he build such a big house and and uh have all of that when we're here living in this slum? It's favoring our lust and going after the things that we want. Envy is born out of the heart of discontentment. You see, Rachel had such a great blessing from God. She enjoyed the bountiful blessings of God in many different ways. And yet she was discontent with that, and looked at the one thing she didn't have. And desired that, and envy took over, and she began to desire that more than anything else to the point where she was willing to throw away all that she had and all the blessings that God had, she would disregard them all to have that one thing. Well, that's what envy does. Because we forget God. We forget God. In Romans chapter 1, verse 28 and 29, he says, even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which were not convenient. Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, full of envy, murder, debate, deceit. Regality and whispers. Envy. When we forget God, envy begins to be born in our hearts. This is like a normal emotion for people in America today. After all, that is the foundation of the American dream. Envy drives the the sale ads that are put out there. Envy drives, I mean, have you ever had somebody uh invite you over? And they wanted you to meet a friend of theirs so they could introduce you to their pyramid. You know, so they could talk to you about some program that they're doing. You know what they do with those guys? They always have them they always have them pull up in a Cadillac. What they won By being a top salesman in this field or something like that? Or they invite you over to a house and they say, hey, look, my third year in this, I bought this house and paid cash for it. What are they doing? They're trying to build envy in you to get you to go after and fight for that. To say, this is what I want, man. Boy, I want this. I could have this. And you meet the guy selling it and you think, man, if he can do it, I can do it. You think if that guy's doing it, and you think, boy, I could do this. And you start saying, man, I'm going to go after this. That envy is born in your heart, and you start to desire it. We forget about all that God has given us already, and we begin to live after our own lust. We begin to follow carnality. You see, we stop following spirituality, we follow carnality. In 1 Corinthians 3. 3, he says, For ye are yet carnal, for whereas there is among you in being, And strife and divisions. Are ye not carnal and walk as men? You understand that's a true sign of carnality Following carnality, the envy that comes in our heart. It's amazing because it we get to the place where we Resent the blessing of God on somebody else. How sad is that? God bless his brother Matt with a new car. In our wicked heart Resents that. We start to evaluate and think in our mind, he doesn't deserve a new car This is what we do. We say he doesn't deserve a new car, why he's only a plumber. Well or or we hear about somebody that got to go on this really amazing vacation and we say, I work harder than them How come they get to go on a vacation like that? Instead of what does the Bible tell us? The Bible says, weep with them that weep Rejoice with them that rejoice. I think the weeping is not that hard. We we get somebody that's going through a struggle, is dealing with a trial, and we get around them and and we can weep with them, we can have compassion for them But I think it's harder to rejoice with them that rejoice. Instead of putting ourselves in their shoes and we we try and say, well, they don't deserve that. They haven't earned that. Why would they get that? I put in more hours at work than they do. I've been working five more years than they've been working, and they get more vacation than I get. We evaluate all that. And envy is born. So let's look at the conflict that takes place. When in the heart of envy. Proverbs 27, verse number 4, it says, Wrath is cruel and anger is outrageous. But who is able to stand before envy? That conflict that comes in the heart of a believer or of anybody that is desirous of something at the cost of somebody else. Proverbs 14, verse number 30, a sound heart is the life of the flesh. But envying the rotness of the bones. Envy. It'll destroy you from the inside out. And Christian, with something that we need to fight against. I want you to understand as a pastor, as somebody that's in the ministry, I have things that I'm envious of. I see one of my guys that I graduated with from college, and that guy was a goof off. He was a bum. And I see on Facebook that he's been asked to preach at some conference. And instead of being excited for him, my wicked old heart will say, He was never that good a preacher. I've been serving faithfully for almost twenty years and they've never asked me to preach. We've got to fight against that. We've got to notice it and see it for what it is and say, God forgive me for having a heart of envy. Help me to rejoice with him and God use him and bless the messages that he preaches and help me, God, to be content because I'm blessed beyond measure. But the devil doesn't want you to be content, and to recognize God's blessing, he would have you be filled with envy. This conflict that wages in our members What rust is to iron and mildew is to corn. What moth is to cloth, envy is to the heart. It is the devil's eye, the poisonous herb that spreads nothing but death. Let age, not envy, draw wrinkles on thy cheeks. Be thou content to be envied, but never envy. I'm not sure who said that. But it's some powerful words about the truth of this matter. Envy distracts us from our purpose. You see how overtaken Rachel was with the desire to have children that she's willing to die? She's distracted from all else she's supposed to be doing in her life. She can't even please her husband. You see, the anger that her husband responds to her with, which by the way was not correct, he should not have responded to her that way. Two wrongs never make a right. He should have controlled his spirit, but he says, What am I, God? Am I the one to shut up your womb? Why are you talking to me? He couldn't she couldn't even have a right marriage and a right home because she was so full of envy. It distracts us from our purpose, what God wants us to do. One eaten up with envy has lost all focus on things that are important. Envy destroys our relationships. Envy will cause pain in your life and will destroy everything. Envy eats nothing but its own heart, someone said. It will lead to conflict in your marriage, conflict in your church, and conflict in your friendships. It destroys your relationships, it distracts you from your purposes I mean you think about somebody like the prodigal son and the older brother. The older brother came back and he's like, why? I mean when the when the prodigal came back the older brother said, You never killed the fatted calf for me. He enjoyed the blessings of his home and his family continually. His father said, You are with me every day. You are here all the time. Don't you see the blessings you have? But he was eaten up with envy because the fatted calf was killed for his brother. Envy caused Cain to kill Abel. Because his sacrifice wasn't accepted. Envy caused the Jews to speak out against their own. In Acts chapter 13, verse number forty-five he says, But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy. And spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming. It was envy that motivated them to Try and contradict Paul had nothing to do with truth or with right. They saw the multitudes that were gathered around Paul and his teachings. And said, wow, look at that. We don't have people come to listen to us. And so they attacked him. Not because of something that was right or wrong, but because of the envy that was in their heart. Envy caused Saul to try and kill David. Envy caused Joseph's brothers to hate him. Most important, envy destroys our relationship with God. Envy was a root was a root cause of sin. sending Jesus Christ to the cross. In Mark 15, 10, the Bible says, for he knew that the chief priest had delivered him for envy. But the chief priest moved the people that he should rather release Barabbas unto them because of envy. And envy always develops into other sin. You see here in the life of Rachel and Leah and the progression. A heart of envy will always take you. Into other sin. Look over in Psalms I think it's seventy three The Psalm of Asap seventy three he says For I was envious. Right? Truly. Truly, let's start in verse number one. He says, Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart. Notice first we're seeing he recognizes how good God is. He says, Truly, God is good, even to such who are of a clean heart. But as for me, my fur, my feet were almost gone. My step, my steps had well nigh slipped. He said, I was almost gone. I had almost left God. I had almost slipped and it was over. In verse number three, why? Why had he almost slipped? What does it say? For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. He was envious. It will always lead you to other sin. He almost left God because he was envious at the prosperity of the wicked when he saw that In Galatians 5, 19 through 21, he says, Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these, adultery, fornication, uncleanliness, license, uh Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variances, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, invenes, murders, drunkenness. revilings, and such like of that which I tell you before as I have also told you in times past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Envy listed in that group of most heinous sins. Right up there with murders With drunkenness, witchcraft, idolatry, envy. But for the Christian, many times envy lies in our heart, and we think it's okay. We allow it to live there. When you are green with envy, you are ripe for trouble. They will cause you to lie, to gossip, to even hate. It'll move you to all kinds of sin. James chapter 3, verse number 16 says, For where envyings and strife is, there is confusion. And every evil work. Where envy and the strife is, there's confusion in every evil work. A heart that allows envy to lie there Will ultimately end up in every evil work. So what is the cure? What is the cure for this? Let me give you a few thoughts about carrying envy in our heart and guarding against it, guiding the desires. There's nothing wrong with having the desire to improve yourself. If you see a man who is successful because he gives himself to hard work and he gets up early in the morning and you notice that, man, he is putting in the time and he's getting the job done. You're not envious and desirous that at his hurt, but you say, you know what, I would like to be successful that way. I understand I need to get up early And it motivates you to get up early and to begin to put the work in and to do what's necessary. There's nothing wrong with that desire, but we need to control that desire and don't allow it to turn to envy. So, what is the cure for that? First of all, you need to resist comparing yourself with others Resist comparing yourself with others. We know 2 Corinthians 10, 12, for we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. But they measure themselves by themselves and compare themselves among themselves are not wise. Galatians 6, 4, but let every man prove his own work. And then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone and not another. Don't compare yourself among others. We need to resist that That certainly is something that is in our hearts, and that's where envy is born so many times. We look at it and we say, I deserve a new car. Well, how how did they get it? How did they get a new car? I've been working a lot longer. I've been more disciplined. I've been more faithful, or even in the church house, sometimes even in serving God. Somebody might get some recognition or somebody might be lifted up or somebody might be encouraged and in our hearts, even dealing with God's service, will allow that to be to bring about a root of envy in our heart and think, man Why did they get why are they recognized? I've been faithful. Instead of being happy for them, we compare ourselves and think what we've done against what they've done and whether they deserve it or not and whether we deserve it. We know that we cannot do that. Shakespeare said this. How bitter a thing is it to look into happiness through the eyes of another man. When we compare ourselves, we only lead to discouragement and to envy. Someone is always going to lead a little bit better, a little richer, a little faster, a little smarter. There's always going to be somebody a little better that you can look at. Listen, you're not responsible for them. You are uniquely and wonderfully made. God made you just how you are. Praise God for that. God has a plan for you. Don't worry about the plan for somebody else. Let not thine heart envy sinners, but be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long. So not only do we need to resist comparing ourselves with others, but we need to rejoice in what God has given us Rejoice in what God has given us. We've talked about it, mentioned it, how discontent Rachel was with all that God had already given her. And that's what happens, is we lose sight of God's manifold blessings on our life. And that allows uh envy to be born in our heart. We can't do it. Rejoice in what God has already given you. God has blessed you in many ways. If you count your blessings, You won't have time to compare yourself with somebody else. Somebody said this envy is the art of counting your neighbor's blessings. Yeah. That's not what we need to do. We're looking at our neighbor and we're counting up his blessings and getting gr greener and greener as the days go by. We're not supposed to be getting greener. We're you know, they always say green with envy. We we're supposed to count our blessings. Not our neighbors' blessings. Rejoice with what God has given you. God has provided for you all that you need. To forget that is to say to God, what you've given me is not enough. You are not enough. We need to respond with love Not only resist comparing ourselves and rejoice in what God has given us, but we need to respond in love. 1 Corinthians 13, 4 says, Charity suffereth long in his kind. Charity envieth not. You know, if we really love our brother or sister, if we really love other people, when God blesses them, we'll be able to rejoice with them. Because true love does not envy. True love is excited and happy and thrilled about the success and the victory and the blessing of somebody else Because love envyeth not. We need to r respond with love. We need to rejoice with them that rejoice. Love is the opposite of envy. You're are you in Psalm 73 still? I want you to see a verse here. Let's just read down through this. He says in verse number three, we said, For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men Neither are they plagued like other men. Therefore pride compass them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than their heart could wish They are corrupt and speak wickedly concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth Therefore, his people return hither, and waters, waters of a full cup, are wrung out to them. And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands innocy innocency. Now I want to get down to verse number 17 and show you something here, but I want you to see he got to the place here where he was saying that I've done for God for no it was useless. He got to the place where envyings had taken over his heart and he said, all that I've done, he says, I've cleansed my heart in vain. I've washed my hands in innocency. What he was doing, getting ready to say is I'm willing to get my hands dirty, to get to have what the world has. When we get to the place where we look after something else so much where we're willing to get our hands dirty in order to obtain and to have that, we look and say, What I've done for God is for nothing. I've cleansed my hands in innocency. For no good at all, for no reason, it's prospered me nothing. This is what envy will take your heart to, but I want you to see where he gets to. Praise God he gets to it. Look, he says here Verse number fourteen, For all the day long have I been plagued and chastised every morning. If I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Verse number 17, he says, until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I understood. Then understood I their end. You could read verse number three. He says, For I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. And then read verse number 17. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. I want you to understand that if you want to control envy in your life, you need to refocus on God. You see, he was overtaken with this envy because of all the prosperity of the wicked until he refocused on God. Until he got God back in the picture. He went into the house of God. You know, this is a very sure thing, and I've said it before. Uh whatever happens in your life, wherever however discouraged you get, however low the devil gets you, however far you get from God, you need to right now purpose in your heart, no matter what, I'm gonna stay in church. No matter what, I'm going to stay in church. And listen, the devil gets a hold of all of us and he drags us down at times and we get discouraged and sometimes the devil gets us all twisted up and bent out of shape for different things. And if you get out of church You lose the opportunity for the one place where God might get a hold of you again. You need to just purpose in your heart, no matter what, I'm going to stay in church. I'm gonna stay in church. Refocus on God. Set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vainglory, provoking one another, or envying one another. Live in the Spirit. Refocus on God. Let the Holy Spirit lead our life, and we won't be desirous of being glory. We won't be envying one another. Not everyone will have everything they want, but everyone can do what God wants. Remember, God has done for you an immense amount. In Titus chapter 3, verses 2 through 5, he says, To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness. unto all men. For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, disdeceived, serving diverse lust and pleasures, living in malice and envy. He says, hey, show meekness to all men. Let God reign in your heart. Let the meekness that God gives you reign. Have this meekness towards men. And you won't end This is the cure to envy. Refocus on God. So tonight, how are you doing with envy? If I was honest, I'd have to say the Holy Spirit raked me over the coals as I studied this. Said you've let envy in your heart. Over little things, and you disregarded it and thought it was okay. Do you ever find yourself resenting the blessings of God on another Do you find yourself forgetting the blessings of God on you? That's where envy is born. Tonight we need to confess and forsake. The sin of envy in our hearts and lives. Let's stand together with our hearts heads bowed and eyes closed and This is a serious thing in our day and age. It's something that we've let go, I think. Envy in our heart. Nothing wrong with desire, but when we let that desire turn to envy, God is not pleased Do you need to refocus on God tonight? Resist comparing yourself among or with others? Dear Lord, I pray that you would use the invitation. I pray, God, that we would do business with you, that we would surrender, we would refocus on you. what you've done for us. Don't allow discontentment to stay in our heart where envy might be born and grow. Pray Lord that you would Strengthen your people to follow you and do your will tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen.