Acts chapter 20. We do know this is a missions conference, and we don't take it lightly as far as trying to find out from God what to preach, but we're going to look at examples of giving this morning. Examples of giving in the Bible because it's not just money in our lives. As church members, as Christians, we don't just give money to the Lord and that's it. We do have churches in cities. We have one in our city and just talking with the fellow, the the one of the guys of the church. happens to own the uh trophy place where we would buy trophies for different events at our church, and normally the youth rallies and things like that. And just talking to him one day and he talked about his church, the main hub is in our city, and what they do is they have campuses in other cities, smaller cities round about, but they don't have a pastor. That's all they do is sit in their campus church and they watch the main pastor preach on a screen. But he says, you know, when he was kind of bragging about the fact that in one one day all their churches together took up enough money to buy an old theater building in Hannibal, uh, Missouri, and to turn it into a church. And I'm like But, you know, they were able to get all that money, but the fact is money's just part of it. And God doesn't look at your wallet when you walk into a church. The pastor doesn't look into your wallet when you walk into the church. We're concerned about your heart. God's concerned, is my heart given over to him? The pastor is concerned. Is your heart given over to Jesus Christ? Do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? And so when we talk about the idea of giving, there's so many examples. We're only going to look at four this morning. But there's so many examples uh and and and there's more that have n things not to do with giving. It has or excuse me, it has not to do with money, it has to do with giving of of other things in our lives. And so in Acts chapter 20, verses 34 through 38, the Bible says, Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands Paul talking about himself have ministered unto my necessities and to them that were with me. I have showed you all things, how that so laboring ye ought to support the weak. And to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. That is a fact. It is more blessed. You will be more blessed by giving than receiving. We can say you will be more blessed by supporting missionaries than we will be by the support that we get. But then we in turn don't just stop there. We have to take what you have given or another church has given and then go and give the gospel to those in the countries or the nations. or the cities where God has called us to. And so then we take that and we give that to them. And they in return receive it. And then hopefully they trust Jesus Christ as Savior, and then they're able to go and give it to others. And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, prayed with them all, and they all wept sore, fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him. Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more, and they accompanied him unto the ship Paul just simply saying it's more blessed to give than to receive. And so we want to look at a little bit of this this morning. The Apostle Paul makes a statement that we all need to grasp. And understand this morning that it is more blessed to give than to receive. Now, the world that we live in does not live by this example. The world wants to get. The world wants more. They can never be satisfied. And I look at this in the idea of the professional sports area. The money that they receive. Whether it's a basketball player or a baseball player, they're throwing a ball through a hoop or throwing a hard ball To another they're they're playing catch is what they're doing. And they're trying to make sure that the guy with the bat doesn't hit it. Just breaking it down very simple They're taking a skin of a pig and playing catch, trying to cross over a line at the other end of the field while not allowing the other people to come over. It's a game. And I would think about it, if you took away all sports. I guess we can call soccer a sport. Um I'm not gonna I'm not including golf in this. So if you're a golfer, I right right brother go I'm I'm not including golf because golf is not a sport. I'm I I don't want to get into all of this like we did while we were walking. But there's no defense in sp in golf. You have to be quiet while they tee off. You have to be quiet while they putt. You have to be nice to them. That's not a sport. I want some defense. I like defense. Football, basketball, baseball, hockey. You look at all those things and take get rid of it all. Does that affect our world at all? We might be more bored. We might not have teams to root for, but as far as the economy goes, as far as anything else goes in this world, it's not really going to affect much. So our world has it the opposite. The world wants, they want more. When we think of the life of Jesus Christ, one word comes to mind more than often than other words, and that is giving. If there was anyone in the Bible that we can look at that has given more to the world, to anybody else, it would be the Lord Jesus Christ. It would be God. The prophecies of the Old Testament that describe the life of our Lord Jesus Christ before he was born in Isaiah 9:6. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. If you notice, God already prophesying that he was going to give his son. Why? Because we need him to live We need him to live forever. We need him to have our sins forgiven and have a home in heaven. Without that, we're hopeless. We're lost. We needed him to give his son Jesus Christ. The whole life of Jesus Christ was to give, give his sinless life for the sinfulness of man. Galatians 1, 3 and 4 says, Grace be unto you in peace from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins. So when we're talking about giving, we're not necessarily just talking about money, though that's part of it. We look at the Lord Jesus Christ. He didn't give money. No money could ever get you into heaven. No amount that you could save up, whether it be millions of dollars, you could take the The the contracts of a LeBron James and that quarterback from the Buffalo Bills, Kelly, back in the day, was one of the richest quarterbacks at the time. And then you can go into baseball and get um, who's that big guy, uh Judd, Aaron Judge, and you can get his contract and you can put them all together and let them compound interest over and over for a million years. And at the end, take out all that money. You could throw Donald Trump in there and take his money. You could take the politicians that have been made rich through your giving of taxes. And I'm not going to get into that. Compound it. Interest Year after year after year for a million years, and then you could take all that money out, stand before God, and give that money to God, and you would not be able to step one foot into heaven. Will not work But Jesus gave his life, gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present world according to the will of God our Father. Titus 2, 13 and 15 says, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us that he might redeem us from all iniquity. The idea that we as human beings are born in iniquity. We're born in sin. Yes, those little precious babies. That look kind of purplish prunish when they're born, and you're like, wow, looks like your side of the family, honey And she in her state of delirium because she just gave birth says, looks just like you, honey. And it begins. No Even that little baby is born with sin. And that little child left to himself with no other help, with no other counselors, with no parents. Would become the worst sinner that there is upon the face of the earth. I myself, growing up where I grew up with parents and growing up and in our home According to the Bible, the worst sinner in the world. And we could say the same for each and every one of us. And yet God loved us so much that He gave His only begotten Son, that Jesus gave Himself. To do what? To save us from our sins? To redeem us from our iniquity. That's an example of giving. That's an example that we should all strive. We just want to look at four examples today, and then we'll be done. Let's pray. Father, we just ask that you would bless the time together. We thank you for your love, for it takes love to give. To give love to a child that's disobedient, to give love to just a total stranger that shows no love and expresses no love But God, we're commanded of your word to love all men, to show them the love of Jesus Christ. We pray, God, that you would help us To be givers as you were, and as your Son Jesus Christ was. I pray if there's anyone here that has never received That gift that was given by Jesus Christ of his own life to take our place, to be our substitute by dying on the cross. Shedding his blood so that we can have our sins forgiven, I pray today would be that day. Jesus' name. Amen. The first person I'd like to look at is Hannah. Hannah, the mother of Samuel. Well, Hannah gave her child Samuel to the Lord. That's the first example of giving. I think all moms in here would understand that. They have a love for their children, and there's not anything that they wouldn't do for their child that they wouldn't give. To see their child grow up, to see their child love the Lord, to see their child serve God. And Hannah just lived a life where she couldn't bear any children. And unfortunately lived in a time where her husband had another wife. And that wife was able to bear children, and boy, they would mock her and they would make fun of her and they would rub it in her face. And so she would just go and pray. And as she was praying, the high priest saw her, thought she was drunk because she was just praying with quietly and just moving her lips. And she just poured out her heart unto him, unto Eli, and said, it's because I I can't have a child. I'm just asking God for a son. And if you know the story, God gave her a son. God answered her prayer. But what was her vow that she made in 1 Samuel 1:11? It says, And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and forget not thine handmaid, but wilt give me Give unto thine handmaid a man, child. I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life. There shall no razor come upon his head. He would take the Nazarite vow. But she said she would give her child unto the Lord. How many of us would do that? Now in a sense we should have that desire in our heart, we should have that burden in our heart to give our children unto the Lord. In other words, let God take them and use them any way. We have no say so in what God would do or where God would send them. We just want to give them to the Lord and have them serve God and do the will of God all their life. That's what Hannah wanted. And she said, God, if you would give me that son, that's exactly what I would do. I would give that child back unto you. That's all our desire has been for our children, is just to serve God. I could think of a lot of things I'd like to have done with my children. I was getting jealous. I don't say this very often, but I was getting very jealous of uh Pastor Golden, a pastor friend of mine. Because his sons graduated college and went back to his home church. My son graduated college. My daughter graduated. She went out to Las Cruces, New Mexico to teach. My other daughter, she graduated, she joined her in Las Cruces, New Mexico, now she's in Ohio, teaching in a Christian school My son, who I thought would come back and, you know, be that great help today, after all, we paid all that money for you to go to well, they paid their way through college, but we did raise them That probably cost about $100,000, all the food, the free rent, all that other stuff that it takes, the clothes that they had. We're writing that bill. We're still marking it down. They they have to pay part, all five children have to pay part of the uh utilities. The taxi service, I hear Uber is very expensive or Lyft, and so we're dividing, no, we're not doing any of that But I thought, you know, I'll give him to the Lord. He'll come back. No, he went out to Pennsylvania to be an assistant pastor. And then I got my other daughter, she went out there because she was single and I don't know, maybe she just didn't want to come home, but she graduated at the same time. But she went out there and she worked uh kind of helping a little bit with some secretary work, but then just served in the church as just a normal church member. But I had one other child I could salvage. He's still in Bible college. Breaking up the college bill. Wanting stuff for mom and dad to send him. Kid goes through shoes. You think he was a centipede, you know, in a marathon. He goes through shoes just so quickly. But you know what? Here's my pastor friend. His kids are coming back. They're a great help. They're working jobs. They're tithing to the church. Here I am. No children in the church. None of them tithing to our church, tithing to other churches. Man, why couldn't I have that? But then you have to stop and think. You know what? I promised God I would raise them for the Lord. I promised God I would give them back. And He could do whatever He wanted. If I got jealous or if I got upset, I was getting upset at God. Hannah's desire for her son, she promised God that she would give that child back to him. You see, many make that promise and never follow through. They want to hang on. They want to do as much as they can. Thing is, we can't hang on. Those children that God gives us, they're his reward to us. The fruit of the womb is his reward. I just have them for that short 18 years, 19 years, 20 years. I'm hoping it's not going to be 25, 26, 40 years. And the whole responsibility is to what? To give them back to God and say, God use them. And so once I got my head turned on right, I'm just thanking the Lord that God's able to use them. It says in 1 Samuel 1, 27 and 28, For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition Which I asked of him, therefore also I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he liveth he shall be lent to the Lord, and he worship The Lord there she came back, says, Remember me, I promised my child to the Lord after I would take care of him and make sure, you know. I don't know if you know he was about five years old, four years old, but Samuel was a young child And after she finished, you know, what mothers do, taking care of them and all that, she brought them back to the temple, brought them back to the tabernacle, and said, here you go, Eli. I made a promise to God. Let me ask, have you made a promise to God about your children that you would train them up for God? The Bible says in Proverbs 22, 6, train up a child in the way he should go. When he is old, he'll not depart from it. Our responsibility is to train up our children and then give them back to God In Genesis eighteen, Deuteronomy six, Psalm seventy-eight, Ephesians six, and other verses. The Bible talks about us Getting them in the Bible, teaching them the Bible, training them up. The sad fact is probably more Christians will spend more time training up their dogs than they will their children. They care more about their animals and making sure their animals are taken care of and their animals know how to sit and fetch and beg and bring their slippers and make coffee. Very talented dogs And sometimes they look at the children and the children just they don't pray for them. They don't train them. It's too much work. I'll agree, it's hard work But boy, it's a prosperous work. It's a blessed work. As Brother Jacob with Pastor Jacobs was talking in Sunday school, blessed is the man. And to see your children go off, there's no greater feeling. But hopefully that that that's part of raising your children upright. You get to teach them about Jesus Christ. Show them the love that Jesus Christ had for them. They're not going to heaven because mom and dad are going to heaven. If your mom and dad are saved and you're not here today, you're not going to heaven on the coattails of mom and dad. You must receive Jesus Christ. And we must train up our children to know who God is and know that God loved us and that God gave His Son and who we are. We're sinners in need of a Savior. It'll be it'll demand training. It'll demand being an example. It's so easy as parents to say something and do this and yet not do it themselves. Okay, children, don't lose your temper. Then I have to go, Lord, how many times have I lost my temper, and my children have seen that I praise God as they've gotten older, I can apologize. And don't think it below you to apologize to your children if you've done wrong in front of them. And there's been many times now as a pastor with your children grown, I get to sit back and I can go back and see all the mistakes I've made. I praise God for that. That I can be that what they call that Monday night quarterback or is it Tuesday night now? That I could sit back and see, man, if I had it to do over, I would do this different. I would do that different. And I don't just stop there and say that. Then I when I preach, I say, hey, folks, this is what I did wrong with my children. I could say to my kids, kids, this is what I did wrong with you. Don't make the same mistake. I'm sorry. To find out what happens to our families when we fail to be that godly example and train them, look at Lot. Look at the life that Lot lived With godly Abraham, things were great, but when he went off and did his own thing in the wicked city of Sodom, What happened? He went and told his kids, and two of them were married, and he goes to the two girls that were married and had son-in-law and says, Hey, God's going to destroy the city. Come on, let's go. And they mocked him, laughed at him. His wife turned back and longed to see Sodom one more time and turned into a pillar of salt. And we won't go into the wickedness that the two younger daughters devised against their father. What a privilege to give our children unto the Lord and make it a priority and say, God, if they go off to the far ends of the earth and I don't see them every Christmas. I don't see them for years at a time. Praise the Lord. They're yours. Secondly, the widow gave her two mites. In Luke 21, 1 through 4, and he looked and saw the rich men casting gifts into the treasury. They were given their abundance. And then here is this widow woman, and it says in verse 2, and he saw a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites And he said, Of a truth, I say unto you, that this poor widow cast in more than they all. For all of these have of their abundance cast into the offerings of God. but she of her penuri or her her poverty hath cast in all the living that she had Mark 12 and verses 41 through 44 is a parallel passage to that same one. But on the outside, one might think that this is just a passage of giving. You ought to give all. This widow woman gave all and and you ought to give all. I don't think your pastor preaches that, and that's not what it's talking about. You just don't, well, what do I got? No, I got about 5,000 in the bank. I'll give it all Now I can't pay my bills, but that's okay. The the the mortgage company will understand. I'll um they understand. I'll just say I gave it all to the Lord. And the utility, they'll still keep the heat on and the elect and the um air conditioning on. I'll just tell them I gave my their bill to the Lord and You know, and the money that I was gonna pay and and that car I'm driving that I'm still making payments on, they'll definitely understand. They won't send some guy to repossess it. No I'll just tell that big guy with the club and you know and he says I'm here to take your car and if not I'll just tell him I gave it gave the money to to God and he'll understand he won't beat me up and take my car So he's not saying just give everything. But we do know that the Bible's talking about the heart. There was a difference in the heart of this widow woman as there was in the heart. These men just walked by. They had tons of money. Didn't matter. And they just cast it into the to the where they put it. They didn't just throw it in an offering plate. But they put it in the box probably that there was the place when Jesus was sitting there watching all this come and here comes this widow woman. She wasn't making any fanfare. She wasn't sounding the trumpet saying, hey, I'm giving these two mics. This is what I live on. This isn't extra. This is what I live on. And I need this. And she gave that. And Jesus said, she gave more than they all. Not just the man that did it, but all those men. Her heart was right. The key to giving, and we could say admissions giving or tithing and offerings, the key to giving is the heart attitude, not the wallet. If God has your heart, all your giving will be right with God. If you could sit there and just listen to God and God says, hey, this is what I want you to give. Guess what? And you give that. That's where it's at. It's not, well, I want to look better, so when the pastor goes through and marks down, you know, what our budget is, he'll see my name and I'll be up there, you know, as far as one of the ones that gave more money and I'll be noticed. That's not the right attitude. You know what? And as he said, they don't come to your house and knock on your door. They do that in Chicago. Went door to door and came to a man and he went to a Catholic church, said the priest came to his house. And said he could no longer be a member of the church until he started giving again. He was kind of frustrated with the Catholic Church. I said, hey, I understand. I said, we'll come once a year, not once a week. No, we didn't say that. But I just tried to explain to him. I said, that's what happens when it's a religion that you're following. Follow Jesus Christ. Proverbs 4, 20 through 23, my son, attend to my words. Incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes. Keep them. in the midst of thine heart. And as Solomon is having that said to him by David, Solomon, David saying, Solomon, keep these words in your heart. God saying the same thing to us. Keep these words in your heart. Follow my sayings. Because the Bible goes on to say, for they are life unto them that find in health to all their flesh. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Keep your heart tender toward God. Keep your heart pliable to God. Keep your heart surrendered toward God. She didn't cast in offerings to look good or keep up with the Joneses or the rich man, but she gave exactly what God wanted her to give. And the only way to know this is for your heart to be controlled by God. It's not how much you make, it's not how much you give. It's what God would be pleased with. Thirdly, 1 Chronicles 21, 14, if you would turn there, 1 Chronicles 2114, I find this very interesting. It's a very good passage of scripture to study. And as you read about this man named Ornan, or in other passages, Orona, however you want to pronounce it, it's probably different in Polish. We won't get into Melchizedek and Melchizedek. I believe there's a different way to say that word. The high high priest of the Lord, Melchizedek, I think is Melchizedek. I think he originated in Poland. But That's for my master's thesis. You know where I'll go with that. But in 1 Chronicles 21, 1 through 4, it talks about Satan standing up against Israel, provoked David to number the people. God never wanted David to number the people, but he did. God was judging David. God was judging Israel also and allowing him to number the people And then in verses 7 and 8, God was displeased with this thing, therefore he smote Israel. David said unto God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing, but now I beseech thee. Do away the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very foolishly. And so now God's judging David and judging Israel because of his sin and numbering the people. And as David prays unto God, God's merciful unto David and commands him to sacrifice on an altar. You know that David had some choices. He could have had the enemy come, he could have had uh God come and then in in um Go against the nation of Israel and he went with God. He wanted God to be merciful. He knew God could be merciful, not the enemy. And God was. It says, then the angel of the Lord, this is in verses 18 through 23, then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up and set up an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of Ornah the Jebuzite. Just an ordinary guy. He had no part in what David did. He's just an ordinary man living his ordinary life. God says, you go up to this man's house, and I want you to build an altar on his threshing floor, the place where he threshed the wheat in the harvest time. And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the Lord, and Ornan turned back and saw the angel, and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat, and as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, went out of the threshing floor, bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. Then David said to him, or to Ornan, Grant me the place of this threshing floor, that I may build an altar therein unto the Lord. Thou shalt grant it to me for the full price That the plague may be stayed from the people. David says, I need by a command of God to purchase your threshing floor, to gain this threshing floor, I'll buy it from you, whatever the cost may be. And notice what Ornan said, this is something that should be in our hearts. This is how yielded we should be to God And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes. Lo, I give thee the oxen also for the burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood And wheat for the meat offering. I give it all. That's where God wants us in our life. That we're just willing to give all. Our lives, our spouses' lives, our children's lives, the lives of the people in the church. That's what we should want for our friends in the church. That they would give all to the Lord, and that we would all serve God, giving all unto Him. Not that we're signing our mortgages over and all of our states over to the church. That's not what he's saying. When he says giving all, you're just Saying unto God, God, whatever you need from my life, whatever you want from my life, from my children's life, Lord, whatever you want to be done in the church, I'm going to be there to do it And Ornan could have said, well, David, you're the one that made the mistake. You're the idiot. Why don't you take care of it? You just do it. Give me money. But he didn't. He looked at David, knew David was the king, knew David was a man of God. And he says, not only will I give you the land that you need, he goes on and says, I'm going to give you the oxen that I'm plowing with the oxen that we have. And I'm going to give you them for a burnt offering. Um I'm going to give you the threshing instruments that we have, the these the sticks that we beat the wheat with. I'm going to give you all that wood. So you'll have wood on the altar so you can make a fire. And then he says for the meat offering, what a meat offering was was basically a wheat cake. They called it a meat offering. It wasn't, you know, it was probably as flat as a White Castle hamburger. Didn't taste as good. White castle hamburgers are the best. But don't ask my wife. She prefers Burger King or Five Guys. Really? Over White Castle? Anyway, we'll get off of that. But it was a meat offering, it was just a little wheat cake. And he says, I give it all to you. You need it, I'm willing to give it. God, you need my life, I'm willing to give it. You need my service, I'm willing to give it. You need Can you say that's where you're at in your life? We need to be. It may take some time. And you gotta get with God. You've got to have a good relationship with God. God comes to your heart's door and says, you need to be saved. You need me to get to heaven. You need me to have my sins forgiven. Are you willing to give all and say, I'm going to push my friends to the side, I'm going to push my family to the side. Lord, I'm going to follow you and get saved. I have these this goal in my life and these plans in my life, but Lord, you're telling me I I can't get to heaven unless I receive Jesus Christ as my Savior. I'll put all my plans aside and truly I'll give it all to trust Jesus Christ as my Savior. Whatever God wants from you, have you given without hesitation? That's where God wants us to be, and lastly, God gave his only begotten Son. If there's only one reason that we should give all, it's because God gave his only begotten Son to us. The thing about Ornan and the threshing floor, that's the place where the temple was built. Later on, that's where Solomon built the temple. That's where there is the argument of where the temple is even today. But the original place was that we know of was the threshing floor. And what did he build there? Even this is prophetic. He built an altar and made a sacrifice, prophesying what Jesus Christ would do for us. That God would give his son. We all know John 3:16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Have everlasting life. God gave. God gave his son. Jesus gave himself When we were without strength to save ourselves, when we were without strength to rid ourselves from our sin. God still loved us and gave His Son to die for me, to die for you. We either suffer the judgment and punishment of our sin in hell. Or someone else can take our place and die in our place. I'm sure you've all heard how, um, and again it's just a story, it's not true, but it's as if the judge Was handing out a sentence and said, You're guilty, your sins have condemned you to death. You must die for your sins. And then the very next words out of the judge's mouth says, wait a minute. You don't have to die. I'll give my son in your place. The judge himself. And I will give my son to die in your place so you can go free. And the judge takes his son and puts his son to death, so that that man, that woman, that sinner could go free. And you would say, wow, what a what a judge, what a man. What a God. He did that for us. But you want to know what else he did? He didn't just stop there. He says, Now I'm going to take you and make you my son in place of my other son. You see, God says when you accept Jesus Christ as your Savior, you become a child of God. You're adopted into his family. And though I can't wrap my head around it, and if that was the case with me, I could never give my son for someone else who deserved to die, whether it be a murderer or whatever it is. But I'm human. I'm sinful. But God, knowing we couldn't save ourselves, gave his son, Jesus Christ, to die in our place The payment's already been made. The sacrifice has already been done. All you have to do is receive him by faith. You have to acknowledge that what he did, he did for you. And that if you'll just trust Jesus, put your faith and trust in Him, your sins will be forgiven. His blood will cleanse and cover your sins for all eternity. This substitute must be blameless and sinless, and Jesus was. This and only God's son fits this qualification. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Jesus was given to the world, but specifically he was given to you to receive It's okay to know that he died for the world, but you must realize he died for you. He died for me. I must realize that. If you do not have 100% assurance of heaven, if you do not have 100% assurance that heaven is your home, if you were to die today or tonight, His brother Jacob testified. Why not trust Jesus Christ as your Savior? He died. God gave the gift God gave him to be your Savior. You could do that this morning. If you know Christ and have accepted God's gift of salvation and forgiveness of sins, how is your giving today? How's the giving of your children and your family to the Lord? Are you willing to give all? Is your heart right with God? Giving to God's storehouse, the local church, giving all and not holding back anything. We don't have time to go into Ananias and Sapphira, but they held back. And didn't give all. We close with one verse. Actually, one portion of verses, excuse me. 2 Corinthians 8, 3-5 says, For to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty. That we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. There were the Gentiles giving to the poor and to those that needed help in Jerusalem. And it goes on in verse 5. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves unto the Lord. And unto us by the will of God. Before they even desired to give and to help the poor that were in Jerusalem, the Bible said they gave their own selves to the Lord. They were sold out to Him. Are you sold out to God this morning? Giving him your life and your family. And if need be, all to follow his will.