And wrote books during this time because there were so many of them and so many books of the Old Testament that are kind of tied up into this period. uh because of the different ministries that were represented there. And so we were able to jump back and look at those prophets. Now We uh have broken through uh 586 BC, which is the fall of Jerusalem, uh and we move into the exile era, the era here where um the Children of Israel were really in captivity. And this covenant nation that was raised up from God Uh by God and his plan and his time he was pr they were protected. God took this infant nation and sent them down to Egypt where they could be protected. uh by Pharaoh and provided for and they would have uh you know the ability to grow. Ultimately they grew to a number that Pharaoh says, wait a minute, there's more of them than us. We're gonna be in trouble if something happens here and Ultimately God uh knows that they're ready to head out and God sends them out. They leave and of course you know the story there of them being freed from uh Egypt and then they head through the wilderness and supposed to go in and occupy uh the Canaan land, the promised land on their way. God gives them the law, tells them how to live and what's going to be expected of them. They move through the the wilderness and they head to the promised land, supposed to head in, but you know they send in the spies and uh they kind of function from a realm of doubt and and God says, Wait Those of you that doubted that you could do this, that did not believe, uh you're gonna have to wander forty years here in the wilderness. We have the forty-year wanderings in the wilderness because of that, then ultimately God's people get to go in. You get into Joshua, the conquering of the land. and they conquer uh this Canaan land, they go in and occupy it, but they continue to not do as God said, to utterly destroy them, to remove those pagan gods, those false uh idols and those people there that worship those things and because they didn't do that they continued down through all of the history that we've looked at here they've continued to uh have conflict or problems with going back to worshiping these false gods. And ultimately as we get into the kingdom era, you you get to the judges where you know God is leading his people through these judges. They cry out for a king, God gives them a king, the king is ruling, but under the leadership of God in a theocracy uh type setup where God rules uh and he's leading and directing them. But then They continue to fall and go into apostasy. And of course the northern kingdom never does come back, no matter how many prophets God sends to them and preaching he gives to them. They do not come, so the northern kingdom falls, and then the southern kingdom ultimately, uh, because of their rebellion against God and their unwillingness to repent and turn back to him, they go into captivity This time of captivity is called the exile era when they're exiled from their land and they're under the rule of somebody else So we see here the purpose of the exile in our notes beginning this morning. The purpose here was first to prepare his people for the coming Messiah. God is uh the time of of his son's coming is fast approaching and he needs to prepare the nation, get them ready for this. Uh an idolatrous nation uh could not and were not ready to receive the Messiah. So they had to come to the place where they would put away that idolatry. So idolatry had to be removed. And the entire time that they are in captivity there is no mention of idolatry or the worship of false gods. So they're removing idolatry. Also hunger had to be cultivated Uh that hunger there really means desire, the uh the the want to, the the the need. You you see if people in captivity are looking for a deliverer They're looking for somebody to come and free them to answer the call to remove them from this bondage And that is the cry of the Jewish people as you'll hear all the way over as you come all the way to the New Testament, the oppression that you get uh they were under the Romans in the New Testament. They're looking for a deliverer. This is something that began to be burst in their heart. all the way back here in the time of exile when they began to look forward to the coming Messiah, look forward to their deliverer who is going to come and deliver them from this great oppression. Now, they uh it was to prepare the people for the coming Messiah. It also was to prepare the people for the time of the Gentiles. the time of the Gentiles. This New Testament age that we're in now is called throughout the scriptures the time of the Gentiles Up until this point, God had worked with his people, the Jewish people, the nation of Israel. He had worked with them, he had looked to lead them. He had tried to get them to function under his rule directly. They cried out for a king, continual this contest there, but God was working with them. Ultimately, God uh is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so God transitions here during this time to what would be the time of the Gentiles, a time when He's working with all men with all mankind because the Messiah is going to come and the Messiah is going to be for all mankind, not just for Israel. And uh we see that mentioned in Luke chapter twenty-one, twenty-four. If you'll note that down in your notes there, Luke 21, 24. The Bible says, and they shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive. So he's describing the time when they're going to be led away captive, when they're going to go into exile. He says, they shall fall by the edge of the sword and shall be led away captive into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles. So Jerusalem was destroyed in 586 B. C. The walls were broken down, the temple was destroyed. This is what he's describing here in this passage. And then he says, until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled. So until the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled, so this time of the Gentiles that God is leading his people to is a transition and a time that By and large, the Jewish people did not understand their confusion regarding the Messiah and missing the the Messiah when he came the first time is a tragic event that he came to his own and his own received him not. But at the same time, he came to the world. And the world, the Gentile nations, understood who Jesus was, and we, of course, had the privilege of trusting him. So this was a time of transition we see uh for them. Even when a small remnant went back, uh they were still under the control of other nations. You know, we mentioned it after they went into captivity Not until uh 1948 was the Israel nation back in their homeland. And that's because they were not under even though We're going to talk about the post exile era, the return. We're going to discuss that that next. And we have groups that go back and they begin to occupy in Jerusalem. But if you remember like Nehemiah building the wall, and you had Sambalat and Tobiah, these men who were opposing them, and you remember they wrote a letter back to the king and said, Nehemiah is is standing up against you. You see, they were not under their own control. Even though they were back in their homeland, they were still under at that time uh the Medes and the Persians, they were still underneath uh somebody else's rule. They weren't their own nation. And it wasn't until 1948 that they become or they are a recognized as a nation again. Even though they went back and the walls were built up, even though sacrifices were offered, there was no Ark of the Covenant. Which you know the Ark of the Covenant is a picture, a representation of God's presence with them. So here we're seeing this transition where God's presence is going to dwell here in the Ark of the Covenant to God beginning to working with men individually. And ultimately with the coming of Christ and his ascension up into heaven, his sending of the Holy Spirit, where God's presence is now in the heart of the believer. Instead of resting on the Ark of the Covenant, every believer has God's presence and God's the Holy Spirit with him to guide and direct him. So God's going to be working with all mankind and allowing Gentile nations. You'll see that as we get into the book of Daniel and Ezekiel, these books that God is using these Gentile nations to do his work in the world. Now we see the progression of exile. This is just, I wanted you to have kind of a timeline to be able to put things in order of what took place here. So 722 BC, Israel goes into captivity. Israel, the nation of Israel, that it would be the northern kingdom. Israel goes into captivity. The capital of Samaria falls to Assyria. And you remember we discussed this at that time when we were talking about that, but A number of Assyrians moved into that area of Samaria and as an occupying force they took control of that. And you remember we get all the way to the New Testament time. And those Assyrians that moved into Samaria became known as the Samaritans. And you remember the conflict in the New Testament between the Samaritans and the Jews. That goes all the way back to this time when the Assyrians took control of their land and kicked them out and put them into captivity and a bunch of Assyrians assumed uh their dwelling places assumed their cities and towns and uh became known as Samaritans and that's why the the Samaritans did not get along and the Jews did not get along with the Samaritans. And so We see that 722 takes place in 625. Uh the Assyrian Empire is conquered by Babylon. The Babylonian Empire comes in, and when we get to the book of Daniel, we're going to see Daniel prophesying about this, telling them, hey, here is what's going to happen. The Assyrian Empire is going to fall, the Babylonian Empire is going to rise up, the Babylonian Empire is going to fall, and he he tracks the progression down through history and tells these men what's going to take place. Um and so the Assyrian Empire is conquered by Babylon. Then we have the first Babylonian exile in the reign of Jehoiakim Now we talked about that in 606 BC. That's when Daniel was taken, if you wanted to note that. Daniel was taken during that time, during the reign of Jehoiakim. uh the first Babylonian captivity comes in, they begin to assume control, even though they're still allowing the people to by and large rule themselves. They are the opposing force. They're coming in, they're taking control and uh exercising their will over the people. Daniel is taking captivity. Then in 597 BC, the second Babylonian exile takes place in the reign of Jehoachen. And this is when Ezekiel is taken. So Ezekiel is taken during this time. And uh more and more people are being taken into captivity, being put underneath the rule of the Babylonian Empire. even though there's still kind of a group there. Uh but ultimately in five eighty six B T the third and the last Babylonian exile come. They come in and they're like, okay, we're done with you guys and they wipe out the city. They destroy the temple, they destroy the walls, they destroy it all. 586 Jerusalem is destroyed. And uh Then in 538 BC, the Babylonian Empire fell to the Medo-Persian Empire. In the book of Esther, you see the law of the Medes and the Persians. You see the Medo-Persian Empire, that's because now they're in control instead of the Babylonian Empire. These are world empires, these are Gentile empires, these are not uh God's people and yet we're see a large portion of the Old Testament here dealing with their history, dealing with what's going on there. Why? Because God is using them to shape the world, to prepare the way for his coming Messiah. And so the Medo-Persian Empire's ruling, you remember that uh Daniel uh told Deltashazzar uh that this was going to take place because Belteshazzar, although he watched Nebuchadnezzar uh be judged by God and have to act like a like a wild man be out in the wilderness because of his pride Yet still Belteshazzar rose up to power, and Belteshazzar uh defiled the temple uh the vessels of the temple. And God sends Daniel in and you you know the story of him Belteshazzar seeing the handwriting on the wall that uh hey judgment's coming. And uh you're gonna lose your you're gonna lose your kingdom. And that's what he was talking about. Daniel prophesied to him, told him about this night that was gonna take place when the Medes and the Persians were gonna come in and take over. That gets us to the end of really what would be the exile period. Then we have the first return, and uh this is post-exile. We'll get into this afterwards, but 536, the first return under Zereverable. uh 458 B. C. , the second return of the Jews under Ne Ezra, and the third return of the Jews under Nehemiah in 445 B. So that's kind of the progression of what takes place during this time, just as far as historical events during the time of captivity. Then we're going to look here at the prophets of exile, the prophets during this time of exile, beginning with the Book of Lamentations. Now a lot of people, if you look at uh a lot of other timelines You will see lamentations listed down here with these other uh minor prophets. And be included in here because literally Lamentations was written in five eighty six BC. So it is right there on the line. So depending upon which way you you decide you want to put it, I put it over here because Lamentations uh who was written by the weeping prophet Jeremiah, uh is quite literally a lamentation over the destruction of Jerusalem. That's what he's talking about. That's what Lamentations is describing. The destruction of Jerusalem, the the judgment of God that fell and what it ended up costing the people. And the weeping prophet Jeremiah history tells us that he stood uh or sat uh in the shadow of Galgotha on the northern side of Israel, and looking at Israel writing this book of lamentation, looking at the destroyed walls and the destroyed temple and and his heart broken over this great loss So one commentator said, Jeremiah's tears fell like the spring rain over the destruction of Jerusalem and all of its suffering. So we see that literally in 586 B. C. it was written, this book of lamentation is a lamentation over the destruction of Jerusalem. J. Vernon McGee said, This book is filled with tears and sorrow. It is a pining of pain A poem of pity, a proverb of pathos, a hymn of heartbreak, a psalm of sadness, a symphony of sorrow. It is literally the wailing wall. of the Bible, this book of Lamentations. And when you understand, like you you could read Lamentations and make what what does this mean? What is all this understanding the history and knowing That Jeremiah is looking at the glory of Jerusalem, the temple and the city. uh being destroyed and and he's weeping over that great loss and destruction of this. When you read the book of Lamentations, it'll put it into a new perspective. And help you understand what's going on and see what it is. So we see here the outline he gives us. He describes Jerusalem's grief in chapter 1. the expression of God's wrath in chapter chapters two, but God never leaves us hopeless and he uh uh expresses continued hope in chapter number three describing sin's consequences in chapter 4 and prayerful confession in chapter 5. Now this book is a form of Hebrew poetry Hebrew poetry and its acrostic organization of the Hebrew alphabet. Much like Psalms 119, each of the verses of each of the chapters begins with the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet. And then the next verse begins with the first letter of the next Hebrew alphabet and consecutively down through. And you'll see the chapters that have 22 verses and then also some of the chapters have more, but they're broken into sections of 22 verses each. And this is all designed off of Hebrew poetry, so that's how it was written. Then we see, secondly, the book of Ezekiel. Ezekiel was written by the priest. uh who lived in captivity. He was in bondage, you know, he was taken a while ago. Actually, um the Bible tells us Uh he had been in captivity for five years when he began to write. Look in the book of Ezekiel, chapter number one He says, Now it came to pass in the thirteenth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, I was among the captives by the river of Chabar, and the heavens were opened, and I saw a vision of God. in the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of King Jehoiakim's captivity. Jehoiachin's captivity. So in the fifth year of captivity. So he was taken into captivity, uh roughly around 25 years old. And so he's about 30 years old as a prophet when he begins to write this book. And so we see that here, Ezekiel in bondage in Babylon. Jeremiah was in Jerusalem. So they're contemporaries, but Jeremiah's in Jerusalem preaching. Ezekiel and Daniel are both in Babylon in captivity. Ezekiel is a priest. But Daniel was effectively a prime minister. He was in the government, held held office among the leaders of the land. So the purpose of this book was to show that God is righteous and that God is going to and does punish his people for the sin that's in their life. But further, that God is faithful to his covenant promise. Regardless of what's transpired, God is faithful to his covenant promise, and he will fulfill that. So the prophet carries a message of the Lord to his people, which is the job of all prophets, to give the message of God, not to give their own message, but to communicate the message of God. So the prophet communicates that to them And then a message of destruction of Jerusalem. Now, this message of destruction of Jerusalem came before Jerusalem was actually destroyed. You remember that he went into captivity uh back here and in the second wave of those that go into captivity so pre-586 BC. Now after the destruction of Jerusalem, the message changes. So he he communicates the message of destruction of Jerusalem, but then he communicates a message of deliverance by Jehovah. That uh they're going to be delivered. That although they're currently in captivity, that God is going to deliver them. He's going to raise up a deliverer. Harold Wilmington and Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, I've included this for you because I thought it was very uh a nice way or to picture or to put in our minds. He said Isaiah spoke of God's salvation. But you see that if you know the book of Isaiah at all, you understand that. Then Jeremiah spoke of God's judgment. Daniel spoke of God's kingdom, the coming kingdom, which you know the book of Daniel, you understand that. And then Ezekiel spoke of God's glory. Describing God's glory. In Ezekiel chapter 1 and verse number 28, if you're if you're there, look at that, the Bible says, as the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud, okay, obviously describing the rainbow in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake. He over and over again saw the glory of the Lord. I mean, what do we have to behold here that is more majestic than a rainbow? As many times as we've seen them, it's still it's still exciting to see when the the rain fades and and the sun starts to come out and you look out and and there's a rainbow and sometimes they're really bright. and you know you can almost see it from edge to edge. Sometimes they're very faint. You get really lucky occasionally and you get to see two. There'll be two rainbows one on top of the other. One day uh I was out here And uh there was a there was a rainbow right over there and I was by these pine trees down here in the hole and I was looking up and there was the American flag here and the cross and the steeple on the church and the rainbow was was over the over the top of it. And I said, that's awesome. And and it's nice that when you hit your phone, you can grab a picture anywhere, anytime. And uh I grabbed a picture of it. um but just an amazing thing and that's what Ezekiel describes the glory of God and and just vividly pictures there uh as the as the rainbow that comes out after the rain. That's what I beheld when I saw the glory of God. So he gives us an outline here of the book of Ezekiel. Chapters 1 through 3 is Ezekiel's call. So his call, what God called and wanted him to do, God's judgment on Judah, chapters 4 through 24. God's judgment on Judah. And again, as I described for you, that this was pre-fall, that God was going to judge Judah, but it was pre-586 When 586 came and the judgment fell and Jerusalem was destroyed, the message changed. We see chapters 25 to 32, God's judgment on the Gentiles. And then the message of hope that comes, 33 to 35 is hope of a new shepherd, hope of a new life, 36 to 39, and hope of a new Israel in 40 to 48. Now, all through the book of Ezekiel, you will see the phrase in the latter days. Over and over that phrase is given in the latter days, such as in Ezekiel 38, 16. And thou shalt come up against my people of Israel as a cloud to cover the land. It shall be in the latter days. And I will bring thee against my land, and the heathen may know me when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes. So describing this time of of the latter days. And here's the thing, here's where the the Jewish people in a lot of interpretation of scripture they they missed because they were looking for the Messiah and when Jesus came you know they expected him to set up his kingdom right then. That's what they wanted to do is set up his kingdom. They looked at Some of the things there is a fulfillment of a lot of the prophecies that were in the Old Testament, but they didn't have the spiritual sight to be able to see the church age that God had established and set up in between uh the first coming and the second coming. And so the church age is what we're in right now. And They they missed that. They didn't see that. And so many of them are still looking for a Messiah. They're still looking for his deliverance. But this description of in the latter days, we we talk about the in times and being in the latter days This is why in nineteen forty-eight uh the establishment of uh Israel as a nation, being recognized as a nation, was a fulfillment of the prophecies in the Old Testament, which laid the the groundwork. Basically it was such an exciting time for all Christendom because of the fact that that has been done now. Now we are in the latter days. And you see that fulfilled, and now the nation of Israel is back in there. So we have that That step has been done and now we've reached that time of the latter days. That's why we know we we are at the Christ's return is imminent. It could be at any moment, at any time. We don't know the day or the hour, but we know that we are in the latter days. And so a lot of things that are discussing that idea of the latter days is talking about time that we are in now where a lot of the Israels, uh a lot of Israel, the Jewish people, looked at it as a time when they were released from captivity a long time ago, and that's why they ended up missing a lot of what God's plan was for them. So we get into the book of Daniel. Daniel, of course, written by Daniel over and over again uh the book of Daniel, he as he's writing, he says, I, Daniel Chapter seven verse number fifteen. I, Daniel, was grieved in my spirit. Chapter eight, verse fifteen. And it came to pass when I, even I, Daniel, had seen the vision Over and over again he says, I Daniel. I don't know how there could be any question as to who wrote the book of Daniel. And yet there are many people that have attacked Daniel's authorship. And saying Daniel didn't write the book of Daniel. The reason they say he couldn't have written it is because of the things that he prophesied that said were going to happen hadn't happened yet. And so they say he couldn't have known about that. And so he must not have been the one that wrote it. It must have been somebody else that wrote it after. And they attribute Daniel or portions of Daniel to other people that were later in the Bible or later in time so that they could look back on the event and say it like that. But that's because they want to remove the the power of God. They want to remove God breathed the inspiration of Scripture, God giving man the words to say, and God prophesying and saying, hey, here's what's going to take place. And they want to undermine that so they say, oh, Daniel couldn't have written this because he described this event and it hadn't even taken place yet. Such as the kingdoms one falling after the other. These kingdoms weren't even around yet, and he's describing Rome. Rome hadn't even been thought of yet. And he's describing the fall of Babylon to the Medes and the Persians. But that's because God told him what was going to happen in the world, and he was able to do that in and through the power of God Not in and of himself. Now Daniel was a child of noble birth. Of noble birth. This might have contributed to his being put in the king's palace and having a position of authority, being raised uh well educated and uh being able to communicate well, being raised in that kind of environment, he was already a child of noble birth Uh he was a learned man, a man of honor. Um he was a faithful man in a dark day Praise the Lord for faithful men. Faithful men, even when it's not easy, even when it's hard, even when it's difficult. You understand that's really the only time that we get to express or show our faithfulness is when it's hard. Anybody can stand outside when it's seventy degrees and welcome people. But when it's seven degrees, well then that's a lot harder to stand outside and welcome people, right? It's very different when it's difficult, when it's hard to continue to be faithful or to continue to do the job. You know, anybody uh can go to the prison and serve when everything's going really well. This last uh Friday night we had a fight breakout in in prison ministry. And uh very exciting events. Uh we had about uh thirty-five guards show up and and it it was not that bad actually. Uh but you know two two inmates got into it. And you're like, oh, I don't know, this could be a little hairy. I'm not sure if this is good this God's called me to do this or not. That idea when I'm saying is when it's hard or difficult is when you get the privilege of showing your faithfulness of being faithful. And by the way, that's the same thing in your relationships. Until death do us part. Amen. And and when you get to show your love and your faithfulness is when it's not easy. Everybody enjoys the honeymoon. But what about when the honeymoon's over? I'm going to be talking about the miracle of marriage tonight in the service of this evening. So I don't want to uh preach that now, but we just praise God for faithful men are just going to be faithful and do what God expects of them or what they're supposed to do, even though it's not hard. We can learn from from Daniel So many things. Daniel did not withdraw from the world. He didn't go hide in a hole. He even held public office. He served, but through it all, he was still faithful to God. He still followed God. He he was a light and a testimony to those around him, and yet serving even in the leadership of the land. We see the purpose for which Daniel was written is it was a pro prophetic book A prophetic book that is declaring what was going to happen. By nature, this book is a prophetic book. If you ever do a study on the book of Revelation, you also have to study the book of Daniel. The book of Daniel and Revelation are intertwined. They're linked together. They're inseparable. It's a prophetic book, just like the book of Revelation is. declaring God's plan for the Gentile kingdoms, chapters 1 through 7, and declaring God's plan for the heavenly kingdom, for what the kingdom that's going to come. that we're not in yet, but God gives us these pictures and tells us what's going to take place here. Daniel is a miraculous book filled with so many miracles. uh miracles that take place in the book of Daniel are phenomenal, not the least of which is you know Daniel and the lion's den. Uh Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. uh in the fiery furnace. You know, over and over again you see God do miraculous things here in the book of Daniel. These miracles show God's omnipotence and his omniscience. God's power, even in a world that doesn't believe in him, and a world that doesn't want to acknowledge him, and yet he is exercising and showing his power to the world around Daniel. So we see the outline of Daniel here, first of all, is that God cares for his people. Even though they're in captivity, remember Daniel's in captivity, even though they're in captivity, they're under foreign rule, God cares for his people, and he's describing that and showing them. that he cares for him. You know the story of Daniel uh and the king's meat there in chapter one where he chose he would not defile himself with the king's meat. And he says, Well, uh I'll tell you what, uh I'll just eat this You know, vegetables and and you know, all the all the greens. I'm gonna eat all that, I'm not gonna defile myself with the king's meat and we'll see who is fatter, who is more healthy. And ultimately God blesses them and they are noticeably more healthy because of this. Uh by the way, it's not a a plug for vegetarianism. Okay. God has given us the privilege of eating meat today, and so you do not have to do that. Some people say, well, if you would eat like Daniel, you would be a lot more healthy. Um but we are in a different time. Amen. And uh so um we see here that that God cares for his people and the even in the face of that uh there's prophecy concerning the coming changes, the changes that are gonna take place. Chapters 2 and chapter 7. They kind of they're very connected. Chapter 7 is kind of like a repeat in a different perspective of chapter 2. But Daniel's given the vision of the rise and the fall of nations, Babylon Babylon Babylonian Empire falls to the Medes and the Persian Empire, to the Grecian Empire, to the Roman Empire. And then ultimately all nations are going to fall to the reign of Jesus Christ. Amen? One day every knee is going to bow and every tongue is going to confess that Jesus is the Lord. We have the story of the fiery furnace, those three Hebrew children there in a culture that is anti-God, and yet God is there with them. And we see Nebuchadnezzar is humbled and has to uh walk around and nails grow like a beast and hair grows like a beast. He's humbled and acts like a beast of the field for a period of time because he rose and rose up against God. Belteshazzar sees the handwriting on the wall in chapter number five, and uh Belteshazzar knew about Nebuchadnezzar, and yet he still uh went his own way. We have the story of the Lion's Den in chapter number six, Daniel and the Lion's Den, and a prophecy of the changing of empires again in chapter number seven, the repeat of chapter number two. Now Daniel knew and understood what the 70 weeks was and that it was almost over. In chapter 9, he gives us a lot of prophecy. There's a lot of prophecy in chapter 9 that is not fulfilled yet. It's going to come to pass yet in the future. And then we have the pictures of Christ in Daniel. There's a number of them. First that Christ is the stone that is cut without hands and smashed, uh smashes the kingdoms of this world in chapter 2 and verse number 34 And he is the Son of Man who receives the everlasting kingdom of the Ancient of Days in chapter 7. And he is the Messiah that would be cut off but not for himself in chapters 9-26. And he is the man in the fiery furnace, uh as the preincarnate Christ, a a Theophanes, a a representation of Christ here on earth. in chapter three verse number twenty-five. So places that we see Christ. C. H. Spurgeon used to tell his preacher boys, find find the text that God wants you to preach from, and then find Christ in the text and preach Jesus Christ. for each Jesus Christ. And wherever you're at in the Old Testament, all the way through the pages of the New Testament, you can find the message of the gospel, you can find Jesus Christ. And that's just some notable places where he's found in the book of Daniel. uh pictured or represented there for us. Alright, that brings us to a conclusion for today. Does anybody have any questions? We're done about three minutes early. I know we covered a lot of ground here. But that kind of gets us through the nitty-gritty uh this time of exile and captivity. Uh we're going to reach the end of captivity, and this is kind of a progression of events. As you saw, we have several returns where the ruling kings kind of begin to look favorably and they say, hey, I'll tell you what, yeah, you can go back. You can go back. Sure, go ahead. And God gives them favor, and they begin to go back to their land in again in preparation for the coming Messiah. So we're not far from the end of the Old Testament. I'm not positive I'll make it by December 31st, but we won't be that far into January. And then as of right now, my plan uh next year would be to just go ahead and go right into the New Testament and do a New Testament survey. and kind of walk through that uh and just get an overview of the New Testament. So that's what we'll be doing next