Well now we're here uh the children of Israel are on their way and they have been freed from Egypt. God is directing them, but God is preparing them. So they They uh do you have that map? Um we're going to kind of jump in and out of this, but I have the map of the journeys that they took um and you can kind of visualize a little bit. It doesn't make sense. Uh that shows you the fertile present there. That's the one I need. Um and so I don't know if you guys can see the the red line on there. Can you see it? Okay. Uh so you know they're going over here, right? And it just like why did they go down here? Uh this is Sinai, the Sinai Peninsula here. This is where they're gonna get to where we're at right now. Uh but they traveled down here, crossed over the Red Sea in this region and then go up here, go through some different uh trials and tests and in these in each of these places God is teaching them something. God is uh bringing them along and helping them to grow and preparing them for what he wants them to do, where ultimately they make their way right up here and then across of course across the Jordan River into the Promised Land. So we're going to be talking about that, but covering that in in a broad uh sense here as we walk through this. But uh God has brought him now as far as our story where in Exodus, we're at chapter number nineteen. He's brought them here to the Sinai Peninsula, the area there, Mount Sinai, where they're gonna spend eleven months. in this region. They're going to spend 11 months here as God is going to deliver them the law, the ceremonial law. uh the moral law and uh he's going to give them uh all of what they need is God establishes this nation. As a nation they need they need law, they need a constitution, they need something to guide them and God's preparing them for that. Then he also gives them the tabernacle and a place of worship and establishes what he expects from them and the relationship that he's building with them. And so these things are taking place during this eleven months So we begin here, first of all, today with the preparation for the law, chapters 19 through 25. And as we begin, we're going to kind of walk through uh verse by verse for just a little bit. They will be jumping multiple chapters at a time as we get a little further down here, but we see first of all a delivered nation. In 19 verses 1 through 4. He says, in the third month, so now we know they've been traveling for three months. They've been out for three months from being freed from Egypt. When the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai. So now we know they're there in the wilderness of Sinai that we saw on the map at the bottom of that region. For there were departed from Raphedeeum, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness, and there Israel camped before the mount. And Moses went up unto God, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel, Ye have seen What I did unto the Egyptians and how I bear you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself Several notable things here as we're getting into this. God, first of all, I want you to note that they are a delivered nation. God brought them back to this mountain, to this place. Now this is a fulfillment of what God promised that he would do for Moses in Exodus chapter 3 and verse number 12. You remember when Moses was called aside He met with God at the burning bush. In Exodus three twelve, God told him, and he said, Certainly I will be with thee And this shall be a token unto thee that I have sent thee. When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain. So God met with him there in the in the wilderness and the time came where they the people were freed, and God said, Okay, it's time for you to come back. In fulfillment of what I said would happen, you're going to come back to this place. You're going to serve me here. I'm going to give you the law in this place. This is the place where God has met with you. I want you to understand there's something special about going back to the place where God met with you. Going back to the place if you can recall or if it's possible for you to go back to the place where you got saved There's just something special about that. Going back to that place and just knowing this is where I first met God. This is where God forgave me of my sin. And I that relationship was established. And man, that is precious There's also times in my life where God has met with me in a very real way, where God has changed my life, where I came away different, like Jacob of old, who said, I will not let thee go except thou Bless me. And and there was a marked notable change in my life. And those places are special. In my mind's eye, I can see them. Sometimes uh if I'm back in that area of the country and this is the problem with having lived all over the country is I gotta travel to go to these places. Uh it's not like I uh I brother I don't know if it's good or bad, but Brother Crane who who's not here this morning, you know, he's Except for four years in the military, he's in the house he was born in. So he's been there his whole life. And so very different. He's seen that region over there when it was all all tumonium and all that was all cornfields. You know, there's nothing there. Of course I've never known it like that. But uh I gotta travel to go see these places. But if I'm back in that region, you know, I mean yeah, I got some restaurants I like to check out when I'm back there. I know that hey I want to stop and eat here Uh, you know, I want to try this food or whatever. But also in my mind, I'm like, I want to stop and uh go go to this place. In Indiana, there's an area that uh is down an old service road by some uh uh power lines that uh I would drive my little Dodge Omni, drive down this service road, you know, praying I didn't get stuck. It was not much of a road, it was basically mowed grass out down by the service line. But they always kept it mowed for some reason and I would go out there and just walk and talk to God. kids have ever seen it, but when I'm there and I'm alone, I'll I'll go down, I'll just get there. And this is where God met with me. Uh this is a place where and it's special. And I hope you have some of those special places where God met with you. God changed you. Some of you, it's here. It's in this room. God has met with you. God's changed your life. And that is precious. And praise the Lord for that. And uh don't don't lose that appreciation for those places. God met with him and brought him back. Not only did God bring him back to that mountain, but I want you to know that God brought the people to himself. This is key, it's important. In verse number four there, he says, You have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, how I bare you on eagle's wings, and I brought you. unto myself. Yes, God freed them from Egypt. And yes, God is going to be taking them to the promised land. But understand for God the goal here was the relationship that was being restored because sin came into the world and sin disrupted, destroyed that precious relationship that God had with his creation. And God is establishing a way now for them through the ceremonial law and the rituals of the Old Testament that God gave them before Christ came. to to re-establish that relationship with his creation. That's what was precious to God, and that's what should be precious to us. We should value that. Understand, yes, God has freed us from Egypt. We've been saved from sin. Amen. We've been taken out of that. And that's exciting that We've been removed from that, and we don't have to go to hell when we die. We're gonna, yes, one day we're gonna go to heaven to the promised land, amen. But right now, we have a relationship And that's what is precious to God, and that's what should be precious to us. He brought them unto himself. That's something that should jump out at us about that relationship and how important it was for God. We see that uh it not only were they a delivered nation, but they were to be a devout nation in verses five through eight. Excuse me, let's read those verses here. He says, Now therefore If ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me. Above all people, for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people. Now we have a picture in our mind, at least if you have seen those that are my generation and older, uh you've seen uh I think it was at Charleston Heston in his video of the Ten Commandments. or movie of the Ten Commandments many, many years ago. Um well that image, you know, in my mind, always growing up, Moses went up on top of the mountain one time and he met with God and he came down with the Ten Commandments. But actually Moses made I think it was seven journeys to the top of the mountain, came back with God's message, and and if you read and pay attention, you'll see him. We already seen him go up once. He already came back once. and and carried the message and then then now he's carrying the message back to God and letting him know what's going on. So he went up and down that mountain several times, uh meeting with God and beloved he was establishing this teaching them listen there's an expectation of holiness He's letting them know that, hey, as my people, of all the people, the whole earth is mine, but of all the people, I want to maintain a relationship with you, and there's an expectation of holiness Now, Exodus is the book that introduces this idea of holiness to us. The very first time it's seen in the Word of God is at the burning bush. And we saw that. Hey, that's a that's something that's unique to God, is that a holiness that and God is trying to impart that unto his people, teaching them that it's something that he expects of them. He expects them to be set apart holy unto him. And if they're going to be a set apart unto him, he establishes the expectation of holiness, but he also establishes a theocracy. In verse number five. Now theocracy is a form of government, like democracy. We have actually a di democratic republic, but uh it's a form of government which means ruled by God. And God was directly over them as his people, and he was going to be leading them. In verse number five there he says, Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people. And so he establishes this theocracy with them, a nation that's to be ruled by God. A nation that is to be committed to God. They were to be committed to God. That was, I want you to understand, beloved, that it was a voluntary commitment. You see that in verse number 8. The people made a choice. God does not, has not, and will not even today force you to have a relationship with Him. He does not he did not create robots. He has given us free will. And uh this flies in the face of those Calvinists that believe you have no choice that Those that are going to be saved are saved, and those that aren't saved aren't saved, and there's nothing you can do about it. Beloved, you have a free choice. You can choose to follow God. And God, here with their people, He gives them this choice. He says, if you will And then verse number eight says, and all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, what's the next three words? We will do. We will do. They said, we'll do it. Everything that he says, beloved, this should be in the heart of every single child of God. You might not be an Israelite, but you know that the Old Testament is given there as an example, as something that we are to learn from and to guide our lives. And this relationship that was established between God and his people, we don't replace Israel, but we are children of God, and we ought to have it in our heart that, lay whatever God says. will do. That's what that's the way it is. They they freely committed here what they're going to do. And I want you to remember this In case I forget to reference it in the morning service, okay? Because we're we're going to be touching on this relationship and these things a little bit in the morning service. But uh there's so much in these I mean I'm covering the book of Exodus and Leviticus today. And there's no way. Well, today and next week. I'm not going to get it all, but even in two weeks is There's so much and I just can't narrow in on so many important things, but they were to be a committed people. Not only that were they delivered, not only were they to be devout, but I want you to know that they were a dependent nation. They were dependent upon God. God was the source of their strength. God was the one that had guided them. God was the one leading them by a pillar of fire and cloud and directing them. God saved them at the Red Sea. fed them uh manna in the wilderness. God was the one uh they were dependent upon him and God clearly saw or the people clearly saw God working on their behalf. Look at verse number nine. And the Lord said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee. They did not get to be in God's presence. They did not get to go and walk with God as as Moses did, but they could hear it. They could hear him The thundering of his voice, they knew that Moses was meeting with God. He says that they could hear when I speak with thee and believe thee forever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Moses, Go unto thy people and sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes, and be ready against the third day, for the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of the Okay, come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai. This is not something that just Moses understood to be true. All the people saw God move. I want you to understand this is something that uh there are many groups of people that like to keep a separation between uh you know the church members or laity and uh the church leaders. Listen, nobody has a corner on God. Any one of us here can be as close to God as we want to be. The people got to see and experience God's presence. They knew that He was there. It was something they recognized Recognized and it wasn't a hint from them. They the people understood that, and so we saw in verse number 10 that they they cleaned themselves, they washed themselves in preparation for meeting with God, and after that is when God revealed himself to them. Verse number 11. Listen, if we're ever really going to see God do something, we got to clean ourselves. That's a principle that you'll see over and over again taught in the Old Testament as well as in the New Testament, the Christian life. Confess your sins. uh forsake them, uh listen, God will meet with you. If you draw nigh unto God, he'll draw nigh unto you. That process is still uh relevant today. In in Psalm 68, verse number seventeen They said, the chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels. The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place. They the children of Israel, the people, saw God. They saw his hand. They saw his presence. They recognized when Moses came off of the mountain, he glowed as having been in the presence of God. It was something that we recognized. And all the way in the book of Psalms, they commented on it and it was saying, hey, God's there like he was on the mount of Mount Sinai. And they they saw that. So they were dependent upon God for his great work. Then we see that God gives them the law, the provision for the law, beginning here first of all with what was the reason. Why did God give them a law? Chapters 20 through 24. But the reason here, first of all, I want you to see it was to reveal his glory. To reveal his glory. We're not going to turn to Deuteronomy, but Deuteronomy 5, 22, and 28 through 28 explains and says that it was to reveal man's sin. That passage in James there uh is the passage that deals with how the law of God is a mirror. It reflects It shows us the problem. We recognize that. And it is the law of God that shows man that they're sinners. Romans 7. 7. Mark that down in your notes right there. Romans 7. 7 says, I had not known sin. But by the law. You see, so God's law was given that men would know what sin is. If you don't have the law, you don't know that you broke it. Uh over on the Audubon, you can drive as fast as you want, because there's no law. So, basically it's up to your common sense or lack of sense. Whatever the case may be, you can do what you want to do. There's no law And so men will do that. And men tend will tend to do what they want to do, especially when there's no law. So God was establishing the law here. He was giving that to them to reveal man's sin, also to reveal Christ. To reveal Christ, Hebrews 10 and verse number 1. He describes here that shadow of things to come. He says, for the law having a shadow of good things to come. Not the very image of the things can never whose sacrifices which they offered year by year, continually making The comers thereunto perfect. He's saying, listen, the law could not do some things, and we're going to talk about that in a second, but he says, Hey This was a shadow of things to come. It was an image. It was typology. It was a picture of the things to come. And so it was to show and reveal Christ to them. It also revealed God's expectations for Israel as a nation. The law, and there's of course for us, the moral law is still still binding, uh knowing what the law of God is and what we're supposed to do. Expectations are very important. Deuteronomy 5. 29 says, oh, that there were such an heart in them. That they would fear me and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them and with their children. He says, hey, here's the expectation. This is the law. Would you follow that? And it'll be well with you and with your children. So it was to reveal the expectations that God had for them. Listen, here we're going to see the limitations of the law. The law had some limitations too. There were some things that it couldn't do. Understand, the law could not forgive sin. The sacrifices, the ceremonies, the rituals, those things that they went through, it covered sin for a time. And they had to continually offer those sacrifices to cover the sins of the people, to cover their individual sins. sin. Galatians 3. 11 says, but that no man is justified by the law. The law can't justify. It's not going to forgive sin. It can't it can't make you, you know, justification is just as if I had never sinned. justified and it's just as if I had never sinned. Well the law couldn't do that. But Jesus Christ can. He has shed blood for us, removes sins, it justifies us. No man's justified by the law Um Romans 3. 20 says, Therefore by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified. So it not only could never forgive sin, uh it could never give righteousness. It couldn't provide righteousness. You know, we have the righteousness of God imputed unto us. This is where, and if you want to get really deep into this, listen to the Thursday night study on Galatians. It's on sermon audio and uh that hammers this over and over and over again uh because that's what Paul's dealing with there. Um but listen he he tells us that righteousness, we know that righteousness is imputed unto us by Christ. It's not by what we do. I mean, if righteousness could be earned by what we do, I think the Pharisees had it. If righteousness could be earned by what we do, I think those that really held to the law, they had it. I mean the ceremonies that they had to continually do, the continual offering of sacrifices, this continual work that they were involved in. But he says, hey, all of that did not give them righteousness. Why? Because righteousness comes from Christ. It is imputed unto us. That righteousness of Christ is given to us by God. And so the law couldn't give them righteousness. The law couldn't give them peace. Hebrews 9 9 tells us that. The peace of God. It's not something that we can earn. It's something that's granted to us by the Holy Spirit. And the law could not give life. Again, Galatians 321. There's a lot in that contrast in the book of Galatians that you could look at. And then so we see the revelation of the law. The revelation of the law was revealed for several reasons. Look at Exodus chapter 20 and verse number two. I want you to see this. twenty and verse number two. I am the Lord thy God which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Here's the key thing here. This was based on what God had already done. So this is important because our relationship with Christ and our accepting of Him is based on on what God has already done. It's not what is going to happen in the future, but it's what God had already done. God had already freed them. His uh his getting them out of Egypt and taking to the promised land was not conditional upon this. God had already freed them from Egypt and brought them to this place. And so it's not conditional for us. What we do, and you know, some people say, well, I d I don't want to, you know, get saved because I don't want to change my life. Well there's a problem there, but I want you to understand changing your life is not salvation is not contingent upon salvation that. Salvation is all contingent upon God and your desire to change your life will change when you have the Holy Spirit. What you have to do is accept His forgiveness And then your your desire will change as well. So the revelation of the law. First of all, he gives us the moral law. Now you guys know this. We've taught through uh these the the Ten Commandments before. You have the moral law. Um the Ten Commandments. Here in Exodus chapter 20, there are four of those laws that deal with man's relationship to God. The first four, foundational, begin and deal with man's relationship to God. And then the last six deal with man's relationship to man. And uh so we've gone through this before, but there are some people new. Uh let's uh just review, but this might help you to remember if you say, well, I have a general idea what the uh uh ten commandments are. And you maybe even be able to say them, but some people were like, well I don't know if that's the fourth commandment or the fifth commandment. Commandment, or I don't know if that's the seventh commandment or whatever. So there's some hand motion hand motions that go along with it that make it very easy for you to in your mind remember. Oh, that's definitely that one. So uh the first law number one. Pointing to God, number one is thou shalt have no other gods before me. God's number one. No question there. Now you're going to continue to switch between the use of one and two hands as we go through this. Number two, you have two. This one bows down to that one. So thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images. Number one, God is first. Number two, this bows down to that one. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven images. Images. Number three, take again one hand, take the three, put it to your mouth. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Watch your mouth. Uh number four, sorry, back to two hands. Number four, you take these, put them together, and make a church. Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy. Number five. Honor thy mother and thy father. You take your hand and make a salute. You got five. Bring it to your head. Make a salute, you know number five, that's the transitional between the relationship between man and God. Parents stand in that stead when the children are young. They learn about God. They learn about righteousness. They learn about the law, those things are taught to them, and hopefully one day they transfer that authority to God as well. But number five is in number six, you've got these five. You take this one in this hand. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not kill. Number six, this turns into a gun. Thou shalt not kill. Okay. Number seven, take these two fingers, put them down in the bed over here. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Number eight, take this hand and steal those three. Thou shalt not steal. Number nine, I thou shalt not bear false witness. The idea is I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, nothing but the truth, you know that that kind of you picture number nine. I mean you have the five here but you got those. Yeah I mean you can put it on the Bible uh but I swear to tell the truth the whole truth nothing but the truth so number nine is that number ten take all ten fingers reach out and grab and pull towards you Thou shalt not covet, want, to want, to grab. So if you have those in your mind's eye, at any time you can like, oh, number seven, thou shalt not commit adultery. You know, and you'll know what they are and be able to remember them. So just review those a few times and you'll at least have that uh at your uh Mind the edge yeah, fingertips at the edge of your fingers, Pa. Very good play on word, Jacob. So put that in my notes, so I'll have it for later. You want that right at your fingertips, huh? All right. So uh then we know that all of these are summarized in two commandments in Matthew chapter 22. Those two commandments, of course, are thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. That's the first four. That's going to cover those. If you love God with all your heart, soul, mind. That you're going to do those things which are represented in the first four commandments. There's no question about that. And then the second, which is like unto it, is thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. laws that deal with uh your relationship with your fellow man, and so you love your neighbor as yourself. Then we see that he gives them the civil law in chapters 21 through 23. Understanding the civil law is a further development. It is a practical application of the moral law. You know, thou shalt not kill. You know, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, which he gives them in the New Testament, but the ideas there of of them the relationship with man, he broadens that. And he says, okay, what does that mean? And so he deals with many aspects of their life. And this is just a very brief list I've given you. I mean, we could have a page and a half probably just listing the actual topics that he covered with them. You know, like concerning slavery, concerning personal injury, concerning personal property, morality uh uh finances, offerings uh there's civil obligations among one another. There's lots of things that he deals with on a practical level. Okay, if you're going to observe these moral laws, what does that mean for you today if a man comes and says he's going to take your property, well what rights do you have? Do you have personal property? How do you handle this? How should you treat your boss? How should the boss treat uh his servant. And so that relationship is talked about. And then he gives them the ceremonial laws in 23, 10 through 19. And that's a summary of it. There's a lot of instruction about the ceremonial laws that takes place in the rest of the chapter, as well as a large portion of Leviticus and a little bit of numbers. We're not going to turn to all of those or try and list them all out, but uh he's giving him the ceremonial law instruction on what it is for that uh the major aspects of the relationship that he has with them, and you can read through these chapters on your own. Just briefly here, what is the relevance of the law What is the relevance of the law for us today? Beloved, without the absolute law, we would have complete lawlessness. And you understand that this is what people are trying to do. uh when they can they're they're striving to remove the law of God. I don't know when it was because I'm too young, but I think it was in the 50s. If they removed the Ten Commandments out of the schools, the reading of the Ten Commandments, not the whole country, but by and large that in prayer, they wanted to remove the law of God. and take that out of the schools. They wanted to remove that. And now today we have several generations. Now we've got people teaching kids. that have no concept of God and don't understand that and it's all relative and there is no absolute truth and without that you have lawlessness. Which is being lived out in our streets and on our campuses, uh around the country, and the crazy foolishness that you see. Why? Because they have removed the law. If it's all opinion Who's to say your opinion is any better than mine? That's why everything can be called in question. Why is it okay to kill a baby? Because you've removed the law. We look at it and we say, well, they would never euthanize seniors. But the world, the direction it's heading. Yeah, Canada. It's already there. And and y y you say, man, this is crazy. They wouldn't do that in a Christian nation. But when you remove the law, it just becomes subjective. It becomes whatever you think, whatever society begins to decide they want to adopt, and uh the majority rules, uh power rules. instead of right and wrong ruling. And so the law is very important for us. And we know of course that Jesus did not come to do away with the law, but to fulfill it there in Matthew 17 and 18. So God didn't do away with those things. He didn't come to destroy that and say that has no effect or no application for your lives. He fulfilled the law. You understand the law was a shadow of things to come. The law was the picture showing what was going to come. And as we talk about some of this, I can't even get into all of it, but the pictures that Christ, uh, God gave us about Christ in this is phenomenal. So we see the plan for the tabernacle given to them. The plan for the tabernacle, what we're going to do is just introduce this and then we'll pick up here next week. This was a temporary mobile place of worship. that would serve uh God's people for about four hundred and fifty years where they would uh use the tabernacle to worship God, meet with God, the place they would come to observe the sacrifices and such. the purpose for the tabernacle given in chapter 25 in verse number 8. I want you to see that if you're in your Bibles or look at Exodus chapter 25. In verse number eight. This is important. He says, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may, what's the word there? Dwell among them. You understand God with Adam and Eve walked in the garden with them. He fellowship with them. They had a direct connection to him. They had pre they they were in his presence. But when sin entered God left. And God, we see thus far in the Old Testament, God would come at certain points and meet with individuals. God would come on the scene for specific things. But there wasn't a place here on earth where God's presence dwelled, where people would go to be with God. And so this is re-establishing a place here on earth where God's presence would come. He wanted to have a place here with his people where his presence would dwell. I'm glad today that God's presence dwells in us. With us wherever we are. We don't have to take a annual trip to a particular place to try and meet with God. God is with us all the time. wherever we are. So the purpose of the tabernacle was setting up a place for God to dwell. Exodus twenty-five and verse number eight. And that dwelling place is where what we're going to talk about next week. We'll pick up right there and get into that and uh talk about the tabernacle. The typology and pictures there are so powerful. Um we could have an entire Sunday school lesson on each furniture, each piece of furniture in the tabernacle, on the construction of the tabernacle itself. I mean we could easily spend weeks and weeks and weeks, but we're gonna The uh Exodus era uh dealing with that and I think Looking at the notes here, we finished up last week at close to the bottom of page number 52. We'll pick up here with the plan for the tabernacle. That was kind of where we were at. Right at that, I think I introduced that and we began that just a little bit. Um but uh looking at that, the plan for the tabernacle. Um we are Let me just look at our overview here and see. Um so in the general the overview that I gave you at the very beginning, we of course are here in the Exodus era. This is what we're covering right now. Looking at the book of Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers. Deuteronomy is a complementary book. A lot, not a whole lot of history is there, but it it reiterates and deals with some of the stuff that takes place there. Today we're going to get through chapter 10 of numbers and uh then progress from there, let you know we're we're gonna one more week here. I don't know for sure if it'll be one one week. I haven't written a lesson yet, so I'm not sure how much because we get to the end here and we have We conclude today they're going to be ready to leave Mount Sinai and go towards the Promised Land. They're leaving Moab and going to the Promised Land, but we know that during that time you have the the spies go into the promised land and they check it out and they find out, oh you know, ten were bad, two were good and that whole story takes place and then they get punished and they have to spend forty years in the wilderness. Uh and so that punishment and then That whole forty years in the wilderness is spent and then they get ready to go into the promised land, which starts in Joshua chapter number one. And so uh You know, that's what we we'll be dealing with as we get into that next week. But today we're going to conclude here with these things that are in the book of Really, we're through here. We're in Leviticus and a little bit of numbers. So concluding Exodus, a little bit of Leviticus, and then Numbers. So Let me see here. We're beginning. Line up my notes with your notes. Alright, we are the plan for the tabernacle. We began last week. I gave you the purpose. The purpose for the tabernacle We was given to given to us in 25. 8, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell among them. It was a sitting place for God to dwell, a place for him to dwell. And uh God wanted a place to be able to sit and meet with his people, a place for him to dwell here on earth, opposed to just coming and visiting and then leaving and then coming and visiting, but he wanted a place to dwell with them. And so that is what he's establishing here with the tabernacle. In Exodus 29, verses 45 and 46, he says, and I will dwell among them. the children of Israel, and will be their God. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them. Again, just that was his plan. That's what he is building this for and what he's dealing with and uh the goal of the tabernacle. So we're going to look at the tabernacle here now, the plans for it. Um Pastor Gus, could you put up the uh image that I sent you last night of the surrounding uh tabernacle. Uh so you see here the tabernacle was central by God's design and plan. The tabernacle was to be central to their life as uh God's people. He he planned and established not just, okay, here's a tabernacle for you, but specifically where they were supposed to be. The tabernacle was to be right in the middle of the camp. Each time they set up camp on their journey, okay, the tabernacle gets set up, and then he had uh by plan north, west, east, south. He where they were supposed to be. On the northern side, Dan, Asher, and Naphtali were supposed to be encamped on the northern side. On the southern side, Gad, Simeon, and Reuben were supposed to be camped On the on the eastern side, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, and then Benjamin, Manassas, and Ephraim. By God's plan and design, the camp was supposed to be built around the tabernacle, the place that they met with God. Now we of course know that we God is with us, but I want you to know that Jesus Christ loved and gave himself for the church The church is to be central, and I believe as a committed Christian, the church should be central to our lives. It ought to be something that is a central part of our life, something that we build our life around. Not that we catch occasionally when it's convenient, but that we plan our lives around the church And that's one of the reasons as a church that we give you our church annual calendar back in January. You've got it. You know when things are happening, so that in your life you can look at it and say, okay, well, I don't want to miss Anniversary Sunday, so I'm not going to plan Vacation uh uh the usually the last week of April. This last year we did it a little bit early because of it being fifteenth anniversary and people's traveling schedules and all that. Twentieth anniversary, sorry. Uh it was on the fourteenth. Uh but anyway so my wife laughing at me s messing my mind up So I just need to slow down, right? And then I can keep up with my uh talking can keep up with my mind, hopefully. So uh what I'm saying, the principle I was saying is that we ought to build our life around the church. And that I believe is something that you ought to really plan and commit to do. The importance and the typology that is here in the tabernacle cannot be overstated. It cannot be overstated. You understand that God gave us in the book of Genesis the creation of the world in two chapters. The tabernacle, he committed fifty chapters of the Word of God to The importance of this cannot be overstated. Now we're going to cover it really quick here, but we could take an entire lesson on every one of the pieces of furniture. We could take an entire lesson on every one of the uh uh feast days that they were supposed to have. We could take an entire lesson on every one of the sacrifices. uh that they were supposed to offer. Uh and uh so we could be here twenty five weeks just dealing with the tabernacle. We're going to be done with one week. So I don't have time to teach on all of the things. We can look at that maybe another time. But in this map you'll see that how I wrote it's not very good, but The courtyard of the tabernacle was surrounded by a rectangular curtain. I should have s rephrased that and said uh it was Rectangular, surrounded by a curtain, because the curtain wasn't rectangular. The shape of the tabernacle was rectangular and uh had this curtain around it. So it wasn't a rectangular curtain, but it was a rectangular shape and the curtain surrounded it. Um and uh it was 150 feet long and then 75 feet wide And uh it only had one gate. You know, you saw the picture of everybody encamped around the tabernacle. I mean, wouldn't it be so much more convenient to have an entrance on every side But entrance over here, entrance I mean, they had to walk a hundred and fifty feet around this entrance on this side. But see, God was teaching them something. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. There was only one sorry, I don't want to Blind somebody with that laser. There was only one uh way, only one entrance into the where you meet with God, how you get to God, access to God. There was only one way. So many things in God's plan and design here was teaching and illustrating and showing them ultimately his plan. And so he designed that and set that up to be that way. There was only one gate. The curtain was made of white linen. It was seven and a half feet high. And uh it was a picture, uh course white. I mean can you imagine trying to deal with white fabric ladies out there in the wilderness uh and keeping this white linen but that purity of Christ being pictured uh always as a meeting place and they looked at that And saw silver hooks hung this curtain from forty-eight wooden pillars that sat upop bronze bases. And we could teach about these things, but we've gonna keep moving. When you come through the gate, the first thing that you get to is the altar. Is the altar. That brazen altar was the very first thing in chapter 27, verses 1 through 8. So let me look at that here In chapter twenty-seven he says, and thou shalt make an altar of shitom wood, five Five cubits long and five cubits broad, and the altar shall be four square, and the height thereof shall be three cubits, and thou shalt make the horns of it, and upon the four corners thereof his horn shall be of the same, and thou shalt overlay it with brass. And and he goes through and describes exactly what they're supposed to do for this altar. This was the very first thing as they entered the uh tabernacle was the altar, illustrating and showing that uh the altar was both inclusive and exclusive. You see, beloved, it's inclusive because anybody that wanted to come could come through the sacrifices that were available there. It was available to all, but if they were not willing to do so via sacrifice, then they couldn't get to be with God. There was Uh that one entrance, the one way, when they looked from the outside or when they came in to observe the very first thing that was necessary. Some people would say, well wouldn't it be better to have the uh Uh basin the labor there first where they could wash and get clean before they come to the altar? No, because we're not made clean by our works By what we do. We're made clean by the shed shed blood. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. We're made clean by Jesus Christ And so that altar is first in that picture and illustrating that for them so that they always have that continual burnt offerings were made there. This altar was the place of justification. Uh it was a picture of justification that we know that when we come to Jesus Christ, we are justified. Through him and the sacrifice that was made for us. Then you have the labor. That was the place where they would wash. You see, uh this was a picture of sanctification. That process where each time they came in, they they have come through the sacrifice. That step has been done, but there is some cleaning that needs to be done. There is some washing that needs to be done. They had to wash their hands It also is notable that they uh when a priest was commissioned into his service He had to wash his entire body. There was a process of cleansing that he went through at his commissioning at that very first time. But then thereafter he that very first washing and being commissioned was a picture of regeneration From thereafter he came to the labor and he had to wash his hands or he had to wash his feet, what I'm saying is there were some parts of him that needed to be cleaned. But that picture was held true that it wasn't you did not have to be rewashed or reborn or born again or saved again. That's all been done the one time. when you come through Jesus Christ. So pictured there uh that process of sanctification where they would come and be washed. And then we have the holy place. The holy place, can you show us that picture again there of the tabernacle? The other one. That kind of breaks it up. Yeah, that one. Alright. So you have here's the courtyard, this big pillar here. Um and uh you know, the one entrance. You come in, the very first thing is the bronze altar. They would come and that, then they would come to the labor. And then this holy place is divided into two sections. You have the holy place and the holy of holies. And so what we're talking about right now is this holy place right here and the pieces of furniture that were found in that holy place and then the Holy of Holies. And uh so you had this, the holy place. It was the inner court, called the inner court as well, and it was 30 by 15 by 15 high. And in that place, the furniture that was there was a table of showbread. The scriptures are listed there. We could read all those, but it's a description of how they're to make it exactly. It was a gold-covered table. On the table of showbread, there were twelve loaves of bread representing the twelve tribes of Israel and the people there. That bread was to be eaten and replaced every seven days. And it pictures our fellowship with God, that continual fellowship, something that we continue to come to Him. We have fellowship with Him on a continual basis. uh each and every one of the tribes represented, fellowshipping with him. All of them were welcome. And it continued that bread pictured Jesus Christ, the bread of life whom we are fellowshipping with. And then you have the lampstand. The lampstand there on the bottom side of this image, uh the lamp stand, the paved little showbread up there on the right. How many of you remember we went to the uh tabernacle that's set up in Lancaster uh for a summer trip uh couple of years ago now. Um but I think we had brother Tom come down and teach on the tabernacle one night and then we took a uh group up on Friday and got to see it actually set up and And uh was was really a a great time and it's awesome to see it in in life size uh up in Lancaster. So if you get a chance to do it, it's It's neat to see. But the lampstand there was made of gold, uh central stand with three branches on either side, and of course it was filled with oil. That pictures the Holy Spirit That light that was to be lit, light unto the world, and that oil is the picture of the Holy Spirit working inside the believer. Then you had the incense altar uh the incense altar gold covered altar it pictures christ as the one mediator between God and man or it pictures our prayer our prayer time our Intercessory prayer when we pray to God that incense is being burned and was going up into heaven. A picture of our prayers ascending up into heaven and uh just the priest there was the mediator between uh God and the people, but we have one mediator Now, we believe in the priesthood of the believer, and we are all priest, but we only have one mediator, that's the man, Christ Jesus, who stands between us and God now. We don't have to go through the priest like they did here in the Old Testament. So then you get to the Holy of Holies. That is that portion in the back corner there. I don't know with how small it is. If you can see it, it's divided by the veil. The veil right there divided those two. Uh even people that came into the Holy of Holies could not go in that came into the holy place, couldn't go in to the Holy of Holies. Only the high priest could go in there. And only after a process of cleansing and prayer and sacrifice, doing each step exactly as he was it was he was supposed to. If he went in and was not clean, was not ready to meet with God, uh being in the holy presence of God, it would kill him. When he would go into the Holy of Holies, they would tie a r uh rope around his uh waist or or leg and uh if he stopped moving around, they would grab it and pull it out. And uh because they couldn't go in there, they had a way to bring him out of the Holy of Holies if he went in to meet with God unworthily. This was the most holy place. It was fifteen by fifteen by fifteen, that great veil separated the two the inner court and the outer court, and in that place was the Ark of the Covenant. That was the main piece of furniture. It was sat in the center of that place, the Ark of the Covenant. On the Ark of the Covenant was the mercy seat Great, great study. If you have time or want to look into something about this, just study the mercy seat. There's so much on that that could be taught. It was Mercy's seat, it was covered by two great cherubim whose wings touched, and in the center of that is where the Shekinah glory of God rested. The Shekinah glory of God. In Exodus chapter 25 and verse number 22, uh let me read this to you. He says And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat. from between the two cherubims, which are upon the ark of the testimony of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. After the completion of the tabernacle, Moses never again, you never see Moses going up onto the mountain to meet with God. Because God was now amongst his people, and this is where he was going to meet with his people. This is where God would commune and talk to them and how God was going to get with them. Shekinah glory is not a Bible word. It's a uh Hebrew word, and it means he caused to dwell. He caused to dwell. That's what Shekinah glory means. It it's God caused or brought his presence to that place and he dwelled there. It was evident they could see it. They recognized it. The first time the children of Israel saw the Shekinah glory of God was in a pillar of fire in the cloud. That was God dwelled there and his presence was known. Moses asked God in Exodus 33. 18 to see his glory. Let me look at that, Exodus 33, 18. He says And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. Show me thy glory. He wanted to see the glory of God, but he said and he said, I will make uh all my goodness pass before thee, and will proclaim the name of the Lord before thee, and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious. and will show mercy, unto whom I will show mercy. And he said, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me and live. And the Lord said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock, and it shall come to pass While my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by. God was saying, hey, the glory of God to see him in person, it was too much. He said, I'll I'll Moses, I'll come and I'll pass by. But in order for me to even pass by, you're going to have to be hid in the cleft of a rock. You're going to have to be hid there so that you'll be protected. And between you and me I will put my hand as a as a block to be able for you to be able to see in a marginal way the glory of God. And the song that we are familiar with that comes from this idea, he says, A wonderful Savior is Jesus my Lord, a wonderful Savior to me. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock, where rivers of pleasure I see. He hideth my soul in the cleft of the rock that shadows a dry, thirsty land. He hideth my life in the depths of his love. He covers me there with his hand. So that song, and there's so many of these older uh hymns that we sing, they are really rooted in biblical truths. And they are so rich with theology that a lot of times we sing them and don't you maybe even realize the the truths that are being taught by them, but they were very powerful rich songs that taught biblical truths and they come from Scripture themselves. Then we get to chapters 32 through 40, where we deal with the production of the tabernacle, and there's also the corruption of the people right there. Uh we we kind of dealt with that last Sunday morning, but uh we have the corruption and the correction of the nations. You know it's in chapters thirty two through thirty-four there, uh where he had the golden calf and that whole situation and scenario which we dealt with last Sunday morning. Um then you have the contributions for the tabernacle and thirty-five and thirty-six. The crafting of the furniture, verses 37, chapter 37 through 38, the coverings for the priest in 39, the completion of the tabernacle in 40. There's so much in those chapters that we just flew through as far as what took place, but God was teaching them about the tabernacle, and here's how you're going to set it up. Here's exactly how the furniture is constructed. Here is exactly how you're going to craft these things. Here's how you're going to cover everything. Here's the priestly robes. and they bring that to a completion. Now we're going to back up a little bit as we deal with the priesthood is established. I wanted to conclude the tabernacle there before Uh I went on to that. So we got to back up to chapters 28 and 29, where we see the priesthood is established. Now the priests are called out of what tribe? The tribe of Levi, correct. That's by God's plan and design, they were not to have a specific inheritance. They were given s cities in different tribes among God's people, where they could minister and be there with God's people in the promised land. So the tribe of Levi, the Levites were uh to be those that handled the priestly duties. Moses and Aaron, of course, were both Levites. They tell us that in Exodus chapter 6, verses 18 and 20. Then the Levites took care of the tabernacle. This was their job. Numbers chapter 3. God gives them instructions exactly how to do that. He instructed them on the construction and the teardown and the moving. and the process that was supposed to take place, exactly what they were supposed to do. Aaron was the first high priest in Exodus chapter 28. In verse number one, we we hear him tell us, he says, And take thou unto thee Aaron, thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the In the priestly office, even as Aaron, Nadab and Abyu, Eliezer and Ithmar Aaron's sons, these served there. He was the first uh high priest called to fulfill that duty uh by God. And priests served in the ritual worship of Israel, guiding God's people, and they stood as a mediator between God and man. There's your other line there, the mediator between God and man. And so I know we're covering a lot of information. This is really what this is. It's a lot of detail, a lot of information here. But beloved, we're we're thankful today that The priest stood in that time as a mediator between God and men, but today there is no priest. There is nobody that stands between us and God. The man Christ Jesus, God's Son, he is the one mediator. between God and us. He is the one that intercedes for us. He's the one that is there and he stands in in our stead. When we are saved, you Put your faith and trust in him. His righteousness is imputed unto you. And when God looks down on us, he sees first the righteousness of his son, because we've accepted his son. He's the one that stands between us. And I'm glad that he stands between us. Amen. We could never be righteous enough ourselves to be to fill or hold that position. But Jesus is our mediator. You and I are now priests. First Peter 2. 5 tells us that in Revelation 1-6. First Peter 2-5 says, And ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. By God's plan. Christians, he says you're you are now priest. Fulfilling that role giving you access to God. You can come to God directly. You can commune with God, fellowship with God. You don't have to have somebody to go between you and Him. In Revelation 1. 6, he says, and He hath made us kings and priest. That's all of us. So there is no difference between piety and laity. There is no difference between the uh somebody that is given a position and maybe even called of God, like to lead a church like this, uh, he does not have any more access to God than you do. He does not have any more privilege with God than you do. because we all can come as priests to God individually. Then this gets us into the book of Leviticus. We start in Leviticus. The book of Leviticus is complementary. Uh it's given as well during the eleven months that they're here at Mount Sinai. He's teaching the people the worship of God, the sacrificial system. Uh Leviticus functions as a manual for the priest and exactly how the jobs that they were supposed to fulfill and what they were supposed to be doing, teaching them about the sacrificial system, uh all of those things. Leviticus does not add to the history. It does not continue the story. We've got to get to the latter part of the book of Numbers to have the story progress. We're still at Mount Sinai. Leviticus is given to us at the same time uh teaching the children of Israel about some things. We get to Numbers chapter 10 before they begin to move away from here towards the Promised Land. So we are taught about the offerings, the offerings that they're to offer. The offerings were divided into a couple different types for different purposes. First of all, there were offerings to maintain fellowship with God. There were offerings to maintain fellowship with God. That's the burnt offering, the meal offering, the peace offering, and those are described in Leviticus 1, chapter Chapter 1, Chapter 2, and Chapter 3. And those offerings were to maintain fellowship with God. Then there was offerings to restore fellowship with God. Sin had entered the camp when something had come and broken fellowship. There was something they needed to do. There was offerings that were offered to restore that. That was the sin offering described in Leviticus chapter 4. That was the trespass offering described in Leviticus chapter number 5 up through the beginning of 6. And then there were offerings that taught the people about God. that taught the people about God. There's offerings specifically given where they would learn who God was. These offerings functioned as a means for the priest to know what to do in the tabernacle, teaching them, listen, here's what you're going to do, this is how you're going to do it, and here's why you're going to do it. It fulfilled the duty for them. It gave them the job that God had planned for them to fulfill. And it pictured, of course, Jesus as the Lamb of God, these offerings, teaching them about God, and a picture of that one Lamb that would come and be offered as a sacrifice for all men one day. So that teaching about that. True fellowship is enjoyed through sacrifice and holiness. That was true in this time with the tabernacle. Uh he had to come through sacrifice. With sacrifice gives us access. Sacrifice allowed them to come into the presence of God. But with the privilege of being in the presence of God comes a responsibility to be holy. And so that's where that is that fellowship and that enjoyment of being in the presence of God is recognized and maintained through Holiness. Sacrifice gives us the privilege of access. With the privilege of access comes the responsibility of holiness. Then we get to Leviticus chapter 11 and 12, where we deal with the dietary laws. The dietary laws, what they could do and couldn't do. Some people try and take the dietary laws and put them onto us today. Again, the moral law that the Ten Commandments are applicable to us, obviously. But I'm thankful that the dietary laws are no longer restricted and part of what we have to observe. Um there's so many laws uh that you know people like to pick and choose. Well you need to observe this law or you need to observe that law. Um You you've got to anything that God is going to give you as a standard for your life or going to give you as a principle that you should obey that comes from God, I want you to know one Way you can view that is are you able to be consistent in it? Are you able to be consistent? Because God is not going to ask of you to do anything that you cannot be consistent in. in. That cannot be done across the board. That cannot be maintained. And uh that's a lot of times people want to pick and choose and grab this or grab that, but you've got to be able to be consistent Consistent. Something that God asks you to do, it's something that you could do all the time without without fail, because He's not going to ask you to do something you cannot maintain. In chapters 13 and 14, he gives us the rules for leprosy, then the day of atonement in chapter 16 and verse number 30. Let's uh look at that. We're moving on to Leviticus now. Leviticus chapter 16 and verse number 30 we have the Day of Atonement mentioned. He says, For on that day shall the priest make an atonement for you to cleanse you that ye may be clean from all your sins before the Lord. The Day of Atonement. Atonement was made for the nation of Israel. It was offered for all people, obviously, as a means of atonement, as a means of covering sin. Um this was the most important event in the year for the children of Israel, this day of atonement when their sins were taken uh and covered by the sacrifice offered. The high priest uh offered the sacrifice in plain clothes to show how Christ would come and remove his glory and offer atonement for man, taking on flesh, humbling himself and taking upon himself flesh. And also the high priest did all of this. This was not something that the people did. It was not something that they were involved in. It's not something that they had to uh be a part of well and the picture is that that atonement was offered freely to all by the priest, which ultimately God Jesus Christ is our high priest and he offers atonement for us. And there's nothing we have no part of it. The people just got to receive that atonement that was given to them. It was a blessing uh done on that day for all people by the high priest. And Jesus Christ, who's our high priest, offers atonement to us and there's nothing more we can do for it. Christ, of course, is our atonement. Hebrews chapter 9, 24 through 26. Let me read that to you. He says, for Christ is not entered into the holy place made with hands. which are the figures of the true, but unto heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entered into the holy place every year with blood of others For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world, but now once in the end of the world he hath appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself So he's saying he d Jesus Christ came and he doesn't have to be offered over and over and over and over again, like the high priest who come once a year and every year they had a day of atonement. Every year that had to be offered, they had to cover the sins for that past year. And but now Jesus Christ came one time in the end for all time to be offered for all men, and that atonement is there and it's available. Uh and he came to put away sin, and that's what atonement means. Then you get to chapter number 23 and you have the feasts that are mentioned. I have them listed there for you. The feast, the Passover unleavened, first fruits. Feast of weeks, Feast of Trumpets, Day of Atonement. Again, we could teach a lesson on each one of these things. Um to show in the picture of what all these things teach, but we don't have time for that. You get to the year of Jubilee Chapter number 25, the year of Jubilee. Israel was to observe a weekly Sabbath and a yearly Sabbath, and then every seven Seven years. Seven every seven years they had a yearly Sabbath, and if you take seven of those, that's forty-nine years. Well, at the 50th year, they would offer the year of Jubilee. The year of Jubilee was the year of liberty. It was when they where all the people uh were covered, debt was covered, land was returned back to their rightful owners. Uh so many things happened during that time, the year of Jubilee, uh great teaching can be done on that, but that was offered every seventh of the seven years of Sabbath that they had to observe. And uh there's a lot of teaching on that that can be done, but every 50 years after the seven Sabbath of years is there for your notes. Then God tells them that it's time to leave Sinai. Uh Numbers chapter one through nine deals with the preparation for that. Nine chapters on getting these two plus million, three million people. I mean This this is a big group of people that, okay guys, time to break camp. They've been here for eleven months, so they pretty much got dug in. They got established. Everything settled and and they're gonna move the tabernacle that got built and okay, here's how you're gonna do this and uh so they prepared and got ready the nine chapters and chapter ten. Uh is the story of the Old Testament picking up as they move uh uh from Mount Sinai to K to Kadesh Barnea and uh ultimately to Moab where they're going to encamp before they go into the Promised Land. And so those events we'll get into next week as we look at that part of history that brings us right up to Joshua's conquest of the Promised Land.