But then you get into the books of poetry or wisdom after that. Um so that's kind of the where we're at right now as far as look at things historically We completed the creation era. This is the general history. Got into the uh call of Abraham, the patriarchal history. We concluded that. That gets us here into the book of Exodus. In the book of Exodus or this Exodus era, you have Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy all covered in that era. Of course, the book of Genesis brings us right up to here. We get through all the patriarchs and all that, and then we get here. We are currently in the book of Numbers. Deuteronomy is a complimentary book. It doesn't further the history, but it it is included in this part. Of course, you guys know down the bottom down here, Job and Psalms. The line that goes with Job and Psalms is all the way across because They were written, Job was written way back here as far as historically. This is when it takes place. We're going to look at Job with the books of uh Wisdom or poetry when we get to that. But then Psalms was written in all kind of covers historically a lot of different eras. pretty much all the way across in the Old Testament you can find Psalms that are written about the time of David, or you find Psalms written uh uh about Job or you find Psalms written about the Exodus and so it kind of Historically it covers quite a lot, which is why that goes all the way across the bottom there. So I was hoping to get up to the conquest era today because uh next week I'm not teaching Sunday school Next week uh we have uh Brother David uh Barker is going to be with us. He is the scripture memory guy For many, many years, that has been his focus and as part of our theme here this year was sowing bountifully. The goal is to sow the Word of God in our hearts And I'll tell you he will motivate you to study and to memorize the Word of God. And he also has a bunch of different uh books and help helpful things, and uh he'll have those here next week Uh and he's going to be teaching on scripture memory uh next Sunday. That is next Sunday, right? Uh with men and boys camp out and all this stuff going on. But I think it's next Sunday he's gonna be here, so I won't be teaching next week. And I was hoping to conclude this, but we're not going to conclude it. It was ambitious thinking, but we will um there's four major events that take place here. in the Exodus era, and uh we have looked at two of them, so we still have two to cover. Uh the two that you have there beginning on page number fifty-six in your book. I apologize. There is a uh mis we can't change it now, but you'll notice in your book you have two pages of fifty-six. I don't know how that happened. But uh Uh anyway, so you have 56 and you have 56B. Okay, uh I don't know, but uh starting there, you you at least know they're in order. Um so that's where we're gonna start here with uh is defiance against God. This is a third major event that takes place here. So if you remember, we just concluded, we just finished up basically the construction of the tabernacle. Yeah, if anybody needs notes, please feel free to go get them. There's a lot of notes out there this morning, book reviews and all that. But we just completed the tabernacle, God giving that place where he was going to come and rest and be with his people And uh he gives to them all the design of it, the building of it, what you need to do, and then he establishes the priesthood and tells the priest what they're gonna do and all of the feast and uh all of the sacrifices and uh the things that they have to observe. So we just went through all that. That's really given to us in the book of Leviticus. We get to the book of Numbers and you remember the book of Numbers, the story doesn't really continue until you get to Numbers chapter 10 Because in the beginning it's kind of like establishing for them uh what they're supposed to be doing. If we're going to look at a lot of scripture here this morning, but looking at the book of Numbers, if you want to see this We start out where God is establishing their camp, telling them we already know that around the tabernacle they're supposed to be set up a certain way. They're supposed to be uh the encamped around the east and north, south and west side of the tabernacle. The tabernacle is to be the center of their camp. He establishes that for them. Then in Numbers chapter number three, um The Levites are given care of the tabernacle. They're instructed and told, hey, you guys are going to oversee the tabernacle. This is going to be your job. In Numbers chapter 3 and verse number 7, he says, and they shall keep his charge. and the charge of the whole congregation before the tabernacle of the congregation to do the service of the tabernacle. He's saying, hey, you guys are the ones, this is going to be your job. You're going to do this for everybody, for the whole congregation. You're going to fulfill this role. This is going to be your job. So he's instructing them in that. And then he talks to them about that and the job that they're going to be doing and so on. But you get to uh chapter number nine and uh he instructs them on observing the Passover and uh having a time of sacrifice of remembering what God did before they're going to get up and go. They're getting ready to go. God's preparing this large group of people in excess of two, three million and saying, okay, it's time to journey, it's time to travel. Are you guys ready? And he's kind of instructing them and before they do it They observe the Passover, they remember what God did for them, remembering that they are a redeemed people. In Numbers chapter 9 and verse number 5, we see that. He says And they kept the Passover on the fourth day of the first month at Eden in the wilderness of Sinai, according to all that the Lord commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel. So they observed and followed. what God told them to do in observing the tabernacle or observing the Passover there at that time. And uh God directed their steps each step of the way. God was leading them. God was preparing them. Okay, it's going to be time to go Are you guys ready? And of course they know they're supposed to follow that cloud, and when the cloud moves, they move. When the cloud stops, they stop And uh if God wants them to travel at night, he'll he'll change it to a pillar of fire so they can see and uh lights their path. And and so we see that in chapter nine and verse number eighteen. He tells them very clearly, he says, Hey At the commandment of the Lord, the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the Lord, they pitched As long as the cloud abode above the tabernacle, they rested in their tents. So the tabernacle cloud would move, they would move And uh it even goes into a little bit further if you jump down to uh verse number 22. He says, or whether it were two days or a month or a year. That the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents and journeyed not. But when it was taken up, They journeyed. At the commandment of the Lord, they rested in their tents, and at the commandment of the Lord, they journeyed. They kept the charge of the Lord at the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses. So very clearly you're saying, hey, basically they're to follow that cloud. And uh beloved, we need to be ready to follow the Lord. I mean the instruction here was listen, if the if the if the cloud sits over the tabernacle for two days Then you're going to stay for two days. If it's going to be a month or two, you sit for a month or two. If it's going to be a year, then you need to wait a year. But the idea is just waiting on God, knowing, okay, when that when that moves, it's time to move And uh we need to be careful sometimes we get a little impatient waiting on God for different things and we're ready to make something happen or take a step and And go do what we want to do and uh we need to wait on God. But then when God says to do something, we need to be ready to do it, amen? We need to say, okay, it's time. The Lord's directing, the Lord's step is here and We're going to see that in a very powerful way with the children of Israel when it's time to go into the promised land uh in our next lesson. But uh we see them here uh So we have in Roman number number one there, a time to follow God's leading. Chapters ten and twelve. 10 through 12. A time to follow God's leading, just uh to do what God says to do. Letter A is a method, a method of communication is established. So we get to Numbers chapter 10, and now finally, after such a long time, they you know they've been at Mount Sinai for almost a year. You remember that? They've been there almost a year. And uh during that year, I mean we we had a lot of things happen. We were we were in Exodus and we've gone all the way through Leviticus, we've gone up to Numbers chapter number 10, and now, okay, the story is going to continue And we're going to move from this place and the next step in the journey is going to take place. And God instructs him, listen, you've got a lot of people here, Moses, and you don't have an amplification system. You don't have some you know, a bullhorn to try and get people's attention. And so what are you gonna do? And so God tell teaches them, listen, you're gonna use some trumpets. And here's how you're going to communicate with your people. Here's how you're going to tell them what to do. And so in Numbers chapter 10, verses 1 through 10, he instructs them, first of all, to call the whole assembly together. They're going to use two trumpets. And you're going to use those two trumpets. Numbers chapter ten. Verse number three. He says, And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shall assemble themselves to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. When both trumpets were blown, everybody was supposed to come. When they just blew one trumpet, everybody knew, oh, that was just just the leaders are supposed to go. So the leaders were supposed to come and assemble themselves Um he gave them instruction on communicating an impending attack. If uh there's an attack coming, here's what you need to do. When he called the people to war in verse number nine, he says, Hey, when it's time to go to war, here's what you're going to blow, here's what you're going to do. The people will know that it's time to go to war because of these trumpets. And when you call the people to worship uh in verse number 10. So he just he gives them this instruction on how to communicate with this large group of people as they're traveling through the wilderness. And then we have, beginning in verse number 12, a march away from the mountain. Finally time to get up and to move, to head that direction. So he says, and the children of Israel, verse number twelve, chapter number ten, he says, and the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai and of the cloud. And the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran. So it was time to move, time to get up. The cloud started moving, and they're like, oh, it's time to move. We got to go. And so God moves the cloud and their journey b their journey begins. They traveled, 1033 tells us just three days journey to make their first camp. In chapters 10 In verse number 33, he says, and it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be that I'm not reading the wrong verse. Sorry. Verse number 33. And they departed from the mountain of the Lord three days' journey, and the ark of the covenant of the Lord went before them in the three days' journey to search out. a resting place for them. So the Ark of the Covenant went ahead, three days journey. They're following, that was their plan. God took them three days' journey. Very quickly, the children of Israel fell into what becomes a very consistent pattern for them. They begin to murmur. They begin to complain. You have a murmuring multitude given to us here in chapter 11, verses 1 through 10. We see that often the children of Israel are complaining about their lot. in life. Woe is me. This is not fair. This shouldn't have happened. I don't appreciate this. Boy, we don't have any water. Boy, we don't have any food. Boy, we don't have uh you know just just complaining about their lot in life. After all that God had done, after all that God had provided, and this ought to be a warning to all of us to realize how important it is and how much God is displeased with his people being unhappy with their lot in life. You know, uh Paul said, I found that whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And just being content with what your lot in life. And a lot of times it's human nature to say, boy I wish I was taller. I wish I was, you know, shorter. I wish I was stronger. I wish I was didn't have I wish I had hair instead of no hair. I wish I had gray hair. I wish I had You know, all of these things and and that's just just physically, but sometimes boy, I wish I had enough money to do this, or I wish I had uh this house or that house or this car or that car or Whatever, when when God has blessed us so richly, we've got to be careful about complaining and thinking about what we don't have and forgetting about all that we do have. The children of Israel often were complaining and and God was not pleased with that. God calls them on the carpet, basically. He gives them flesh to eat. But it was not a blessing. God was not pleased with them. They said, Hey, how come we don't have any meat? In 11, verse number 4, he says, and the mixed multitude that was among them fell the lusting, and the children of Israel also wept again and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? And they go on and complain because you know, oh it was so much better in Egypt and and they loved r you know throwing that in Moses's face. You should have left us in Egypt. We at least there we had leeks and onions, you know, and and and often they were complaining like that But God was not pleased with them. God did give them flesh to eat. But look in chapter in verse number 20, we see that he says, But even a whole month until it came out of your nostrils. And it is loathsome unto you. You know, it doesn't matter how good something is, if you've got to eat it three times a day, every day, it gets to be old, doesn't it? That's just that's just the way it is. These people had quail coming out their ears. They're like, oh no, we are done with this flesh. Oh my goodness. And and uh you know sometimes we we think we know what we want until we get it And God says, Oh, this is what you want? Okay. And so he gives it to them, but it was almost as a punishment because of their complaining. Then we see in uh chapter eleven here, eleven through fifteen, a melancholy master. Uh Paul is Paul, sorry, he's in the New Testament. We're talking about Moses here. Uh he is just leading these people and just getting fed up. I mean, they're always complaining and they're always saying it's Moses' fault and he shouldn't have done this and he should have done that and They're all thirsty because of this, and they're all want f you know, we want meat, you don't have any meat for us, and it's all it's all his fault. Uh and so Moses is like, this isn't fair. Lord, you put all this on me and it's too much. I can't handle it. In verse number chapter 11, verses four and five, he asked for some help. He says, uh, of course they were complaining and grumbling there, and Moses is frustrated with that, and he asked for some help, and God determines he's going to give them some help. He's going to give them somebody You know, but the thing here we need to understand is that when God asks you to do something, he enables you to do so. He gives you what you need to do what he's asked of you. A very powerful truth I'm going to show you here in the scriptures right now that you need to understand. Now, Moses said, I can't do this by myself. I need help. That was not God's plan. God's plan was for Moses to be leading the people. Moses said, nope, I want some help. I'm done with this. I'm fed up with these people. It's too much. And God says, okay, I'll give you what you want. But notice what God does in verse number 25. In chapter 11, verse number 25. And the Lord came down in a cloud and spake unto him and took of the spirit that was upon him. And gave it unto the 70 elders. So God said, okay, Moses, you can't do this yourself. I have given you everything you needed to do this. But if you want help, God took from Moses some of the power, some of the spirit some of his blessing that he had put on Moses to lead these people and and gave it to 70 elders, 70 leaders that were going to help Moses. Now, Moses did not begrudge this, and this is another good lesson for you to understand, especially in a position of leadership. It didn't bother Moses in that respect. The lesson is that, listen, when God gives you something to do, he enables you to do it. and uh he's going to empower you to do it. But Moses didn't it didn't bother him that God took from him and that God empowered these other men to uh lead Let me see what here we say in in verse number 26 there. He says, But there remained two of the men in the camp. The name of one was Eldad, and the name of the other was Medad. And the spirit rested upon them. So we've clearly, God, these are two of the men that God had taken some of the spirit of Moses off and put it on them, okay? And they And there were of them that were written, but what not unto the tabernacle, and they prophesied. So these two men began to prophesy. In and through the power of God, God's hand was on them. These two men began to display and show God's power. And then look at what happens in verse number 27. And there ran a young man and told Moses and said to Eldad and Medad, Do prophesy in the camp. He said, wait a minute, that's Moses' job. Look at these two men are prophesying in the camp. And Joshua was a little bit upset about it. Verse number 28. And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men, answered and said, My Lord Moses, forbid them. Moses, tell them they can't do this. This is your job But look at Moses' response. It's amazing. He says here in verse number 29, and Moses said unto him, envious thou for my sake? He says, are you concerned about this for me? He said, would God that all the Lord's people were prophets and that the Lord would put his spirit upon them. So this is an amazing thing from a leader standpoint, that he was not bothered or he was not threatened as a leader because there was another strong leader There was somebody else that God was blessing. There was somebody else that God was raising up. In fact, he said, man, it would be awesome if God's spirit could rest upon all of men. Here's the amazing thing. We get into the New Testament and God's Spirit does rest on all men. Each and every one of us. We don't have to go to a priest or to Moses or to somebody else to get in touch with God. We all can go directly to God. And that desire of Moses was fulfilled in the New Testament with Jesus Christ, that we can all go to Him. Moses is not envious of God's blessing on these other men. He's thrilled and his desire is that all men could have the Spirit of God. Then we see secondly point number two. Hey, did you guys get some notes? I saw you come in in a few minutes. Did you get some notes from Sunday school? Um Jason, would you mind getting uh George and Maria some some notes? We've got uh Okay, get her some notes too. That way they can follow along. Um great. So when you come in for Sunday school under the mirror uh out there in the foyer, there's if we if we have notes, they're supposed to be sitting there. Just so you know, I just saw you you're gonna you're not wondering what are we looking at or what are we doing. So they'll get you some uh copies. So We see, secondly, point number two, a test of faith in God's leading. God leads, and it is it is faith. You understand we've said this many times, but Faith really is just obedience. Faith is obedience. You say, do I have faith? Boy, I wish I had faith Uh boy the Bible says with the with the faith of a grain of mustard seeds you can move mountains. I wish I had some faith. And you say it's like it's not something tangible that we can grab a hold of, but it is Faith is obedience. When God says do this, you say, okay. And that is faith. It is an obedience. You're following him saying, maybe I don't understand it. Maybe I can't see the beginning from the end, but I'm just going to obey And that is what faith is. Faith is just taking one step at a time with the Lord and following his leading in your life. And so that's what the test of faith is God leads his people in chapters 13 and 14 here. God is directing the people towards or to the promised land. So they've left Mount Sinai. They're on their journey to the new, to the promised land. And they're going to end up in Cadesparnia. Augusta, you have a map, I don't care which one of of the area of Israel there So we have here our the the journeys. So this is Mount Sinai all the way down here in the bottom. This is you see Sinai, this is the Sinai Peninsula. Okay, you've got the Red Sea here. So they're they're here at the Mount Sinai all the way down here, and they're going to journey up, ultimately, reaching Kadesh Barnea on the southern edge of Canaan. Here's Canaan The Canaan land, this is Israel, this is even modern-day Israel is right here. Here is the Dead Sea. So in between the Mediterranean and the Dead Sea, Israel lands right there. So they're right here at the bottom, Kadesh Barnia. uh waiting to go into the promised land. That's where they end. Now you know ultimately you see their the journey continues and they get all the way up here and of course they cross the Jordan and go over in into Jericho. That's where they end up when they enter the promised land. But the problem is right here they defy God and do not do what God wants them to do. And they're not allowed to go into the promised land because of that So we see their their faith is tested. God has promised them that uh this land that they're going to go into, they're supposed to go in and possess it. Let me just say to you that God is going to take each and every one of us to a Kateush Barnia in our life. What I'm saying is there's going to come a time where you get to a place where you say, okay, this is what God wants, but I'm not sure. I wonder if I should. This looks a little scary. You're gonna reach that place in your spiritual life and you could call it a Kedish Barnia for you. It might be a move. For you it might be a job. For you, it might be a step of obedience for the Lord. And you say, oh, I don't know if I can do this. And it's a test of your faith. Are you going to be obedient? Are you going to follow? Are you going to do what God wants you to do? And you have to determine to do it. And don't let this test, don't fail this test in your life. We all are gonna reach that place at some point. I mean Daniel went into a lion's den. And uh do is he gonna have faith? He was told, hey Don't pray or you're gonna you're gonna go to Lion's den that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo went into a fiery furnace. You're gonna bow or else you're gonna burn. And they said we no We're not going to. That was their Kateush Barnea. It was their moment where they were put uh a line was drawn in the sand and say, okay, you're going to be obedient to God or are you going to are you going to stand here And uh so they follow the Lord, and of course we should follow the Lord as well. The people wanted to check out this promised land, and you guys know the story, chapter 13, verses 18 through 20. We see the story where they send in some you know some people to check out this land. And the people, we're not going to read these passages of scripture, but he says, if the he go in and check out the land, we want to know if the people are strong or weak. Go see the people and let's check out are they strong or weak. See the people, see if they be few or many. See if the land is good or bad. If the cities are built in tents or if they're strongholds, he says, hey, I want you to go check this out. We need to find out. Can I tell you, beloved, that it didn't matter what the land was? It didn't matter if it was good or bad. It didn't matter if the people were strong. It didn't matter if there were few or many, because God had told them to go in and possess it. God had said this land is your land. You can go and you can possess it. This is what you're going to do. But they went in with a spirit of doubt to try it wasn't a matter of trying to count the cost and say, okay, what's the best way to accomplish what God wants? No, they went in to find out if they could. And God said, Wait, that's a heart of unbelief. That is not pleasing. I've told you you can. You don't need to go in and look and see it what whether you can or not, but they went in trying to check that out So at first it seems as though God told them to do that. In Numbers chapter 13, look if you would in 13 verses 1 and 2. He says here, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Send thou men that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel. So it sounds like God said, Go, right? The problem is many times God will let you do what you want to do, even though it's not his plan for you. And we know that this was not his plan, and it was their own desire. If we look at a comparative passage, now the book of Judeon, remember Deuteronomy, remember, is not a, it doesn't continue the story, it complements the story, gives us a little more detail. So look if you would in Deuteronomy chapter number one So you're just going to look over a few pages of Deuteronomy chapter number one. We're going to see what really happened here. Moses is talking to them here in verse number 19. And and we won't read all this, but he says, And when we departed from went through all the great and terrible wilderness, which ye saw by the way of the mountain of the Amorites, as the Lord our God commanded us And we came to Kadesh Barnea. So he's talking to him and he's saying, hey, you remember when we did all this? And I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of the Amorites, which the Lord our God doth give unto us. Behold, the Lord thy God has set the land before thee. Go up and possess it, as the Lord God thy father has said unto thee, fear not, neither be discouraged. So Moses is talking to him. He says, Hey, We're here. We're at Cantus Barnia. God said, go, you're ready to go. Let's go get it. Because this is what God told us to do. And look at what they said in verse number 22. And ye came near unto me, every one of you And said, We will send men before us, and they shall search out the land and bring us word again by what way we must go up. So they see this is not God's plan, but they came to Moses and said, wait, wait, wait. I know what God said, but we're going to go look first You know, faith is not look first. Faith is obedience. And a lot of times, boy, we want to see first. We want to know, is that step safe? Can I can I do that? Is it gonna be all right? We want to see the beginning from the end. Faith says, Hey, this is what God said, I'm gonna do it. Now God allowed them to go look, but you of course know what the result was because of that. So, however, God was allowing them to do what they wanted to do for your notes there. Then the spies spent forty days checking out the land. I don't know if that was the reason that God chose 40 years for them to wander in the wilderness because they spent 40 days up in the Promised Land. And then they came back with conflicting reports. Excuse me, they had conflicting reports. You guys know that twelve men went just by and cane and ten were bad and two were good. Uh yeah, twelve men went and ten were bad and two were two were good. Ten spies came back and said, we cannot do it. Chapters 13, 32 to 33. So they're supposed to go in and possess it. These ten spies came back and said, no, we can't do it. Their decision was made upon sight, what they could see. They looked at what they could see and said, hey, this is impossible. And I want you to know that they discouraged, Deuteronomy tells us, They discourage the hearts of the people. Deuteronomy chapter 1, verse number 28. And beloved, when we fail to do what God wants us to do, I want you to know we affect more than just us. Always. I know many times we think, well it's just me, it's just my life, and I can do it, and I mean if I'm not making God happy, that I mean I'll live with the consequences, but none of us live unto ourselves. We all impact other people. We all either are an encouragement or a discouragement to other people. And we will be held accountable before God for how we discourage the hearts of other people around us when we lack the faith to do what God wants us as individuals to do. We see the people cried out in despair in chapter 14, verses 1 through 4. They were again very upset about their situation. And verse 14, chapter 14 says, And the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept. that night and all the children of Israel murmured against Moses. Recognize that? I I didn't even in in we're gonna look their their complaining spirit like three or four times in our notes. But I'm I'm really trying to only give us the things that are pertinent to the history of the children of Israel. So there's many things that happened in the wandering that uh that they that's a spoonerism. Um so you can look it up. Harvey Spooner is where that came from. Uh some of my speech history coming back. But I got distracted. What were they talking about? The people complaining. So there's a lot of things that happened in the wilderness laundering that we're not going to talk about. Um his history and all that. We're just hitting the highlights and these things that where God was teaching them something. But we see that they complain and and murmur. The children of Israel murmur against Moses and against Aaron and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt, and would God we had died in the wilderness. This is a common theme, and I want you to know that God is not pleased with the self-pities. God is not pleased with the woe is me. so bad. I have nothing. Oh my goodness. Thing you're so bad. I wish I would have just died. Oh grow up. Okay? Get over yourself. Stop buying into this worldly mentality that everything is so bad and you've got life so rough and you're a victim. You're not a victim, you're a victor through Jesus Christ And when you live a defeated, discouraged, downhearted life, you're saying, my God is not big enough or strong enough to help me live this life in victory And God is not pleased with it. God's upset with the children of Israel over and over again because they have this, oh, oh boy, things are so bad, and life is so hard, and everything's against me, and and God's not pleased with that And we need to get over it and start living on the victory side because we are winners with Jesus Christ. I am on the winning side. And we need to start living like we're on the winning side. Amen? These people cried out in despair. The spies said they they said, oh wait a minute. Um we messed up God tells them, listen, you're going to spend 40 years in the wilderness now. Those that are 20 years old above are not going to go into the promised land. They said, oh. That's that's not what we meant. We're gonna go and we're gonna do it. So m this th these Sorry, these two we're going to get there in a second. These two spies said, Hey, let's go up, let's do it, let's let God God can be the victor in verses six through nine Of course, Joshua and Caleb were the spies that said, we can do it. Joshua, the son of Nun, and Caleb, the son of Jephtham, went where they searched out the land and rent her clothes, and they spake to all the company of the children of Isaac, Israel, saying, The land which we pass through to search it is exceeding good land. And the Lord delight in us that we bring that. He says, hey, God said we can do it. Let's go do it. They s these people spoke of stoning them. Isn't that mind-boggling? These two these two This is why they went through the wilderness. This is why they left Egypt. God told them to go in and possess the land. These two stood and said, God said, do it. And the congregation said, Let's stone them. That doesn't make sense, does it? But listen, you stand with God and the majority is going to be against you. Because broad is the way that leadeth to destruction. Narrow is the way that leadeth to life underlasting. There's going to be many people that often will choose the wrong way. Many times a sign that you're doing right is that the crowd's against you. And these people spake of stoning him. God disciplines the people for their unbelief in chapter 14, verses 20 to 23. Uh everyone of the age of twenty would not be allowed to enter the promised land. Uh over the age of twenty, they're going to pass off the scene, they're going to die, they're not going to be able to allow not going to be allowed to enter They realized their error and they said, Oh, we'll we'll we'll go, but it's too late. So look at 1440. That's where I was kind of jumping ahead on my notes there. In 1440, he says, And they rose up early in the morning and got them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo! We be here, and we will go up into the place which the Lord hath promised, for we have sinned. They said, Oh wait, Lord, just kidding. Uh we realize we did wrong. So Lord, we're sorry, but we're ready to go. And they wanted to go, but look at what Moses tells them. And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the Lord? But it shall not prosper. Go not up, for the Lord is not among you, that ye be not smitten before your enemies. He says, listen. It's too late. You have messed up. And sometimes, listen, I want you to know when you confess your sin, God said He's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. that God will forgive you, but many times you may still have to reap the punishment or the result of having done wrong. And and this is what the children of Israel learned here, that listen, God can forgive them, but they still the the the judgment had already been made, and here's what's going to happen, and they wanted to try and change it. You know, you tell your kid to go clean his room and and before you get home, and then you get home and the room's not clean, and uh you say, Oh Go to my room. And they're like, Oh, I'll go clean it. I'll go clean it right now. I'll clean it up really quick. Nope, it's too late. It was supposed to be done before we got home. Now you are gonna clean your room, but first you're gonna go visit my room You know, and so you you you know, you fly the Board of Education to the seat of learning and you help them to understand that when they've been given instruction that they need to do it. And uh uh you're hurting your child if you don't do that. Um but that's what God said, and so that's what God did. Um Just looking at our time here, listen. Some have asked, why wouldn't God show them the punishment? Before the sin. Like, why wouldn't he tell them, listen, I've given you the promised land. You need to go into the promised land. If you don't, you're going to die here in the wilderness. Then the people probably would have done it. But here's the thing: God wants people that obey Him out of faith, not out of fear. That God did not want a people that went into the promised land out of fear because they were afraid what God was going to do to them in the wilderness. And God wants you and I, God's people, to obey him out of faith. Yes, God judges sin, but our motivation for obeying God Should not be that we're afraid that that God's gonna beat us over the head or strike us with lightning if we don't happen to do what God wants No, we ought to have faith and believe God and take those steps. That's what God wants. God wants a people that love him and obey him and follow him out of faith. So he gave them the option. He told them he was with them. He had illustrated it over and over and over again. He had empowered them so many ways, and they got to the place and they had to make a decision. They made the wrong one And so God was teaching them through this. Beloved, I want you to know that to whom much is given, much is required. God will not hold you accountable for what you do not know. for what you have not learned. God's people had been instructed, they had been taught, they knew what God's plan was, they had seen God's power. I mean, he had brought them across the Red Sea. He had fed them in the wilderness. He had over and over again met their need, had guided them. There was no question that his presence and power was with them. And they understood that and yet still didn't follow him. But here's the thing, God's not going to hold you accountable for what you don't know, but I do believe that God will hold you accountable for what you should know. So sometimes people think, well, if God's not going to hold me accountable for what I don't know, then why should I bother trying to learn? Like, wouldn't it be better if I just don't read the Bible? Then I don't know, then I'm not responsible. I mean, did I didn't know. But see, there is an expectation that as God's people we will be seeking God, be going after God, and we should be learning about God's will for us. And uh so I believe that there is a measure where God will hold you accountable for what you should know. That you should have learned this by now. You should uh have taken this step of faith by now because you've been with me these many years. God was patient and long-suffering, but they rebelled. The Bible says ten times. Look at chapter 14 and verse number 22. Chapter 14 and verse number 22 tells us that it was ten times that they rebelled. And You guys are there already. So he says, Because all those men which have seen my glory, understand he's saying, listen, they knew it. They knew the power that I had, and the miracles which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times. And have not hearkened to my voice. So ten times God was long-suffering with them. Ten times God forgave them. Ten times God said, okay, wait, maybe you didn't learn the lesson last time. Here's what you want to do He instructed them. They saw over and over again his leading, his provision, his power. And then this tenth time, God's long suffering said, Hey, now you're staying in the wilderness. It's too late. I've instructed you, I've taught you, I've supplied for you, I've met your need, I've been a God consistently with you, and you failed to follow me, so now you're staying in the wilderness. They went away. Uh they went anyway, even though God Moses told them not to, this is in reference to the fact that Uh they went up and tried to conquer the land, even though Moses said, Hey, don't go, God is not with you. Um they went up without the Lord and they were defeated. You know, beloved, when you and I move on without God, we're going to be defeated. We need to go with God. And so the story of the children of Israel is going to pick up uh next week w not next week, two weeks from now, we are going to get into the conclusion of the book of Numbers. And we'll talk briefly about the book of Deuteronomy. We've given you those book overviews as well as the notes already. But the story continues there. There's not a whole lot of history about the time of the w wandering in the wilderness, like you know what they're forty years in the wilderness. But you know what God's saying that time where the people were being judged is not what's important. And so there's very little of the actual history of what happened during that forty years. We kind of get up to it and then In the conclusion of it, when it's coming to an end, we get some pictures of what's happening as they begin their wandering. We'll get into that in two weeks. The lesson here. Now I am 90% sure that we concluded last week. We came to the end of page 58. Is that right? You got all those notes filled in on 58? Okay, good. I was hoping that we concluded that. Now, beginning on page 59, does anybody need a lesson? This starts our next uh section here. Does anybody need a lesson that we can get you? Alrighty. These girls already know the whole Old Testament anyway, so you know they're they're good. Alrighty. Well uh those are back there under the mirror when you come in. Uh it is There's not new notes out there. We gave these away last week. I didn't know how far I was going to get. I was optimistic, hoping I would do both of these last week. But we are of course currently right now In our overall view here of the Old Testament, we are in this Exodus era, and of course the books that are written during this time are Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. We've been covering those. We've given you the book overviews. I don't not take any time really to go over that, the book overview. That's just for your knowledge and for you to kind of have in the right place uh in historically when it when it happened. By the end of today we're going to conclude right here. We'll be on the brink of entering Canaan and the conquest there, moving into Joshua. So we're concluding the book of Numbers and then of course Deuteronomy. today. So in our notes there, um after the people refused to live by faith and to follow God's plan to go into the promised land and possess it, uh Judgment was pronounced upon them. The next forty years were going to be spent wandering in the wilderness. Not a lot is said during this time. There is not a lot of things that we know about these forty years. Because it doesn't further the story of God leading his people. There's a time where they're going through punishment because of sin. And uh listen, this can be applied to the fact that listen when When we're living outside of the will of God, the story of our life doesn't have a lot of meaning. But when we're following and fulfilling God's plan, God's will, things are being accomplished that are of eternal weight and value. Sometimes we think, well, I'm just going to church today, or I'm just doing what I'm supposed to do. But you understand, anything we do for the cause of Christ has eternal weight and value. It lasts for eternity. Sending your investments on ahead. And doing that, uh, those things. I mean, just living for this world in today is so vain and empty. I love it that our labor for the Lord is not in vain. Amen. It lasts for eternity. And so that's what we see here. God doesn't give us a whole lot about this time where they were in punishment because they weren't didn't have faith to go and do what God wanted them to do. But then we kind of pick up the story as we see these wilderness wanderings. I've given you a few highlights, just some of the key things where the Lord was teaching them some lessons. If you want to get into your Bibles and turn to Numbers chapter number 14, that's where we're going to kind of reference some things and we'll be walking through this this morning. So beginning here in Numbers chapter number fourteen we see uh again I made a note of this in there just so you know these These points underneath these headpoints, uh, these came right from Wilmington's Guide to the Bible, a great resource if you don't have it and would like to uh uh just get uh an overview or capture of any book of the Bible. Very good resource for you. And so these main points come right from that. But we see here, first of all, a foolish attempt is stopped uh an attempt. You see, you remember they didn't have faith. They sent the spies into the promised land and they're gonna go check it out and see if they can do it. Well it didn't matter what they saw because God had told them to go They should have had faith. And uh it's one thing to go to try and and strategically plan to fulfill and accomplish what God wants. We know that we're supposed to count the cost. We know that we're supposed to prepare. But they were not going to strategically try and accomplish what God wanted. They were going to see if they could do it And they came to the conclusion that they couldn't. They came back. Ten tin spies were bad. Two were good. Ten tin spies said we can't do it. And they decided not to. Well then the judgment's pronounced And then we see here that they say, oh, wait a minute, we changed our mind. Look in chapter 14 and verse number 40. Chapter 14 and verse number 40. So the people, the children of Israel, they and they rose up early in the morning and gat them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and we will go up to the place where the Lord hath promised, for we have sinned. And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the Lord, but it shall not prosper. Go not up, for the Lord is not among you, that ye be not smitten before your enemies. They were going to go. They said, Oh, wait. Just kidding, Lord, we're sorry, we're gonna go. But they still had to endure the punishment that God had pronounced upon them. They did God didn't change his mind and say, okay, okay, go ahead Uh you can go. You know, some of you parents would be good to learn this. You know, sometimes you tell your kid to do something two times, three times, four times, and then you get out of bed. I mean get out of bed. Get up get up You know, you stand up and you start going to her, and then all of a sudden the kid's like, oh, oh, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'll go do it right now. Okay, it's too late. It's too late. You're not being a good parent if you let that be okay and you say, okay, now you can do it. What they know is they can push you as far as they want until you finally begin to show a little bit of authority and then they say, oh okay, that's as far as I can push mom and dad. No, once you've said it, that's the law. If they don't respond, don't repeat yourself. You say that's no what did what did mom say? Okay. You didn't do it, did you? What is that? Disobedience. Okay There's punishment for that. Now you get to do what you what you're supposed to do. So we see God does still punish them here, even though they had said, oh wait, we'll go do it, Lord. We're s we're so sorry So this foolish attempt to go up uh was stopped. We see that God was not with them, so they failed. Your first blank to fill in there. God was not with them, so they failed. When we attempt to go beyond God or to do our own thing, we're going to fail. This the they they went and uh they were like, well, let's go, let's try it. But Moses warned them, said, Hey, God's not with you, you don't have God's power in this, you're you're gonna fail, and they did So secondly we see a troublemaker is swallowed. So this is the story of Korah. A group of 250 men led by Korah rebelled against Moses, these 250 men. They were leaders and they uh stood up among the people and they says, Hey, uh Moses has taken too much upon himself. Look at chapter number sixteen and beginning in verse number two. Chapter sixteen and verse number two We see, and they rose up before Moses with certain of the children of Israel, 250 princes of the assembly famous in the congregation, men of renown. So these men of renown, these leaders among the people, they stood up and they're going to go and they're going to commute, they're going to lead other people and say, hey, listen Moses and Aaron are taking too much upon themselves. We're stuck here in the wilderness and it's their fault. And uh they're they're really calling into question uh God's authority because God had appointed these men to lead the group. And to do what God wanted them to do. So instead of acknowledging their failure and entering the promised land uh like they should have, these men tried to uh Say, listen, look at what Moses and Aaron have done. And they led some men to rise up against them. Now let me just say, beloved, we should not blindly follow men. That's why we have the word of God. We have this and we should look in the Bible to see if these things be so. Don't blindly follow a man. We're followers of Jesus Christ. Amen? And we should not be putting our hope in a man. I can tell you right now, uh I've seen several uh guests come in. My name is Pastor Caleb Batrell, and uh I want you to know that I'm gonna let you down. I'm gonna disappoint you. I may outright fail, but I can tell you Jesus Christ won't fail. And you should not be looking to a man to establish your Christianity, your faith, or or how sure your foundation is, our foundation is in Jesus Christ. And uh that's where it needs to be. These men of renowned, uh they stood up and they tried to uh question the leadership there. So what I'm saying is although we don't blindly follow men, By God's plan, God's design, he appoints men to lead. And so there are some men that we should be willing to follow, and we need to be careful uh about how we approach or attack Leadership. Whatever that leadership is, can I tell you you're doing your children a very strong disservice if you attack leadership Whether that's your children at school, you say, oh, that teacher is just a jerk, and he shouldn't be questioning you like this. You should get to do this in class. You are destroying your child. Your child needs to know that that is the authority. How are they going to respond one day when God is trying to deal with them and they haven't learned how to respond to authority? They need to know what authority is and you need to stand with authority. If if that teacher is wrong, you go to them privately and talk to them and say, listen. How this was handled was not wise. I think it would be better this way or that way. But do not destroy the authority of that teacher in front of your kids. Same thing between husbands and wives. Sometimes, wives, you're hurting your husband big time when you uh undermine his authority. Oh, your dad's just being uh, you know how he gets sometimes. Whoa. That is not wise. You guys need to be a team, and even if dad's wrong or even if mom is wrong, you guys get together somewhere privately and you guys talk it out But as far as the kids go concerned, you guys are a team. You're 100% on each other's side. And there is no calling into question dad or mom. You guys do this together. Amen? That was free. Okay. So we want you to see here a cu we see that he accused they accused them of taking too much upon themselves of lifting themselves above the holy congregation. And we don't have time to read all these texts. We're going to go all the way through the book of Numbers and Deuteronomy today. So we don't have time to read all these texts. I'm taking for granted that some of you have a a concept or know about some of these stories But listen, let me ask you, did Moses and Aaron lift themselves up into this position? They did not Do you remember back when we were looking at it that God came to Moses at the burning bush and says, hey, I want you to leave my people, what did Moses say? Say you're not yeah, not me. Lord you must there must be somebody else around here. I know I'm out in the wilderness all alone, but you must be talking to somebody else. It's not me. Moses didn't want to do it and he gives a list of excuses And says, I can't do it. And God says, you can. He says, Well, I can't I can't uh uh talk. And God says, Well, I'll send you a mouthpiece. I'll give you listen, God will give you what you need, amen. But Moses and Aaron did not put themselves in that position. And sometimes we we uh got to remember that God is the one that leads in the affairs of men. God put Moses and Aaron there and they were supposed to be leading the congregation. Moses tries to reason with the people. Truly, Moses wanted what was best for them. Moses wasn't out there just trying to be a jerk. Moses wasn't out there just trying to ramrod the people and get them to do what he wanted so he could feel like he was wearing his big britches No, Moses was trying to do what God wanted. He was trying to- I mean there's many times we've seen it in the stories where Moses said, Lord, they're your people. I don't know what I'm doing here. Lord, I can't take it anymore. It's too much for me. Moses was like, Lord, why am I doing this? And yet people rose up against him and said, Oh, you think too highly of yourself, Moses. You shouldn't be doing this And and you think you're all that in a bag of chips, Moses is like, I'm just trying to do what God wants. That's all I'm trying to do. I'm just trying to do what God wants And Moses loved them. Moses interceded for them. At times when God came down off of the mountain and said, I'm going to kill them all. And Moses said, No, no, Lord, please don't kill them all. Lord, there's a few that might need punishment, Lord, let's. These are your people. So he prayed for them, he interceded for them. Look at chapter 16 and verse number 22. In Moses, in chapter 16, verse 22, he says. And they fell upon their faces and said, O God, the God of the Spirit of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with the whole congregation? And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the congregation. Moses begged God. Moses fell on his knees and cried out to the Lord and said, Lord, have mercy on these people. He continually interceded for them. And God gave these men a chance to repent, the sons of Korah, this whole group. Listen, God will always give you a chance to turn back to Him. That's an important biblical truth you need to understand. God gives the prodigal time to return. God chastens his son, but he says, repent, well, there is still yet time. So that God gives them a chance to repent. They did not repent, and we see that the earth swallowed them up in verses 31 through 34. God swallowed them up. They were swallowed up in the earth. In uh I think that word's actually used here in verse number 31. He says, And it came to pass as he had made an end of speaking all these words that the ground clave asunder. There was under them, and the earth opened the mouth and swallowed them up. Listen, God doesn't mess around. He gave them a chance to repent, they did not repent, and so judgment came down on them. Now it was only a day later, a day after this, and God's people began to murmur and complain. They rise up against Moses. We have a problem with our memory, folks. We forget. We forget. And over and over again, the children of Israel forgot how good God was to them. God doesn't like murmuring and complaining. I wonder how often we complain. I know we wouldn't raise our fist up against God. At least I hope you're not in that place. I hope you're not in a place where you would try and defy God like that. But you know what? When we're murmuring and complaining about our lot in life, what we're doing is we're saying, God hasn't been good to me. God hasn't met my need. God hasn't been sufficient. I don't have all the toys that I want. I don't have all the whatever it might be. And God is not pleased when his people are complaining. Especially in this world where we're supposed to be a light of the truth You know, I think sometimes we've changed the the song to count your burdens, name them one by one, count your burdens, see how hard life's become, count your burdens. No, it's supposed to be count your blessings. But too many Christians are walking around just talking, oh I got this going, I got this, I got a lot, all kinds. Listen, we all have burdens. We talked about that on uh Thursday night a little bit, I believe, but we've all got burdens. We've all got trouble, we've all got hardship, but we've also got blessings. It's just you choose what to look at. So then we see the story of Aaron's rod sprouting in chapter 17, verses 1 through 13, a miraculous thing where God again is uh assuring his people that his hand is on Aaron, that it by God's plan, God's design, all these men said, hey, we're all men too. Aaron gets up and he puts his britches on the same way I put my britches on. What's so special about him? If you guys haven't heard that kind of statement, you haven't been around very long. That kind of statement is very prevalent, that mentality. And God says, okay, I want the leaders. I want a leader from every tribe. You pick the guy who has the biggest britches. And and uh and we're gonna take his rod and we're gonna put it over here. We're gonna put it down. We'll put Aaron's rod down right there and let's see what happens. You remember the last time Aaron and Moses dropped their rod on the ground? When they were in Egypt. See, God showed his mighty power. That rod was used in many places, and God was demonstrating his power. Well, they put Aaron's rod down with all of these others. It's just a stick. And yet God miraculously allows it to bring forth life. Aaron's rod overnight not only does it have growth on it and is green, but it buds and it brings forth fruit. Omens in one in one night. The miraculous name of God. God again assuring and showing that his hand is with him and that Aaron is the one who has been set up. as a high priest. So teaching these lessons to these people. Then we see the story of the red heifer is sacrificed in chapter 19. Verses 1 through 22. You see the children had been defiled. Again, there's these whole of the stories. You want to read through these stories and get a good grasp of them, but They had uh been defiled by coming in contact with dead. Look at chapter 19 and verse number 16. See, they weren't supposed to be touching dead bodies or be around that that defiles them. But so we see In chapter 19 and verse number 16, he says, And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in open fields or a dead body or a bone of a man or a grave shall be unclean seven days. So a because they had been in this situation, there were the large majority of the people were unclean for seven days. There was nobody to perform the sacrifices. There was nobody that could do the duties or the offices of the priest because these they were all unclean and something had to happen. Somehow they had to be made clean. And God told them to sacrifice this red heifer. The red heifer is a picture of Christ who died for our sins. Obviously the red signifying the blood of Jesus Christ. We know that without the shedding of blood there's no remission of sins. And all of these things, brother uh Census and I were talking just before Sunday school about laying the foundation and the work that he has to do on the mission field to try and teach through the Old Testament so that when you get to the New Testament, you hear about Christ whose blood was shed for you. It makes sense. You understand why that had to happen and what the meaning was. Well, this is what God is doing for these people as He's established a nation. And then he is giving them a picture over and over and over again of the day when Jesus Christ is going to come. And that Messiah, which would be the one whose blood would the Lamb that would take away the sins of the world, whose blood would be shed for all men, the one sacrificed for all. But until then, he gave them many, many pictures trying to teach them of what was to come. And this was one of those pictures. This red heifer had to be sacrificed. It was to be killed, a couple of notable things. It was to be killed in the face of or before the priest is a picture of Christ who would one day be sacrificed before the face of his father until his father turned from him. Then it uh was to be sacrificed outside the camp. Again, a picture of Christ, when Christ was to be carried outside Jerusalem, take his cross, up the hill of Gagotha, and be sacrificed. So God, the typology and the pictures through the Old Testament are prevalent and very, very strong. We see uh continuing on in the outline here, an angry man is snared. This is the story of Moses here, uh, when he got angry um and struck a rock. But God takes them back to Kadeshfarnea. Look at uh chapter twenty and verse number one. Chapter twenty and verse number one He says, then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zen in the first month, and the people in Kadesh. And Mirim died there and was buried there. They've come back to Kadesh Barniah. Listen, there's a principle here that's good for you to remember. When you depart from God The easiest way or maybe the best place to get back to God is go back where you left Him. When you've uh walked away from the Lord, when you've gone or got into sin. You might need to come back to this and say, listen, this is where I got off track. When the kids and I would go riding four-wheelers up in PA And we're on some trail rides and we're out riding and and sometimes we would go riding at night and just see if we could get lost, you know, just see if we could get and and we'd just go riding forever and and uh then You you kinda especially at night everything looks different, and then pretty soon you you lose your way and you're like, okay, I don't know where I'm at. So then you start circling around, you try and get back to the trail that Okay, I'm back where I left the trail. So now I know I'm I'm in the right place now. You get to go again. Sometimes in your Christian life, when you've left the trail, you've got to go back to that point. And that's what God did. He brought them back to Kadeshparnia. We have a whole generation of people here now that uh have been raised up, that were either very young. or maybe not even born yet, and they're going to be going into the promised land. They've got some lessons they need to learn and God brings them back to Kadesh Barnea to begin to teach them. It was God's plan for them. You know Moses, uh, they came to Moses and they began to complain again about the fact that they were thirsty. They're in 20 verses 3 through 5. Uh they just, there's no water here. God tells Moses to speak to the rock in chapter 20 in verse number 8. He says, hey, I want you to speak to the rock. He says, And take the rod and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth His water. He says, hey, go speak to the rock and water's going to come, right? But Moses strikes the rock out of unbelief. Out of unbelief. We see that in verse number 11 that it says that this is the real problem with what Moses did in verse number 11. And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice. And the water came out abundantly, and the congregation did drink their uh beast also and their beast also. I think verse number let's see look at verse number 17. Let's see if that's where it says that. It says it in twelve. Okay, one more. Thank you. And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel. He says, Hey, because ye believed me not. So Moses struck this rock, and it's kind of unusual because it was back in chapter 17 that this very similar thing happened, that God brought water from a rock. Moses saw it once already. Why would he doubt that God could do it again? And yet in life circumstances and situations when things are different Sometimes we see our back up against the Red Sea or against the wall, and although God has brought us through sometime in the past, this is a new battle And so maybe we're kind of like, ah, I don't know if God can do that. Even though He's carried us through. Hasn't God been faithful? God has carried us through one struggle, one battle, one heartache after another. But sometimes when we face a new battle or we're dealing with a new problem, we might be a little bit uh uh hard to believe that God's gonna do it one more time for us. And that's where Moses was, and he strikes this rock, frustrated, angry at these people, unbelieving of the Lord, and God punishes him. There in verse number 12, God punishes them, says you're not going to enter the land because of your because of your unbelief. Um He wasn't going to be able to enter the promised land. We see uh a disobedient man is stripped in chapter 20 in verse number 26. This is uh Aaron, this again having been disobedient to the Lord. Look in chav in verse number twenty-six. I guess let's start Maybe verse number twenty-four. Aaron shall be gathered unto his people, for they shall not enter into the land which I have given unto the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word at the water of Merbath, take Aaron and Eliezer his son, and bring them up into the mountain Hor, and strip Aaron of his garments. And put them upon Eliezer his son, and Aaron shall be gathered unto his people, and he shall die there. And Moses did as the Lord commanded. So Aaron was stripped of his uh Priestly garments of his role of leadership and that was placed before the people on the shoulders of Eliezer. So Aaron dies and Eliezer becomes the high priest. In Schofield's notes on this particular passage of scripture, he says that the death of Aaron ends the wilderness wanderings. This from here on out, he says the the children of Israel are moving with purpose, that they are either in a holding pattern, waiting on God for the next step. Or they're taking steps towards what God wants. So this officially would end the wilderness wanderings, the forty years of them being under God's punishment, and they begin to take steps towards God God's plan. And so we see the next point here, Roman numeral number two, the journey to Jordan. Chapters 20 through 36. We see the journey to Jordan. A first of all, uh notable story is the serpent that was lifted up in the wilderness. A serpent, what a powerful story. Actually, C. H. Spurgeon was brought to Jesus Christ because of a layman that got in a pulpit and preached the most basic, simple message. He stood in the pulpit and said and preached, look to Jesus and live. From this text, the serpent. And as it was a very small country church on a snowy day, the preach preacher couldn't even get there And so a layman got up and preached. And uh the layman stood up and he just said, Young man, you need to look to Jesus and live. And shortly thereafter, C. H. Fergus put his faith and trust in Christ, and uh we all know the history of what happened there. So the truth that was being taught here by the Lord is very powerful. The people had rebelled against God, we see in 21 verse number 5. He says, and the people spake against God and against Moses. Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness, for there is no bread, neither is there any water It's a pretty repetitive story, isn't it? And our soul loatheth the light bread. They say, hey, this is all terrible and bad. Look at what you've done. And and God is fed up with their complaining spirit, and he sends a fiery serpent. God sent a fiery serpent among the people in verse number six. And the Lord sent a fiery serpent among the people. And it did bite the people, and much people of Israel died. So the people of Israel began to die because of the serpent Moses prays, and God gives him a method of delivering the people. The method, look at verse number nine. And Moses made a serpent of brass. And put it upon a pole, and it came to pass that if a serpent had bitten any man when he beheld the serpent of brass, He lived. So the principle is that listen, anyone that would look at the serpent lifted up, the brass serpent that was lifted up in the wilderness, they could live. Now does that make sense? You've been bit by a snake. You're dying. And somebody comes by and says, hey, we were told that listen if you if you'll just have some faith If you'll just put your trust, if you'll just walk to the center of camp and look at a brass serpent that Moses put on a pole, you'll live. And people are like, oh, that's stupid What good is that going to do? That's too easy. There's got it's gotta be, let's make up some some medicine, let's try and cut the wounds, let's let's do all these other things. And they're like, no, no, you don't have to do all that. And they're like, no, no The the the witch doctor told me that if I do this then then I'll live. No, all you gotta do is look and live. My brother live. You see, that's again talking about Jesus Christ. John 3, verse number 14 says, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. So all the way back here in the wilderness, God was teaching his people that one day Jesus Christ is going to be lifted up on a cross and all men needed to do was look to him in faith and believe. And does it make sense No, it doesn't matter. It's believing what God said you need to do. And that's how you're saved for eternity. And they were saved from the from dying of a horrible death because of this fiery serpent if they would just look to the serpent and live. Listen, some uh strategic victories are won. We've got to move up move on quickly. We're gonna get to the end here. Some strategic victories were won. in chapter 21. You know, they're coming into the promised land. Do you have a uh map for me there, brother? Um so they're on their way to the Jordan, right? They're coming up to the promised land. I'm not whichever one you want to show me is fine. So, you know, down here, Sinai, that's where they were at there, got the law and all that delivered to them. Coming up here, uh, they've traveled up. This is Cadesh Barnia. They left there, they traveled around, God brought them back to Kadesh Barnea. Now they're journeying, journeying, they're going to come through here all the way up To the Jordan, where they're going to cross over into Canaan. But as they start to approach the promised land here, there's some enemies there It's not like the Jordan River is the dividing line and there's no Canaanites over here. The Moabites are here, the Edomites are here, the Midianites are down here, so they're gonna start to cross from territories and get into some land where there's some less friendly people and the rumors out that these people are coming to occupy the land. And so they start to come up come up against some kings that aren't real happy about their presence there. So we see that on their journey there. They be they first defeat the king of the Amorites as they cross over. They're working towards the Jordan River. They they win a battle there. Even though these men dwelt in song strong cities, God gave them victory over them. They defeat Og, the king of Bashan. That's just OG, the king of Bashan. Og was a giant in Deuteronomy chapter 3 and verse number 11. Let me read to you the description here. For only Og the king of Vishon remained of the remnant of the giants. Behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron. Is it not in Raboth, the children of Ammon, nine cubits was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth thereof? So his bed was thirteen five long and six feet wide. So it's 13 feet. That's the bed he slept in. And uh he was a giant of a man. I mean, y I don't know if you've ever been around uh uh some of these basketball players that are seven one, seven three, uh, you know, seven six. Brother uh Mason he's tall. I feel small standing around him. How tall are you? Six three? Six six. So he's six six. You add a foot to that. That's pretty tall. You try talking about somebody that's twelve, thirteen feet? That's a tall dude. I mean that's that's a giant. And and and when the Israelites went into the promised land the first time, they saw some of these guys and they're like, oh, we can't whoop them. I mean, yeah, we were excited about this, but not as much anymore, right? Uh and so they they whooped this giant, the king of Ug. Uh But what God was doing was allowing them to win these small victories to give them confidence and faith for when they crossed over into the Promised Land. Listen, if you'll have faith and trust God in the small things, you know, long time before David ever faced the giant, he faced the lion. And he was able to, with the power of God, and in the same spirit, in the same way, when he stood before the giants, he said, The Lord giveth thee to my hand. He knew just as he delivered to me, delivered me from the paw of the lion and of the bear, he's going to deliver me from you. God had given him those victories and those confidence, the confidence to face the giant, because he had won that. This was God's doing with his people. He's saying, listen, we're gonna conquest. We're gonna go into the promised land. You're gonna occupy the land. There's gonna be some battles there But I want you to have some faith and some confidence in me, and so I'm going to give you these victories, even conquering one of the very few giants that were still there, uh, according to the book of Numbers there. Then we see the story of Balak, who attempts to use Balaam, a false prophet, a pagan diviner. He attempts to use him to cast a spell on these people who have been victorious. So let's go through this quickly here. King of Balak attempts to use Balaam. Balak is overcome with fear. Because of the victory. Look at 22. 3. In 22, verse number three, we see this. And Moab was sore afraid of the people because they were many and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel. They they're just distressed. They're, oh my goodness, the children of Israel's coming and they've won already these other battles. What are we going to do? So he speaks to this Balaam, a pagan diviner, to come and curse God's people in verse number six. Um God tells Balaam not to do it. I was planning to read some of this, but we've got to move. God says, hey, don't do it. Balak attempts to uh win him over. Balak comes and says, Oh, I know God said not to do it, but what what if we give you more things? What if we give you extra things? What if we pay you? What if we let you have some land? What if we do the- I mean, you don't understand Satan's not going to give up just because you won the victory once. Just because you happen to have resisted him today, he's going to come back tomorrow with even greater temptation. Several times he comes back and he keeps offering him and he Uh Balak already knew that he wasn't supposed to do it, but he kept going to God, and he was a false diviner, I want you to know, but he understood that the God of Israel was God and he was submitting to him But ultimately he goes against God's plan. Balaam has a conversation with his donkey in chapter 22, verses 21 to 31. He has a conversation with his donkey. Uh sometimes, you know, that's when a donkey is smarter than you. Uh and you know the donkey God made the donkey stop And he was come on, let's go, let's go, let's go. That reminds me of uh brother Bob Gamble, and I don't have time to tell this story, but this is really funny. Um To me the trust that they have in their dogs is just amazing. I mean we've sat and talked about the conversation about you know how the faith that they have to have to trust their CNI dogs to guide them around. And uh he's like, oh yeah, sometimes they're smarter than us, you know. He's like one time he was out walking and the dog took him out onto the street. And he's following his dog and he's like, No, you know, get up on the sidewalk. I don't want to walk in the road, you know. And the dog's like standing in front of him, resisting. Like, no, no, no. And and he says, go, get up there, and and the dog went up there and and uh He stepped in wet concrete. The next c hour and a half he's cleaning concrete out of his dog's paws, you know, trying to like the dog knew that we weren't supposed to be walking up there But I was like, no, this we're going, you know. And that's the thing, the donkey knew that they weren't he wasn't supposed to go, but uh he says, no, we want to go, we want to go Yeah, so ultimately there's a huge conversation between Balaam and and God and God's people there. It's very enjoyable to read. Uh we don't have time to uh get into it now. We've got to bring this to a conclusion. But Joshua is chosen to lead Israel in chapter 27, verses 15 through 23. Again, we're coming up to the promised land. Now Quickly, this last point, there's a small pause before entering into the Promised Land. In the book of Deuteronomy kind of gives us some insight into this. Now, Deuteronomy does not further the story It supports the story with further details. So the story of the children of Israel doesn't really, they they come to a place, they're kind of in a holding pattern. And God gives you some more details about what's already happened. And in and basically it's called the second law. And so God's preparing them and teaching them and getting them ready to go into the promised land because there's a lot of things that they didn't know not having been there all that time. And so several things. I want to give you here quickly, Deuteronomy is a complimentary book. Moses preaches in this book three farewell messages First of all, he says, remember who God is. Chapters 1 through 4. Listen, you want to get a picture of God, the character of God, the uh the uh attributes of God, you can get that by reading through. Deuteronomy, we see that he says, remember who God is. He says, Remember what God said in chapters 5 through 26. Remember what God said. Listen, don't want to forget, and he reiterates This passage of scripture is called the second law, where the Ten Commandments are repeated and said, this is what God expects of us. Don't forget what God said. Then he reads to them the blessings and the judgments of the promises of God, the promise that they were going to have this land. And uh then the message of instruction in instruction to the nation on why they should follow God. Uh why they should follow God. And he gives to them some things here. First of all, God's goodness to them in the past. God's goodness to them in the present, that they needed to be a testimony before the world. These passages of scripture are all listed there for you. God's love that He had poured out upon them, God's promises of continued blessing as they move forward. and God's judgment on them for disobedience. And uh these are things that we too can experience and know. And uh so some exciting truth there. Now God's people are literally standing on the brink of Jordan They're ready to go into the promised land and possess it. After all God has done in preparation, if we go all the way back to the beginning and we see uh creation and how Satan tried to stop God's plan and then God came up with a solution and said, okay, here's what you're gonna do. And then Satan says, wait, we're gonna cause the people to rebel and they're gonna set up a a a tower and try and uh m or get their own way to heaven and God says no and God ultimately uh the people come through. We get into the patriarchal history where God establishes a nation. He says, I'm gonna work with these people and this is where the Messiah is going to come through. And then you know with the story of Cain And Abel that Satan tried to stop the line and say, okay, uh we're going to take out the line that's supposed to deliver Christ, and God gives him another son. And so all through history we see God's plan and Satan trying to disrupt that plan And they come here, they're gonna be supposed to go into the promised land and possess it. And Satan says, No, let me see the sows of doubt. Uh let me sow the seeds of doubt. And uh we're gonna make them not go into the promised land and they had to go through 40 years of judgment. Now they're setting on the brink of the conquest. the next chapter, the story that God wants to take them in to possess that land. And there's so many lessons in this, the story of conquest that have to do with our lives and what we're supposed to be accomplishing for God. We're going to get into those things next week. Let me close in prayer.