Wanna take a bunch of time and teach the basics, the overview of these chat these books as we go through them. We did not do that at the beginning of Genesis and we're tackling tackling Exodus now and I thought, do I want to cover this? And I said no. Let's not even make that part of the notes. And so you'll notice the overview page does not have a page number on it. My thought is you'll just kind of plug that in. in the beginning of the book as we go and we reach each book you'll stick that page in there kind of like a dividing page. And so right here in the front of your notes would be the overview for Exodus. I think at page number four in your notes. Between page four and five is where we begin the book of Genesis. We start with an overview of the whole Bible, the Old Testament as kind of an introduction. We do the introduction and then you have the Overview of Genesis, you would throw in right there. There's no page number. And then we go into the Genesis and then we get to Exodus here and starting with that today. So we're not even really gonna cover that the the overview stuff it's for you to have for your information and so on but we're gonna get right into the notes this morning. Now do we have the notes for the screen that they can see All right, Pastor G okay Pastor Gus is out of town uh traveling obviously and so that's gonna make it a little harder. I'll try and make sure that Uh I make a point to say this is where it is because I know it helps a lot when you can see it on the screen and know okay there's a blank I gotta fill in or whatever. So I'll try and make better notice of those things. So We conclude our last discussion with a look at the miraculous hand of God as he providentially moved his people from the land of Egypt. All seventy-five of them, moved them all uh, you know, from the land of Canaan there uh to the land of Egypt, brought them into this place where they would be protected, provided for and kept pure well the nation grew and got established. In this place of safety, God's people began to grow. The book of Genesis concludes. with the prophecy about the tribe of Judah, through which would come the Messiah. This was God's plan. And we move into the book of Exodus as we turn the pages of the Bible as well as the scope of time. we see the exodus take place. This book lays for us the foundation of this area of them moving out of Egypt and moving towards the Promised Land. ultimately getting there, but all that transpires so many of our Bible stories take place in these pages of Scripture uh where we see them coming out of Egypt and then going through the Red Sea and uh the different places that they impact uh or or get on this great journey and then of course not having faith to go into the promised land and s end up being left there for forty years because of their lack of faith and obedience to God and and uh it's not till we get to the book of Joshua that we see them actually embark upon the movement into the promised land. So all this takes place in these uh passages of scripture on our overview here, you'll see you have the book of Exodus, which is where we are here on our overall timeline, and you see Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. They all take place here in this timeline. before we get into the entrance of Canaan. So the entrance of Canaan, you know here, that's the next major division. In between right here, there's a lot that happens, and I've divided it up into four major events that we're going to look at that takes place in these pages of Scripture. And so these four major events are the delivery of the people from slavery. This is Exodus 1 through 18, which we're going to try and look at today. Then there's the delivery of the law at Mount Sinai. There is God's defiance or the people's defiance against God that takes place and then the discipline for their rebellion, and then there's some concluding thoughts that are given in the book of uh Deuteronomy there, so uh we'll look at that when we get to it. Beginning here with our notes for today, we have Israel's place in Egypt in Exodus chapter 1, verses 1 through 6, kind of these first couple of chapters here in the book of Two chapters in the book of Exodus cover about 80 years. And then the rest of the book of Exodus covers about two years. So these first two chapters here you're really flying through. I mean this is a high overview of what kind of took place as God is uh introducing here. Um but the first thing we see in their exodus is the word exodus comes from a Greek uh word that means to exit or to depart. This of course is a pivotal book in the nation's relationship with God, in their move from bondage to freedom, and the applications for us as Christians are great. They're powerful, and we'll look at those. We see first of all Israel in great prosperity. Israel in great prosperity. There's your first blank in chapter one and verse number seven. I'm going to read that for you. He says, And the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly and multiplied and waxed exceedingly mighty, and the land was filled with them. So we see God blessing his people here in the land of Egypt. They're growing They're they're fruitful, uh they're multiplying, uh they're they're they're gaining wealth, they're gaining position, they're they're the everything seems to be on the right track and they're just growing and uh excited about this. So Israel in great prosperity here. Israel itself I'm sorry, Israel was growing in Egypt. Now Egypt itself was in a time of effluence Uh historically, if you look at the different dynasties and the Egyptian dynasties, they were very prosperous. And during this time frame Egypt was growing as well, and Egypt was being prosperous. And uh in part, I think, being blessed because God's people were there and they were growing as well, and they were blessed by proximity of that. Here we get a picture of the fulfillment of God's promises that were made in Genesis that we're going to look at as we kind of walk through this. But the seed of Abraham is grown into a nation under the protection and provision of Egypt. There's a second blank a nation. It's grown into a nation from a small group of people, 75 people. This grows into a great, great nation. We talked about this that they grew from 75, mentioned in the book of Acts, 714, to 600,000 men, plus women and children. 600,000 men plus women and children. If you'd like to look at it, in Exodus chapter number twelve, in verse thirty-seven is where we get this. This is not something that people just decided or made up or thought, boy, I bet there was a lot of people. No, the Word of God tells us. He says here That uh and the children of Israel journeyed from Rasmus to Soklav about six hundred thousand on foot that were men. besides children, and a mixed multitude went up also with them, and all of their flocks and herds. So here we see we had six hundred thousand men. A very conservative estimate, which I threw out at the end of last week's lesson, was estimated about two million people were in Egypt and part of the exodus from Egypt. Uh that's a very conservative number if you have six hundred thousand men. Uh if you say, well, okay, we have an equivalent number of women, you got six hundred thousand women. and uh then families uh in in a time period where people had large families, uh where it was children are a heritage of the Lord and they didn't just say it, they believed it, they practiced it. Uh they they had large families, but let's just say they just had two kids. You know, if they just had two, you're in excess of two million. Some people estimated three or four million, but very conservatively there's at least two million uh people that are coming out of this. And so it could be a much bigger number than that, but That's a very conservative estimate. So the prophecy given in Genesis 15 is a fulfillment of this prophecy given to him. I'm going to read it for you. You don't have to turn back there. Genesis 15, verses 13 and 14. And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years, and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards shall they come out with great substance. So this was given in the book of Genesis, this prophecy, which is very, very clear, which you will see as we progress down through the story. Obviously they were in bondage. They were kept there 400 years. The time frame of the 400 years uh with different people starts and stops at different times and and when they can calculate those years and so on. Uh but the total time was four hundred years they were in bondage. Another place in the Bible it says four hundred and thirty years uh because of if you include the time frame when it was talking about like it was by the time they got to Mount Sinai or by the time they were on their journeys in the wilderness and so they were including those years at the 430. But they were in bondage for four hundred years. Israel uh is become a great prosperous people here, even though they ended up in bondage. And so we see Israel in great persecution, verses eight and nine Let's look at that. Exodus chapter one and verse eight and nine. So we see them in seven. God's letting us know that they're waxing uh great, that they're growing that they are uh understanding and and just being fruitful and multiplying, but then right away he tells us, now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come on, let us deal wisely with them. Lest they multiply and come to pass, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies and fight against us. And so they got them out of this land. So the persecution began to take place. They said, wait, there's too many of these people. We've got to do something about this. And so they began to persecute them. And we see that take place over and over. There arose a king that knew not Joseph. That's what the Bible said. There a time where they knew not Joseph. And because this covers so many years and there's a gap between Genesis, uh the end of Genesis and the beginning of Exodus, uh there there's a great number of years there. We think, well, man, this just happened. But there they're There arose a pharaoh, but there's quite a time frame in between here is what I'm saying. Several hundred years uh that uh the nation of of Egypt lost track of who Joseph was and who these people were. So uh historians believe that uh Joseph, this is not biblical historians. This is just historical documentary documentation of this time period with Josephus and other people like this who uh know Jewish history and so on. They believed that the historians that Joseph came to Egypt during the first part of the 13th dynasty. Now Egypt was conquered by a group of people known as the Shepherd Kings. So these people were uh nomadic, these people that took over Egypt, that controlled Egypt, were known as shepherd kings. They were known as they were herdsmen. And if you remember from our study in the book of Genesis, we mentioned it, we'll look at it in a minute, I think, but that Egyptians didn't like herdsmen. It was something they despised. They were actually considered an abomination to them. Well these herdsmen took over. So you have a a kind of a camaraderie between Israel, this nation that's growing in Egypt, which is not really Egyptian, and the rulers now that are over Egypt They kind of like our buddies because they are herdsmen as well. You remember that? You guys remember that? Are you with me? I know I'm cranking, but uh you know th so you've got this relationship, this kind of friendship that takes place there. You've got these people that conquered and are now in control of Egypt, and all the Egyptians are in bond servant servitude per se, and they've got good friends with this group called Israel because they're shepherds as well. Well, you reach a point historically where in the 18th dynasty, the Egyptians were able to overthrow their foreign oppressors. They took back rule of their kingdom. So not only had a great amount of time passed where there were a pharaoh now ruling Egypt that did not know Joseph and his family and how it was He was used of God to save the entire country. And they didn't know that. They didn't remember that. But not only that, they were looked at kind of like their oppressors. You know, they they they were the ones that were buddies with the ones that that were old were controlling them. And so it it would put them in a very bad place once the Egyptians uh took control again. And so this is where that persecution was birthed out of. They were made to sacrifice their male sons. We know that that happened, of course, with the story of Moses, which we're going to discuss in greater detail. But uh they were told they had to sacrifice their male sons because they didn't want these guys growing up. and becoming fighting men should a war he says right there, hey if the time comes that a war is called and uh all of a sudden These six hundred thousand men that are here decide to side up with the enemy. So we need to minimize the number of men, the fighting men that are available. So they told them they had to sacrifice them. So we see the cry of their persecution in chapter two and verses twenty-four and twenty-five. They were persecuted, they were in bondage, things were getting worse and worse. We see in chapter 2, verses 24 and 25, and God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham and Isaac with Jacob, and God looked upon the children of Israel. and God had respect unto them. God saw the persecution that they were in, the groaning, the suffering that they were hearing, and God heard their cry. there in the wilderness. Now, Moses in the palace, we see in chapters 2, verses 1 through 10, he's in the palace. There's another blank for you. Moses' parents, Amram and Jacobed, you want her spell the spelling of her name. It's J-O-C-H-E J-O-C-H-E-B-E-D. So uh Amram and Jacobed were the tribe of Levi. Now I don't know why it's so funny, but uh it seems like a lot of these Bible trivia games have the question, who was Moses' mother? So now you know. Okay, so you you have it written down. Uh you can win the next time you're playing Bible trivia. Uh so Jacobad there. They were of the tribe of Levi. And mom saw in her child that he was a good child. In Exodus chapter 2 and verse number 2 And the woman conceived and bare a son, and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months So she saw something in her child. Mom submitted to God and gave her child back to him and allowed God to have him, and we're going to talk about that in the morning service this morning. uh with this being Mother's Day, so we're not gonna invest much time here. But Mero's protector was Pharaoh's daughter. God will use whomever he likes. to protect his own. It's a miraculous thing that God would use the one that said, hey, all these boys got to be killed, and now Pharaoh's daughter is going to be the one that's going to protect him. She is the one that stands between the uh hangsman noose or uh you know him dying and uh her her own father and this boy's life because God was raising up a man that he could use to free his people. So Moses' protector was Pharaoh's daughter. God has a place for him, and uh God puts him under the care of his mother, his own mother. And Moses begins to be in preparation. Chapter 2, verses 11 through 22, we see his preparation taking place. God preparing this young man. He spends 40 years in Israel. I'm sorry, he spends 40 years in Egypt learning the way of the Egyptians. in Pharaoh's court, I mean just uh uh being established and knowing exactly what goes on there. Then he spent forty years uh on the back side of the desert, and God was preparing him to do what he wanted him to do And we see that Moses is cared for in Egypt for 40 years. Moses is cared for in Egypt for 40 years. He was taught by the Egyptians, but prepared by God. Taught by the Egyptians, but prepared by prepared by God. So you guys keeping up? I know we don't have the uh oh we got you got notes. You guys Letting me spend all this time keep pointing these things out and they're all they're up there for you. Man, now we really can go. So Moses was cared for. He was uh taught by the Egyptians, but prepared by God. In Acts chapter 7, verse number 22, it says, And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in word and in deeds. So Moses grew and God was preparing him, giving him exactly what he needed to do the job that God was calling him to. He was mighty in words and deeds. He was being prepared by God. Now he made a choice to turn away from the pleasure of sin for a seven season. The Bible says because he had respect unto the recompense. He had respect unto the to the uh reward. He knew he had a relationship with God and knew, and so he chooses to follow God. It was his choice to follow God and do what God wanted him to do. Now, Moses is not only cared for in Egypt for forty years, but he's conditioned by God for forty years. So now God's going to prepare him in a little bit different way, and he's taken to the backside of the desert. God takes him to Midian, where he is taught and learns, and uh God allows him. Uh there to Mary, he marries the Porah, and God give them two God gives them two sons Um Gershim, which means stranger. Stranger, it means stranger, and Eliezer that means God his help. God his help. God gives him these two sons. So God is doing a lot in his life preparing him for what he's going to do. Moses is back there just serving him forty years, doesn't know what's going to happen, doesn't have any idea what the next step is He's just at this time growing and learning what God has for him. And so Moses is called by God. And so we see that he's called by God and sent out. Now God comes to him, we know, through a burning bush in Exodus chapter 3 and verse number 4. We see in uh and when the Lord saw that he he saw that he turned aside to see God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. So God calls to him from this burning bush and reveals to him who he is and commissions him uh to go and to free his people from the nation of Egypt. Um You guys know the story you guys know the story, his discussion with God about his inability and and his limitations and And all of that. And uh we're going to be looking at Moses more throughout the day today, so we're not going to spend a lot of time there. Uh so we see that We're moving now into the plagues of Egypt, chapter number seven through eleven. He is commissioned by God. He's sent out. The discussion there takes place. God prepares him, God sends him a helper, all of those things come to place, and he moves, he goes to Egypt to call for the release of God's people. Uh so that all those people can go and establish the land in the promised land, fulfilling the promises that God said in the book of Genesis were going to take place Now we're not going to cover all of these. You guys know the plagues, the list of the plagues I've given you there, as well as the name in bold there is the name of the Egyptian god that was defeated by that particular plague. Each one of these plagues were not just random uh things or acts of punishment, they were specifically trying to get the Egyptians to realize that their God that they were looking to did not have power. That they did not have the power to to they shouldn't be looking to them, that there was only one true God and trying to get them to submit to that. And so the list of those gods are there. You can look those up uh on your own time and just learn more about those uh false gods. If you would like to, but it it was the land of the gods. They served many, many false gods. Uh they were polytheistic and believed in many, many. There obviously were some major ones that were looked to more specifically but there was as many as two hundred uh false gods that they looked to because they kind of m you know looked at maybe God was in everything. You could see God everywhere and so they had a lot of things that they looked to. So the purpose of the plagues here I described briefly there was to overthrow these gods, but for Israel it was God showed his favor on his people. In Exodus chapter 6 and verses 6 through 8, we see that uh him stating that He says, Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with the stretched-out arm and with great judgments. God revealing his plan that he was going to reveal them or relieve them of this bondage and deliver them to be freed. And uh so for the Egyptians it was to see the favor of God on their life. God showed his power to them. Just his power was on display. And God revealed to them their dependence on him. And uh we ought to have a dependence upon God, realizing our safety, our security. Uh, you know, our life so many times we feel like we have things under control. We feel like we've got life by the tail. Uh, but you know how quickly that can change. Um Got a text last night at about 1030 uh from Matt um Passos, and he was with Brother Joe Passos in the emergency room. Yesterday afternoon uh Joe Paso collapsed and they took him to the hospital. I haven't had an update since yesterday evening, late, but he said he is improving, seems to be stabilizing, uh and so we were praying for him last night, but I'm saying that quick. And and anybody here would not have been surprised if it was Nelma, because Nelma's the one that deals with the heart condition and the ongoing, you know, her her health is up and down and up and down, but Joe's the one that takes care of her. He's the healthy one And I mean when I got that text that, you know, he was in the hospital, you know, and then of course I d I know uh I didn't know anything about it before Thursday after the prayer request, but Nelma asked pray for the people in Brazil. And how many of you guys have seen the flooding over there All of that flooding, I mean over eighty-eight people I think dead and many, many, many people missing. And uh, you know, that quick, you life's turned upside down. and uh changed. And what I'm saying is our dependence needs to be on God. It's not on this world or our four oh one K or you know our the stability that we have in our life, it's it's our dependence needs to be on God, realizing that life can change in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. I mean things can change so fast. And uh we will be calling upon him. So it needs to be in a place. Uh uh our life needs to be in a place where we're just depending on him and uh looking to him continually. Don't don't lose sight of that, and uh you'll be you'll be blessed for it. So this bondage in Egypt is a picture for us, and we're going to be talking about this, but it is a picture of our bondage in sin. Egypt has always been a picture of the world, a picture of sin. and God with the ability to redeem us or free us from that. So this people might be redeemed. God was raising up Moses, who is a picture of the Redeemer. getting them out and freeing them from that bondage. So there's many pictures there for Israel. Then we see for Egypt that God was showing that he is the only true God. that he is the only true God. They had a lesson to learn. They had a lot of other gods that they were looking to, but God is saying, wait a minute, uh I am the one true God, the God of Moses. and uh you need to worship him. And he did this by systematically overpowering each of the gods that they looked to greatly. God showed the world who he was. And uh I've given you those references so you can kind of see and read those. We don't have time to read all of these passages of scripture. Then they're getting prepared to leave. You guys know the the story, the the plagues, one plague after the next Uh Pharaoh keeps changing his mind. They go back and forth and okay you can go, no, you can't, and he hardens his heart continually. So they get all the way to this last plague, which This is a picture of the Passover that comes to bring them to a point to leave Egypt, chapter 12 and 13. And we see the preparation for their freedom. The children of Israel were not excluded from this uh plague. They were not excluded from this. They did not just get to a free pass. And uh you know this is notable. I was talking to one of the members here a couple weeks ago or within the last two weeks, I don't know. Remember exact day. But anyways, they were discussing with me that they realize now after being in church more and hearing the Word of God and understanding the truths regarding salvation and Christ's death, burial, and resurrection, but they had in initially thought that all uh Israelites just went to heaven because they were God's chosen people. That they just automatically got a free pass, that they were just, they were, that's where they went because they were God's chosen people. And uh there are many that are under that assumption, but we see here that Israel did not was not excluded from this The only difference between the children of Israel and the Egyptians was the blood over the door. That was the difference. For for even for the Israelites, the blood had to be shed. The blood had to be put on the door for them, even them to be able to be saved from this and the picture that it is It's for all men that we've got to do that and they weren't excluded. The children of Israel had to do as God commanded as well. That preparation for freedom and what takes place there. But the picture of the Passover is very powerful for us. It shows us the redemption from God's wrath through faith in Christ and His shed blood. That's the picture that's drawn for us. And 1 Corinthians 5, 7. You might not have marked that in the edge of your notes there, but I didn't put it in there. But he says, purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump. As ye are unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. So Christ is the fulfillment of the picture that was given way back here of this Passover. And uh so we see several things that it pictures for us. First of all, it pictures a new start. Um they get a new start in chapter Exodus chapter 12 and verse number two We see this month shall be unto you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year unto you. It was a It was not the first month of the year, but he said this is going to be a new start for you. This is going to be a new beginning. This is going to mark for you a a just a fresh start, a new beginning. And that's what uh coming to Christ is. That's what uh this picture for us is it's a picture of a new start, a new beginning, new life in Christ. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. I'm glad I have a new life in Christ. Amen. And that's the picture. It's a picture of one lamb for one man for all time. Beloved, everyone has to have their own sacrifice. uh Israelites or didn't matter who they were, the sacrifice had to be made for them. It had to happen. They had to have blood put over the door, ev every one of 'em. And they had to have their own sacrifice It was had to be a lamb without spot. In twelve and verse number five, we see, Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year ye shall take it out from the sheep. and from the goats, a a lamb without blemish. And marking your notes there, 1 Peter 1 9. but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. The Lamb of Jesus Jesus Christ was the Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world a lamb without spot and without blemish. So again, that picture holding true consistently. It was to the lamb had to be slain and the blood had to be shed. In verses 12, um chapter 12, verses 6 and 7 He says, And ye shall keep it until the fourteenth day of the same month, and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in that evening, and they shall take of the blood and strike it. on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the house wherein they shall eat it. Hey, it had to be the let the blood had to be shed, but it also uh He had to die and then it had to be applied. Application had to be made. You know, it wasn't enough just that the lamb was slain. You see, Jesus Christ went to the cross. The lamb was slain, but it's not enough that the lamb was slain. Jesus died for the sins of the whole world. Yes, he did. But that doesn't save the whole world. You see, there has to be an exercise of faith. That's what they had to do. This the lamb was slain, but they had to take that blood and they had to take it and they had to apply it to the doorpost That was the exercise of faith. They take the blood and they put it on the doorpost. You say if that doesn't make any sense, what difference is that going to do? I mean, uh that somehow is going to save my oldest son from dying? Well, that's the exercise of faith And so what what Jesus died on the cross and if I confess my sins and and ask him to forgive me my sins and and b believe that Jesus did that, I can be saved and I don't have to go to hell, I'll go to heaven. It that doesn't make any sense. It doesn't matter. That's what God said. That's the exercise of faith. And when you exercise that faith at the moment you do, salvation is yours. And and the blood has been applied to your account. And that's the difference between many, many, many people, even people that go to church. And they know about the blood. But they've never in their life, there hasn't been a day or hour where they took of that shed blood of Jesus Christ and applied it to their account. Confess their faith and trust in Jesus that they believe that Jesus died for them. There has to be personal application or else it's not there. Even though Jesus died for the whole world. It does not h help unless they uh take that and exercise faith and put their belief in it. And so they had to do that. Application had to be Then the lamb was eaten in uh chapter twelve and verse number eight. And this is a picture of the fellowship that we have now in Jesus Christ. When we uh sit down uh with him and fellowship with him. We have a new life in Christ and we have uh fellowship with him. This of course was to be unleavened bread, picture of the life that And I'm covering so many doctrinal things here that we could take We could take whole Sunday school lessons on each of these thoughts that we're kind of flying through. And I hope that there's some foundation that you already have that kind of ties together these things for you. Um the feast lasted seven days, which is to be a picture of the completeness that we have in our sanctification in Jesus Christ. It was seven days the feast was, and it and it pictured how we are complete in Christ, that process of sanctification whereby we're eating unleavened bread for seven days and and uh keeping the world and the flesh out and sin out and uh that we're being slowly conformed into the image of his son, the idea of perfection there. And uh so They uh this uh notable we're not teaching on this, but it also was to be eaten standing, and uh that they were supposed to be standing to eat this, and it was a picture of their expectation. of the idea of the coming Lord and Savior, of the deliverance that was was in intimate. It could happen at any moment. And so I know you guys don't have this in your notes. My notes are about 12 pages long and yours are four. Okay. So this you don't have all of this in there, but uh I just wanted to touch on this so that you know some of these things that are that are pertinent and applicable here. So we see that it was a picture of the Passover. Then the path to Sinai. And it's 1007 already. Let me see. Oh, we're going to get it done. We're going to get it done. We got four minutes. All right. The path to Sinai. So um This we see that they were led by God. God led them by a pillar of cloud by day and fire by night. This is a picture, beloved. We have new life in Christ. They were delivered. They were freed and they're on their way. But you know what? God didn't just save them and leave them. God was with them and he guided them in this this this cloud by day and fire by night is the picture of the Bible and the Holy Spirit that God has given to every believer after salvation We have God's word here, this this and then the the fire, the Holy Spirit in our heart. that is guiding us unto all truth and leading us in this Christian life. And so God doesn't just save us and leave us. So he's guiding us and he was guiding them. Then they come to several notable places on their trip and uh to the promised land. They're heading that way. You know the first thing they come up to is the Red Sea. The Red Sea in chapter number 14. And of course you know the story, they were delivered by God miraculously, and their enemy was completely defeated. Not just they don't have to worry about the enemy being back there and continuing to come after them. They don't have to worry and look over their shoulder and wonder, when is the enemy going to be there? You know, they they've got a he's going to be No, the enemy was completely defeated. A picture of how God completely defeated Jesus Christ com completely defeated death uh on the cross and God will one day uh completely uh lock up Satan. He will no longer be able to uh harm or tempt or uh discourage or disrupt the Christian's life and we know that God has the power to do that. And uh this pictures complete victory by Jesus Christ It was a test of their faith and believe in Him that every Christian is going to face in our life as we go through certain things. We're all going to have Red Sea experiences where our back's up against the wall. We're not sure what to do, but if our dependence is on God, He'll bring us through Then they come to Mara, Mara, that bitter place, a bitter place where the bitter water was made sweet. How many of you know that there's times in life that bitter things happen? There's some things in life that are bitter and they're hard to handle. But with God, those bitter things are made sweet. This journey to the promised land is a picture of the Christian life And the things that we go through and how we experience these things, and God is teaching his people and he's teaching us that uh, hey Bitter things can be made sweet. God continues to care for them. Then they reach Elam, a place of rest and peace. God brings us to those places sometimes that you go through some things in life and they're hard, they're a struggle, maybe they're bitter. And uh then the time comes where God is able to bring you to a place of rest, a place of peace, and and it just it does nurtures your soul and does something for you, and uh God does that. Then we see in the the wilderness of sin uh that they come to in chapter sixteen verses one through six where God supplies for them out in the wilderness. They get manna, uh God cares for them day by day, teaching us that our life, a Christian life, is a day-by-day walk. Give us this day our daily bread. It's a daily walk with him. It's not something we can just uh go out on Monday. You're not shopping at Sam's Club or Costco You gotta go every day and get what you need uh from the Lord because it's a day by day relationship. It's not something you can just Oh, I'll just go get a whole bunch on Sunday and I'm good until next Sunday. No, the the Christian life is a relationship that's built on each and every day. And then they reach uh Repedium. uh which God provided water for them, water from the rock, and God delivers the Amalekites uh into Joshua's hand. So the people Traveling to Sinai are about eleven months on this journey. Of course, at Mount Sinai is where the law would be delivered. This we're going to get into. uh next week uh tabernacle is built, priesthood is established, so God does a lot of things there. Uh but this is the beginning of this nation of Israel coming out of Egypt after God prepared pre prepared And protected them, provided for them, and he said, Okay, now it's time. You guys come on out. You guys are going to go in and conquer and take the promised land, the land that I promised way back in Genesis. uh that you guys would have. And uh when Abraham uh when God called Abraham and says, Get thee up unto a country that I will show thee, uh he was sending him to the promised land. But God had to prepare and build a nation, a group of people that could go in and take that land. And so God was directing these things.