Turn your Bibles to the book of Exodus. We are talking about the Exodus era and uh in the life of the children of Israel and what God is doing uh in their life, preparing them for the next step, taking them down the road. Uh Uh but we're talking about the Exodus era and God's people and the four main events deliverance from slavery, the delivery of the law at Mount Sinai, the fight the their the fiance against God and then discipline for their rebellion to God. We talked last week about the deliverance from slavery, talked about how they were uh in in Egypt and kept pure and kept clean there because of that. God provided for them. But time came for them to get out of Egypt. And God of course had to bring the judgments of the plagues and the purpose of the plagues. We saw those and the Passover, spent a little bit of time discussing the Passover and w what that picture is. Amazing, amazing picture for us as believers. in uh how Jesus Christ is our Passover and uh he paid our sin debt and that's what uh we get victory through as well. Then we uh looked briefly at the path to Mount Sinai, how that they took uh about a three-month journey uh to travel from where they crossed the Jordan or from they crossed the r the Red Sea uh down into to Mount Sinai. We know uh that in Exodus chapter 13, verses 21 and 22, if you want to turn there, Exodus chapter 13. Um is where we'll jump in today and hopefully we'll be able to get through the end of Exodus today. But Exodus thirteen, twenty-one and twenty-two, uh we see that and the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of of a cloud to lead them in the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light to go by day and night. He led them by a pillar of cloud and And a pillar of fire. God led them and was directing them. You wonder about direction from God, that's as clear as it gets, right? Sometimes we wish we had a pillar of fire. Lord would just show me. Uh the fleece that we put out different times looking for direction from God and seeking God. And I I don't the some people really uh, you know You say we ought to have more faith than that and we shouldn't require a fleece, but several times we see in the Bible where God answered prayers to the man of God seeking for a real sign of his direction. And so I don't think there's anything wrong with that Saying, God, I think this is what you want me to do, but I need definite direction from you. And I believe God will give you that peace and will show you when were seeking his will. But God led them. They went to the Red Sea. And uh in chapter number fourteen, they they were delivered by God as they got up their backs against the Red Sea. And we know the story. about how God uh let them pass across on dry land and then as they passed on dry land they uh got across and the Egyptian army was swallowed up and drowned behind them This is a picture of total victory that God gives us as Christians. When we get saved, we've been given victory. You're never going to have to go back to Egypt in the respect of once you're saved, you're always saved. And the Egyptian army was coming after them and going to take them back to Egypt, and God gave them complete and total victory over the enemy. And you and I have been com given complete and total victory over Satan. He can never reclaim us, he can never pull us back. There's nothing he can do to take us away from the victory that God has given us through Jesus Christ when he saved our soul. This is a picture of the the journey that as Christians we take. And crossing the Jordan is a picture of the complete victory that we we take that we get from God. Now as they continue to journey down towards uh Sinai, uh they get to Moriah first. And you got that map for me. Let's show that map. They get to Mariah. This is where, uh Mara, sorry. They get to Mara first. And this is where. . The uh bitter water is made sweet. And so they cross the Jordan River and they first come to some bitter waters And again, think about this in light of this is depicting a lot of things that we face in our Christian life. A lot of times you get saved and you're excited about what God's doing and you start on your path of Christianity for the Lord and things are going good. and then there's some bitter water. Something comes in that wasn't expected. Some you know, some tragedy hits you in life and you think, oh man. I thought I was saved, I wasn't going to have to face this anymore. And here are these people being led by God and had the victory over the Red Sea and here they're all on Cloud 9 and the first place they go is bitter water They got bitter water and they were upset about it, obviously. But what does God do? God changes and turns the bitter water and makes it sweet. And that's what we have in Jesus Christ in our walk with God as well, the bitter times in life can sometimes be the sweetest times because of what God can do in our heart and in those circumstances that we don't even see or understand at the time But down the road when we look back we can say, Wow, wasn't God good then? Wasn't God precious then? It was neat to see what God did at that time. I mean it was bitter at the time, but God has made it something that is sweet to reflect upon or remember. And this is a picture of how God cares for us. Then they come to Elam in chapter number fifteen. Elam is halfway between it's actually not on the map there, but it's halfway basically between uh Mara and what's the last place down there? Um the let me see Rapidium. Uh it's halfway between there, so just kind of the next As they're traveling down uh the map there, they get to Elam. This is a place where God brings rest to his people, a place of of peace and quietness. There's uh palm trees there and an area where they can get rest. You know, sometimes because of God's care for us when we go through a bitter time, we go through a hard time or a time of trial, God is there to bring rest And next step, next thing, God brings that peace in our ha our life, and God brings us a place of rest. And and sometimes we don't even see light at the end of the tunnel, but He's allowing us to endure what we're going through and giving us rest in the midst of it. Then they go into the wilderness of sin in chapter number 16. They travel through the wilderness of sin. And we're traveling through a wilderness of sin here on this earth, aren't we? Something that we journey through, and we're going to journey through until the day the Lord takes us home. But we're in a wilderness of sin. And as they go through this wilderness of sin, it's neat to see how God supplies their needs. God supplies for them. He gives them the food that they need, that they need. But one of the neat things about it is that he gives them daily the food that they need This is something that you and I need from God to live our Christian life, and we need it daily. We can't just expect to get something on Sunday morning and that to tight us over until uh next Sunday morning. That's a pretty long fast. It's a pretty long fast spiritually too. There's a lot of Christians that are living their life fasting from Sunday to Sunday. uh on the spiritual nourishment that they need in their Christian life. And God is there and He wants to meet with you, He wants to provide for you, but you've got to go out daily. And get the the daily bread, his word. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. And we've got to get that daily bread from him Then they come to Rephedeum in chapter number 17, where God provides water from the rock, and God delivers the Amalekites into Joshua's hand. They they're they're uh just about to head off into uh what is the area of Mount Sinai, and if W were you able to get that Google image? Uh it's kind of interesting to see uh how the on the Sinai region there as we zoom in you see the fork there coming out of the Red Sea there's two um currently there's the Gulf of uh Pies, I think. Golf w what's the name of that? Do you know? Suez. Suez. Gulf of Suez on the left. Um so and then on the right hand side. So they crossed way up there and they came down. And then right the real dark region right there, that's the Mount Sinai region there, all of this very mountainous terrain, the very dark region. Zoom zoom in some more all the way into the mountain. You can see it more and more. And they kind of, you know, don't know exactly how far they down they came, but as far as their path didn't come all the way to the bottom. And if they would have come down just above that, they would have been just outside of this real mountainous range. And of course you know that Moses uh traveled up into the mountain to meet with God. And uh they would have been in their path, it's believed is right above this mountainous range, they would have been right in there, kind of right before it got real treacherous to travel through. And this is pretty, if you look at the images that are available to see of this region They have some roads and things through there, but it's pretty mountainous. I mean this it's not just hilly. Uh it's it's a very mountainous range. But they travel to this area and then they spend some Time here where God gives them the law. That where we get to our next point, the delivery of the law. Exodus chapter 19 through chapter number 40 is the delivery of the law. And there's a few things I want to share with you about this. God wanted to give his people something to guide them, to give them direction. So he delivered the law unto them. The preparation for the law in chapter 19 through 25. You know, this is back at the place where Moses met with God in the burning bush. You know, there's something precious about going back where you've met with God before. Going back to the place where God has done something miraculous in your life. And I think about the idea of Moses here going up into the mountain and meeting with God. He's in the region, he's in the area where he met with God in a real and a powerful way. in the past. And sometimes when you're really searching for God, that's a good thing to do is to go back where you last really had His power, where you really had His presence. Go back to that place. And there's just something about maybe it's a sign of faith, maybe it's a sign of of of uh just showing how serious you are. I don't know what it is, but I think that through the Bible we see that And here definitely with Moses. He went back to this place and I think God knew that Moses was ready to meet with him and uh God directed him there specifically. And then he gives him the law. The preparation for the law here, we see that the people were committed to obey it. Look at chapter 19, verse number 8. Exodus chapter 19 In verse number 8, he says, and all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do. Amen. Wow, if we committed like that, all that the Lord has spoken, we will do. The people were committed to obey the law. Not only that, they cleansed themselves. Look at verse number 10. 19 verse number 10 and the Lord said unto Moses, Go unto the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow and let them wash their clothes. They cleanse themselves. If we want to meet with God, I think we We need to commit to do whatever God tells us and then cleanse ourselves, get ready to meet with God. In preparation for the law coming, this is what God's people did. They committed to do whatever God said and they cleansed themselves and got ready. Then God sent them revival. God revealed himself unto them. Look at chapter 19, verse number 11. Verse number 11 says, and be ready against the third day For the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai. So they committed to obey, they cleansed themselves, and they got ready because God was going to reveal Himself to them to them in a real way. Then God uh provision of the law gave them in in chapter twenty, verse through twenty-four. First of all, the moral law given in chapter 20, we know this, the Ten Commandments. And we spent some time in Sunday school looking at the Ten Commandments and really discussed them thoroughly, so we won't really discuss them tonight or look further into that. But he also provided for them a civil law in chapters 21 through 24 The civil law was something that was to guide their day-to-day life. Now the civil law was based on its foundation was the moral law given to them in chapter 20 The moral law was the foundation, but now how does that apply to actual life? How does that apply to day-to-day? And God guided them in the next chapters re-concerning the civil law. And I'll give you some of the areas that were discussed here They concerning slavery in chapter 21, verses 1 through 11, how they were supposed to treat those that were in servitude to them, concerning personal injury. in chapter 21. Something happens to you. What are you supposed to do? Chapter 21, verses 12 through 36. Concerning personal property. What do you do about your property and you know the protection of it, the provision of it, the return of it, and so on, chapter 22, 1 through 15? Then in chapter 22, verses 16 through 21, he talks about morality, talks about finances and offerings. And he gives them civil obligations in chapter 23, the first half of chapter 23 through verse number 19, and their ceremonial obligations. Verses 10 through 19. So God gives them a civil law and kind of teaching them how to live. Day-to-day life, how to live. If I flew through that a little bit too quick for somebody, I'll be glad to let you see my notes later and you can Then he gives them the plan for the tabernacle in 25 through 40. This is all during the 11 months. That they were at Mount Sinai. You know, sometimes we think that they were there for three days or five days or they were there for eleven months. At Mount Sinai, where Moses went up and met with God, and God delivered to him this law, both the moral and the civil law. Then he gives them the plan for the tabernacle in chapters 25 through 40. This tabernacle we know is a temporary place where God's people would meet and worship him. It is the place where they meet and worship him for about 450 years. And we spent some time with Pastor Tom. He came down and taught two nights on the tabernacle. Did a wonderful job. That's where this would get plugged in if we uh were doing it in order, but we kinda had to use Pastor Tom when he was available. And so that those lessons are already done. We're not going to take time to look at the tabernacle tonight, but and just know that the tabernacle is really spoken up through twenty-five to thirty-one in the priesthood from twenty-eight to twenty-nine. And actual construction of the tabernacle, how they're supposed to construct it, verses chapters 32 through 40. Now we just finished the book of Exodus. We're through the book of Exodus. Now we've got to get through Leviticus. And Numbers tonight. And Deuteronomy. So we got about 12 minutes. Are you ready? We're going to move quick. Now the book of Leviticus is a complimentary book If you have this in your notes, this uh diagram here, you'll see that the the upper chorus here shows The history of God's people in chronological order. So you'll see it goes Genesis, Exodus, Numbers, Joshua. And the book of Leviticus and Deuteronomy are underneath here. Because they are complementary. They give you some more information, but they do not continue the history. They don't give you any more history of God's people. They kind of just give you some more details. about that period that is already discussed. So the book of Leviticus gives you some more information about the time of the Exodus era. But it is not it's not more history. It's not beyond that scope. It fits in to the book of Exodus. So Leviticus, there's a few things I'll give you about Leviticus just to kind of plug some holes. And then we're going to move on. We're not going to take much time there. But Leviticus covers the offerings You know, they were to give a burnt offering, a meal offering, a peace offering, a sin offering, a trespass offering. Those are all in order in the first five chapters. So that he covers the offerings that they were to give. Then we have the dietary laws. Praise God, we're not under those anymore. They have the dietary laws in chapters 11 and 12. The Day of Atonement is explained and given in detail in chapter number 16. A Day of Atonement, when they were to be the Day of Atonement, was a day of uh where the entire nation of Israel had their sins covered and forgiven. Uh well cover is a better way to to explain it because Because it wasn't forgiven until Christ came, but God would cover their sins during the Day of Atonement and cleanse the nation as a whole from the sins that they had done. This is a type of Christ. that would cover the sins of a people uh during during this time. Then the feast are given. They talk about the different feasts that they have to have. And the year of Jubilee is talked about. How many of you know what the year of Jubilee is? Three or four or five, okay, the year of Jubilee was uh every you know every seven days is supposed to be a Sabbath Where you rest. Well, every seven years is supposed to be a year of Sabbath, and they were supposed to every seven years let the land rest. Well, every fifty years, every seven sevens, which is forty-nine years, the fiftieth year was to be a year of jubilee. And during the year of Jubilee, I mean you talk about rejoicing. They would let the rent land rest and uh they would they would prepare for the year of Jubilee. If you owed a debt and the year of Jubilee came, it got forgiven. Praise God. Looking for the year of Jubilee, you know. Uh and if you uh you know you committed a crime or did something wrong and the year of jubilee came, it would be forgiven So this every 50 years, an accumulation of seven times seven, that 50th year was the year of Jubilee. And that is described for you and given to you if you want to read about it in chapter number 25. uh of Leviticus there. So the progression of the Old Testament story takes place next in the book of Numbers. Kind of, as I'd said, Leviticus kind of fits in there along with the book of Exodus So Numbers covers the 40 years between or the time that the children of Israel were wandering in the wilderness, really. Even though there's 40 years encompassed in the book of Numbers. The beginning of Numbers covers preparation as they're supposed to go into the promised land, and then they spend 40 years wandering, and then the end of Numbers covers the time where they go into the promised land. So it's a very little amount of time it's talked about, even though it talks about the it covers the whole 40 years, if that makes sense. It's kind of introduces it and then they wander aimlessly for 40 years and then it concludes it and so the book of numbers really is dealing with the beginning and the ending of that 40-year period. Numbers 1 through 9 is the preparation for their journey to from Mount Sinai to Kadesh Barnia. In order to move several million people, you've got to have a plan And they had a plan exactly, God had given them exactly the tabernacle was the center of their camp, and they had a location where every single group was supposed to camp. And then when it came time to make up camp and head out, they had a plan. Every which tribe went where. And we're not going to get into all that, but it was directed by God how they were to travel and then set up camp again. I mean if you can imagine, I mean I tried to set up camp with just my family. You know, that's quite a process. And we're doing it with several million people on a regular basis. That's a big job. Just to get ready each night. And so they had a plan. God directed them as they were moving from Sinai to Kadesh Barnea. Uh and so we see here their defiance against God in Numbers chapter ten. through Numbers chapter 14. Can we see the map again of the journeys, the travel that they took? You see Sinai is down at the very very bottom center of the screen, just right where the two parts The two branches of the Red Sea come in, cyanized right down there. Well they travel up the edge of the waterway. Um and again you're you're dealing with rough terrain in between, so they traveled up. And they were directed by God as well. They didn't have a choice. You know, you look at it and you think, where they were in Egypt, it's a lot shorter route just to go straight across to the promised land. But they were directed by God where they're supposed to travel, and God wanted to prepare them. You know, sometimes in our lives we look at it and we say, you know, it'd be a lot shorter for me just to go here. But maybe God's not ready for us to do that yet. Maybe God has a plan for us. And uh I was reading about a missionary today talking about deputation and how he wishes he could just get to the field. But how God trained him and grew him and taught him so many things on deputation that prepared him for the field that he wouldn't have learned had he not gone that path And so God kind of takes us sometimes down a path that doesn't make sense to us, but they came all the way to the bottom, then they went up, and they went all the way to Kadesh Barni. I don't know if you can read it, but the uh wilderness of Zen there at the very top That's the Kateush Barnia where the little loop is. And they went up there ready to pass over into the promised land. You know the promised land is just above there, right? Well they're ready to pass over into the promised land, and we know the story about what happens. They end up not going because of unbelief. So as they prepare to head to Kadesh Barnea, a census was taken in chapter 10. They took a census and there was 603,550 men. Uh that were that were men of war, men over the age of twenty, uh that were ready to fight. That's not counting the women and the children, that's not counting the tribe of Levi, because the tribe tribe of Levi in its entirety was was not supposed to go to war. They were supposed to uh stay and uh uh observe and and do the sacrifices and be the priest and the Levites. So they traveled according to God's plan that they give them, and God led them by a cloud of fire and a cloud of or a pillar of cloud and a pillar of fire. Then the people rebelled against Moses in chapters eleven and twelve. And uh You know, this was brought about by complaints first against God. So look at chapter 11, verse number 16. Chapter 11, verse number 16, and I'm in Exodus still. Numbers. You should be down into numbers. Chapter 11, verse number 16. He says, And the Lord said unto Moses, Gather unto me Seventy men. I'm sorry, verse number six. Chapter eleven, verse number six. I was a little further. So they said here, but now our soul is dried away. There is nothing at all besides this manna before our eyes They were looking at what God was providing for them, and they weren't content with that. They were complaining against the provision that God had for them. What I'm trying to establish for you is kind of the spirit and the heart that they had as they were going into this promised land. Then they complained against God's man in chapter 12, verse number 1. He says, and Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married, for he had married an Ethiopian woman. And and they said, Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? Hath he not spoken also by us? And the Lord heard it. And God wasn't happy with that, but they claimed against God's man. This basic attitude laid a foundation for them as they went into Kadesh Barnia, the area, the doorway into the promised land. They're ready to go into the promised land. And we know from that they worked out their own plan. This was not God's plan for them to send spies into the land. God had just told them to go into the land, right? Said go. But they said they said we're gonna go and check it out first and see if we can do this. And they sent spies into the land and the they they were uh didn't have belief. And this is part goes back to the fact that they they didn't they weren't recognizing that God provided for them day after day after day. They weren't recognizing how God had given them victory after victory after victory And because they weren't seeing that, they couldn't see the victory God wanted to give them in the promised land and allowed them, and it caused them to respond with unbelief. The foundate foundation of doubt of God's love and God's failure, and their failure to see God's provision led them to respond in fear. And that's applicable to us as well. When we don't see God's hand in our life. We don't acknowledge what God is doing. It'll cause us to respond incorrectly to the next challenge that might come up. So we need to recognize when God is working and praise Him for it. They uh abused Moses and Aaron in chapter 14, verse number 2. They accused God himself in chapter 14, verse number 3, and they tempted to go back to Egypt in 14 number 4. Can you imagine? Look at chapter 14, verse number 4. Can you imagine? After all that God had done, they said, Here in chapter 14, verse number 4. And they said one to another, let us make a captain, and let us return unto Egypt. Let's go back to captivity. Let's just go back to Egypt. Because I mean look at this. We can't go into the promised land now. They weren't happy. So God disciplines them for their for for their rebellion in Numbers chapter 20 through 26. because of their unbelief. The Hebrew children wander in the wilderness for 40 years. And Moses strikes the rock. Um I'm going to We see Moses strikes the rock during this passage of script in there there's a Catusparnia there, they're they're wandering around. And they need water and we have the story here about Moses when he strikes the w rock out of anger, and because of his disobedience, Moses is not permitted to pass into the promised land. Um they're able to in Numbers chapter 20 through 26, we're kind of taking a step now where they're able to pass over, the preparations are being made to pass over into the promised land. They wandered for 40 years aimlessly. The book of Numbers kind of closes up this 40 years and talks about them getting ready to go into the Promised Land. So they gain control of the east side of the Jordan. This is the land of the Moabites. They defeat Shion, king of the Amorites. They defeat Og, king of Bashan And Satan attempts to stop God's people in an amazing way. The story of Balak and the king of Moab, he knew he couldn't defeat them. He couldn't defeat them. So what does he do? He goes and he hires or talks to Balaam and he wants Balaam to curse. Do you remember the story of Balaam? And he wanted him to curse God's people, but Balaam heard from God and God said, Don't do it. And uh so Balaam goes back to Balak and he says, Hey, I can't curse them, but you know what? If you get them involved in idol worship and worship of false pagan gods, their own God will judge them. Pretty conniving. Pretty pretty conniving way to do that. And it almost works. Look at chapter 25, and we're gonna and we're gonna close. Chapter 25, verse number 9. It's actually 1 through 9, the story here of what happens. Chapter twenty-five, verse one through nine He says, And Israel abode in Shudom, and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab. So they're in the land of Moabites, and they're committing whoredom with the daughter of Moab, and they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods. And the people did eat and bow down to their gods. And Israel joined himself unto Belapur. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. God was going to judge Israel. If you read down through verse number twelve, you see how the anger of God was stayed. because they turned back to him. But it was a very good plot to try and get into the promised, to stop them from going into the promised land. A new census was taken in chapters 26 and 27. Now there's 601,730 men ready to go into the promised land. They had wandered forty years in the wilderness. Everybody over the age of 20 died off, but a lot of new people were born, so they maintained really close to the same numbers. Joshua is elected to lead the people. And then Reuben, Gad, and the half tribe of Manasseh are granted permission to stay on this side of the Jordan River. And then we get in next to the book of Joshua. Historically, the next step where they cross the Jordan and they go in to conquer the promised land and get the land that God had given them. Now next week we're going to have Brother Pastor King here with us. And he'll be teaching uh or preaching for us next Thursday night. So you want to be here for that. Don't miss that. And we'll get back into this in the weeks to follow. Let me close this in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for tonight and your love for us. We thank you for your story, and I pray, God, that uh this study has been helpful to get a scope and sequence of events in our minds. and to give better understanding of the books that we're reading, kind of a context of what it is that you're teaching your people and thereby teaching us Lord, I pray that uh you be each of the church family as we go our separate ways, keep them safe. Uh Lord, give them courage to stand in a wicked day. And uh Lord, would you use us to be a witness to draw people to you? And we'll thank you for, go with this now, we ask in Jesus' name, Amen.