Say it's certainly a privilege to be with you all today. And uh I think it is just uh part of life to drive when you're on deputation and we uh we uh Don't always enjoy it with all the children, but it it is certainly uh a pleasure to be with you all today. I want to s uh sh share just a quick uh test word of testimony about God is good You know, um, like the pastor said, um, we believe God is good. We don't always feel like God is good. You know, um when we were here last, uh Paxton had a little episode of uh We yeah, seizure, but we learned what it was and and uh we started looking into it and what we learned is they don't have to have a high fever. Usually it's not high when they have a seizure. A lot of children, when they have this kind of fever-induced seizure, they only have one of them in their life. And on top of that, you know If they have another one or a few of them, um by the age of six their body develops in such a way that they don't have 'em again. And all of this, you know, we're learning about it. So basically God allowed us to have one him to have one seizure and us to have this whole scare and everything. And uh God allowed it to happen at such a time as that. And um I'll get into maybe a little bit later of what God was doing in our life that week. Um but God has provided us plane tickets And we'll leave Lord Willing on the thirteenth, uh leave the country on the fourteenth, and uh land on the fifteenth in uh Kenya. We're very, very excited. I was talking to Edward this morning, and uh Edward is on the other side, he's a national that we'll be working with Lord willing. Um so enough of that. I'm going to share a thought with you this morning. Uh that's the book of Fir First Kings and uh Before we get into the thought of one just to uh way of introduction, I want you to uh just remember uh about Jeroboam Jeroboam was most known for his mistake, most known for the end of his life and how he ended his life. But think with me this phrase that you've probably heard many a time. Well, so let's finally place here. But this this phrase that Jerob um They'll t mention another king and then he'll say that he'll say that he walked in all the ways of Jeroboam and talking about how the the golden calves and talking about how that they Jeroboam made Israel to sin But I want you to look at this phrase in chapter number 15. I want to just read one phrase. Um verse number 29. The Bible says, and it came to pass when he reigned that he sorry, I'm in the wrong chapter. Out of three chapters here I'm looking at. Uh chapter number twelve. Chapter number twelve. While you're returning now I'm just reading the verse before it Then Jeroboam built Shechem in Mount Ephraim and dwelt therein and went out from thence. and built Pinuel. And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to the house of David. If this people do go and do sacrifice uh in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem. Then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their Lord, even unto Rahoboam, king of Judah. And they shall kill me and go again to Rehabam, King of Judah. Whereupon the king took counsel and made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem, behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of e out of the land of Egypt. I want you to think about uh Jeroboam, and obviously the Bible says Jeroboam said in his heart, and so uh this was not uh matter that there was some uh soldier staying there with a sword saying, I'm gonna kill you This was something that Jeroboam said in his heart. This was not even the fact that he Jeroboam got word that people were going to come and kill him. This is just a concern that Jeroboam has in his heart. We might say he was worrying about something that hadn't happened yet. But understand, uh, Jeroboam makes a decision to make two golden calves. The Bible even says he took counsel. Obviously not good counsel, but he did take counsel, and he makes two golden calves. But I want you to think about how Jeroboam got started this morning. I think this this part of the story that I've read to you so much so far and at the end of the story about the two golden calves, you're probably all very familiar with But I want you to think about how Jeroboam got started. When I was reading my Bible, I came to uh the little uh chapter title that said something about Jeroboam, and I was thinking about Jeroboam before I read the chapter, and I was thinking Where did Jeroboam come from and how did he get started? I couldn't remember it before I read the chapter. But I want you to turn back to chapter number eleven This is where the thought comes today. I want to look at the promise that God made Jeroboam. God made Jeroboam a conditional promise. And if Jeroboam would have kept his end of the the deal, the rest of the history of Israel would have been so much different. Verse number 26, the Bible says, And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephraite of Zarada, Solomon's servant. whose mother's name was Zerup Zuraf, a widow woman, even he lifted up his hand against the king. And this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the king And Solomon built Millow and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father. And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. And Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph. I want to pause right there. What do we know about Jeroboam so far? We know that he is an industrious man. We know he's a young man. He's a man of valor. We also know that Jeroboam Is uh is uh the uh doesn't have a father. Okay? Up to this point in history or in the the Bible, Jeroboam, that's all we know of Jeroboam, he's kind of a nobody In Israel, his father wasn't the king, his father wasn't a priest, his father wasn't a prophet. He's a nobody in Israel until this day. And Solomon makes him uh gives him charge over the house of Ephraim. But follow me now in verse number thirty, the Bible says, And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him and rent it in twelve pieces. And he said unto Jeroboam, Take thee ten pieces, for thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, Behold, I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and I will give thee ten tribes The ten tribes to thee. Understand, here God promises Jeroboam ten tribes. He's not saying you're going to have to work for it. He said, I'm going to give you ten tribes. But when we could read the rest of those verses, it's going to describe why God is giving the ten tribes to Jeroboam, God is judging Rehoboam, and God is blessing Jeroboam at the same time. God is taking ten tribes from Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, and he's giving them to Jeroboam. But understand, God says in verse number 37, and I will take thee, talking about Jeroboam, and thou shalt reign according to all that thy soul desires, and thou shalt be king over Israel, and it shall be if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee And wilt walk in my ways, and do that which is right in my sight, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did, that I will be with thee And will build thee a sure house as I built for David, and will give Israel unto thee. I want to look at those promises that God made and the condition to those promises, but understand that God promised uh Jeroboam That I will be with thee and will build thee a sure house. And think about the context to this. He's talking about David, and then he's talking about Jeroboam. He says, I'm going to build you a sure house. What does that mean for David? When God built David a sure house, he's saying, as I did unto David, well for David, not only did God establish David as king, and his father wasn't the king, so God put him in and power and gave him the kingship. But also understand that God promised David that there would always be a son in his stead to follow him. in the in the kingdom of Israel. So God tells Jeroboam, hey, I'm going to bless you, I'm going to be with you, and so much meaning there and the fact that God's going to be with him. But all of this comes with a condition. Before we look at that, let's pray. Dear gracious Heavenly Father, Lord, humbly we come before you this morning, and Lord, I want to say only what you'd have me to, and Lord, I ask that you would direct my thoughts and my heart tonight this morning. And uh That you would uh speak to us this morning, Lord, challenge us from your word. Lord, we ask all these things in your son's precious name. Amen. You know, for us as missionaries, or for you as a as a Christian, You want God to be with you. We can go out on Saturday or whatever time of the week you go out and try to be a witness, and you can see little results, or you can if God is with you, you can accomplish so much more. Understand it is God that works through us. You know, for us on deputation, we go to churches and church after church, and I haven't counted exactly, but um it would probably be close to two hundred churches by the time we finish deputation And uh, you know, it's up to God ultimately to raise our support. God is the one that calls us, God is the one that enables us. But understand, um, I want God to be with me. God promised Jeroboam if you'll do these things. These couple things here, three things, that I will be with you. And not only will I be with you, but I will build you a sure house And spiritually, if you understand that God's referring to not only Jeroboam right now, but Jeroboam's house, while Jeroboam's gone. The ones that would follow him. Now if you look at at the scripture, you'll find that Jeroboam only had one son that was king, and he was king for two years, and then all the house of Jeroboam was wiped away. They're all killed. Because of Jeroboam's decision. Because Jeroboam didn't do the things that God asked him to do. Because Jeroboam instead made two golden calves. But understand, we want God to be with us And we also want God to bless us and in the our influence in the people that are following us Look now with me in verse number 38. The Bible says, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee. Here God is not referring to the Ten Commandments. Here God is not referring to anything that He has already commanded Jeroboam. These are things that I will command you. He said, Hey Jeroboam, if you will follow me in all the way that I am going to lead you Then I will bless you. Hey, I have a lot of blessings for you. Think about how here is Jeroboam. Here he is ruling over one tribe. And God says, I'm going to give you ten tribes And not just that, I am going to be with you. And I am going to bless you if, you know, in our lives Uh we we we we look at the Bible and just think about David and just think about how that he ran from Saul and he went through all these testings and all these trials before he became king. And when he became king, you and I would probably say, well, you know, finally now you're seeing the fruit of all your labor. Now God is blessing you for having stayed faithful to him. And then on a human standpoint, to some degree, you deserve to be there. You deserve to be the king over Israel, having fought all those battles, having run for your life for so many years. But what did Jeroboam do? Jeroboam had fought no great battle. Jeroboam had done no great thing for God. Yet God says, I will be with you like I was with David. And think about here God says, number one, if you will do all that I command thee. In other words, God said, hey, I've got some directions coming to you in the future. I'm not telling you all of it up front, but I'm going to lead you. But you have to follow me. You know, for me as a young person, God called me to be a missionary when I was nine. And uh God didn't tell me all the things that I was gonna do as a missionary at age nine. He just told me I was going to be a missionary. He just told me that's what he wanted me to do. He just told me I want you to go to Kenya. That's all I knew. You know, as I As I grow and as time goes on, I learned, okay, this is what God wants me to do. As a teenager, I learned that, you know, being a missionary, part of being a missionary was getting up in front of people. And I was terrified to be up in front of people. I don't I'm trying to remember how old I was when you left, but um I have two older brothers ahead of me. There's ten in our family. Um but just for your uh purpose I was placed in the family in such a position that I didn't have to really talk for myself. I was naturally in in in in Okay. And so when it came to talking in front of people, I was just terrified to be up in front of people. I'll never forget the first time I went to teen camp and uh when during orientation they said, all right, how many of you guys are called to preach? Man, I was brave. I put my hand up. And uh then I didn't know what was coming next. I didn't ever been to Teen Camp. And the next thing he said, okay, after this session, come up here and sign your paper your name on this paper. You're gonna preach this week sometime this week. And I said, What? You know, and and you know it was a five minute message. I can't remember it. Maybe it was on salvation. Um but it was something simple and I sweated all week long. I went to the the the camp director and I said, Can you Can you push me out to the end of the week? I need some time to get ready for this. And so I sweated all week long and finally came time for me to speak. And I I got it done in two and a half minutes. I was so nervous But follow me now. This was God leading me in my life. Okay, yes, I want you to be a missionary. Okay, now you need to talk in front of people. And I've got several other things that come along our path since then. But understand this is all necessary for me to have God's blessing on my life. God does not with everyone. God is not with all of his children in the sense of his presence and his his blessing on their life. God is not doesn't put his blessing on all of his children. There's a condition. Are you willing to do all that I command you? Look now with me in the second phrase here. The Bible says, and wilt walk in my ways. Think about this word walk. Walking is something that unless you're really nervous or unless you're you're uh have a physical ailment, you don't think about walking. You just walk. You look where you're going and you don't think about, okay, lean this way a little bit, lift this leg up, and then you know you don't think about those kind of things. You know why? Because walking is a habit. God says, if you will walk in my ways, I understand the phrase we use more often is walking with God. Well if you're walking with in God's ways, you're going to be walking with God. Phrases are very similar here. But understand if I'm going to walk with God, that doesn't mean that when you have a special service or you go at camp service and you come and make a decision and you get your life right with God, that's not what he's talking about He's not even talking about every Sunday morning when you come to church and God works on your heart and feeds you from the Word of God. You know what God is talking about here is that habit of life. When you when you get up in the morning or in the evening, you read your Bible, when you pray, and you don't just do it once a week or twice a week or sometimes on this day and sometimes on that day, but when it's something that you do so often It's just a habit. Understand that this is all a requirement for me to have God with me, for me to have God's blessing on my life. I hope someday there will be many Christians in Kenya because of the way God has used my life. And not only people that I have led to the Lord, but people they have led to the Lord and they have led to the Lord. Many people to follow me Understand Jeroboam left a legacy. And we will say his house and his his influence did not just last for two years, and then all of his family died. His influence lasted the entire time of that kingdom of the split kingdom of Israel. You will always find that those kings, some of them worship the two golden calves, and some of them also worship Baal, and some of them also worship other gods. But the better kings, if you will, they just worship the two golden calves. You know, for us in Kenya we deal with uh there their culture and their um where their culture comes from is voodoo. Years and years ago that was a very much part of their culture. So today voodoo influence is still there in Kenya. Little things here and there in their traditions. Okay, their culture. Understand, Jeroboam had a huge impact on the culture of Israel. You know why? Because they, when they were doing less wrong They still worship the two golden calves. Those two golden calves stayed there for many years. Many generations to follow them continue to worship the golden calves. And today, you and I are going to have an influence on the next generation based on these three simple things. Number one, are you willing to do all that God commands you? Are you willing to follow God's leadership in your life I understand for most of you today it's not God's will for you to be a missionary, and maybe one or two of you, or maybe some of you, but probably most of you, the foreign field is not God's will for your life. But follow me now. God has a will for your life. My dad never left the house, hardly ever left the house. We lived on a farm, but he did construction He hardly ever left the house without letting all of his sons know what his will was for their life that day. And you understand that this inquiry was he was talking about work, okay? And he always gave us work to do before he left But understand, God in heaven has a purpose for your life. He has a will for your life. And if you're going to have God's blessing on your life, you've got to do what God leads you to do. And secondly, you've got to walk with God And thirdly, look now with me. The Bible says, and do that which is right in my sight. The two thoughts here with this one phrase And that is, um, he's talking about his commandments, that these two phrases are tied together. But understand, in the in judges, you find this phrase over and over again. Every man did that which is right in his own eyes Well to do what that which is right in God's eyes is very much the opposite. You know, for us sometimes we talk uh um about a situation in our life and we talk about what we feel like we would like to do or what we feel like would be We wish it would happen or whatever, but then we usually have to come back to, well, you know, I know that's not what God wants me to do. You know, oh, this is the way I want to do it, but I know that's not what God wants me to do You know, for us to do that which is right in God's eyes means I don't necessarily understand. I don't necessarily uh always uh uh agree with this being the right thing in my heart. This is not always David Smith's way of doing it, but I'm going to do it the way that God wants me to do it. Follow me now. I want to do that which is right in God's sight. Hey, there are certain principles that you've already been taught in Scripture. That you know. And maybe there's a certain times of the year when you just don't feel like coming to church, but you know that the Bible says you're supposed to go to church You know that that's what's right in God's eyes. There are many of you pee friends that you know that maybe you could um get them to agree with you that you didn't need to go to church that day. But you understand to do what's right in God's eyes needs you go to church. church. Follow me now. I'm going to do that which is right in God's eyes. First aspect is the the perspective of God's way. The second aspect here is God's eyes are always there. Okay, so if I'm going to do that which is right in God's eyes, in other words, Jeropoul needs to do that which is right in front of the priest, but he also needs to do that which is right all the time. You know, for for us in our lives, uh uh my pastor is the one that I answer to directly. Obviously I answer to a lot of churches that support me with a letter and different communication back and forth with them. But the main person that I answer to is my pastor, okay? My pastor does not travel with me across the country. My pastor has my calendar on his phone And then he knows where I'm at when he looks at his calendar. But I I think a lot of times he probably doesn't know what state I am in, as far as what geographic location I'm in. If I'm going to do that which is right in my pastor's eyes I don't have to do right very often. But if I'm going to do right in God's eyes, I'm going to do right on Saturday, on Friday, when I'm not with a church, when nobody knows where I'm at, and I'm going to do what's right. You know why? Because God's eyes are everywhere. And in your life, it's not a matter of just, you know, doing what's right on Sunday, wearing the right thing. to church and and being the right person in front of your pastor and and so you can be involved in a certain ministry. It's about doing right all the time. When God's watching, when your family's watching, when nobody that you know is watching, you're still going to do right. But follow me now. This idea of doing right is tied together to keep my statutes and my commandments. These two phrases are very much go together in the sense that I'm going to do right according to what is already written. According to what I already know from the Scripture. Hey, you know, there are always things, more things you can learn out of the Scripture. But there are some things you already know. And God didn't say, hey, I want you to do everything right in the scripture, and this promise is only a condition on based on all the things you don't know yet. You know God says, hey, I have written some things down. These I I w this is what I want you to do. I want you to do that which is right in my side. Now maybe some of you here this morning are a little bit like me and you overthink things a little too much. Okay, I'm analytical. I like to um break things down and sometimes too far. But understand, I I first time I read through this I was like thinking Wow, okay? If you do everything that God leads you to do, you do follow all of God's commands, all the things He's going to command you, all the things He's going to tell you. And if you also walk with God, I mean you have your devotions, you walk with God like you're supposed to, and then if you do everything right, that's what he said, I want you to And to do what's right in God's eyes. So I'm going to do it right from God's perspective, but I'm going to do it right all the time, because God's watching me all the time. Well of course God's going to bless you. But how many of you can do everything right in your life? None of us, okay? But understand God put a very important phrase in this verse. If you don't get anything else this morning, understand this one phrase. The Bible says, as David my servant did. Now, if God would have said, as my son Jesus Christ, all of us would be hopeless. Because none of us can be do right like Jesus Christ. But all of us can do right as David did. You know why? Because David was a human being. David made mistakes. David made some big mistakes. But you know there was one thing about David different than Saul. One thing that David was known for, um one thing was David was known for having a uh heart uh being a man after God's own heart, okay But also David was known for having a tender heart. You know that when Samuel comes to Saul, Saul starts making excuses. Why did you why did you bring all these animals and King Agag? You were supposed to kill them all And so it goes, well, you know, the the the people brought them. Well, you know that the animals are for the sacrifices. And he starts making excuses. And finally at the end he's like, Well, forgive me and come with me to the sacrifice Not really repenting, just wanting Samuel to come with him so that he would look good in front of the people. Very different for David You remember the story of David and Bathsheba and Nathan to the prophet comes to David and several months have gone by and and you know per se uh he had it all hidden and he thought nobody knew what had happened. But Nathan comes to David and he gives him a little story about the about the lamb and how the rich man takes the poor man's lamb, and David says, Oh, that's terrible. And then David sent Nathan says, Thou art the man. And David could have done what other kings have done, kicked him out of the palace, put him in the dungeon. He said, you know, I have no business talking to me as a king like that. But David said, I have You know in our lives, all of us, regardless where you how long you've been saved, regardless how old you are, regardless of your uh spiritual gifts, regardless of of your spiritual understanding as far as how much Bible you know, all of us can make a determination that when God convicts me of my sin, when I realize that what I've been doing is wrong, I'm gonna say I've sinned. I'm going to say, God, I'm sorry. All of us can do that. It takes no great spiritual gift to do that. Okay? But the Bible says, as my servant David did. You know, David kept a tender heart to toward the Lord. David made some pretty big mistakes in his life. I mean, you just look at his children and look how he he did it, you know, his children didn't turn out right. He had a bad relationship with Absalom. You know, all we can look at some big mistakes in his life. And for us as Christians today, if that was our family, most people would say, yeah, I'm not trying to be like you. You know, I mean that's not what I want for my life But the Bible says, if you'll do right like David did, then I'll bless you like I blessed David. Think about this, the significance of this thought here this morning, and how that I'm sorry this morning. Is that clear? Okay. Okay. Just want to make sure. Alright. I understand. If if we'll do right, like like David Hey, if you'll just have a tender heart, I'm not asking you to do perfect be perfect. I'm just asking for you to do what's right, and when you realize you made a mistake, you get it right with God. Then I'll bless you You know, understand, sometimes us as Christians, we get to thinking about ourselves, okay? So if I walk with God, then I'll be right with God, and then you know God will bless me. But God said in this passage, hey, I'm going to bless, I'm going to be with you. That's a blessing for Jeroboam. But he also says, I'm going to build thee a sure house. You know, oftentimes when when you're tired and you're thinking about sleeping in or you're debating about having your devotions or going doing something else, the thought is about you. Okay, I I need to read my Bible for me. The thought is not, I need to read my Bible because God wants me to use, be it, be an influence on somebody else's life today. The thought is about me. I need to read my Bible for myself. But follow me now. Jeroboam made a decision out of fear. I understand Jeroboam said in his heart, hey, all the people are going to follow Rehoboam If they go back to Jerusalem, they're going to be there, they're going to be influenced by him, they're going to want to follow Rahboam. So Jeroboam makes this decision. Hey, I'm going to build two golden caps. If you understand the Old Testament, every time when God would talk about somebody's wealth, he would talk about their cattle. Okay? So calves and cattle are a picture of wealth. But not only that, he didn't make uh two wooden calves, he made two golden calves. The gold obviously is a picture of wealth. So here Jeroboam uh is making These two golden calves, the picture of wealth, and think about going back to his concern. Hey, I'm worried about everybody leaving me. Is that what God said? No, that's my concern. That's my worrying. Okay? So I am worrying about this. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna trust in wealth. I'm gonna put my put my faith in the money. Okay, I'm going to put my faith in my bank account. Understand, God promised Jeroboam, hey, I'm going to be with you. Doesn't sound like that they're all going to come kill you if God's with you. Okay? Understand, this was not what God promised him. He was worried about something that God had promised him would never happen. But he was because he was worried about that, he put his faith and trust in wealth. And today in our lives, it is easier, perhaps, to trust in money if you have any. It's easier to trust in money, or in just the things that you you can see. You have a job, you have some consistency. It's easier for you to trust in that than for you to trust in a promise that God made. Right. Now think about it. Jeroboam, he's m he's he's he's having this concern, he's worried about this, he decides to not trust in what God promised him, what the prophet told him, and rather to trust in the two golden calves But Jeroboam was thinking about himself. You know why? Because Jeroboam said, they're going to kill me He didn't say, you know, it's going to be a bad thing for all of Israel to be united again to one kingdom, and he was worried about, you know, all the people that would die in the process, and maybe there's going to be a battle. Jeroboam was not worried about anybody else except himself You know what happened? Jeroboam was a king for 22 years. His son only reigned for two years. And all of his family, all of his grandchildren, all of his children, all of his daughter and everybody was killed. You know why? Because Jeroboam said, hey, I want to trust these two gold I know God said that but you know I just don't see that happening. I'm I'm I'm not afraid that's not gonna happen. I don't want to trust in what God said You know, Jeroboam left two golden calves when he when he died. There was still two golden calves in Israel. And all these Israelites were going back to worship these two golden calves. Instead of all of Israel going back to the temple and worshiping God like they were supposed to. Instead of everybody saying, you know what, we let's follow in the ways of Jeroboam which did that which is right in the sight of God. Instead of saying, hey, we're going to follow Jeroboam's footsteps and we're going to do that which is right. Hey, we're going to trust God, even though um you might have to run to Egypt and for a few years because that's what um because Solomon's trying to kill you, we're going to trust God. And sure enough, God brought Jeroboam back. God made him king, and God gave him the ten tribes like he said he would. Instead of that, Jeroboam makes two golden calves. Not one generation, not one king, but king after king after king, walked in all the ways of Jeroboam who made Israel to sin. You know, when you're thinking about, uh, should I really, do I have to get up this morning and read my Bible? Do I have to take more time to pray today? Do I have to, is it really that important for me to follow God leading in my life to to be involved in the ministry or to go witness to somebody or or whatever God's leading you in your life. Maybe it's outside your comfort zone. I mean preaching was outside of my comfort zone. But I I don't know what God's leading you in your life. I understand these This family just m recently moved here and that's a big a big deal moving to another across the country. Um we just sent eight toast over. Um that's eight toasts plus a suitcase we take on the plane, that's all of the stuff we're taking. And it's a it's a step of faith, but understand, are you willing to trust God and do what God commands you? Or are you are you gonna say, hey, you know what, I'm gonna put my faith in this golden calf Hey, I can see this golden calf. It's made out of real gold. It's worth a lot of money. I'm gonna put my faith in this golden calf. Or I'm gonna put my faith in what God said. You know, too often us as Christians We just want to do what we can see. You know, for me, uh just be a little frank here, um uh in my life, um So my wife and I had talked to Pastor. We knew that we were going to be back in town in October and we were going to sit down and talk to him about possibly leaving in January, where we were at with our support. all of these things and and try to see about purchasing plane tickets and all this. And so um we start praying about we really wanted God to give Pastor direction and God to give us direction. And you know when uh when pastor uh agrees with what I feel in my heart that I know God is leading me, it's God, it's not me. And so I'm I'm I'm praying that God would do all of these things and and uh we had a a rather uh rough trip out to the the the east coast last time. Um we were we drove from the other side of Colorado. I preached Sunday through Wednesday there in Colorado and then I drove uh six hours to the airport through the night and then we We slept for two hours in the in the hotel. We got up. We ran to the airport and it was a a lot of things happening, trying to get the van back to the hotel where we were supposed to park it and trying to get back to the airport and several things happened that morning that we had not planned that prevented us from getting on the airplane. I think we were nine minutes late for when the gate closed. Okay, we ran, literally ran, through the airport with our kids and a little wagon and up the escalators with the wagon and I mean, you know, we were we were a little crazy, okay? We got all the way there and we got to the air the realized the gate had just shut and um we were very frustrated, okay? I'm not gonna be honest. We were very frustrated and you know, you know And then we started discussing it and then finally we stopped and like look if this wouldn't have happened, we would have made it here. If this wouldn't have happened, we would have made it here. There was one guy in front of us to the the tr checking all the baggage and uh they were forever looking at his bag. I don't know what's wrong with his bag, but they're forever looking at his bag. If that one thing wouldn't have happened we would have made it to our flight. And then we go through several other things that happened that morning and we realized that hey if God wanted us to get on this airplane, God would have allowed us to get on this airplane. And it is clearly like And but understand so we waited for four hours on on standby. We we made it to uh Philadelphia and they came and picked us up from the airport and We missed the service that night 'cause the time we got back it was too late. And uh we're now two hours ahead of our time zone. We're kinda tired, you know, and of course we didn't the same party the night before we I was supposed to be at the church teaching at nine o'clock in the morning. I get up and I can't find a phone cord and both the phones are dead and so I ran to the gas station and got a phone cord and then I got lost, uh got stuck in construction on the way to church and when my phone kicked on and you know all this this stuff is happening. I get there fifteen minutes late and everybody's like, well you know here's your class, you know they're still waiting on you And so all of this happened and then um that night the preacher, Brother Six Dad preached on faith. And remember now, I'm praying. My biggest prayer right now is God you want me to leave in January is this, you know, um because I don't have the support yet, okay? I know that I have enough meetings potentially to be fully supported, but it hasn't happened yet. And so, God, you you want me to go ahead and buy the plane tickets, and that's what I'm praying about. And um I you God is speaking to my heart and say, David, I want you to trust me. I understand This hasn't happened yet. You're on deputation now. Now's the time to raise support. Once you go to the field, you you don't have love offerings anymore. You just live on your support and you trust God, right? And so um I'm not fully supported yet And so God you want me to trust you and go ahead and buy the plane tickets. And so I really fell impressed that night that God wanted me to buy the plane tickets and and uh just two nights later we came here and Paxton's whole episode, spent the night in the hospital with Paxton, all of that happened. All of that happened in my I'm trying to tell you all of this to get you to understand that God was trying to work on my heart and saying, David, hey, I want you to trust me. Satan was trying to tell me, David, uh you need to you need to But I knew in my heart that God was trying to lead me to go. I know that Satan was trying to get, hey, what about your son? I think he's ill. You know, he's is he's you know and uh what is your son going to get sick and die in Africa? No, that was what got all these things are going on in my heart. Is and my son even going to make it to Africa? And you know, God wants you to trust Him. For you, it's something different. I don't know for each and every one of you what God's will is for your life, but I hope that you understand the importance of being willing to trust God. Jeroboam had an option. Hey, do these three simple things like David did? Hey, I'll be with you. Hey, it'll all work out when God's with you. Hey, I'm gonna bless you. I'm gonna be I'll give you a house for to uh establish your house in Israel like I established David's house. And Jeroboam traded that promise for what he could trust, what he could see with his eyes. You know, for us, um it we're going to the mission field and and that's that's uh what we're doing right now and And we um uh we're our support is we're raising less money than than what some would recommend and we're not even quite there yet. But we're doing we're doing this because we know that's what God wants for us to do us to do. Many Christians oftentimes look at us and say, wow, I can't believe you're going to Kenya. That's so great. I could never do that. And you know what I want to tell them? Yes, you could. If it was God's will for your life, God would enable you to do it. There is nothing special about David Smith. I can't I can't describe to you how less gifted I am than even my other siblings. Then my other peers that I that I grew up with. I had several peers that were great at public speaking. And God chose me to be the missionary, and they're teaching Sunday school at our church. Why? I don't know why But understand you can do whatever God leads you in your life if you're just willing to trust Him. And remember, hey, it's not about me. It's not about me getting blessed from God because, hey, I want I want God to bless my life. It's about all the people to follow me. You know, um there was a missionary, uh our director, Eric Bowman, his uh his wife's uncle was a missionary in Mexico, and he was telling us a story about some of his uncles. his wife's uncle and how they've been missionary there so long and they're no longer missionaries, they're up there in years. But we were in a mission conference together and one of the other missionaries was saved in one of those churches in Mexico and now he's going back to Mexico as a missionary. You know, that man, that uncle, is no longer on the mission field, but God is blessing his work to this day. And he's still seeing people safe. And for you in your life, you say, ah, do I have to get up and read my Bible again today? Is it really that important that I do this that God's leading me to do? Well then you try to understand there's people following you, people that you'll never see in this life that are going to be influenced because of your influence. And are you going to be willing to do that which uh God leads you to