But we've been uh discussing a topic uh the last couple of weeks on Sunday night about faithfulness. Faithfulness is Christians and uh the requirement of the Lord Jesus Christ on any one of us is to be faithful And I'm encouraged by the fact or the idea that that is what's required. That is what is necessary to hear a well done Because he says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Now I know there's a bug flying around up here, okay? I see everybody's eyes. I'm trying to ignore it, but you guys are not ignoring it, okay? You're ignoring me and watching this whatever it is Uh we open the windows and that's the problem. We open the windows. Praise the Lord, it's not a bird. We've had a bird fly in here before. Uh and that's uh you know, not a bird. Sometimes we open the door and we get cats. Cats come in So glad we don't have that tonight, but try to, you know, not let that distract you too much. For some of you it might help, but um You know, anyways, we we've looked at uh our key verse for this is that uh, you know, 1 Corinthians 4 2, moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. Tonight we want to look at or consider the idea kind of as a conclusion to this study on faithfulness, and that is that faithfulness is the key to results. We looked our first week and studied and looked at the idea that faithfulness is the key to our relationships. And if we're going to have a successful relationship, it's going to take faithfulness. to our family, faithfulness to our friends, and ultimately faithfulness to our Father, our Heavenly Father. If we're going to be successful in those relationships, it's going to take faithfulness. Say we praise God for that and we we need that. You know, faithfulness is the key to results. That's what we want to look at tonight. William Carey, although he was known, he's known to us as the father of modern missions, things were not always so glorious for him. In 1793, he felt he was called to Calcutta, India, was going to go there. Uh he actually they they arrived there uh at that time and when he arrived he found out that uh the missionaries that were already there did not like him. And he was forced to leave that area and go somewhere else because the non-Baptist missionaries that were there didn't want a Baptist missionary there and they Pushed him out, he ended up happening to leave. They moved and found another place to settle. He told everyone else he would go. What he didn't realize is that his wife Dorothy was not gonna go. She refused. She was four months pregnant with her uh fourth child and was not about to travel to India and have this child in in a foreign country, you know, and not knowing what's gonna happen between here and there and and She had never been more than a few blocks from her home where she was born herself, and going to India was something she just was not interested in. William Carey knew that this was God's plan for them, and he began to pray and continued to prepare, and he actually had a whole group of people ready to go with him. Everybody except his own wife. His own wife wasn't ready to go. They kept planning, kept getting ready. Ultimately, really, literally just a few days before it was time to leave, she surrendered to go and said she would and largely because of the fact that her sister Katie and her her sister's husband were going as part of the team and Katie was going to be there to help take care of her and and to deliver the baby if need be and and She felt more secure in that situation, but they went to the foreign field. They set sail in a ship to go to this land and to tackle it for for the Lord. And They had hired a ship to go to take them to Calcutta, however, they reached the Isle of Wright And the ship that was supposed to take them to Calcutta, that ship decided, we're not taking you all away. Because they had received word from the British Indian Company that said that they were traveling on an unauthorized journey. And it was going to violate their trade agreements. So this this captain of this ship would lose his ship if he went the rest of the way to India. So they said sorry and left them on the Isle of Right and left. So they uh you know had to wait for a different ship uh from flying a different flag that could make it there without uh fear of reprisal Ultimately, they arrived in the land and began to work. Of course, they faced the challenge that I mentioned already, being shoved out of where they were planning to work initially. They, of course, had the struggle of learning the language, but immediately began to translate the Bible. During these first six years of laborious effort, they witnessed They labored, they translated the scripture, but never saw a soul saved. During those six years of ministry, their son Peter died of dysentery. His wife, Dorothy, suffered a nervous breakdown as a result of that and the other challenges of being on the field. a nervous breakdown that she never recovered from and within about six or seven years succumbed to and passed away In fact, it was not until August of 1800 that their first convert was saved, a Hindu by the name of Kurnash Pow. But they continued to minister there. And as they continue to minister through trial after trial, which I you know are too numerous to list. They were responsible for translating and printing many Bibles in whole, but also many in part, totaling 44 different languages. They helped abolish the practice of infant sacrifice. For forty-one years, Kerry persisted in his work to capture the hearts of the Indians for Christ. When he died, there were over thirty missionaries in India serving the Lord there. There was forty native Indians reaching their own people, national pastors training and working there on the field. There was over 600 members in the church he was leading. And today there are over hundreds, yea, hundreds of thousands of followers of Jesus Christ as the ripple effect of his ministry is seeing even today In fact, had he not gone to the field, had he not been faithful to do God's will, it's been said there probably wouldn't have been an Adnar Justin. Because of his direct influence in Adam Iram Justin's life. You see, beloved, if somebody wants to be successful, the key to results is faithfulness. Moreover, it's required of a steward that a man be found faithful. If somebody wants to get out of debt, It takes faithfulness. You can't just decide, well, I want to get out of debt, and for this week I'm going to be real careful and I'm not going to waste any money And for this week I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna just put all the extra coins and nickels and dimes that I have, I'm gonna put it on my debt But next week, nah, uh I'm back to going out to eat. Does that work, Galena? Nope. You gotta stay at it, don't you? You gotta stay at it. We've had people in our church, Galina is one, others that have successfully got out of debt. They have purpose in their heart, so this is what God wants for me and they they set down a budget and a plan and and they began to work it. And it gets hard sometimes, doesn't it? You're like, oh man, I just want a cheeseburger. You know, I just want to go out to eat. I don't want to, you know, you just I want this liberty to do what I want to do, but I've set this guidelines and you gotta stick by that if you want to be successful to ultimately get out of debt. That's what it takes. We talked about the fact that faithfulness is the key to righteousness. An entire entire message on that, but that if you want to be a righteous man, it doesn't just happen. You've got to purpose in your heart and and dedicate yourself and give yourself time and effort and energy and be faithful towards that effort and you will be a righteous man. If you want to know your Bible, you want to know the Word of God. You can say, oh well, I'm going to read it today, but not read it for the rest of the month. And then I'll read it on that on on a week from Tuesday, but not read it the rest of the week. Oh I'm gonna look at it and no. Listen, I know this is a big book. There's there is a lot in here. And I'll tell you what, I know that a lot of it is not that interesting. If we're being perfectly honest, there's a lot of it. You look at it and you're like, I'm not sure what that means. I'm not sure if that has anything to do with anything. And you're looking at that and you're thinking, why how is that going to help me? I d I don't understand. I don't know. And you you might lose interest, but if you want to learn and know the Word of God, you've got to continue to stay at it You keep reading it, you keep reading it, you keep dissecting it, you keep studying a little bit, and you say, Well, I I don't know what that means, but go down a little further and say, what does this mean? And and you start to build your knowledge and as you build knowledge in the Word of God they start to connect with other parts of knowledge and and you begin to learn more about this and then you learn about that and then you realize oh Those two things were happening at the same time and and you start to put these t these stories together and what God was doing in the world at the same time as Satan was attacking the world and you get the the broad view of God's plan and purpose for man. You get to put all this together and you say, Wow, we serve a good God. I mean, but it takes time. You've got to be faithful to continue to do it. The Bible tells us, and let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap. if we faint not. Faithfulness is the key to results. If you want to see a result in your life in whatever category you want to put down on the line that this is where I need a result, let me tell you it's going to take faithfulness to see it. It's going to take faithfulness to see it. If you want to see souls saved, you've got to be a faithful witness. What an exciting uh thing it is right now in our in our church that the testimonies and and the the heartbeat of the church family as we're seeing everybody's praying for souls and praying for God to do something in our midst. God, I believe, has started a spark in the hearts of the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that I hope turns into a flame, and I hope that flame turns into a bonfire. And we see God do some amazing things in our midst. But it's going to take God's people saying, You know what, I I was a witness last week, but you know I gotta be a witness this week too. And I gotta be a witness next week. And I know I spent some time in prayer. And you know what? It was hard. It was extra time. It took dedication. And I did that for a whole week. Aren't you happy? I am happy. Praise God. Now let's do it again. Amen. Let's do it again. Let's pray for more souls. Let's not just pray for one. Let's pray for two. Let's ke Going. But it's going to take faithfulness. We've got to keep going. If we want to see the results We've got to be faithful. Because faithfulness always results in fruitfulness. Faithfulness always results in fruitfulness. In Matthew chapter 25, verse 21, he says, His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Beloved, you understand if you want to be one day in charge of or dealing with or leading something of any magnitude, there has to be some level of faithfulness with the small things. That's how God works. It's you know, if if I gave Anna, he gave a testimony tonight, if I gave Anna ten dollars and said, Hey, I want you to be sure that Pastor Derrick gets this ten dollars at the end of the night And then I find out that next week that Pastor Derek never got the ten dollars. Well, I'm not gonna send him to the bank with my deposit next week. You know, I mean, okay, there's ten dollars went missing somewhere. Maybe it was a honest mistake, maybe he was playing volleyball and he lost it and was too afraid to come and talk to me. I mean maybe he didn't steal it on purpose, but Either way, he wasn't responsible with the money that he was given and he lost it and didn't fulfill the responsibility, right? So that's what I'm talking about with regards to this is faithfulness. You've got to be faithful in that which is least, and you'll be faithful in that which is much Take whatever it is that you and I have to do for God. Let's take it seriously. However small it is, however m minute or we look at it and say this is just a small thing Let's take it seriously and let's do it faithfully. Now we haven't had choir in over a year, so I can use choir as an illustration. Because there's nobody guilty of showing up late to choir this last Sunday. We haven't there's no nobody has any record in their mind of who was there and who wasn't. We just say something as simple as choir, you know, it's like, oh I I don't uh I don't I can't get to practice today. You know, everybody has an excuse. And everybody's excuse is valid. And everybody's excuse is important. Why they can't get there or why they're late. He that wants to be faithful in much must be faithful in that which is leading Something as small as that is that this is my responsibility. I want to do it faithfully. I want to do it faithfully. I want to be there. I'm going to be there. I'm going to be on time. I'm going Do my job. I I've got uh a special Now I know that this is, because my wife works with it a lot, I know that this is something the specials gets moved around a lot and you know who was doing this gets moved to there and who was doing that. gets moved to there and oh this person is available today and that person isn't available. Um why? If you if you're on a schedule, if you're scheduled for a particular day, just make it happen. Make it happen. Whatever you gotta do. Make it happen. Say I this is my responsibility, it's important. I wanted to be faithful in it. You know, I I have never been someone that gives out positions in a hope that it will foster faithfulness. I don't say you know Stephen, you've been missing a lot of church recently, so I want you to be faithful to church, so I'm gonna make you the church piano player. Okay, so that that way you'll be here, right? That's not the way it works. It's somebody that's faithful, that's here all the time. They're in church, they're here, they're part of what's going on, and you find them here and you say, hey, you know what, uh, Miss Darcy can't be here today. Stephen, could you play? And he sits down and he just tickles those ivories like you can't imagine. We're like, he did a pretty good job. Maybe he could play for a special or two, and then he plays for a special or two, and then we think, Well what next time Darcy's gonna be out of town You're our backup pianist. And that's how it happens. You get end up being out of service, you get placed into more service. Faithfulness always results in fruitfulness, beloved. In Revelation chapter 2, verse number 10, he says Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. God asks for us to be faithful till the end. To be faithful till the end, till the end of life. Satan wants to stop you. He wants to keep us from being faithful. You know, don't let don't let Satan tell you that God doesn't see your faithfulness. Right. Or that somebody else doesn't see your faithfulness. You're faithful, you're doing what God wants you to do, you're keeping at it, you've been You have you have never missed a day of choir in five years and nobody has ever acknowledged it. Well, God knows. God knows. And we serve no matter what it is, we do it as unto the Lord, not unto men. That's right. And God knows, and He will reward you, is what I want you to understand. He will reward that faithfulness. He's not forgotten about the promises that he made to you. Hebrews 6, verse 10 says, For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. You see, God has not forgotten your work and your labor of love. God remembers every time, beloved, when the finances were tight and you continued to give as he wanted you to give. God remembers the time when your heart was broken, but you continued to minister to those that were in need and needed an encouraging word God sees the fact that when you're tired and yet you still were there and you still served him. God sees it when you can't see the light at the end of the tunnel, but you continue to trust him and follow him regardless. God sees when you're unsure, and maybe you lack some faith, but you take one step and put it in front of the other, and one step in front of the other, and just trust him and keep going for him. God sees that faith. Oh, somebody wrote Faithfulness starts when I'm young, saying the right things and bridling my tongue. The older I grow, more plainly I see, the harder it is to bend my knee. First to God I must give my life, also my time, though it may bring strife. My talents seem to be so small, but God can use them one and all. I give a tenth of my money I make, knowing it Never will be a mistake. God sends a blessing on me when I do. He never and He ever and always is seeing me through In winning souls, I don't do my part. Though I wish to do so from the depth of my heart. I can talk to God with my spirit free, for prayer is where God speaks to me. I go to the prayer service on Wednesday night, whether there's rain or the moon is shining bright. I know when I go to the room for prayer, my God is always going to meet me there. Faithfulness calls me ever to be, in a place perhaps where no one else will see I must errands do for him always, not just a deed for glory and praise. Beloved, it's not about just showing up once. And it's not about just, you know Getting up to bat. I mean, how many of you guys have been part of a team or you've you know, you you pick up a game out there on the ball field and Somebody's like, oh well yeah, I'll bat and they get up and they they they want to bat, but when it comes time to go to the outfield, they're like, nah, I don't feel like playing anymore. You know. Oh th everybody wants to get up and bat. Everybody wants to do the fun part and let let it let it swing, but when it comes to standing out in the hot sun and in the outfield and waiting for that ball to come, oh no, I I don't feel like it anymore. How you get results is you just be faithful to do it every time, every time. Faithfulness always results in fruitfulness. Proverbs 28, verse number 20 says, A faithful man shall abound with blessing, but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent. A faithful man shall abound with blessing, but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent. You know Sometimes you see the contrast, the two different guys there that are listed in that verse, Proverbs 2820, where uh the the faithful man is gonna abound with blessing, but he that was hasty to be rich, you you see that guy He's over here and he's working like crazy at all kinds of different things. He's part of every newfangled m you know way that you can uh manufacture some money, you know you can manipulate this and do that. And he's into all these new things all the time. He's starting all of these things. He's got all this stuff going, always trying to find a way to get ahead, but never getting ahead. He's like he's always working from behind, even though he's working all the time or doing all these different things, and he's part of every kind of crazy new idea you can find. But then you have a faithful guy. He's just here. He just goes to work every week. Takes is not much, but he takes $10, $15 and puts it into savings every week. Just put put it in savings every week. Just $10 here, $10 there. It's not a lot, but he's just faithful. He's just faithful. He's just faithful. He just keeps doing it, keeps doing it, keeps doing it. And then what happens 10, 15, 20 years down the road, this faithful guy, he's looking at his life and he's like, man, I am so blessed. Look at look at what God has done. I mean, this is amazing how how how richly blessed I am. This guy over here that was making haste to big be rich, he's like, I've been killing myself for twenty years and I still got nothing. And he feels like God hasn't been fair to him. You know the the idea is kind of like the tortoise in the hare. Right. You know the old story of the tortoise who just started plugging along? And the hare was all, Oh look at me, I'm so much faster than him and just takes off running And and he's he runs over here and plays with this and he runs over there and does that and he stops and and you know what? I'm so far ahead of that tortoise boy I can just take a little nap. And he takes a little nap and rests a while and then he runs some more, whoo, takes off again But that's where this who just plugs along, just keeps faithful. Faithfulness is the key to results. If you want to see results, it takes faithfulness. Just staying faithful. You know, so many Christians They give up just shy of gold. Just shy of that victory. That one more person you could have witnessed to in seen somebody come to Christ, that one more track you could have handed out. That one more time of faithfulness and you would have seen God break the windows of heavens open. We're just just shy of that because we just stopped just a little bit. From where God wanted us. I know that you've heard the story of Darby and his uncle who went to Colorado during the gold rush. His uncle went Arby's uncle went to Colorado and and wanted to make it rich and he w got all the stuff together and he found a a plot of land and said, I'm gonna I'm gonna dig for gold and he began digging for gold and he found a vein. He thought, wow, this is good. He had it tested and he said, This is a pretty good vein. This is there's a lot of gold in here So he came back to Colorado and he he rounded up some some help and and he he got some investors and they invested in his company and he got some big equipment to mine this gold and He went back to Colorado, got it all set up and Darby actually went with them to Colorado to set this up and was gonna be the mine manager and and uh they got this mine running and they they got into the ground with their big drills and the drills were running and they're Getting all kinds of ore out of the ground and all you know, getting this gold and the first big production of gold out of the ground was amazing. They pulled that out and sent it off and had it smelted and found out this gold was phenomenal And the the great return on their investment thus far, man, a couple more times like that, we're gonna be debt free. Then all of a sudden that vein of gold dried up. There was no more gold to be had. And they're like, no problem, let's keep digging. We're just going to dig, we're going to go. And they started working day after day after day. Week after week, they're drilling, they're drilling, they're drilling, and there's no gold. And every week they're going further and further in debt and they're like, oh, what are we gonna do? Ultimately they decided, you know what, we need to cut our losses, we need to walk away from this. We're just going further and further in the hole. So they did. They cut their losses. Sold the mine, sold all the equipment to a junk dealer down the road. He was going to come in and get the mine equipment and turn it into scrap metal. The junk dealer comes into the mine and Just for kicks, he's like, well, it's all here. It's all set up. Cost me a little gas maybe to run it for a little while. He began to run the mine equipment. Drilled three more feet and hit the biggest vein of gold found in Colorado. Three more feet. They stopped drilling three feet from gold. And Christian, that's where we are many times. I know that we get weary in well doing. That's why the Lord says, don't be weary in well-doing, for a due season you shall reap if you faint not. You just the key to results is faithfulness. We just got to be faithful. Just be faithful to God. Just keep going. Keep praying. Keep witnessing. Keep working. See God do those things in our lives that we desire most. The key to results is faithfulness. But you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed. I'm going to ask the fianists to come. Listen, I don't know how God spoke to your heart tonight. Psalms 3123 says, O love the Lord, all ye saints, for the Lord preserveth the faithful. And plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. God's going to reward those that are just faithful. He's going to preserve those that are faithful. You and I, we've seen faithfulness is the key to our relationships, faithfulness is the key to righteousness, and faithfulness is the key to results. You want to see results in your life? Let's commit to just be faithful.