Very good. Well, faith is the victory. That uh comes from our text verse tonight. You can turn to first John chapter five. If you're at home, grab your Bibles. Uh one of the best ways to get the most out of the service. I know I can tell you being at home is not the same as being here, but I'm glad that there's times when you're sick or when like tonight when it really is not safe to get out that you can uh still be a part and the way to do that is to on purpose. When we were uh growing up and uh we were at some place or dad was preaching or whatever, he didn't let us mess around He didn't let us play with things or have have drinks, you know, and get all comfortable and kick back on the couch. He would tell us, sit up, sit up and uh get your Bible out. and engage in the service. One of the reasons it actually was during 2020 that we started putting the words on the screens for the songs. The only reason we do that is because people at home don't have a songbook And so we did it so that you guys at home could sing along and the words would be there because I know you think I know that song. And then after the first verse you're like oops, I don't know it as good as I thought And uh so we put up the words and so that the people at home can can sing along and you have to on purpose say, okay, we're going to pay attention to the word of God for a few minutes. We're gonna have our Bibles out. We're gonna sit up straight. We're not gonna go to the bathroom during the service, during the preaching time. We're gonna make this the priority for the next few minutes, and I won't be very long. But you'll get more out of it if you if you make a point and desire to get something out of it. You know, on the way out today, there was somebody who stopped me and and they were almost in tears and they said, you know, Pastor, God used you today. God spoke through you. I mean God reached down to the depths of my soul and touched me. He just did something to me. He says, man, I can't even explain what God did to me this morning. And he said, on the way into church, I was begging God to speak to me through his word today. And I said, that's why God spoke to you. That's why you got something not that Pastor Caleb did such an amazing job delivering the word, but you prepared your heart and you asked God to do something and God answered your prayer God spoke to you because you were hungry and you were looking for it. And if we are on purpose looking for it, God will give us something even when we don't have the greatest preacher behind the pulpit. Amen? No amens. All right, very good. Faith is a victory. If you have your song books, uh we we're just gonna quickly by way of introduction reference some of the things that are in this book that or in this song that are directly from our text verse 1 John chapter 5 and verse number 4 he says, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. This is a victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. You know, beloved, that in the fact of the matter is, is man by himself is a defeat We are defeated. We have no hope of victory outside of Jesus Christ. But with Jesus Christ, we have every hope of victory. We have every possibility and every chance. How many of you have ever attempted to do a very large project? This is much bigger than I thought it was going to be. And you're almost overwhelmed, but then somebody comes along. Maybe it's one of your siblings, or maybe it's somebody else, or Oftentimes we'll be doing something in the church here and uh somebody will show up and they'll say, Oh, can I help with that? And man, that makes it so much easier, somebody coming alongside you. Well, beloved, victory comes because we have Jesus Christ who is walking alongside us. John Yates, the author of this song, is in Batavia, New York. He is the manager of a local hardware store. He was asked to give up his job and become the editor of a local newspaper. It was during this transition of life that was to move forward with confidence. Because God had given him a song. God gave him this song and knew that this was what he needed to do, the step that he needed to take in his life. We want to consider song tonight. The fact of the matter is, is uh I heard a couple of weeks ago that men are not this is on is it clicking out? It's cutting out. All right, so The fact of the matter is, what I what I heard a couple weeks ago is that it's vital that we have songs with strong theological truths being taught because many people today are Scripturally illiterate. If you ask the average attender of a church today, quote me five verses from the Bible Very few, according to this gentleman that I heard, very few can quote you five verses at all. But if you say, sing me five songs, Oh, they can sing you five songs like that. Ten songs. Oh, they can sing you ten songs. Maybe not every word or every verse of that song, but songs stick in our heart. They dwell within us. Well we didn't have John here tonight to pray to keep the devil out of the sound system. And we're we are The thing is is we're 100% reliant on this. If it doesn't go out, then people online don't they don't hear anything. It just all of a sudden goes blank. So we're gonna switch Alright, testing three, four, five. We'll see what happens. You know what I did learn? Well That's not pertinent to the message. I need to get back to the message. So the fact is the songs stick in our minds. They stick in our hearts. They dwell with us. And so when you have such a large segment of the of our Christian population being raised up on these 7-Eleven songs, that have no theology, they have no heart in them, there's no doctrine there. They aren't getting any doctrine anywhere. They aren't getting any substance anywhere. So it's vitally important that our Music that we listen to and the music that feeds our spirit is something of substance, not just emotional moving in that way. We know that the Christian life is a battle. It's described as a battle. We're described as soldiers. We are to be soldiers of the cross. We're to put on the armor of God. We're to pick up our sword and shield. We're to march on to victory. We know we're in the battle And so if we're in a battle, there's a battle to be lost and there's a victory to be won. And we can win it with Jesus Christ. In this song, Faith is a Victory, there's several references to straight biblical truths, straight biblical principles. In verse number two he says, his banner over us is love. That's a direct quote out of Song of Solomon chapter two in verse number four. Our sword, the Word of God, is from Hebrews 4. 12, talking about that sword, the Word of God, that's sharper than any two-edged sword. We see he says here that we tread the road with saints above. You know, the Bible says we're compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. We've got so many witnesses that are watching and cheering us on. We have the saints that have gone before us. He says that with shouts of triumph trod by faith like a whirlwind's breath. Twenty-seven times in the Word of God, the Example or the use of the term whirlwind is used in describing the moving of the Holy Spirit or the work that God is doing or uh something that God was accomplishing in in sensing and seeing that and that description of a whirlwind comes right from the Word of God. We know verse number three there he describes and talks about the armor of God that we're supposed to have, that we're supposed to put on that. He talks about our white raiment. White raiment is found in Revelation chapter 3 and verse number 5. And so all through this song that we're singing is the Word of God. Truths from the Word of God, things that speak to our hearts. But tonight we're going to look specifically at the text, which is the title, and that is 1 John 5. 4. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. We want to look at this. John is telling us, beloved, how to have victory. How to have victory over the world. And you know, of course, what he's talking about is the world system. That is anything that functions contrary to to God and God's will. That is the world system that we live in today, not overcoming the world as the sphere that we live on, but the world system, and I think that's understood uh by most, if not all, that are tuning in tonight, that it's a world system that we need to overcome. It we we have three enemies What are they, kids? The world, the flesh, and the devil. We know that the devil's against us. We know that our flesh is against us. I mean, you have to completely deny any type of reality to know that your old flesh is against you trying to do what's right. But we also have something that's called the world. That appetites of the world that draw us and pull on us, and he's telling us how here how to overcome the world. So we see that faith is what overcomes the world. First of all, we want to see faith defined. Faith defined. We know that the Word of God gives us the definition in Hebrews 11:1. But the dictionary says that it is the ascent of the mind to a truth of proposition So the ascent of the mind, the agreement of the mind, the mind coming to the agreement of a statement saying, yes, that is truth. If I said, well, this is a green pulpit, everyone present tonight would say, well Pastor must be colorblind. Let's not tell him the truth. Let's not, let's not. I mean, obviously it's not green. So your mind does not come to an ascent, doesn't come to an agreement. with that stated fact. But if I said this is a pulpit made of wood, then with all of the knowledge that you have before you, you would look at that and you'd say, Yes, I agree with that statement as truth. I I believe that to be so. So you would come to an agreement there. If we apply this to theology, then it means that we believe that what God says Is truth. What the Word of God says is truth. But God gives us a clear definition in Hebrews 11:1. He says Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. We know the substance of things hoped for. This is a confident held expectation. Something, there's a level of confidence. It's not just a pie in the sky. Well, I hope that maybe this might happen. There's a confident expectation that it might. We're shopping for a car from Melissa right now, trying to find her a $5,000 car for a thousand bucks. And we would have it already if our standards weren't so high Um I just have a hard time paying five thousand dollars for a five thousand dollar car. I need a pawn shop that sells cars. I don't know. I'm looking. We're shopping. But what I'm saying is that there's a confident expectation in Melissa's heart that we're gonna get a car. It hasn't been realized yet. She hasn't seen it. We've gone and looked at some possibilities. We've made some offers on some cars But it hasn't happened yet, but there there is some faith there. There's some confident expectation that it's going to become a reality, that it's going to happen. have the money set aside, it's ready to go, and we've gone and looked and we're pursuing it, and we just believe in God's time and He shows us the right vehicle, we'll be able to pick it up. That's what He's talking about, this substance of things hoped for, but the evidence of things not seen. That's proof of things that you don't really see physically yet. You know, when you drive By my house, you you you look and uh You'll see smoke coming out of the chimney. Well, you can't see the fire But you know there's a fire in the fireplace, right? You see that smoke coming out. You know there's a fire there. There's there's something there. There's an evidence But it's not seen. You don't see the fire in the fireplace, but you've got some evidence there, and there's some evidence of faith in the Christian's life that is present and it can be observed. So our journey in this theological realm begins when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He is, as he stated himself to be, the Son of God. We believe it to be so. Jesus is God in the flesh. He was the Messiah and He came to save people from their sins. When one comes to that ascent, when He comes to that agreement and He realizes his lost condition, He has one of two responses. He either is going to agree and say, Yes, I need a Savior, and it is Jesus, or he's going to reject that and go away from it. Faith is born in the heart of one who realizes that and comes to that agreement, says, oh yes, I need a Savior. And faith is born there. Then our faith is to continue to grow. And God promises victory to the man who has faith. The obvious question is, how can I have enough faith to secure victory in my life? Victory over this world, the world that keeps pulling me down. How can I have victory? How can I overcome this? Well beloved, it's just like building muscles to lift something that today you cannot lift. But if you were to go and exercise and lift smaller things, at a uh set pace you could develop some muscles to where you could lift this thing. It it is simply exercising those muscles and using and building strength and you and I can build our faith. We can build faith that will give us victory over the world. So just secondly, as faith developed tonight, faith developed, we want to learn some things about this faith and how is it developed in our life? How do we do we go pick up some weights and and and just get stronger in our faith? Or how how do we get stronger in our faith? Well, first of all, we need to know that faith is from God. We some familiar passages of scripture, but faith is from God. Ephesians chapter 2, verse number 8. You guys know it. For by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves, what? It is a gift of God So faith we understand and we know that it comes from God. It's something that's birthed in the heart, but it is a gift from God. Romans chapter 12 and verse number 3 says, For I say uh through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. God has dealt to every man a measure of faith. When you trust Jesus Christ, faith is born in your heart. That faith is born and you begin to uh know who God is, and then God gives you a measure of faith. And I believe it is upon us or behooves us to grow that faith, to strengthen that faith to help our faith be more of what it should be each and every day. I believe that you can ask God. We know it comes from God. We know He is the source, so we say, Lord, Give me faith. Lord, help me to trust you today. Lord, I'm in this battle, I'm in this struggle, and I need to be able to rely on you. Hey, even the disciples said, Lord, we believe But help our unbelief. And so there's times where our faith may falter, where our faith may not quite be strong enough to say, okay, I'm going to take that step. And we say, Lord, I'm hesitant. Lord, I don't have the confidence to do this. Lord, I'm not sure if I should do this. But faith says, okay, God, I'm going to trust you. And you take the step. But it might take some prayer. It might take some time in God's Word. It might take some encouragement from a brother or sister in Christ to get you to take the step that you know God wants you to take. But it's possible. And every time you exercise faith, your faith is growing Your faith becomes stronger and stronger. We've all read the missionary stories. Of men, you know, like David Rainard and others who had a a faith that was unmatched. The story that I referenced this morning Kowman, what was his first name? Charles, Charles Kalman. He uh was called to Japan to be a missionary, went to went to called to Japan on August 11, 1900. and went to the mission field. But he was kind of like my dad. He just didn't know better. You see, my dad went to start his first church. And he had no support. He had nobody else that knew he was going there to start a church. He had nobody helping him. He just had his wife and two babies. And he went to a town and started knocking doors. He just knew this is where God wanted him to start a church and he's going to do what God wants him to do, and he just started going out and knocking doors and winning people to Jesus Christ. He had nobody supporting him, nobody helping him, nobody funding the work. He just didn't know any better. He just said, This is what God wants me to do, this is what I'm gonna do. And this is what Charles Coman in in nineteen hundred went to Japan. They got uh February first of 1901 they got on the ship to go to Japan and it was a 20-day trip. 20 days on the ship to get to Japan. And uh they disembarked and I was just in the Philippines recently and I remember being in the Philippines, I think I was talking to Brother Glover 'cause he was there. We were uh driving down, I don't remember for sure if it was him, but uh I said, Can you imagine getting off a boat in a country like this, knowing nobody, probably not knowing the language. Not knowing the culture, not knowing the people, not knowing where you could go, if you could even get a place to live, or if you could get food, or I mean you're just getting dropped off here. You don't have the phone that you can Google it like we were walking all over the Philippines all by ourselves. Why? Because we had a phone and it could GPS us and we could go wherever we wanted to go and we could find our way back. But without it we would have been in trouble. And I can't imagine th that you you talk about anxiety, you talk about worry, going to a foreign country in 1900 with no help And he didn't have any support. They just said, this is what God wants to do. And he quit his job there at the telegraph office and went and they went and saw God do great things They started a mission work and they needed money. They didn't have any support, but they needed money to pay the rent for this building that they wanted to begin to meet in, and they began to pray and ask God. They got a letter one day with five dollars in it from somebody and that that was a start just uh uh out of the blue somebody sent them and then the next day and they have notes from his diary from that time and uh that next day somebody sent in a check for a thousand dollars. We're reading this in our devotions and We made the comment $1,000 in 1900 was substantially more than $1,000 today. And so my daughter, she She said it was thirty-six thousand two hundred and sixty-four dollars. That was the difference. She she googled it, looked it up with with inflation. Thirty-six thousand dollars. That was a check for a thousand dollars in nineteen oh one Got a check. And he was able to make the rent and make the payment. Why? Because God. Because of exercising faith and just doing what God wanted him to do. You will develop and grow faith. When you realize it's from God, ask God for it. Romans 1. 16, for I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation unto everyone that believeth. That believeth. We've got to believe and realize it comes from God and have faith. To know that it's available for us and ask God for it. We see that faith comes from God. We also see that faith comes by the word of God. Romans 10, 17. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. We get faith by getting in the Word of God. People say, well, I have weak faith. Get in the Word of God. It would be no difference than somebody saying, you know, Miss Martha, Greg and Martha text as we're opening, they're they're tuning in uh tonight as well. And uh w when I fell off the building out here and and broke my back, uh I was in recovery and Miss Martha brought me her her uh physical therapy notes and uh her physical therapist said okay here's because she had back surgery and uh I praise the Lord I didn't have to have surgery they said it'll heal heal by itself. Uh and so she said, here's some exercises you can do. And you say, well man, my back is really weak. It's really weak. Well, you have a list of exercises you can do right here that show you how to strengthen your back. Here's exactly what you're supposed to do. Oh, no, no, but my back is really weak and it's really bothering me. And oh, oh, but here's a list of exercises. All you have to do is do these exercises. Yeah, I know I I don't want to do the exercises. I just want to complain about my back That's the thing. People want to talk about I don't have any faith, but we know that faith comes from God. We can ask him for it. We know that faith comes from the Word of God. We can get in the Word of God. That's all we have to do, is just spend time in the Word of God. I don't understand how it works. I can't explain the miraculous event that takes place when you read the pages of the scripture out of the pages of the Word of God how it translates into faith in your life. But I know it to be so I know it to be so. It is from the Word of God, hearing the Word of God. This is a supernatural work that takes place when we have enough faith to just get in the book. Now I know you read it and you say, boy, yeah, I didn't get anything out of that. Or that didn't really stir me. Them chapters and chronicles aren't doing anything for me. I understand there's some passages that are more meaningful than others. Some we really enjoy reading, some that are less, but you know, the whole counsel of God, as the Bible says it's all profitable for doctrine, for a proof. It's all profitable. And we don't know the work that God is doing, but that's where faith comes in and says, okay, here's here, you know, you go to the doctor and the doctor says, here's some medicine for you. If you take this medicine, you'll get better. I mean very few people. There are some hard-headed, you know, I'm going to be kind to stop right there. There's some that say, well, I ain't taking that. But most people the doctor said, here's what you need to do, take it, and we take it. Okay. And we take it It's not till later that we read the side effects and realize that it says and possible death may occur. One of the side effects are possible death. And this is what I'm supposed to take because I have a cough Okay, this is going to kill me, but uh we do it. Do it what the doctor says. Beloved, the word of God. It's a supernatural book. And it will change our life if we would just get in a habit of reading it and spending time in it. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Our faith has grown through experience. Every time we, the Word of God, God says, try me. And see if I will not open the windows of heaven. God specifically in that passage dealing with giving and your faith to believe that God can take care of you even when you're giving to God. And he says, just try me. Just try it. And that's such a a simple area, but also a very uh vivid or or It's an easy way to see, my mind just going blank on how to describe that, but it's an easy way for us to see God come through It's not a pie in the sky, it's not a oh well this is something that's out there. When you have faith and give to God and then you see God give to you directly, it is such a direct response to your faithfulness and then God being faithful to you, then that builds your faith. That's one of the reasons why we as a church practice faith, promise, gives missions giving. Because it is an easy direct way. You want to grow your faith, get involved in faith, promise, missions giving Just promising God and seeing God provide for you. Faith is not blind. It's an evidence. It's an evidence. You know, somebody said faith is like calories. You can't see either one, but you can see the effect of both. Faith is like calories. And that's the thing. You can't see, but you can see the effect of it. You can see what it does. And that's what we want to have. We want to have faith on display. Faith is the victory. When faith is present in the heart of men, men, first of all, are converted. We know that faith is born in the heart of men. Men are converted. Simon Peter answered and said unto him, To whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life, and we believe. And are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. They were fully convinced that this was Jesus whom they were talking to. In Matthew 16, 15 and 16, he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. when men come to that realization that he is Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God, God in the flesh who came and dwelt among men and died. for them. Faith is born in their heart and they put their faith and trust in Christ. Just this morning two people came to me after the service and said, we need to join the church. They got saved last year and then they got baptized some months later and it's been this many months and they said, we've been talking about it and we've been looking at it, but uh we just we just have never done it. But it's been neat to see their journey, how they've grown in their spiritual life and the steps that they've taken and how they've made these choices and say, boy, we want to commit and be a part of this. uh congregation here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because their faith has grown. When faith is present, men obey. You know, in Luke 6, 46 he says, And why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? You see, when faith is present, men obey. If we truly believed If if I told you tonight that I have a drawer up here And if you come up here and stick a dollar in it, that you could go over there and open that drawer and get ten thousand dollars out. Some of you say, well, I'll risk a dollar on that. Amen. Here's the thing, if you truly believe, you'll do it. You would do it. You say, oh yeah, I would do that. Why? Because you believed it to be so. When you truly believe, when you have faith and you know that it's going to happen, you do it. You know, we exercise faith every day. Even people that are lost and don't know the Lord, they exercise faith every day. You know, we were talking about processed food There's some people in our church that work in factories where they make food. And uh, you know, we're just taking taken by faith that they're doing what they're supposed to do. I mean we just had what was that boarshead meet uh that uh just had that big uh they had like hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of meat they had to call back because of some type of uh bacteria that got into their meat and in from their factory that you know once they're sending it through these machines and that bacteria is present it gets in all it gets in everything. And we're just taking taking it by faith, all this food we're grabbing off these shelves, shelves, or that we eat in restaurants. We're just We're just praying they're doing it right. You know, we're just hoping they they are washing their hands. We're just praying that they're keeping the kitchen clean. You know, I I you guys don't know this, but I watch auctions all the time. And I see these uh restaurants that are closing down and they're selling off everything from the restaurant, and I can tell you why most of them closed. Okay, I see th all the stuff out of the kitchen is for sale and I'm like there is no no wonder that qu that restaurant closed down and I'm thinking about whoever was eating in that restaurant but the weeks before it shut down. I'm like that kitchen is nasty. I mean, oh my goodness, that that fryer is gonna take hours and hours to clean up if we wanted to get it. That fridge is so full of mold and gross. I mean I I just can't imagine. And and we're just we exercise faith every day when we Go out in this world and we get into a car or we get into a plane or we travel. Uh it we're exercising faith every day. But where is our faith in God? To believe that God can do it. If we really believed that this book could change our life, we would read it. We would read it. If we really believed that by praying, my loved one who's lost and on their way to hell could be saved, we would spend time in prayer for them. If we really believed it. Well you say I I need more faith, well then you've got to pray for faith, and you've got to get in the Word of God for faith and Ask God that give you the faith that you need so you can see God do the miraculous in your life. He wants to do it more than you want him to do it When we believe we're going to obey. And obedience is what leads to victory This is where we've been getting to. Faith is the victory. Well, I've told you before that faith is literally just obedience. When I was younger, I really questioned or battled with, well, do I have enough faith? I know we're supposed to pray in faith believing, and so in my mind I would wonder, like, do I have enough faith? Am I Praying with enough faith. But do you know, beloved, that just by the act of prayer, you are displaying faith. You are displaying faith If you have enough faith to just bow your head and submit your heart before God and begin to pray, that is faith in action. That is faith. And you don't have to question whether you have sufficient faith in your prayer or whether there's some emotion in the background that isn't present or should be present in order that your prayer might be answered. No, that is faith in action. Being obedient. James tells us that faith without works is dead. But you know, we we we can't have one without the other. You can't have faith without works because we live out of what we believe and we believe what we live. That's the fact. It shapes what we do. Some people have debated that maybe James and Paul were at odds with one another with regards to this thing of faith, because of course we know that Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves it is gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast, and we know that That salvation is by grace alone, and there is no works involved in salvation. And so then you get over to James, and James says, Well, faith without works is dead, and we say, Oh, these two people are contrary, but that's not true. They're complementary. Their view of faith is from different perspectives. James' view of faith is from man's point of view, and Paul's view of faith is from God's point of view. This idea of faith. They do not disagree. Paul is telling the lost man how he can come to faith. Through Jesus Christ. James is telling the saved man how he can live through faith through Jesus Christ. They are complementary. And that's what faith is. It is a testament. The work that you do is a testament of the heart change that's inside your life The reason that many people lack victory is because they lack faith. And they lack faith because they haven't been talking to asking God for it. They haven't been in the Word of God, and they haven't been exercising or using their faith. They're just living life instead of using their faith. Try it, try it. Try your faith. Say, okay, God, I'm going to give to you what you've commanded me to do, and I'm going to do this by faith. I'm just going to trust you. I'm going to be obedient and do it. Say, I'm going to give to missions and I'm going to be obedient. This is what I'm going to do. I'm going to be faithful to God's house every Sunday this year. We're going to see the difference that it makes in my family and in my home. Get in the Word of God. Hosea 4. 6 says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge You know, every single one of us here have the same book. We have the same access to God And we have the same access to the Holy Spirit, and we have the same access to victory in our lives. Faith is the victory. Why is it that one man can experience victory and walk in victory and see God do great things in his life, and another man is continually defeated by Satan? The man who's continually defeated says, boy, I just wish I could be like him. You can be If you would follow God's pattern and do it God's way, live in faith. Faith is the victory. Available to any of us, to all of us, at whatever level or to whatever extent we truly desire it to be. That's the miracle of this thing. It's available to us all. Mary, would you come and play a moment of invitation here tonight? Faith is the victory. It's more than just a song. And as we're singing that, the song of the month each Sunday night this month, think about the victory that you have or that you're not having. And know that you can have it through faith in God. And are you being obedient to Him? Are you asking Him for it? Are you spending time in His Word?