Well you can turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter fifteen. Matthew chapter fifteen. I'm glad that we have a reputation as a church that's gonna have church. I uh heard several people this morning thank you that that uh Their their church didn't have Sunday school and they thought, oh well I'll tune in and listen to Hunt Valley. Oops. They're like they thought for sure if anybody was having church, Hunt Valley would have church, you know. Like, man, put me under conviction. Terrible. I'm I'm glad that we have that reputation that people are like, well mm s this no matter what, Mount Valley's gonna do something. They're gonna they're gonna somehow livestream it or whatever we could do to to have services. So I'm glad that we have that reputation and we want to continue to uh hopefully for the honor and glory of God, not for us as individuals, but that we put a priority on church. And uh that's really what we want to do. Great to have Chapman Cassie here. I Each time I get up I was thinking about saying something and then I got talking and forgot. Uh but uh of course Stephen's brother and sister-in-law were thrilled to have them and they're they're around as they have opportunity. They go to Pastor Tom's church up in uh York And uh so they're around and we're glad that they can be here with us tonight. You and Matthew fifteen? Alright, we're going to be looking at verses twenty-one to twenty-eight this evening. Matthew fifteen, verses twenty-one to twenty-eight. Follow along as I read this story. Then Jesus went thence and departed unto the coast of Tyra and Sidon And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she crieth after us. But he answered and he said, I'm not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Then she then Sorry, I lost my spot. Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me. But he answered and he said, It is not meat to take the children's bread and to cast it to dogs. And she said, Truth, Lord, yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from the master's table. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith. Be it unto thee, even as thou wilt, and her daughter was made whole from that very hour. I want to speak to you tonight for a few minutes on faith that fulfills. Faith that fulfills. Would you pray with me? As we begin. Lord, we thank you for the privilege to gather in your house tonight. We ask you, Lord, that you would indeed give me liberty to preach your word. Lord, allow me to share with these, your people, this message that you've given me Lord, I pray that I would present it in the spirit that you would have, Lord, that it would be given. Uh Lord, just give me the liberty to preach what needs to be preached and to share with compassion that which needs to be shared with love. And Lord, I pray that It truly would feed the hearts of those that need to be fed spiritually this evening. Thank you for the gathering that's here tonight. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We know that Jesus came to his own and his own received him not. Christ knew that he was going to be despised and rejected That he would ultimately be taking the message that he brought first to his own, and he would be sending it to the rest of the world to what is the Gentile nations. Salvation would not be for him for his people alone, but for the whole world. In the text before us here, Christ leaves the familiar. And travels into a region of Gentiles, into a place where many would call would be it would be culturally different It would be an a a shock to the system, a different belief system, a different way of living, a different practice. And Jesus travels to this region and Quite literally, his actions show us that the gospel was not going to be just to his own people, but literally to all who would believe. This Canaanite woman, a Gentile, teaches us something about faith and what kind of faith sees fulfillment. That's what I want to talk to you about for a couple of minutes tonight. First of all, we see in verses 21 and 22 a seeking faith. We see her seeking for the Lord. Verse number 22, she says, And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David, my daughter, is grievously vexed with a devil. Let me say, beloved, that she was motivated by a need Can I tell you that that's what brings people to Jesus when they're motivated by a need? That's what would cause a person to seek out the Lord. That's what would cause a believer to get down into the Word again and begin to study the Word and begin to look for God to do something in their life because they have been gripped with the need. Without the need, there is no motivation for us to pursue fervently after Christ. Some of us need to get a need again. We need to feel a need, and I know we like it when it's smooth sailing, and I know we like it when the waters are calm, and I know we like it when the bills are paid and We know what tomorrow holds, but beloved, it is in the hour of need that we're driven to our knees. It is in the hour of need that we seek out a Savior. And that's what she had a need. And a need motivated her. Beloved, I don't know of anything that motivates an individual quite like the need of a child. That burden that's on your heart when one of your own, when one of your children are ill or sick or there's a problem here, which in this story, a child being literally possessed of a devil, vexed of a devil. And that need gripped a mother's heart, and I'm sure if she could have, that mother would have gladly taken that devil herself to free her child of it. I'm sure she had sought out whatever help she probably could from whatever location she had as an opportunity to her, and yet nothing had worked. She was driven by a need. When real need grips your heart, can I tell you, beloved, you're not concerned about dignity, only deliverance. This is what I I prayerfully this morning was asking God to Grip the heart of those that were present that didn't know Jesus as their Savior, that they would they would feel their need, their lost condition And the ultimate eternity without Christ would send them to a devil's hell. And if they were gripped with that need, they wouldn't be concerned about what somebody thought by them coming down the aisle. care what somebody who they had to talk to to learn, how they could know they were going to heaven, but that need would grip their heart and they would step out and they would come down and let somebody show them from the Word of God how they could be saved. If I'm honest with you, as a pastor I I I feel days like today where people worked and labored and they brought their loved ones and their co their their family or their friends or or or guests here And those that were present that didn't know Jesus, I feel like as a pastor, that I let you down because they left here without professing Christ. Beloved, it's heavy on my heart as a pastor. I preach the message of the gospel with all that I can to try and get a hold of them. And when they feel the need, they're not concerned about it. You think about the woman who had the issue of blood. She didn't care what the crowd thought. She didn't care what the disciples said. She wanted to get to Jesus and she didn't even need his attention. She just wanted to touch the hip of his garment But she had to get to him. You think about the four friends who bore their friend on a on a cot up into the to the roof of a house and they ripped the roof off and they lowered him down to Jesus. It's the only way they could. Why? Because they were gripped with a need. And beloved, when you and I are gripped with a need, we're going to do what's necessary to get a hold of God. When we're gripped with a need, we'll get out of bed in the morning and we'll start reading the Word of God. When we're gripped with a need, we'll seek Him when we get off work or on our lunch break. We won't be living so casual in this Christian life without consideration of Jesus and what he's done. Because why? Because we have a need Lord, burden us with a need tonight. Help us to see the need. Can I tell you, beloved, as a church, we can't afford to coast. We can't afford to just exist. We can't afford to just pretend like everything's okay. I'm glad tonight that we have money in the bank. I'm glad tonight that the bills are paid. And praise the Lord we just crossed over, I think it was 82,000 that's been committed to missions for this year. So our missions commitments are met. Praise God for that answered prayer, but it's not time to put it in neutral. It's not time to get casual. It's not every Sunday school matters. Every time you stand in front of front of those kids, their life is literally in your hands And you're directing them, you're educating them, little Camila, about how to go to the Lord in prayer and to seek God so that when she's hurting, she knows that she needs to go to Jesus Every Sunday school matters, every special matters, every time you play the piano, it matters, every time you usher it matters, every time you serve in security, it matters. Every time you come This is real. It's important. And we need to be gripped with the need of it, with the importance of it. And then it will mean something to us. Sometimes, beloved, we don't see the miracles of God because we have not been moved to prayer by the need. She was motivated by a need, but we see also that she moved past the barriers. You see, beloved, she was a Gentile. There were racial barriers, social barriers, cultural barriers, sp spirit, spiritual barriers. She had everything against her from a worldly standpoint that this is not the person who's gonna solve your problem. But beloved, I think that she had probably heard about a man named Jesus. And she thought, if there's any way, I'm gonna go. He was a Jew and she was of a Greek heritage, a Gentile. Let me just throw this out here that I still believe that the Jews are God's chosen people. I do not believe in replacement theology. I don't think the church has taken the place of Israel. They're still God's chosen people. But God came first to the Jew, and the Jew received him not. So God's plan and his infinite wisdom and understanding these things and you know I I don't know uh th there's ways and Brother Taylor and I were just talking about this recently, but trying to to gr grab a hold of the doctrine of God's foreknowledge and and predestination and what he understood to to be happening and and what he makes happen and all of those things I I don't know that I could in this side of heaven gonna be able to grasp it at all, but here's what I do know is that he's not willing that any should perish but that all should come to repentance. That God knew that his own were going to reject him and ultimately crucify him, and that he would give his life a ransom for many, for all. And that the message of the gospel would go to the Gentile world. And if you're not a Jew, you're a Gentile. That's everybody. That's the whole of the earth. Look what Paul says in Acts chapter 13. Would you turn over there? We're gonna be back to keep your finger there and wherever we're at tonight, Matthew. Keep your finger in Matthew, but I want you to see this. Remember when we went through the book of Acts, how we talked about the first twelve chapters of the book of Acts are Peter and his ministry to the Jews? And then in chapter 13, we see a transition where we go to Paul and his ministry to the Gentiles. Right here is where we see that in Acts chapter 13. Look at verse number 46. Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold and said, It was necessary that the Word of God should first have been spoken to you. But seeing ye put it from you and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles. For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have sent thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth. And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad And glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were ordained to eternal life believed. And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the regions. I'm glad that the gospel came to the Gentiles. Amen. I'm glad that Jesus gives us here in this story. A lady who wasn't afraid to cross cultural barriers, that wasn't afraid to go where others might have thought it not like she didn't belong, but she said, I've got to get to Jesus. She was gripped with a need I'm sure that she had heard that here's a man who has made the lame walk. Here's a man named Jesus who's caused the blind to see. Here's a man named Jesus who has healed people with issues of blood, who has healed people with illnesses, who has free the maniac of Gadaria. And so I'm sure she had heard these stories and it had spread abroad and she thought, oh, I need to get to Jesus. And so she comes to him and she cries out, Lord, help me. Lord, help me. Let me show you something else that's very powerful here in this text. Can I tell you that long before you need to get to Jesus? He's coming to you? Notice what it says there in verse number 21. As it opens up, then Jesus went thence and departed into the coast of Tyra and Sidon. You see, Jesus went there first. He went to where she was. Jesus is looking for you and he is coming to you. Wherever you're at, he is coming to you. She was mindful of his authority. She says, O Lord, thou son of David. She acknowledges who he is. She calls him Lord and Acknowledges his heritage, acknowledges the fact that he's a Jew, thou son of David, but still crying out for help And then we see not just a seeking faith here that drove her to find Jesus and to cry out to him and to get an answer for her need, but we also see a steadfast faith. In verses 23 through 27, we see, beloved, that her faith is tested. And I tell you, faith that can't be tested can't be trusted. We see the first test was a test of silence, verse number 23. But he answered her not a word. Have you ever gone to the Lord and Heard crickets? I mean you you you sought the Lord and you were fervent in your prayer and you desired to see God do something in your mind you thought, boy, this is this is gonna be something and you're sitting there and And and you're like it's nothing? Like it just didn't feel like it even reached past the the roof. I mean, did God even hear me? Lord, I'm crying out to you. It just th there was silence A test of faith. Are you going to keep on asking? Are you going to continue to pray? She didn't stop. She kept on calling. There might be a time, beloved, when God chooses not to answer you, or the answer might be not now. But we've got to continue to seek him. The second test we see here is that she was shunned. The pious disciples with all of their spirituality Here this woman comes and she asks of Jesus and Jesus didn't answer her not a word. And so they they she probably thought, well Maybe I need to talk to these guys first. And so she's she's going to the disciples and she's probably she's calling after them and she's seeking look, I need some help and Look, it's just it'd only take a minute. Would you pray over my daughter? Would you stop and help? Would you give would you give me an answer? Boy, don't don't just walk away and and she's calling after them and calling after them. And finally they're like, Jesus, would you send this to me quack away? Would you just tell her to go? She was shunned. They didn't want to have anything to do with her. Sometimes in life Beloved, you may be seeking God. You may be on a track spiritually to see God do something miraculous in your life. And there are going to be some people that mock and make fun. There's going to be some people that don't understand. There's gonna be some people that uh shun you, a test of your faith. Are you gonna continue to be faithful and do what you know is right? Continue to seek the Lord, or are you going to give up and quit? Is your faith going to be fulfilled because of your persistence? Or are you going to let it? Pull you out of the game. We see the third test here is some statements that Jesus makes that seem pretty harsh. He says it's not meat to take the children's bread. He's talking about the Jews, the bread that was for them his chosen People, it's not meat for me to take the children's bread and give it to the dogs Now meat, you guys know, means fit, good, or valuable. He says it's not good. It's not a good thing. Not a valuable thing. For me to take the bread that was fit for the children and give it to the dogs, literally calling her a dog. Now, this is a common sentiment for the day. It was an understood idiom, if you were, of the Gentiles were considered dogs. The Jewish people would consider that in beloved Jesus' use of this common and recognizable term gives us really a depiction of the honesty of Scripture. For this would have been recognized during that time as a sentiment that would be present in the heart of a Jew. It was a term of contempt and dishonor. In Matthew 7:6, he says, Give not that which is holy unto the dogs. Neither cast ye your pearls before swine. Again, this common sentiment in Philippians 3. 2, he says, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers. That reference. It's not that much different today. You might call something, you dog. You know, hopefully not literally, but you know I think Stephen says that. He says, You dirty dog. Doesn't he Jeff doesn't he say that? He says, You dirty you dirty dog. You know, he's just like joking and and but he's like You dirty dog, you know, I mean uh not in a I don't know how to say that's not negative, but you know, he's not He's not being hateful or mean, but I think that's uh that's who I've heard say it recently. You might say it like that, but Jesus recognizes that and he states it, he he states it and gives it to her clearly. These harsh words seem to be brutal, but what seems as opposition opens the door for opportunity for her. Beloved, we notice in verse number 27 that she agrees with him. Beloved, you ought not think more highly of yourself than you than you ought to. You know, she looks at him and she says, Of the truth. She said, Truth, Lord. Yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from the master's table. She says, I am a dog. That's the truth, Lord. There's no I'm not debating that. But I have a need. And I want to see you do something. And sometimes, beloved, you come to the Father's table, and if you're like me, you don't feel worthy to be there You're bowing and you're seeking the creator of the universe, the God of heaven, and you're saying, Lord, I need you to do this, meet this need in my family I need you to answer this prayer. I need you to bring healing. I need you to do something miraculous here in my life. Lord, I gotta have it And you say, I know I don't deserve it. I know I'm not worthy of it. Lord, I understand I on my best day I don't deserve this from you. But God, would you please do it for me And that's what she's saying. She's like, I understand I'm not worthy. I understand I don't deserve it. No, nobody's debating that, Lord, but would you just give me some of the crumbs from the master's table? Like Jacob of old, she cried out as he did, Lord, I'm not going to let you go unless you bless me. I need something from you. Beloved, she her steadfast faith had motivated her to be persistent in her prayer, to continue to seek God through all of these tests. When other people would have given up when they were shunned, when other people would have given up when he was silent, when other people would have quit crying out when when she was uh statements were made that she perceived to be unkind. She just acknowledged the truth of it and went on to seek God. Beloved, we need to be persistent in our prayer. Persistent to seek God. That is where we see faith it fulfills. She continued to come and continued to ask. I read and Manners and Customs and Times, and it was common during this time for people to take scraps of their food, things that they didn't want. And just throw it down on the floor, knowing that the dogs were gonna eat it up. They would just get rid of it. They they wouldn't take food from the middle of the table and throw it down there. But anything that they wanted to clean up, anything that they wanted to get rid of, you know, like peas. Green beans are way better than peas. And then they have the audacity to mash them and feed them to babies. I don't know. It's terrible. But whenever they wanted to get the the junk, they said, you know what, they would throw it down on the ground And the dogs would clean it up and she's she's just acknowledging that. She's I understand Lord, but listen, there's crumbs, isn't there? And she just continued. And beloved, that's where she has satisfied faith. That is where her faith is satisfied. Verse number 28. Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith. Be it unto thee, even as thou wilt, and her daughter was made whole from that very hour Beloved, if we want to see God do miraculous things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we're going to have to have steadfast faith that pursues him in the face of hardship, in the middle of challenge. And beloved, even through days of comfort. We can't allow fullness to lead to forgetfulness. We can't allow things to get comfortable and boy everything seems like it's okay right now. There's no storms and so we can all take it easy for a little bit Beloved, we need to continue faithfully without the storm so that our heart and minds as a church were prepared and ready when the storm comes. You may have a need in your home today, a need for physical need, a financial need, a spiritual need in your home. We're saying faith that's satisfied is a is a faith that seeks God because they're gripped with a need. It's a faith that's steadfast in the face of hardship and challenge when it's tested. And that's the kind of faith we see that is satisfied. Christ was satisfied with her faith. He said, Great is thy faith. Think about Jesus looked at Peter and said, Oh ye little faith. Looked at Peter and said, Yeah, little faith, but he looked at this woman and said, You have great faith. Through the scriptures, different times, you know, he he mentioned the the magnitude, the size. Descriptions of faith. If you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you can move mountains. And here this woman is said to have great faith. Not only was Jesus satisfied with it, but she was satisfied because her daughter was made whole. The answer came. Victory was seen. Deliverance was provided. Her faith was rewarded, beloved. And let me just remind you that faith is not a feeling, faith is obedience and action. Faith is taking God at His Word, trusting that and saying, okay, this is what you say to do. I'll do it. This is how I'm supposed to live. This is what I'll do. I'm supposed to honor you with my increase. I'm going to do that. Faith says I'm just going to be obedient to God and trust God for the outcome. In this world where our faith, where our our way of living, our our you know fundamental independent Baptist is under attack. They have to say, oh, do we have faith to follow God? Continue just believe and do what God wants us to do. Obedience is faith, and faith like that is rewarded. Beloved, we only see the magnificent miracles when we follow through in this pattern. The problem today is many people want to see the miracle before they're ever gripped with the need. Before they're ever burdened to the point of prayer, before they're ever pursuing God and begging God to do something We want to see the miracle first, we got it upside down. We see here faith that fulfills begins when we are gripped with the need, when we see that and we seek the Lord because we know that there's something that we need in our life. And we're steadfast through the testing that may come. Whatever testing that might be, it may be, it may be silence, it may be a hardship Can I tell you how many times, I mean, years ago when we were in in Kansas, Mary and I made a large commitment to give towards the building fund there uh at the church and we were sacrificially giving. We hadn't been giving for just a little while and our car blew up. Okay, do you have faith to keep doing what you said you were gonna do or now you need a car? So oh well looks like I gotta quit doing what God said to do, oh here, I gotta stop doing that, I gotta I gotta take care of this need here Or do we trust God? The Bible says train up a child in the way he should go. And can I tell you, biblical discipline is not popular today. And let me tell you something. There's a lot of wackos out there, and I'm talking about moms and dads who don't understand biblical pit discipline that ought to be disciplined themselves. This is not physical abuse, and these people that are spanking their kids. I I'm a disciplinarian and I believe in spanking kids. But these parents that are giving their kids 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 SWATs, they ought to be locked up. That's ridiculous. You don't need that to train a child. You wouldn't do that to a horse. And you do it to a child? It is child abuse. You can call it discipline if you want, it's child abuse. They shouldn't be doing that. I believe in biblical discipline. You apply it you apply the Board of Education to the seat of learning. Enough that it's smarts. It oughta hurt. The if it doesn't hurt, they have no motivation to change. It needs to stain a little bit. If you're not sure if it hurts, try it on yourself. You're like, yeah, that was hard enough. Yep, that hurt. You don't need to kill 'em. But can I tell you the problem with a lot of people is because that's under attack today, they're going the other direction completely, and they're saying, Oh, we we're not going to discipline our kid at all. We're gonna stand and debate with them and explain to them the situation and let them evaluate whether they want to do it or not. That's not biblical. Faith says, okay, this is what God says to do, I'm gonna trust God. And you follow through with it. And that's where you get to see satisfaction Have you been gripped with a need? Are you willing to be steadfast through the test that you might be satisfied? Do you need to see a miracle in your family tonight? I know I would love to see some miracles in our church. I wanted so much today to see a lost soul walk down this aisle and cry out to God for salvation. Do you understand that's a miracle of God? It's not going to happen just because the pastor wants it to. It's going to happen because we're brokenhearted over the lost souls of men and we're praying and asking God to do a miracle. Wonder if God looks at us and you you have the need, whatever it is. Let's just take let's just take Jesus' words for a minute and apply it to you and I. Let's let's say you know what It's not me for me to give you a missionary out of your home. It's not me For me to give you a Christ-honoring, blessed, happy marriage. It's not meat for me to give you I don't know what your need is tonight. But God might look at you and say, you know what? It's not meat for me to do that. But would we have the faith of this woman and say, I know Lord, there's no doubt in my mind that that's the truth Lord knows I don't deserve anything. Lord knows that I don't deserve to see people walk down the aisle. Lord knows that I haven't earned it and don't deserve to see God's hand on Hunt Valley Baptist Church and do great and mighty things But I'm I'm I'm foolhardy enough, just just enough to get on my knees and say, God, I know I don't deserve it, but I'm asking you, could we have some crumbs off your table? Could you do something at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that would change the lives of people? Could you be real in somebody's heart? Could you do it for them? If it's not for Pastor Caleb Outrell, would you do it for the lost soul that's present? Would you do it for the family that's broken? Would you do it for the home that needs to be healed? Would you do it for the daughter that's Begging for her mama and the daddy who's begging for his wife. Would you do it for them, Lord? And I believe that God wants to answer the prayer of somebody who's gripped with a need This Key and Nightwoman had every reason to walk away. She was ignored. She was opposed. She was tested on many fronts, and yet she stayed. She kept believing. She kept praying. She kept asking and begging for an answer. She humbled herself, and God satisfied with her faith, satisfied her with the fulfillment of her a request. Faith that fulfills. As the pianist plays, you have God said, Okay, you come. Are you gripped with a need tonight? Do we need to see God do something in our hearts, in our lives, in our homes? for us today, for our church, for our Sunday school class, for our ministry.