I want you to turn tonight to the book of Nehemiah. I'm teaching through the book of Nehemiah on Tuesday nights to a group of college kids. And uh We meet for a couple hours on Tuesday evenings. And so uh Nehemiah is in my heart and mind as I've been working through this, but uh just want to talk to you about Nehemiah chapter number four And we're gonna see the title of the message tonight is Faith Under Fire. And ultimately uh how do we continue to succeed and be victorious for God? How do we complete the task that God has given us to do, even though Uh many times uh the Satan hurls his fiery darts and the enemy that he rouses up against us becomes a challenge and uh a struggle and there's battles in the Christian life. And ultimately, one of the biggest battles we face, we'll get into here in a minute, is discouragement and how do we overcome that, to be continued to stay on for God. So we see here in Nehemiah, we're just going to walk through the chapter and I I won't go through all of it, but getting down to the heart of our messages this evening. You know the story of Nehemiah, we talked about it a few weeks ago, but Nehemiah's call of God, uh Nehemiah's call to the wall, he's going back to rebuild the walls to to uh take care of and do what God has called him or God wants him to do. And things are off to a great start. They've seen amazing victory. The hand of God is on Nehemiah. There's there's no question people see that God's hand is on him, the the blessings that have gone before him and how God used a pagan king to pr prova to provide protection for him to go and to provide sustenance and provide supplies for him to be able to build the wall and and uh letters of recommendation and and on and on people saw the hand of God on Nehemiah and he gets there and he begins to build and the people they they they jump right in and and the work is moving forward and I think like anybody that's been used of God you kind of stand back and you realize it's not you and you you just sit in awe and say, Man, look look at what God's doing. And I I think Nehemiah was probably in that place just a a little bit shocked of of what all God was accomplishing and how well this was progressing. But won't you know when you're moving forward for God, the enemy is just around the corner. And we pick up in chapter number four, and we see here that he says, But it came to pass that when Sambalat heard that we builded the wall He was wroth, and he took great indignation, and he mocked the Jews, and he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria, and he said, What do these feeble Jews Will they fortify themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they make an end in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish which are buried? Now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they builded, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall. We see first of all here in these first three verses the ridicule of the enemy. The enemy comes to attack and they begin by just using ridicule. I want you to know that they were surrounded by enemy on all sides It's really amazing how they're there and the nation of Israel has never changed. They've had enemies all around them uh for all of their history, but we see here uh that Sam Balat And the simaritans were to the north. Gisham and the Arabians were to the south. We see if you look down in verse number seven, we see that he says I'm looking at the wrong page. But verse number seven, but it came to pass that when Sambalad and Tobiah and the Arabians and the Ammonites and the Astadites heard that the walls of Jerusalem are made up. See, the list of people right there that's given are is a list of people from all sides. Sambal and the Samaritans were to the north, Geshem and the Arabians were to the south, Tobiah, who is an Ammonite, and the Ammonites were to the east, and the Philistines, which is the city of Ashtod, the Ashdites. Uh they they were to the west. Enemies on every side, and they begin to ridicule. Ridicule can be painful, ridicule can hurt Uh especially when you've been trying to do right and you're trying to serve God and somebody questions your motives or somebody ridicules your actions Wherein Wearsby said that God's people sometimes have a difficulty working together, but it is amazing how the people of the world have no problem uniting in opposition to the work of God They were surrounded on every side and all of these people that wouldn't normally get along now have a common purpose and they gather together to uh stand in opposition to the work of God. I want you to know that ridicule and mockery is a tactic of Satan. And we need to be aware of that and realize that that is a tool that he uses. And when it comes into our life, we need to recognize for what it is. It is Satan trying to disrupt the work or to discourage you from doing what God wants you to do. You remember Goliath mocked God. And uh he ridiculed David when David came out, and he was just a boy, and he just ridiculed and was making fun of him. Uh you know, he he uh used that tool there of ridicule. You remember the soldiers mocking and making fun of Jesus in Luke chapter twenty-two, and uh many people have mocked the faithful. Even listed in Hebrews 11, 36, that the faithful oftentimes are mocked or ridiculed. This is the language of the devil. It is Satan who would cause somebody in your realm to ridicule or make fun of or mock the work that you're doing for the Lord. We need to remember, beloved, that opposition is often opportunity. Opposition literally is opportunity for God to do something great. You know, when opposition comes, first of all, it can be a sign to you that you know you're going in the right direction. When you have opposition, when you face opposition, it can stand as a representation, a sign that you know you're doing what you should. Uh somebody said that opposition is just the friction created by forward movement. Opposition is the friction created by forward movement when you're moving forward. I don't know how many of you have had opportunity to see any of the uh Winter Olympics Uh but you see uh you know, the Louge or you see uh the ice skaters, the speed skaters or these down they have uh, you know, uh these neoprene suits or whatever. They want to remove all friction. And uh every little bit of friction helps. They they they you know they don't leave their hair out flowing in the wind. Boy that feels so nice. No, they cover it all up. They get ever they want to remove all friction because forward movement creates friction And the fact of the matter is, when you're moving forward for God, Satan's going to send some opposition. And so opposition is a sign that you're going in the right direction. It also can be a step for God to grow you. Opposition can be a step. You don't know what God might do in strengthening you as you go through this opposition. But beloved, without trials, we wouldn't know the power of God. We're only familiar with the strength of God when we're familiar with our weakness. That's when we see God's strength. And when we face trials, beloved, that's when We know and get to see God come on the scene. Without pain, we wouldn't know God's grace. It's only in the face and the pain of loss that we experience the grace of God that ministers to your soul in that hour of need. It's only when you deal with that suffering that the grace of God comes in and is sufficient for you to carry you through. Without those we would not have a need for it and therefore we wouldn't experience it. So opposition can be a sign that you're doing right, it can be a step for you to grow, that you're going in the right direction. We see here that the reliance of the builders in verses four and six Whether the enemy came in and ridiculed and mocked and made fun, we need to learn to respond like the builders responded. Here in the book of Nehemiah, look down at verses 4, 5, and 6. We see, hear, O God, here, O our God, for we are despised. And turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity. And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from before thee For they have provoked thee to anger before the builders. So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work There's several things in this verse here we see, first of all, they responded in prayer. We need to learn to respond in prayer. We don't need to respond in kind. We don't need to respond with retaliation. We need to respond in prayer. Take it to the Lord in prayer. The answer to the pressure you're under is to learn how to release that pressure. Where do you release the pressure? Do you release it by attacking somebody, or do you release it by going to the Lord in prayer? Casting all your burdens upon him, for he careth for you. You can do that and give those burdens to God, and that is a release of that pressure that you're under, the release of the burden that you're carrying. They responded in prayer. They continued to do what God wanted them to do. They prayed, they turned it over to God, and they went back to work. Now it's notable here that their prayer is not a prayer that would be possible for you and I to pray today. Because we are in the New Testament. Here we're talking about the children of Israel, God's people Who were under a covenant relationship with God, and God had said, I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee, right? They were under the Old Testament covenant relationship, so they were praying in God's will when they prayed judgment and vengeance upon those people that were attacking them. But in the New Testament, under grace, what does God tell us to do with our enemies? Pray for them. Love them. Uh y so what I'm saying is this prayer is not a prayer that would be, you know, God kill 'em. That's not what God wants us to pray. God wants us to pray compassionately for our enemies. to to to have love for them, to realize the love and the grace that we've experienced, the forgiveness that we've experienced, and to extend that to even to our enemies under this grace, but they were under a different relationship, so they were praying in the will of God when they prayed that prayer. For us to be praying in the will of God, we have got to show mercy and grace We've got to pray for with real concern and care. And God does n we know that vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay. And we know that When we respond correctly, the fact of the matter is, is it heaps coals of fire down upon their head when they are not doing right, and you just put that in God's hands, and God will take care of it. But they responded in prayer and they returned to the work. That's what they did. The reliance of the builders was on God and they continued. But then you see the rage of the adversaries in verses seven through nine. They continue to do the work. They were continuing to be profitable, to prosper in their objective, and the adversaries are even more upset. Verses seven through nine, we read this se the portion of seven already, but it came to pass that when Sambalad and Tobiah and the Arabians and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites Heard that the wall of Jerusalem were made up, and the breaches began to be stopped, that they were very wroth, and conspired all of them together. to come and to fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them day and night because of them They set a watch. They adjusted their plan. They needed to continue to work. But the adversary rage, Psalms tells us that the heathen rage, it's amazing how upset the wicked get when the work of God moves forward. How much y you know, you wonder why do they even care? It y y why does it even bother them? But they do get been out of shape. They get bothered when the work of God is moving forward and Satan and his cohorts are not happy and they do all they can to stand in the way. We see here that the contempt that was present in the beginning of the chapter now moves into open conflict. They are literally going to go to battle for this. They are going to do all they can to stop this wall from being built. They conspired all of them to come and to fight against Jerusalem. To hinder the work. They wanted to do what they could to stop it. That brings us to the ruin of the resolve in verses 10, 11, and 12. We see Satan has ultimately succeeded in his objective to stop the work. We see in verse 10, and Judah said, the strength Of the bearer of burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish, so that we are not able to build the wall. And our adversary said They shall not now neither see till we come in the midst among them and slay them and cause the work to cease. And it came to pass that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, they said unto us ten times, From all places, whence ye shall return unto us, and they will be upon you. That phrase ten times there in verse number twelve is quite literally the idea of many times over and over. Uh it's found several places in the scripture where it's presented this way where they said they said ten times. It's almost like you're uh the the idea of you're supposed to forgive Seven times? No, seven times seven. You know, you you're supposed to really the idea is that you're not really keeping track, that you just keep on forgiving. That phrase ten times is kind of like that where it's They came many times like we we lost track. Like the it was a common phrase during that day that they just came and many times they told us, boy, we're gonna be on you, we're coming, we're gonna stop the work. And we see That they were discouraged. Beloved, there's a contagion that creeps into the hearts of men, and it's as contagious as COVID, and more deadly. It is a tool of Satan that he uses to stop the work of God over and over and over again, and that's discouragement. Satan comes in and it's amazing how universal it is. Everybody is susceptible to it. Some are more susceptible than others. But everybody is susceptible to catching the contagion of discouragement. It's a universal thing. It is at the door of every believer. And because of that, it's highly contagious. It's amazing how it can spread, how discouragement can go from one person to the next. And we see here the work was stopped. The strength of the burden bearers was decayed. They found themselves discouraged. They had accomplished so much in such a short time. The wall was built up to the half thereof. It's almost like, boy, we're we're halfway, we can see the finish line, and yet In that, they said, boy, it's too much. We can't do it. I want you to see several things that brought on discouragement. First of all, it was fatigue. Fatigue, the strength, they said their strength is decayed. Somebody said that exhilaration is that feeling that you get when you have a great idea. Right before you realize how much work it's going to take. Then the exhilaration's gone. You're you realize how much there is. Beloved, you need to watch for fatigue. Things that you would handle normally without any problem, when you're physically worn down, they become a problem. They that brings in discouragement. That ends up conquering you. Why? Because you're physically worn down. Beloved, you can only burn the candle at both ends for so long. Before you're physically beat, before you're physically worn down, before you're you're you're fatigued, and when you're fatigued, you can't go on Ye everything is too much It's too hard. We see that fatigue leads to frustration. They were very frustrated with this. They said, man, there is very much rubbish. So much stuff in the way. So much to do. I mean, they were halfway there. The amount of rubbish was substantially less than there was initially. But now they're looking at the rubbish and saying, boy, there's too much rubbish. This is this is too hard. They're fatigued, they're frustrated. I remember when I when we moved to Lawrence, Kansas to begin working there for Pastor Hanks who was just here. Uh we the moved there and we got there late in the evening one night and they had the church family there to help us unload our vehicle and Uh basically they put us into a space that we were going to live for a short time because I had to build my own house to to live there and it was house it was an apartment inside the church building and they said this is where you're gonna live But you have to build it. Okay? And uh we so we got kind of moved in and we we were supposed to build this and not only that, we were supposed to build the school and They were kind of in the middle of construction on our first piece of property and I remember getting there that night and if you know the story of Nehemiah back in the beginning when he first gets to Jerusalem you you remember he everybody goes to bed. And Nehemiah gets up and he walks around the city and he takes a look at the at the extent of the work and the job that needs to be done and gets a vision for how it's going to happen. I can't say that was in my mind, but you know, I'm a night owl anyway, so we arrived late and been driving and all that. We got unloaded, and I said, I'm gonna walk around and just look at the church. And I remember that night walking around the church and thinking, what in the world did I get myself into? I mean literally I was overwhelmed that night. I just was like, this is so much work. He's expecting me to be able to get this done. I gotta I mean I don't even have a place to live and we gotta build our own apartment first and then when we get that done we gotta build the school and And there's a bus farm that needs to be done and we're pouring concrete in the parking lot and there there's so much work to do. I remember walking around just thinking, Oh my soul, Lord, I'm not sure you wanted me to come here Uh that very first night I was overwhelmed. There was so much there. And it's amazing how God does this, but he grows you through time and really the extent of what we did in the beginning there was minor. I mean tiny little little project Uh the building that we built with our apartment in it and all that, we took that whole building down board by board, steel, the structure, poured a new slab, rebuilt the whole building on another piece of property So finishing that one building was very easy and we we did so much more beyond that. But initially looking at it was just so much. They look at the rubbish and they were frustrated with it. There was so much to do. And you know, sometimes Satan will bring that into your life and he'll say, Man, you got so many things to take care of You got so many problems. You got this issue over here, this issue over here, and you're still dealing with this, but you thought you had the victory over, and you look at your life and you you get discouraged Because you're not seeing the progress you wanted to see. The wall is not done yet. The victory hasn't been won yet. And you Satan's going to win and get you out of the fight if you don't put ward off discouragement. He's gonna try and show you everything. You don't have to deal with everything on day one. You just have to deal with what's necessary to deal with tomorrow. And keep moving forward for God, and you can be victorious, but Satan wants to discourage you and get you out of the fight, so he's going to show you everything. You're gonna be like, man, there's too much. It's so frustrating. I remember when Andrew was very little, um, and you know how little kids, uh I'm talking about three, maybe, four I can't imagine him being I mean how old was he when we left Kansas? Okay, so it was in Kansas, it was in the living room, so he had to be three. Uh it was in the living room of our house there in Kansas And uh we had a little kid's stroller, the real small ones, and it was in the living room there. And Andrew wanted to push the stroller through the living room. You guys have all seen kids that do this. They can't see. They're they're holding it like this, right? And they're trying to push it through the living room. And I remember looking at him and you know he goes a little bit and he gets stuck on my shoes And you know, he's trying to turn it, but he can't really see where he's going, so he turns it and turns too far, and now he's pushing into the uh the coffee table. And then, you know, I moved the coffee table a little bit for him and so he goes and then the the wheel gets caught in the rug and he you know and he he's just one thing after the next and he's getting more and more frustrated Trying to he's just getting madder and madder about trying to push this thing uh through the living room. It's such a simple project, but the the the one more problem after another he's getting more and more ir irritated Any of you ever been to the MBA? Yeah. Uh you talk about frustration, right? Uh yeah, I don't know why we call it the MBA in Maryland, you know the uh uh DOT everywhere else, right? Um but the the MBA th they I don't know why that is, but that's one of the most frustrating things. You get everything together and you go there and you're ready and you you're like, okay, here's my sixty-two pieces of paper that you said I needed to get this done and they'll look through it all and they'll say, Oh, you have to have this. So you have to go back home and, you know, set up another appointment to go through the whole process again and uh it's so frustrating. You know, Satan will use that to get you out of the fight. To get you to stop going forward for God, to get you to stop having your devotions, to get you to stop pursuing what God wants you to accomplish. The fatigue and the frustration. We see also that Satan uses fear. They looked and they said, man, the enemy's on every side. And they told us ten times. They told us they're going to come in. We're not even going to know. They're going to be there. They're going to be on us right in the midst of we're trying to do this for God. And there's the enemy coming in. Fear. You know, it's very hard, beloved, to function from the place of fear. We know that God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love, of power, and a sound mind. God wants us, that's one of the reasons why the security of the believer is so important. You don't serve God because you're afraid that you're going to lose your salvation. You aren't faithful to God because of fear. You're faithful to him because of your love for him and that security that we know that we have in Jesus Christ. I mean how what kind of a relationship do you think you would have with your maid if they were holding over your head every week, well you do that again and I'm leaving you? You do that again and I'm out of here You don't have a very secure relationship. You're living in the place of fear, and we have a secure relationship with God, and we can know that and know that His love is there for us through it all. The Golden Gate Bridge was built in the 30s and uh I don't remember the exact details, but I I do know that uh there was a number of workers that fell to their death when the project started They were working on that bridge and workers, you know, of course they they were behind schedule. These people had died. They actually they planned for it. They expected a number of people to die because They didn't have all of the safety stuff that we have today. You know, you see those pictures of them working on high rises, walking around no gear on, you know, no no straps, they're not strapped in at anything, brother Glover is just losing his mind right now. But you know, no safety at all, no OSHA. And several people fell to their death and so finally the manager of the project or the owners of the project decided, well, at great expense to themselves, they said we're gonna build a net. And put it under the bridge. And they put a net under the bridge where where the men were working. And production almost tripled. The ability to do the work. Now that men weren't uh working from a place of fear and they they understood that they were secure and safe. uh they finished the work uh uh the project that they were behind in, they finished it in three quarters of the expected time. 25% faster than they initially had planned because they were secure. I'm saying if Satan will use spear. fear in your life to keep you from doing what God wants you to do, to keep you discouraged. Do you know, beloved, that sixty percent of the fears that we have are completely unfounded? They're worried about things that are never gonna happen either way. I don't know if I should use this illustration or not. I'm gonna get myself in trouble. Hm. My wife probably knows where I'm going. You know, it's amazing to me, people that get worried about the weather a week a time week ahead of time. It's a week away. And you know how often the weatherman is wrong? I mean, at least fifty percent of the time, right? He has gets it wrong. He doesn't know. But man, people like, oh, it's gonna snow next Thursday What are we gonna do about church, you know? Like that's ten days away. We're not worried about it at all right now. You know, that that who knows what might happen there. Uh, you know, but we get so concerned maybe sometimes and full of anxiety and full of fear about different things in our life, then turn out to be nothing at all. That's the tool of Satan to keep you from being productive. To keep you from accomplishing what God wants you to accomplish. And I don't know what fear he's bringing into your life, but you need to guard against that. I want you to see how it is in this text. There's some lessons we can learn about how to be victorious in the work, even in the face of discouragement. Maybe we could say the cure for discouragement, but to keep moving forward, first of all, we see in verse number six that the people had a mind to work. They had a mind to work. He says, So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof, for the people had a mind to work. You know, you you've got to have a purpose in your heart, a mind to accomplish it. I don't know how many of you have ever heard the parable of four men. Their names were Fred somebody, Thomas Everybody, Peter anybody, and Joe nobody. They were all neighbors, but they were not like you and me. They were an odd group, and most difficult to understand the way that they lived was a shame All four belonged to the same church, but you wouldn't have enjoyed worshiping with them for sure. Everybody went fishing on Sunday and stayed home to visit with some friends. Anyone wanted to worship? But was afraid that somebody wouldn't speak to him. So guess who went to church? Yep, nobody. Really? Nobody was the only decent one in the whole crowd. I mean nobody did the visitation. Nobody worked on the church building. Once they had a neighbor, uh once they needed a Sunday school teacher, and everybody thought anybody would do it, and anybody thought everybody would do it. But do you know who ended up doing it? Nobody. It happened that a neighbor moved in who was an unbeliever. Right next door. Everybody thought somebody should win him to Christ. Really anybody could have made an effort. But you know who finally did? Nobody. The fact of the matter is, love, is we have to have a mind to work. And we can't expect somebody or anybody to do it, because then nobody does. I know that well anybody could do that or everybody's gonna do that and I think sometimes when we make a general announcement about things there's the expectation that and we have a working church and so I think sometimes people are like, oh well there's gonna be a bunch of people do that. And there is nobody. Nobody signs up. Nobody calls. Nobody says anything. And I don't think it's because there's people that aren't willing. I think there's a lot of willing people in our church that that love to serve And the fact of the matter is I know that if I called most anybody and said, Hey, could you help us do this? They would be like, Yeah, great, glad to. But when we just made the general announcement, like, hey, here's a need, you guys jump in. Nobody does. Now not always, but I'm saying it has happened before and I think sometimes it's just because in our mind we think, oh there's gonna be a bunch of people do that. We'll let them do that. Hey you know what? Here's a good example of that We just put out the sign-up sheet for taking meet people out to dinner and I think sometimes the expectation is, well, everybody's gonna do that. Everybody can. But sometimes it ends up that nobody does. We've got the missionaries here for a few days and uh we've got the opportunity for you to spend some time with them and Go to lunch or dinner or whatever, those slots are there for you to sign up for. And sometimes I think there's a lot of willing people they would be glad to do it, but they think, well, somebody else may want to. And so you don't. And then nobody does. We've got to have a mind to work, beloved. No instrument, however cunningly devised or how well made will make up for somebody that doesn't have a mind to work. You've got to have a mind to get in there and get it done. 2 Corinthians 8 verse number 12 says, For if there first be a willing mind. A willing mind. Do you have a willing mind? We see secondly that they had a heart to pray. In verse number 9, nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God. They had a heart to pray. If prayer is the answer, we are looking for God to do a supernatural work. You don't get supernatural results without supernatural means. And it is prayer. Just as Connor said at Testimony Time. We serve an omnipotent God. And He can do the work. We just need to keep praying. Because prayer is how the work is accomplished. They had a heart to pray. This is our first and most essential tool available to us. To go to the Lord in prayer. To ward off and fight discouragement, spending that time in prayer, seeing God do what is the supernatural that we cannot do in ourselves. Even as Jacob was saying, the evidence throughout his day, throughout this last week. Of seeing God do things, of seeing God direct him, of seeing God giving him the words to say, of seeing God directing his days, uh, because of the time in prayer in the morning with God. We see they had a heart to pray. They also had an eye to watch in verse number nine. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto our God and set a watch against them day and night. So there was some willing and ready to watch. And Jesus told the disciples, will you watch and pray? We need to be sober, be vigilant because of our adversary, the devil. We've got to watch. We've got to be aware of his tools and what he's doing. They had an ear to hear. In verse number 20, they set forth a plan to bring forth victory, and they were involved in a great work. So we notice he puts them there in their place of work, but you read down in verse number twenty, he says, And what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet? Resort ye therefore unto us, our God shall fight for us. If you read the whole chapter there, he they set a watch. They had people laboring on the wall. And then periodically down the wall they would have somebody there with a trumpet. And he said, wherever you hear the trumpet, you come running. Because that's where the battle's at. That's where we're going to need the help. And we need you to come and be there ready to go so that we can we can continue to work, each person serve and work where you're at, but as soon as you hear the trumpet, then you come and help us. You know, beloved, we need to have an ear to hear. We could follow that pattern throughout the scriptures. You know, you get to the revelation and He tells us, hey, have an ear to hear. As he's speaking to the churches, we need to have an ear to hear what God wants to say to us. To speak to us. God wants to speak to you. God wants to minister to your soul. He wants to give you what you need to be successful in this Christian life. But sometimes we're not listening Sometimes we turn to a text like this that's very familiar and we think, boy, I I've heard that before. Oh, I I I know those things. It's amazing, it doesn't matter how many years we've been saved. I mean, even today, I received several texts this afternoon about obviously this morning's message was very foundational But so many people just grateful and thankful for the the getting back to the basics. So just being reminded of those to truths to Know for sure that you're saved and on your way to heaven and reminded of those things and what a blessing it was. But sometimes we hear something and we like, oh I didn't need that today. I mean I could've I could've stayed home because we don't have an ear to hear. And we know we need to be listening for that trumpet. That's coming. Even so, Lord, come quickly. Amen. I know the battle gets hard sometimes and long here on earth, but we know the day's coming when he's coming back. And as believers, we keep our eye on the eastern sky and our ear tuned to listen for that trumpet because we're going to be called up to glory. We'll be removed from this. And what a glorious day that will be. So we can be victorious in the work, beloved, even though the enemy is going to attack, even though you're under fire, you can continue to see victory for God If you have an ear to hear, an eye to watch, a heart to pray, and a mind to work, but you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.