I want you to turn your Bibles this morning to Hebrews chapter 11, Hebrews chapter number 11, that hall of faith, that passage of scripture that gives to us the names of those men and women who stood for Christ and did what God wanted them to do, and their faith was accounted unto them for righteousness Amazing passage of scripture. We're just going to look at two verses here as we kind of launch off. It's one of the challenges as a speaker You know, I have uh an entire thought in my head. I have a message from beginning to end. I have this full scope of what I'm hoping to get across. And uh sometimes in my mind I know what I'm thinking. Uh but getting it to you is the is the is the challenge. Making sure that you're tracking along with me and that we're staying together and that you understand the direction we're headed, there's there's kind of several layers to the introduction this morning that kind of build upon one another that bring us to the point of today's message. If you're in Hebrews chapter 11, say amen. Alright, look down with me in verse number 6. I want you to see the Word of God. Here he says, a familiar passage of Scripture, verses 6 and 7. He says, But without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. By faith, Noah, being warned of God of the things not seen as yet, moved with fear prepared the ark to the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. There is an old saying that I'd like to draw your attention to this morning. That saying is run of the mill. Run of the mill. It literally means not outstanding in quality or rarity, but average. Not outstanding in quality or rarity, but average. That phrase run of the mill comes from the uh late 1800s when manufacturing in the United States was taking off uh and these large manufacturing plants would have sales. They would have a sale that they called the Rent of the Mill sale. It was before they took time to go through the product that was for sale and determine those best quality products, the top of the line things, and those that came and went through the manufacturing process a little crooked You know, they got stitched wrong and the zippers a little wonky, you know, or whatever. It's before they had time to go through those. Today we call those things seconds You usually can buy them at the dollar store and places like that, right? So, but they would have the run of the mill, which is basically that phrase became to be understood to mean average Just kind of the average across the board. I'm sure this morning that every one of you know that the majority of our lives are lived in the average. That we are literally passing time most days are just average days. Most days are routine. They are neither sensational nor tiresome. They might even be what some people would call mundane. People today have come to despise the mundane. It is as though somehow light has given them a raw deal. And maybe even they think that others and and and possibly even God has conspired against them to give them such a boring life. They are driven to this by our society. with social media posts of others that are posting, you know, their greatest day You know, they're posting pictures of them waterskiing on a sunny on a sunny afternoon. They're picturing posters of them enjoying this amazing meal at a fine restaurant or pictures of them doing the They're posting those sensational moments, but what I'm saying is as as a whole, as far as society goes, we we almost feel like every day should be like that Like every moment should be sensational and and and exciting and fun and and there's almost a drive for people to achieve or to have that sensational time That that magnificent day, but that's not life. Most of life is just average days. I mean, we have some exciting days, and we have some really challenging days. But the majority of our days really are just lived in the average. It's just an average day. Nothing sensational, nothing exciting, nothing extremely heartbreaking or wrenching, just an average day. Sadly, in our society, there are many who are driven to depression because their life is not as exciting as they believe it should be. In this drive to experience life to its fullest, to have that next exciting event. The principle of faithfulness is tossed aside. What I'm saying is do you understand that it doesn't matter what you do for a job, that after a little while it turns into work? I mean I'll tell you what, if somebody gave me the keys to a a D nine bulldozer And said, hey, we gotta push all these trees over. Oh. Yeah. Come on. Let's go have some fun. Let's push some trees over. Let's tear something up. Let's let's make a mess. And and they they say, go to town and have fun But you know as fun as that is for three or four days, about two, three weeks into it, it's gonna turn into work. It's just work. So some people think because their job is not as exciting as they feel like it should be, they're just going to quit their job and go to a new job. Faithfulness and consistency is tossed out the window to experience what they feel should be a more exciting life. Whatever happened to the husband and wife who would just be faithful to one another till the end? Why is it Becoming so increasingly rare to see gray haired couples Who were childhood sweethearts that are still loving each other. Beloved is because Satan has blinded so many to the heartbreak and the pain and painted a picture of excitement and thrill. And so a man in pursuit of what he feels would be a greater excitement will stop being faithful to his wife And go have an affair. Because his life is mundane. But do you understand all the excitement and and all of the thrill to say, hey, there is pleasure in sin for a season. The Bible is very clear about that, but do you know all of that fades away and life becomes mundane again? And then you have all the pain and the heartache that was caused by the unfaithfulness. What I'm saying is that the idea of true and lasting faithfulness Is fast becoming more and more rare in our world today. I want you to understand that the test of our faithfulness is very likely going to be in the minute-by-minute in the mundane activities of life far more than it is going to be in the great battles Oh, we are tested in the battle. We are challenged in the battle, but you see, most of life is not lived on the mountaintop or in the valley. Most of life is lived in the average and the mundane. And I don't know if it's because in the battle we rise to the occasion or because in the storm we look heavenward and call on God for help or I don't know what the cause is, but many times People will make it through a storm, but then they're taken out when everything's just normal, when everything's just being like life is. They stop being faithful. They quit and move on to the next thing. Life's not as exciting or as engaging as they think it should be. The test of our faithfulness is very true very likely going to be in the minute by minute. Beloved, for every Peter That was shifted as wheat. There's ten or twenty demises. That just forsake God, having loved this pleasant world. More people, beloved, are done in by the monotony of life. Then by the storms they may endure. Because it is in the monotony that we let life drift by. You know, a couple weeks ago we had a staycation as a family, had a great time. Great experiences. One of those as we went and we got some tubes and we floated down a river in uh Pennsylvania. That was fun. And we're floating down the river and talking and trying to keep up with each other and you know these kids are are they way ahead and mom and I are back to like Like, come on kids, wait up. This is a lot of work for old people. We're we're just floating down the river trying to enjoy it, and they're like paddling like We're like, you're supposed to be enjoying this. It's not supposed to be a workout. Do you know when there was a couple spots that there was rapids that it was a little rough? And you know when we're going through those little spots where it's kind of rapid, we're facing frontwards and we're looking where we're going and we're making sure we make it through there without getting tipped over and flipped, you know? We're watching real close and and we made it through those fine. But you know more than once when it was all calm and still and we're just sitting there floating and enjoying the sun, I found myself caught up in a fallen tree. Wasn't watching where I was going and next thing I know I'm like up against the tree and the water's you know pushing the tube and I'm like oh man I had to stand up and and move out and get into another place and get back on the tube. More than once I I I got hit by a large rock that was under the surface. Glad it didn't hit me right on my tailbone, you know, because that can really hurt if you catch catch one like that But what I'm saying is that beloved when when things are all calm and soft, we're not paying much attention, and that's when Satan gets us. That's when we get caught, caught up. That's when we've got to be extra vigilant. And that's, beloved, when we've got to be faithful. Beloved as Christians, we're called to a life of faithfulness. And faithfulness is under attack today. Faithfulness in our homes, moms and dads to their children, husbands and wives to one another, Christians to Christ. Employees to employers. Employers to employees. Faithfulness, just being faithful to what you're supposed to do and what God wants you to do. Further, we know as Christians that it's impossible to please Him without faith. We're to live by faith. Our text verse this morning, but without faith it is impossible to please him. You see, our lives are to be lived by faith, and sometimes we think that faith Is this overwhelming emotion of victory that's going to come upon us? And we're going to sense God's presence and we're going to step out and walk on water. Hallelujah. But you know that faithfulness equals faith I guess you could say that without faithfulness, it's impossible to please him. Because beloved, faithfulness is just faith in action. It's faith in action. Because I believe God and His Word and His admonition to be in God's house. I faithfully attend church. It's faith In God, and what God said, this is what I need as a Christian to fulfill and to please Him. And so in faith, I'm faithful. And that pleases and honors God. In our text here, he gives us an individual which stands out as an illustration. He says in verse number 6, for without faith it is impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Then immediately he gives us an example. Of someone who lived by faith, and I would say was truly faithful, and that is Noah. Would you turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter number six? We see by faith being warned of God of the things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. Noah was faithful in the face of evil Noah was faithful in the face of evil. You know in Genesis chapter 6, look down in verse number 5, the Bible says, And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every imagination of the thought of his heart was only evil continually. It was so bad, Christian, that verse number 6 says, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on earth, and it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I have made them. But, what's the next sentence? But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Noah was faithful to God even in an evil day Even in a time of great wickedness, of continual filth and sin, it seems that we are in that type of day-to-day. I think in the days of Noah, it probably was worse than it is today. It was so bad that God said he repented that he had even made man. That things were so vile and so wicked, so ungodly, he he thought the greatest solution to this sin problem was to just wipe out the earth. It's so hard today to find anything anywhere you look that's wholesome and clean But that doesn't give us an excuse to not be holy, to not still be faithful to God Even though the whole of the world around us may be going into sin, God's people should be faithful to him. Day in and day out. Listen, Noah's faithful to God. The Bible says you could read the rest of that chapter there. You'll see that he was 600 years old when the flood came. 600. Now we know because again you read these these passages, it's believed that from the time that God came to Noah and said there's going to be a flood until the time that the flood came. It was 120 years. Don't know if Noah took all 120 years to build the ark, but God gave him enough time to get it done. But during that time, Noah was faithful. What I'm saying is Noah wasn't faithful just for a week or two. Noah wasn't faithful just for a year or two, and quite literally, Noah wasn't even faithful for one lifetime. By our measurement of time, 70, 80, 90 years. Noah is at least 480 years old when God to God looks down at earth and says, things are so bad, I'm going to destroy everything. And then he sees Noah. He said, but there's somebody that's being faithful. Noah found grace in the eyes of God. There was a man that God saw that was being faithful even in a wicked day. And not just for a day or two, but for all of the life That God had given them, and would to God we would have people who would stay faithful from the time they come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ until the day that God takes them home. Why is it that so many walk away from God? Why is it there's so many prodigals? Why is it there's so many used two Christians? God calls us to faithfulness. Faithfulness. Faithfulness. Day in and day out. Every day of our life honoring our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Most days are mundane. They're just average. Nothing really special. But that's when most people stop being faithful Oh, they show up for church when there's a s when there's a storm. They get here when there's a trial or a or or something going on in their life or they've lost their job or their their mother or daughter or some relatives in the hospital. But where's the faithfulness when everything's just going okay? Where's the faithfulness, Christian? Oh, we love being here on the exciting days, on the fun days. Oh, it's so dynamic and exciting, and whoa, what a powerful day to be in God's house. Boy, this is fun. But what about on the average Sunday? What about on the day when Pastor Caleb preaches a real flop? Which is about average. about normal. Every once in a great while God gives me a good thought that he uses it a powerful way and that's just to let me know he's still here and still leading. But the truth is a lot of Sundays are just average Sundays. Just God's people being in their place doing what God called them to do. Even in a wicked day. You're showing your faith when you're faithful. You know those three Hebrew children that went into the fiery furnace? Remember them? You see, they showed their faith in God When they were faithful to God. When they said, Hey, everybody's got to bow. And Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said, Not us. Everybody's gotta accept the the the status quo in society today. Uh not me The Bible says this. God says this. We're going to be faithful to God. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abindnego said, O king, They answered and said unto the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. What I'm saying is their faithfulness was their faith on display. Is your faith on display? He was faithful in the face of exclusion, a time when everybody in the world did wrong. You know God told them to build an ark. You can read all the first parts there of chapter number six and all the details are there. God tells him to build the ark and he tells him exactly how long and how tall and how wide and to pitch it within and without and describes for him the window and the door and and every detail of the ark, exactly how it's supposed to be made Tells them all about it and look in verse number 22. Genesis chapter 6 in verse number 22. The Bible says, thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him, so did he. You know faithfulness is just continual obedience. Continual obedience. Just saying this is what God wants. It's what I need to do Continual obedience. This is what God wants. This is what I'm going to do. This is what God said. It's what I'm going to do. Oh, I know that it's it's not exciting today. I know it's not a big day. There's nothing special going on. No dinner on the grounds, but I'm going to be there. Oh I know I've been married for how long we've been married. Uh just ahead of the Glovers wherever they're at. So twenty-six. We've been married twenty six years. You guys are you're in trouble now. No. I'm just messing with her. I know we've been married 26 years. Say, wow, man, things things get kind of mundane. Things get kind of the same. Everything's like it was. You've been married twenty-six years. I mean there's nothing new and and and nothing exciting. Boy, uh maybe we ought to go try and Find something else. You know, our relationship is better today than it was the day we got married. The reason is I'm so forgetful everything's new to me. You see, God calls you to faithfulness And I'll tell you, you know, after you've been married twenty-six years, it takes a whole lot more effort. You you don't have those butterflies in your stomach and your your gut drops down and And you get weak in the knees and you just don't know how to talk and you don't know what to say to her because you're just so overwhelmed with her presence. You've been married 26 years. But you've got to still be faithful. And do you know what? If you are faithful, you will have days like that. If you are faithful, those days will come, those times will be there. Oh, it's not every day. Some days are just what's for supper, hon Can you take out the trash? Where the living room's a mess. Can you take hey, did you do the laundry? It's just life. But you've got to be faithful to one another. Too many people are just throwing in the towel, quitting, trying to find something else, something bigger, something more exciting. Let's find something funner. Just do what God wants you to do. And be faithful, even though everybody else may mock and laugh and make fun. You know it's normal today to just quit on your family. I was looking up some movie stars because you know they're such fine examples. I don't want to praise the wickedness that I had to plod through. So I'm not going to tell you, but there were several movie stars I looked up, just I was going to use for examples today to talk about how many times they've been married. Like what in the world? It's just ridiculous. But that's just the norm today. Oh, you don't have to be faithful to them or to your mate. You can just let them go and go get somebody else You don't have to be faithful to your kids. You can just let them go and have a new family. That's not what God wants for us. It doesn't matter what society does, it doesn't matter what this world does. You and I are called to faithfulness. You know, we can imagine the time of Noah there building that ark and how people mocked and made fun of him. People laughed. You know, today the closer you walk to the Bible, the more likely it is you'll be mocked. The more likely it is that you'll be criticized and made fun of. Oh you old-fashioned, oh you you Bible thumper, oh you oh they like to use this one today, fundamentalist. Beloved, it doesn't matter if everybody quits, you don't quit. Just be faithful. I tell you what, I've come to value and appreciate couples who just continue to love each other and set an example for the younger generation that it's possible. That you can love each other all the way to the end. You can stay together through the hard days. Because there are some hard days. You can't expect every day to be a mountaintop. There's going to be some challenges. You know, I've come to the place where I respect pastors who just stay faithful. You know, they're not what I'm saying is they're not just moving to a new ministry every three years. Oh, God's calling me over here because there's this church member that doesn't like me. There's this problem, there's that problem. I'm going to go to a new place. Just a pastor that just stays by the stuff and just keeps going. I asked Larry Brown, he preached in the same church in Washington, Iowa for over 40 years. And I asked him, I says, How did you How did you do it? I need all the help I can get. You tell me tell me. He said, Caleb, I found a way to stick it out through the low times. Because you're going to have some low times. And that's when you've got to stick it out. Because during the low times when you want to quit, when you want to give up. Just stay faithful. I've come to the place where I appreciate so much Christians who are just faithful to God year after year. You know, you hear about Ladies that teach in a Sunday school class for thirty-five, forty years teaching a Sunday school class. Think about all the kids that they've impacted over the years. All the snot-nosed little brats that they've put up with. You think about how many times that teacher was ready to pull out her hair and say, God, I am done with these kids. This is too much. These kids are out of control. Especially as you get older, you lose some patience. You know, you just get to the place where, you know what? I'm just going to let some young person put up with these kids, because these kids today are out of control. When I was a parent, kids listened. You know how every generation says that, right? My child listened. These kids today, you know, just I'm just saying they're just being faithful. You know, people in the choir. Been singing in the choir for ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty years. Say, Pastor, your church is only 18 years old. What are you talking about? I'm talking about people that I know that are still doing it. And I'm trying to encourage you as God's people to be faithful and just to continue to do what God's given you to do. To stay faithful to Him. Every week. You know, every week can't be revival. Every week can't be Faith in Blue Sunday. Oh, those are fun times. Some weeks it's just a run-of-the-mill day. And we just got to be in our place and just be faithful. Amen. Do you know Noah had motivation to be faithful? Bible says there that Noah found grace in the eyes of God. Can I ask you, have you experienced God's grace? Then you have motivation. You have reason to be faithful to God. If you've experienced and you know the grace of God today, you have reason to be faithful. Noah was faithful even when he couldn't explain it. I'm going to turn to 2 Peter 2 verse number 5. This is talking about Noah again and I want you to see that he was faithful even when he couldn't explain it. He says in 2 Peter 2, verse 5, he says, And he spared not the old world, but saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. Bringing the flood upon the world of the ungodly. God brought this flood, and God chose to spare Noah Noah stood and told the world about this coming flood. He said, the flood's coming. People said, what are you talking about? He said, well, the earth is going to open, the water is going to come up. And what are you talking about? I mean they had never seen rain. How how can he explain to them? Well the the sky's gonna gonna burst with moisture and and I mean you know how it's kinda it was very humid this morning and the fog was sitting real low and and I can imagine they had some nice humid mornings and he would try and describe like I don't know exactly but like maybe that water's gonna that humidity's gonna come together and I mean trying to explain something that nobody's ever seen. It didn't really make sense to him, and he had no way of trying to express it, but he knew what God said And there's times in your life, beloved, you're not going to know exactly how to explain it. You're not going to know exactly what it means But you've got to look at God and just trust him and say, this is what he said to do, and so I'm going to do it, because God is God, and I'm his creation, and so I'm going to submit to him just because of who he is. He's building this boat. People are, what are you building that for? What good is that going to do if whatever you say is going to happen happens? I don't know. I mean, understanding how that was going to work? Trying to explain to people he couldn't explain it. I read a story this week of a missionary's wife whose husband was being held hostage in Colombia. Trying to mock her, the reporter asked, Where was God when your husband was taken hostage? She answered, I don't know why this happened, but God has a greater purpose than we can see at times. We must trust Him even when we don't know why, or as you put it. Where he is. We've got to trust him. Even though sometimes in your life you may look and say, where is God? Why is this happening? Why am I going through this? You've just got to trust, even though you may not know where he is. Can I ask you tonight or this morning, can I ask you, where was God? When his son was crucified, he was looking away from your sin and mine When his own son cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? His father turned his back on his own son because the sin of the world is placed on his shoulders. He did it so that you and I could be saved. Understand, beloved, faithfulness is our faith on display even when we don't know where He is. Even when we can't see the outcome. Even when maybe we don't understand the why. But we just say, this is what God wants. So I'm going to be obedient. And in my faith, I'm going to be faithful to God And I want you to understand that God rewards faith. God rewards faithfulness. Noah and his house were saved. They were saved. Of all the world, they were saved because of their faithfulness The three Hebrew children, they didn't know if they would be saved, but they by faith just trusted God and went into that fiery furnace, and their faith and faithfulness to God was rewarded. Listen, you be faithful to God, and God will be faithful to you every time. He's never failed anyone.