To be here and be with all of you here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We've enjoyed the weekend and I know some of you ladies met my mother and sister. uh really Friday night, Saturday, so we're just delighted to be with you all. And if you are a guest here uh today, I trust you'll come back when pastors preaching. There's encouragement in the Word of God. There's power in the Word of God. Do you believe that? It's an amazing thing that the God of the universe has written a book. And the tragic thing is many people will never read the book that God wrote So I trust that's not your story here this morning. Thank God for the privilege that we have the opportunity to gather together. You know there's no better place to be on a Sunday than in God's house with God's people We have the opportunity to gather together and open this book, The Word of the Living Word of God, and more importantly, just allow him to speak to us. And let's just open our hearts before Him today. It's great to see you all here this morning. If you would, I invite you to Take your Bibles and open your Bibles with me to Romans chapter number 10. Romans chapter number 10. You know, when it comes to life and activities, there are certain elements that are absolutely essential, absolutely critical. How many of you know when it comes to a recipe, there's certain ingredients that just are absolutely important uh for that recipe to turn out? Uh maybe you were uh or or maybe in cooking you know someone, probably not you yourself, but you know someone and and they were uh making a recipe and And perhaps the recipe calls for eggs or for uh baking powder and everything looked good and you put it in the oven and started to look at in the oven and watch and well something just doesn't quite look right and then it dawns on you or the person that's cooking, you know, I I forgot the eggs You know the recipe just doesn't turn out just quite the same, or maybe it's cookies and they look good, but then you bite into them and you realize I forgot the sugar. Something just doesn't quite taste uh just right. Uh changing the uh illustration, maybe more of us guys can relate to this is Uh perhaps yeah well maybe ladies too. I know s perhaps some of you are hunters here in this room. How many hunters are there in the room? All right, several. Okay, very good. Uh maybe you go out and you got your gun and everything and but then It's right there, you're in the deer sand and you j forgot the ammunition. It's like, wow, this isn't going to go very far. Or maybe you do some bow hunting, you bring the bow, and then you look and well I forgot the arrows You know there's some things that are just uh essential, or maybe uh you enjoy camping, maybe you do some tent camping and and you pack everything up, but then somehow you miss the tent So well this isn't just going to be quite the same. Or maybe you do some R V camping and forgot to hit hitch up the trailer, uh the R V trailer, and it's like, wow, this just is not going to be the same There are certain things in life that we know are just absolutely critical. They're essential uh for all of us. And and as we think about the Christian life, there are certain ingredients that are absolutely critical. In fact, even more so than any hunting trip or camping trip or cooking uh as essential as those are. When it comes to the Christian life, this is not just necessary, it's it's critical. And I want to look at one of those uh aspects, one of those ingredients to an effective Christian life. And it's something you're all familiar with, but I want to draw our attention to it to it. It's simply this concept of faith. The Bible says, without faith, it's impossible to please God. Romans 14 puts it this way: whatever is not a faith, is sin. Faith is that thing that gives us the uh r really eternal value to anything we do in life. First Corinthians 13 says, Now abide faith hope and love. The greatest of these is charity. It refers to the eternal abiding qualities and faith. It's one of those things that is absolutely essential to the Christian life. If you would, Romans chapter 10, I want to read Rather lengthly lengthy script portion of scripture. Verse eight. We'll start in verse eight, go all the way to verse number seventeen here this morning. But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart. That is the word of faith which we preach. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek, for the same Lord overall is rich unto all that call upon him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed, and how shall they believe in him of of whom they have not heard, and and how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be sent? As it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace. And bring glad tidings of good things. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Isaiah saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Could we all just read that last verse together? Just all together, verse 17. So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. One more time. So then faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. God has given us this wonderful ingredient. It's called faith. And He wants to use faith Really as the key to access the unlimitless or the limitless storehouse of God's grace. Could we pray together here this morning? Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for just your watch care over us. Lord, as we've been reminded even in the song service, Lord, in the meditation in Sunday school on Psalm 139, you are here. And Lord, thank you that you long to fellowship with us. And so, Lord, I pray that you would just meet with us here this morning. I pray that you would take your word and open truths from your word to all of our hearts And Lord, that we would just be responsive to what you have to say to all of us this morning. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So then faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. As we think about faith, I want to just look at these three simple questions. If we understand that faith is absolutely essential. Then we have to understand what faith is. So the first question, what is faith? We'll look at that. Then how does faith come And then how does faith grow? First of all, what is faith? Faith is the word shows up multiple times in the Bible, and you take the synonyms, belief and trust, it shows up over 500 times in the Bible. God has a lot to say. say about faith. The word faith just means to believe, to trust, to depend, to rely on. So in a nutshell, faith is God dependence. It's dependence. It's trust, not in ourselves, but it's a Godward response. God always is the initiator. Faith is just the response to what God has already done or is doing. You know, faith is necessary for salvation, is it not? Familiar verse, Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Aren't you thankful that God has made a way through his Son Jesus Christ that our sins can be forgiven and we can have eternal life, everlasting life? Do you remember when you got saved? Can you remember who God used? to share the message of the gospel with you. Never let that go grow old. And the verses, the context of Romans 10, verse 17, just emphasizes the reality that faith In order for us to believe something, specifically the gospel, we first have to hear it. And in order to hear it, someone has to give it. Someone has to preach it. Someone has to share it. And so I'm just grateful that God has given us the message of the gospel, the good news of Jesus Christ. And if you've received it, let's be available to be used by the Lord to give it to those who need it. This word call in verse 13, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It's it really speaks to the fact of a an utter helplessness, an absolute dependence. It's the idea of someone of a drowning person that is absolutely helpless to save themselves. They see a lifeguard. They cry out for the lifeguard to come and rescue them It's a cry of utter helplessness and absolute dependence. It's the picture perhaps of a person in a burning building, perhaps on the upper level, and And they cry out to the fire rescue squad, deliver, I need help. I can't save myself. I need somebody to save me. And isn't that uh all of our condition, we were born in Adam. We are born separated from God And we're all, well, apart from Christ, we're without hope. We're on the fast track to eternal separation from God, apart from Jesus. The Bible says in John 3, verse 36, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, but he that believeth not the Son. shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. I'm so thankful that God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And if we call on the name of the Lord, that's an expression, I can't save myself from sin. I can't save myself from eternal damnation and condemnation, but Jesus Christ came so that I could be rescued from sin and death when we call that absolute dependence on Jesus Christ alone. The Bible says We are saved. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. You know, faith is necessary for salvation. But you realize faith is just as important for sanctification. Now that's a big word. What that means is just every day of our life walking with Jesus, we need faith. Faith to trust God. Faith to give thanks in situations we honestly just don't understand. Faith to obey. Faith to say no to our flesh. Uh faith to resist temptation. Faith to forgive. We need faith to navigate trials. We need faith to navigate the relationships that God has blessed our lives with. We need faith. And faith, just like we received Jesus Christ, Colossians 2 says As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. So one step at a time. I love that picture of walking. It's just one ste Step after another, just reiterated steps, walking with Jesus. That is only possible by faith. So we need faith. So what is faith? It's God dependence. I want to kind of expand on this a little bit. Hebrews chapter 11 says faith is the substance of things hoped for. the evidence of things not seen. There's a lot of misconceptions about faith. Some people think of faith as just this feeling where if I just You know, believe hard enough that somehow it'll make whatever I'm hoping to come to pass actually come to pass. Well, faith is not a feeling. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said it's not the strength of faith that saves, but the strength of Christ. Upon whom one relies. Faith requires leaning and resting on Christ. Isn't that good It's not so much about our faith as it is the object of our faith. Hebrews uh goes on to say, Hebrews chapter 12, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith You know, faith is not wishful thinking. It's the substance of things hoped for. The word hope has the idea of confident expectation. Aren't you grateful for the word of God that gives us truth about God and we can have confident expectation based on what God says. Praise the Lord for that. Faith is not just hopeful, wishful thinking. Well I hope It's not going to rain this week. Or I hope such and such happens. Or this situation works out. That's not biblical faith. Faith is not just a positive mental attitude. Oh, everything will work out. Don't worry, everything will just come together. No. In fact, George Mueller said faith is not based on impressions. I like that. Impressions, he said, have neither one thing or the other to do with faith. Faith has to do with the Word of God. It's not impressions, strong or weak, which will make the difference. We have to do with the written word and not ourselves or our impressions You know, faith is not based on probabilities, the likelihood of something happening or not, and this is something I'm always challenged by Sometimes we can, as we're maybe sharing the gospel, we can have this thought, well I'm not really sure that that person will ever get saved. It seems like they're so hard, they're close, I don't think they'll they'll ever get saved. Well faith is not based on probabilities, the likelihood from a human standpoint. Perhaps you've heard someone say something like this, well, the way things are going in my life, it just seems like God doesn't love me. Faith, again, it's not based on probabilities. It's not based on the human, what we can see. You know, we live in a physical world. We live in a temporal world. What we can touch, what we can taste, what we can feel, what we can see, what we can hear. But faith is substance, and it's taking hold of unseen spiritual realities. Faith is the substance of things hoped for. It's the evidence of things not seen. We could say it this way. Faith is founded on the facts of God's Word. Faith is founded on the facts of God's word. It's God dependence, yes. And the Bible reveals who God is, and Faith just takes God for what he says, and takes God for who he is. As I think about this, uh probabilities, uh George Mueller said this in regards to uh faith not being based on probabilities. He said, many people are willing to believe regarding those things that seem probable to them. Faith has nothing to do with probabilities. The province of faith begins where probability cease, and I like this, and sight and sense fail. Appearances are not to be taken into account. The question is whether God has spoken it in his word. Hebrews 11, and we often refer to it as the faith chapter. There's so many examples of faith. Noah by faith obeyed. He built an ark not yet seen rain. Abraham obeyed God, left Ur of the Chaldees without even knowing where his destination, where God was directing him. And faith is taking hold of the spiritual. It's taking hold of unseen spiritual realities. They're real, they're facts, they're truths, but they're not something we can necessarily see. I want to just give us a couple illustrations of this from the Bible. Psalm 139, we focused on that, meditated on the fact God is here. God is, there's no place you can go. Apart from God's presence. If you're a child of God, the Bible says, a powerful promise, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Isn't that an encouragement? There's sometimes as we navigate overwhelming circumstances or difficulties, there can be periods in our life when we don't necessarily see in a tangible way God working. And that's where faith comes in. Even when we may not sense God's presence, We take by faith the fact that God is here. He's with us. He knows. Job faced hardships like perhaps none of us will ever face. He lost really in just a matter of a few moments, perhaps a few hours, he lost his family, all of his children. He lost all of his possessions. He lost his health. And there were some discouraging times. There were some times that he couldn't quite sense the presence of God. God was there, but Job for some time could not uh perceive that. In fact, Job chapter 23, he says, I go forward and and you're not there. I go backward and I can't perceive you. I go to the left hand and somehow I can't behold you. I go to the right hand, and it seems like you're hiding yourself from me. That's the human perspective. That's the physical perspective. But I love what Job says. He then transfers from the physical to the spiritual, in an expression of faith, he says. But he knows the way that I take. And when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Physically, there were times when Job did not recognize God's presence, but he came back to the reality God, you are here. God, you know the way that I take. I think about another illustration of faith, faith taking hold on the Word of God. Remember back to the children of Israel. They're at the threshold of the promised land, at Kadesh Vernia in Numbers chapter 13 and 14. Remember the story Moses goes in and he uh sends spies. Moses actually sends twelve spies in to search out the land. They spend 40 days uh searching out the land and and as they're there it's a good land. It's an exceedingly good land. In fact Can you imagine this? The Bible talks about grapes, clusters of grapes so big that two men had to carry one cluster of grapes. It's an amazing thing. And they came back with the report and said it is a very good land. There's only one problem. And 10 spies uh specifically focused on this. They said, you know, there are some giants in the land. They're really tall. In fact, we feel like just little grasshoppers in in in their sight and and there's another problem. The second problem is there's great big walled cities, huge fortresses. And so they were doing the math, all in the physical realm, what they were seeing, the circumstances that they were going through. They say, okay, we got giants. Plus walled cities, one plus one equals two, giants, plus walled cities equals disaster That was their perspective. And was it true that there were giants and that there were walled cities? Well, absolutely. But thank God for Joshua and Caleb, those two men, they said, yes, there are giants. There's walled cities. But there is God. Walled city giants plus walled cities plus God. Equals supernatural deliverance factoring God Into the equation. That's exactly what faith does. Faith is founded on the facts of God's Word, but it factors God into the equation. You realize God just loves, He wants to intercept our lives He wants to intervene. He wants to show himself strong in the circumstances of our life. Perhaps there's many things. Maybe there's uh one specific thing that you're going through right now where honestly you feel like life has just been turned upside down. You feel like the rug has been pulled out from under you You feel like perhaps there's a situation you're facing right now or a decision you're facing right now where you honestly just feel overwhelmed. You feel discouraged. You feel defeated. I just want to encourage us all this morning that when we factor God into the equation Everything changes. Now it doesn't necessarily mean that our circumstances are going to change, right? But sometimes the God does work in our circumstances. I believe God does want to do great and mighty things in our circumstances. But sometimes the greatest miracle Is changing you and me in the middle of those circumstances. Where he works in us the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness. Faith, meekness, temperance, all of these things where I can actually reflect the spirit of Christ, the life of Jesus in the most oppressive circumstances, the most overwhelming circumstances. And I don't claim to have gone through perhaps some of the trials that you have gone through. But all of us face trials. All of us face difficulties, and it's a call to faith. It's a call to factor God. into our lives. It's a call to invite God into our relationships. And so faith just takes hold on the reality of God, the facts of God's word, and specifically those unseen spiritual realities of who God is. So that's faith. What is faith? It's God dependence. It's factoring God into our lives. How does faith come? Let's go back to Romans chapter 10. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Yours and my faith. is only as strong as our connection to the Word of God So how does faith come? I I feel like I I I want to have faith. I feel so weak in my faith. And sometimes I look at other people and they're going through difficulties, like, wow, if I could just have the strength of faith that that person has, wow. You ever thought that? How do we get faith? How does faith come? Is it um just reserved from s for super Christians? Well, by the way, there are no super Christians, all right? Is it just for those who have been saved for a certain number of years, you know, decades, a certain number of years, all of a sudden, well now you've been saved long enough now, well, now you can really have faith Is it just well believing really hard? No It's not by any of those things. Could I just say this? Faith is also not just, doesn't just come by going through trials. And perhaps we can be well intentioned and say, well, you know, you know, very spiritual sounding, and just say, well, you know, a strong tree, you know, is strong because of the winds that come. And we just go through trials, you know, no pain, no gain. And as we just go through trials, God strengthens our faith. Well, that is absolutely what God wants to do. to take the most difficult things and strengthen our faith. But trials by themselves, trials don't automatically just give faith or produce faith or inspire faith. Trials can make you better, that's God's will, that's God's desires, but trials can make a person very bitter. And so just going through trials doesn't automatically produce faith. So what is it that produces faith? Well, faith comes by hearing and hearing. by the word of God. Let this sink into your heart this morning, and I'm meditating on this much Lord, my faith is only as strong as my connection to your word. My faith will only grow. Your faith will only grow in proportion to your reception of the Word of God How's your connection with the Word of God? And we live in a cell phone age and we're always looking for Specifically, if we're in remote areas, we're looking for that good connection, right? To be able to make phone calls or do what we need to do. And I'm just saying in the spiritual realm, we have to have a good, clear connection to the Word of God. If we're going to have faith to navigate life, to make it through the Christian life, to experience all that God has for us. As I look at this and think through the Bible, the Bible, it is the food for our faith. It's the nourishment for our souls. It's the protection from sin. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. It's the protection for us. It's the light for our path. I love Psalm 119. Thy word is a lamp. unto my feet and a light unto my path. God produces faith through the word of God. But then notice it says, so then faith cometh by What's the next word? Hearing. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. How many of you know it's possible to hear? and not really here. Alright? It's possible to be present, but not really engaged. How many of you have ever had someone be honest? Say maybe it's a spouse, maybe it's a parrot. You're not listening to me. Anyone? Okay, I raise both hands. I've had multiple times. And it's a reminder that just because I'm hearing with my ears doesn't necessarily mean that I'm actually hearing what they're saying. Jesus said it this way, actually, 16 times in the Bible, eight times in the Gospels, eight times in Revelation. He that had ears to hear Let him hear. Now Jesus is not questioning, do you have ears? No. He's asking us, he's calling us to not just hear with our ears. But to hear with our heart. And I just want to leave us in these last really very few minutes with four keys to hearing with your heart. Hearing, because faith comes by Hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Number one, faith. In order to hear with our heart, we have to be humble. Be humble. It's simply taking time to ask God, much like what the psalmist said in Psalm 139, search me, O God. Or you know me. You know me better than I know myself. And I encourage you to ask the Lord, Lord, am I really hearing your voice? You know, it's possible to read the Bible and not hear from God. Oh, he's speaking, but the question is, are we listening? You know, it's possible to come to church and hear pastor preach or hear the word presented or taught. And to just kind of go through the motions and not really hear from God. So, number one is just be humble. Lord, am I hearing God? Am I hearing what you're saying? Number two, be honest. Be honest. Lord, are there any hindrances in my life to hearing from God? Well, there are so many hindrances that can come come into our life. Number one, unconfessed sin is a sure way to guarantee a block between us and God. We can't hear God speak to us if there's some sin that we're holding on to. We may hear his conviction. But until we actually respond to it, we'll never hear more of what God has for us So being honest, Lord, is there any sin in my life that needs to be confessed so that I can hear from God? Sometimes it's just busyness, sometimes wrong priorities. What is it here this morning that keeps you from this book? All of us are busy. All of us have things to do. All of us are given the same amount of time. And how we spend the time really does reflect our priorities. If we want faith and we recognize that faith is so essential, it's good for us to ask the Lord, Lord, I want to hear your word. I want to hear you speak. And is there anything that is Maybe unintentionally crowding out the Word of God, where I just don't spend time in the Word of God. Oh, I want to, I have good intentions, but perhaps I go a day or a couple days or a week, and I actually never open the Bible for myself. Oh, what a tragedy. It's a tragic thing that over for Christians on average, they spend less than five minutes a day in the Word of God. This is the life for our soul. It's the protection from the enemy. It's the way that we have our faith grow and be inspired. And so, Lord, is there any areas in my life? Would you ask the Lord that? Lord, are there any areas in my life where I'm hindering? uh you from speaking, hindering um I'm being hindered from hearing your voice. It can be distractions. I think about this I do not like to read my Bible on my phone. I'm thankful for technology, but the phone can be a distraction There's an email, there's a text, there's something that comes up that actually is a distraction from hearing the voice of God. And so being honest, Lord, what are the hindrances to me hearing your voice? Number three. Number three, be hungry. Be hungry. Anticipate that God wants to speak to you. When you come to church When you come to read your Bible and your own personal walk with the Lord, do you anticipate, God, you want to speak to me? Lord, would you speak to me? Jesus said, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. I like to just take a journal where I just write down a specific verse, maybe it's just part of a verse, or a portion of Scripture that is an encouragement for that day. How many of you have had God use a specific verse in Scripture to inspire your faith? I'm sure we've all at different points. God has used something specific multiple times, maybe to comfort you. Maybe to convict you, maybe to strengthen you, maybe to provide direction in how to pray or the next step to take. God wants us to continually be coming to Him as a little child, humble before Him, honest before Him, transparent, and hungry. God, I need food today. I can't go on today without you. Not to become hung not to become complacent or content with where we are. God has more for us to keep going forward. And then lastly, take heed, take heed. Faith comes by hearing. And hearing by the Word of God. James chapter one puts it this way. It says, be ye doers of the Word and not hearers only. So the whole purpose of hearing from God It's to simply say, yes, Lord, I'll obey. Yes, Lord, I hear what you're saying. And I'll take that step of obedience. You know, spiritual growth is dependent. on steps of obedience. We never outgrow our need to obey. Lord's opened the door to work with a lot of college students at Indiana University. And one question that comes from students who don't do know Jesus Christ as their Savior is, how do I know God's will for my life? You know, that's a question that is really key for young people, but even for us who have perhaps been out of college for many years, there's direction that we need. need. Light for the next step. God actually gives us His Word to direct us. It's a light to our feet. I often answer that question, how do I know God's will in this situation? Just respond to the light that you have. Take heed to what God has shown you. Light responded to brings more light. And so if we'll just take the opportunity, the responsibility to just say, God, when you speak, I'll obey, at that point we're able to actually hear more. from God. And here gives the next step and the next step and the next step. And that's the walk of faith. We walk by faith, not by sight. I just call all of us here to Romans 10, 17 with this question, how's your faith? How is your faith? Are there circumstances in your life right now that you're you frankly don't understand? Circumstances that seem overwhelming to you, well, I need more faith. Perhaps the best question is: how's your connection with the Word of God? Are you listening to God speak? Are you hearing his voice? Are you hungry for him to speak? Are you taking heed to those steps of obedience that God is showing us? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Would you bow your heads and close your eyes with me together?