Um Caleb was uh Pastor Mattel was on stage for um for seven years and to be honest with you we worked well together. And uh it was definitely uh heartbreak when he left, but uh uh his wife made him and so uh But uh anyway, I tell ya the one thing I like about Caleb is that he does things first class. Yeah. Uh everything's just uh is just first class and I can say that about it as well. Hey how how many uh fellows in here have children Raise your hand, you have children? Alright, we pretend anybody not have children. Anybody not have children? Just one? Alright, five, two? All right, three? All right, to make sure. I'm just kinda curious if that's kind of the direction as far as uh things go. You know, part of the reason I'm built that way, my father was not like that. Uh my dad was my own pastor. I've only known two churches in my life, South Village Baptist Church, which is thirty miles south of Chicago. I was there till up to age twenty-four. And then I've been at Heritage How twenty-five until now. But but my dad, he preached every sermon had seven points. And every point had three subpoints and everything with alliterators. And I I told my dad what time I said, uh course I wasn't called a pastor, I became a schoolteacher first. And so I taught Christian school for five years. Yeah, like I I remember in this college for pastoring, it was only for teaching. I can't stand teaching. And um that didn't come out right. To preach you teach, but teaching is really preaching is really teaching with an explanation point. So every you always teach. And that's why when I told him I said follow them with a blanket. just not made that one. Okay point number one. This is the answer. So he gave me liberty not to have to feel like I have to be constrained. I appreciate that very much. Um hey I brought you a hunter joke though. How many hunters do we have? All right, this is your hunter joke, all right? Two hunters are walking through the woods. One hunter falls down, hits his head on a rock, and gets knocked out. The other hunter quickly calls 911. When the operator picks up, the hunter says, Help! My buddy fell down and hit his head on a rock, and he's not moving. I think he's dead. The operator says, okay, but before we send someone out, you you have to make sure he's dead first. The hunter says, okay, puts his phone down, the operator hears a gunshot. The hunter picks up the phone and says, Okay, I made sure he's dead. I gotta kick out of that one anyway. I'm not a hunter. You know, funny I'm not gonna be wrong, so it's not gonna matter if I take a couple months, but uh I'm not a hunter. Dad liked to shoot guns, he collected guns, we shot guns, but we never really went hunting. Dad never took me hunting. And I got four boys, four girls. I never took my boys hunting, and I should have done it, I'm sorry. But I'm not a hunter, and I won't tell you lies. You have to sit still. Goodness. These guys that go out there and they sit in their stand in the cold of winter waiting for Bambi to come along. So guy came to my church and says, Pastor, listen, you need a hunt. So here's what we're going to do. He says, I got I don't know how many acres of land he had. And he said, he said, I'm gonna make sure I got everything repaired. And I said, I'm gonna take you hunting. And I said, okay, I'll go hunting. This was a pastor member relationship. And so I said, sure. So he calls me out. He gives me the gun, bullets, I mean everything. I don't do anything. And well I'm supposed to do one thing in my friend. about it but anyway that's what so I go out there and we go out to his land and a blind is that what it's called so we're down buying this blind and I am not lying to you in two minutes a herd of deer came up I mean there must have been seven or eight of them I couldn't believe it. I whispered it and I said, it's not easy. And so I put it in the scope and I'm not that far away from the from the deer and I thought, this is ridiculous. I've only been out here two minutes. to get the whole you know so I I just sat there and looked and they just stood there and then he said I said okay I'm done that was about five minutes and it didn't run And then we walked over to that dead deer and he says, okay, give me your tags. I said, tag? What's a tag? I said, tags? He said, you think it's a tag? I said, I didn't know what a tag is. They made me run down to Walmart by a cat. So we come back and put them on dead dough. Dog, whatever it was. So anyway, that's my only hunting story. And I'm done with hunting, so I don't know. Anyway. Genesis chapter 18. Got your Bible? Genesis chapter number 18. Genesis chip number 18. Listen, there is nobody that is a professional when it comes to father. There is nobody. The only professional is God have There's no way to be cookie cutters. There's no way for us to say, okay, we got the science to fatherhood. There is no science to fatherhood. You know, my wife and I, we did not have children when we first got married. So the first seven and a half years we didn't have any children. and we finally adopted our first one. And then um sure enough, five years later, the girl that got pregnant the first time got pregnant again, and she asked if we adopt her second one. So we said yes. So when we adopted the second one, my wife got pregnant the whole thing. So the the second and the third child are only eight days apart, a couple of them. And then we had another one and another one, another one, another one. So we had eight total. But the first two were adopted. And um to be honest with you this is the best thing that ever happened in our lives because You know, uh all of us are adopted. If you're saved, and the reality of my spirituality came to so focus on raising adopted kids and because you don't say, okay, you're adopted, you're birthed. We don't do that. They're all my children. It's like we're all our heavenly father. Father's children. God only had one son, the only begotten son, which was Jesus Christ. Anyway, but I want to tell you something, I learned so much, so many life lessons about adoption, an adoptive child who we brought home from the hospital. difference in an adopted child and a birth child. And again they call each other brothers and sisters and how they act so differently. And so to be honest with you, I don't have a science. I I look at I look at the children that were raising and okay, you put it into the pot and you tell me what comes out. He's gonna either be a she or he or she. Either a believer or an unbeliever. Big difference. The source of their st I should say the amount of their spirituality. I've got kids right now that get up at six in the morning on a regular basis and have devotions, and then I got other kids, I'll be kicking them out of bed to have rid of that. The influence of others, the agents that are going to school with, and the people that they have contact with, that they would call themselves the influence of a person. The home raising of a child. How you were raised, we teach as we have Exactly. Whoever you are, you are the sum total of all the people God used to put something into your life. So when it comes to the science of raising children, there is no science. It goes back to what we talked a few moments ago. God, I can't do this. So I need to help me. And God does, amen? Gives his wisdom, gives his people. Anyway. Okay, I want to talk about this now. We're in Genesis chapter 18. Let me read a couple verses with you again. I'll do another. You know, you guys make it easy to uh speak to that last hour. I don't normally go along like that, but um uh you were very attentive. Except for the few that were sleeping. Genesis number 18, look through Bible, let's pick it up in verse number um. It says, And the men rose up from thence and looked toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to to bring them on the way. So Abraham's with these angels, I think it's a theophany of Jesus Christ. I think Christ could have said the word Lord there in verse 17. And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do? So angels don't ask those kind of questions. And the Lord says, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I sh which I do? Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. him that he will command his children and his household after him and they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. Now look at the last phrase. I want you to notice it starts with word that as a condition. Alright? Here's what he says. That the Lord may May bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him. Alright, so what did God promise Abraham? Your seed is giving you the stars of heaven. What did God promise Abraham? Look to the north, south, east, and west. I'm going to give you this land, the two promises. Of Abraham the covenant was a seed and a property. Are you all this up on this? But I want you to know the condition of it all was, was he says here in verse number 19, there were three conditions that were mentioned in verse number 19, and then God says about Abraham, if he does these three things. That I may bring upon Abraham that which I've spoken about him. Okay, let's no one tell you something. There is a condition on whether or not your children can offer God. And to be honest with you, there is a condition whether your wife's gonna follow you. I think it's the same three conditions. Don't look at these three words if you don't mind. Let's ask the word blessing one more time. Father, I need your help and you can bless the time together. Thank you for these fellows. Give us what you want for us and what God doesn't give me glorified. Thank you for the power of your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. In this passage here in Genesis 18, the three things that are mentioned here are very interesting to me. Go through the uh I'll just quickly say then I think in your book that you're gonna have five keys to child rearing. Uh the first one, uh if I'm doing them in order, uh the first one is to teach, the word teach means to point, the word talk means to answer, the word tell means to constitute or to command, uh the word time as far as spending time. and then the word touch. All of those are so powerful. It's a message in itself as far as trying to get the heart of your wife or the heart of your children. If you'll do those things God uh God will help you with that as well. And I'm not somebody saying, Well I c I have to constitute with my wife. If you go back to the beginning when they follow follow God says that You will have a husband that will rule over you. And the same thing in a home, as far as constituting. Now, quickly, I want to talk to you about these three things if you don't mind. Here's the first one. I want you to notice that as far as Abraham goes, as far as him uh for as far as God doing for Abraham, him. Let me say one more thing. Do we not want God to do for us? God help me give about our husbands, help me get better fathers. God, would you please help my children to grow up to serve you and love you? Would you please keep protecting? God, would you please give them the mate that you want them to marry? We've been alive long enough to see people married the wrong woman. Right, right, right. And it's too late to say it afterwards. Yeah, right. So again, how what was this condition that God gave concerning Abraham? First one did the first part of the verse, verse number 19. For I know him that he will let's reward. Command. Command his children. Okay? The word king command there in Hebrew means constitute. It's where we get our word constitution. What's the supreme law of the United States of America? It's the constitution. It's supposed to be. The supreme law of the land. The Constitution is what rules us. You know what God said about Abraham? I say, I know there's something I know about him. He will constitute, he will command his children. Guys, can I just tell you the day that we're living in today? That is very, very unusual for the man to be the man of the house. And say no. My wife, uh, and bless her heart, lower she let's hard learn it from her mother, I don't know. But when my kids ask something, my kids you know how they do the kids always go to their mom. Right, right. Alright? Because they think they know what they do. Dad's gonna say. Alright? But my wife, growing up with the kids, have always heard this. The kids come on, hey mom, can we do this? And my wife will say, Your dad's the boss. Now I didn't tell her to say that, but I like the ring of it. Your dad? the boss. Sam Jason, I never told my wife to say the word boss. I don't really like the word boss. But what I'm trying to tell you is, is my wife backs up the authority in the home, which is the husband. And the husband is supposed to be the one that says no or command his Children. My wife and I left, we were on the road. As soon as we got on the road, not too long after that. One my daughter, she's 15, I got I have two left at home. Two children, two young guys, and this my all the my wife usually doesn't travel with me anywhere. And then that's why that 17 hours. our trip was such unusual because when the kids were growing up my wife always take on the kids and so but anyway, um my wife and I uh I don't know before we left, because they asked my wife first. I was gone, I don't know where I was but it doesn't matter where I was, I don't know where I'm at half the time anyway, but But they asked my wife and then all of a sudden I get a call from my sixteen year old if they can go to somebody's uh to a p uh a house member of a church at a farm and ask if they could go over there. And the first words out of my sixteen year old daughter was, Dad, can we go over to the Smith Farm? I uh I've already asked your mother. Now you know what my question is. What'd your mother say? Right? Because we're we're in this thing together. Right. Right. But you know what they were doing? They were giving me liberty to constitute. Yeah. To say no. Right. Now I'm just trying to tell you, the stronger person in the relationship has to be I. That's right. And by the way, there's been many a time you're going to back what your wife says or back with the direction. But there have been occasions that my wife and I have not seen eye to eye. I want to tell you who wins. The Constitutor. That's not even a word. Alright? I'm just trying to think it's like it's like business conference. Do you ever fill out your missus commitment? And when you fill out your missus commitment, you talk to your wife, you should talk to your wife. finance are going so when we do our commitment in thirty all these years to be honest with you we're almost always matching but there's been a few years where what she thought and what I thought as far as giving were different guess whose number we go with? The Constitution. the one that commands the home. He's supposed to be the one that's in charge. And I don't I don't take this. What we're what we're raising today is we're raising children with their parents and it's their buddy. It's their pal. And by the way, he's just term loosely. It's their friend and it's not that and that's supposed to be a friend to our children. But God made you a parent before he made you their friend. That's right. And so there are sometimes that the constitution. Remember in Ephesians 6. 4? He said to command the fathers that sometimes fathers um uh how's it Turn your children around. How's it going to provoke? Provoke your children around. But the last phrase of that verse, bring them up in what? Nurture means discipline, and admonition means uh basically an oral reproof. And admonition of the Lord. So my responsibility in the home is to say no sometimes, because I'm the Constitution. We're not doing that. We're not going there. Amen. That's good. And I'm saying something. But I want to tell you something. He that rebukeeth a man afterwards, he that rebukeeth a man afterwards shall find more favor than he that flattereth is a tongue. The thing that we're trying to make our kids feel good does not make you their friend. They just got what they want. Right. Right. What's gonna make them your friend, where I'm talking about them loving you, is for you to stand and say, Okay, we're not doing that. Right. Okay, so my first two were adopted, and by the way, the adopted ones, uh well I still uh well I have an adopted one, it's finishing these last year of college and he's actually at home right now too and he's getting a baby degree. But the oldest one, um, she was a girl and she was rough. I mean just rough. She'd she'd stand up to my wife and say, well you're not my mother and you know all kinds of hurtful things. You're not my father. But the truth of the matter is, I am your father, I'm the one that adopted you. And I admit it, there were times that she'd come out of her room and not dressed right and I say, Can't wear the right. Yeah. She also had reading problems. I remember one time she got a job and uh she had uh She's getting close to that graduate and I I think she she might have just gotten out to be graduated from high school. Um and she got this particular job and uh it was at five thirty in the morning. She had to be at five thirty and she's not in the morning person. And I remember coming to her room and said, Hey listen, you better get up. I don't want to go to work today. I I hate to tell you this, you don't you don't get a job and not just show up. And you're living in my house. You're gonna go work. Right. No. I I are you said Yes, I'm sick. That's it? I remember that day taking her to work because I knew she wouldn't go to work. And I got to where her place of business and I opened the door and said, okay, get out. It was like it was 5 30 in the morning. I said, get out. No, I don't want to go to work. I said, there's a lot of people don't want to go to work in life, but you're going to go to work. You're living in my house. Right, right. She opens the door. I'm going to tell everybody you're making the idea that I have to come to work today. I said, that's a good idea. But can I tell you that's not right? That's not something you can do on a regular basis. There are certain kinds of life that you have the concept to say no. Can I just tell you there's only one captain on a ship? There's only one General of an army and there's only one dad at the home. That's good. Here's the Constitution. Here's the direction we're supposed to go. I can't preach this. I'm going to say it since I'm in this, I'm with you guys, alright? We won't say this in front of your wives. And if you say that I say it, I'm going to say I never said it. Do you find it interesting when you study your Bible to find out all the times that a man listened to his wife? Adam? Hey, how do you like this one? Abraham, go into Hagar so you can have twenty-one Arab nations, so we can have all this war going on in the Middle East. The Bible says he hearkened to his wife. Now I know I'm not trying to make it feel bad for these women, but how about why don't you just curse God and die? You remember what Job's response was? I'm just trying to say, God gave you that. wife and she's the completer and she's your help meet. But there's certain times you constitute the home, you don't just go along. Yeah, but hey if you're having a trouble time as far as and how I can reach in. I'm gonna almost ask how many how many of you have a strong willed wife. Do not raise your hand, but you know, we know what they're strong willed, amen? I guess a lot of you guys must have a strong wife I just tell the way you can do something? There's nothing wrong with a strong willed wife. A strong willed wife is a good thing. Right. But every once in a while, even a strong willed wife needs a husband to constitute the home. And say, Do you ever want to do that? We're not gonna do that. And she might get upset with you, but this too shall pass. So how did God perform for Abraham what God said he performed for Abraham? Because he knew I know him. He will command his children. Amen. We need some of that. We need some guys that just can command. Quickly, here's the next one. Look at the next thing he says in verse number 19. He says, For I know him that he will command his children and his household. What's the next two words? After him. Now, actually the word after does mean after. I looked it up. But the Principle that is being taught here is that he will command his children, and then he makes that statement about his children following him. He says, and his household after him. In other words, hey listen, if you want to be the father, you want to be the husband that God wants to be. to be first of all you have to be the one that commands. I'm the one responsible. And then number two, you have to be worth following. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. Amen. I'm kind of pasture pastor sometimes and I've had ladies come in my office and they're having trouble in the marriage. And I just asked him, I said, So what time when does your husband have his devotions? And I'm gonna tell you something. It answers the questions for everything when they say this. I I've never seen it have his devotions. Fellows, if your wife was honest about by the way, please Please help me here. There's no perfect dads, there's no perfect wives, there's no perfect pastor, there's no perfect anything. Let us consider one another to provoke and to love and good works. All we're trying to say is, Okay, what can I do better? But when's the last time your wife saw you read your Bible? Amen. When was the last time you prayed and it wasn't over a meal? Yeah. I'm just saying that, you know, my wife and I never go to bed, ever. I say ever, maybe it's heaven, but if I'm not one but my wife I am for a book now she's staying off 'cause she's an ID out. She's a Richard. That's exactly right. You know what Charles Pump is. Would you like telling other falsehoods, Charles? She's not here, I can say whatever I want. Hey, can I tell you something? My wife and I pray together every night. We'll pray together tonight before our bed. Amen. All all I'm trying to say is is you want to raise children that are godly, that pick the right maid, that are hard workers, that treat your mother right. And yet we cannot help but speak the things which we have heard. We cannot. That's what the disciples said. Yeah. I'm just trying to say if you want your wife if you want your children to teach your wife treat your wife right, you treat her right. Amen. If you want your kids to have their devotions, you have their devo have your devotions. You want your kids to think about the loss, then you think about the loss. It's really not as hard as we make it. Right. Yeah. Right. It's not hard. Like it up and have my devotion. Amen. I'm not the best. witness in the world but I carry gospel tracts on me so that if I get an opportunity I can I can tell somebody loves Jesus. I'm not a good Christian and I'm just trying to tell you it's not it's not hard just to do what God wants us to do so that our children will hopefully copy that. Yeah. So the first thing I see about Abraham when it comes to God giving him what he promised is first of all he commanded his children. The second thing we knew about him is he'd be an example. Look at the last thing that's mentioned here in this this verse. Verse number nineteen. It says for I know. He will command his children and his household after him. Look at this. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. They will keep the way of the Lord. That word keep actually means guard and protect. They will keep the way. way of a war. I want to tell you one of the biggest things in the Christian life that we're losing is consistency. Consistency. And by the way, unfortunately, I hate to say that, part of it's our churches. And by the way, you can't blame the church if the kids don't you know turn out right does but but the consistency in in a person's household you know yeah yeah right just just making things stay the same you know I'm one of those people that like to eat supper together right I can't eat breakfast together And the reason I do that is because it gives me the opportunity to share around with my friends. We try to do family alternate. I try to w we don't do it on Wednesday night because church we'll do it on Sunday because they're obviously obvious and I not to can't get more of the word of God. But usually during the school week, um before the kids go to bed, bring the kids together, I spend, I don't know, five, seven minutes with them. We're gonna either read a chapter or I'm gonna read a devotional, and they're gonna each say their favorite verse, I'm gonna pray with them, we're done. the preaching time. I don't say okay, get down on your knees, time for a mediation. I don't do that. I just it's just the time to read the Bible before they go to bed. And just and it but it gives me I'm telling you, those some of those the family altars times has lost a twenty slash twenty, thirty minutes because the kids start talking. You know, I learned a long time ago, my kids are not uh super talkative, but when they are, I want to be a good listener. Now I don't know if you've got children and or uh how many children you have, but all of my children are not super forthright. starts telling me everything in life. But there have been times I thought, where did that come in? I had my one my the adopted one boy he's still at home. The other day I came home, well he was going to the bank or going to going to work, one or two, and all of a sudden sudden he's in the kitchen and I walk in the kitchen and he starts talking and talking and talking and talking and talking and I'm thinking in my mind, I don't have time for this. Well I didn't go anywhere until he was done. All I'm trying to get you to think about is that if you're going to teach them the way of the Lord, then first of all you've got to command your children, second of all you have to be an example. But then did you notice the two words he used? What are you supposed to teach them? What's the two starts with the letter J, what is it? Judgment S. this. Alright, how many of you guys think play football? Nobody? Okay. How many like to watch football? That's better. You get to be our age we don't play football anymore. Alright? Hey, what happens with that guy who's got the striped shirt and he's got this little yellow flag hanging out? his back pocket and all of a sudden he blows his whistle, throws the black uh throws the yellow uh handkerchief and that it's got that little point and it kinda just falls back down to the ground. What's he doing? Judgment and justice. Yeah. You know, judgment is the call. Illegal, aspirate fairness, whatever you want to call it, all right? They the judgment call. And then justice, ten yards, first down over. Football is really judgment and justice. You know what it is being a dad? It's teaching judgment and justice. It's making the call and proclaiming the penalty. That's really what it is. So when it comes to raising children, I don't have to get them to like me, I have to figure out just what God once and then I have to make the judgment call and then I have to perform the justice as far as what we're gonna do. You know what? God bless you for it. Yeah. Again, I I was raised differently. I was raised in a home in Spain, right? anybody raised in a home? That's your dad's faith. My dad's faith was about two. Alright? That's how he spanked. My dad was a very, very heavy person, like huge. So when you went to his room for a spanking, he started pulling the belt out, he just waited. And then when whenever he swatted you, it's like every swap was due because it was wrapped and he didn't let you. Am I exaggerating? I don't think so. You know, the Bible says uh several verses, Withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with the rod he shall not die, thou shalt beat him with a rod and shall deliver hiself from hell. He that spareth his rod hateth his sons. But he that loveth and chasteneth him betimes. Which means Training the child in the way he should go when he's holding out apart from it. Through the blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil, so he stripes the inward parts of the belly. Yeah. What are you gonna get what are you gonna do? You're not gonna spake the child? It's all over in the scripture, right? If you spend your kids when they're younger, the less you have to do when they're older. Right, very good, right. My 16-year-old girl though got testy with me. And, you know, she went to school. She didn't do her schoolwork. like she was supposed to. And I'd been hearing from the teachers that she had been slapping off and she'd not been doing. And I called her and said, I'll tell you something. You're super smart. And she is, she's super smart. And I said she's being lazy and I said, I don't want that anymore. I said, I want this to stop. Didn't stop. And uh at our school, if you get five demerits, you get a spank. We still spank at our school. You can call if you want, I don't care. Um but we still spank at our school and every person signed the paper saying it's okay. First time the parent spanking the kid, not me, but and so I do I at this point in life I'm the only one that spikes the school kids too, because ones going to jail so maybe I don't want somebody else to have to go to jail. Uh because if somebody has too but but anyway. So anyway, she got fine to merits. And they called me from the school to say, your ch uh Sarah, my daughter's that five minutes, and she's 16 year old and I'll tell you something. I went straight to the school and pulled her out of class. And I said, Sarah already warned you about this. Uh actually she had gotten two to her. I'm sorry, she didn't get five, but five she's supposed to get it, she had two, a full-up class. I said, does this think we fan? She says, yeah, I don't want to get two demerits. She's a she's not a bad child. But I want to tell you something, you know the problem is you're a smart person and when instead of taking the instead of doing your school work in class. You think I can just do this at home and you're not getting your work done. I said, we're not going to do that. Now at sixteen years of age I spank her every three SWATs. And I'll tell you something, my daughter didn't get mad at me. She's not it's not like, oh man, I hate him. Not only takes them, I hope that's the last one. To be honest, I haven't spanked it in such a long time. Because when you take it older, you shouldn't have to spin it. You know, when it talks about the times, if you start early enough, you should get less and less and less like that. Yeah, right. That's the goal. Yeah. But I learned something from my father. As long as they're in my home, I'm responsible. Yes. That's correct. I'm not telling you to go home and say a sixteen year old. I I'm not telling you to do that. Some of you are not even thinking a five year old. And yet you're the same person that gets aggravated when you go to the grocery store and the kid's screaming his lungs off 'cause someone won't buy him a candy bar. Right. Right. Well, somebody do something with that kid. It's gonna be your kid one of these days. And we'll tell you why. Because you're not following the biblical pattern of constitute. Right. Hey, this is what's wrong, and this is what's what you're not going to do. Be the example and then use judgment and justice. That's good. This is the call, this is the penalty. Hey, are there any penalties? Do you know to this day I have a fourteen year old, sixteen year old home, I still check their rooms. No not every day, but I still check their rooms to find out their bedmates. Because what I said about that boy not picking up his clothes, I believe the same thing that every person wants to make their bed. You know, I almost can guess that I don't even know you, but you know how I can guess that? Because your shoes are polished. You know how I can guess that? Because your hair is cut neatly trimmed. And your beard is. Most people have beards. The person who takes the care of the details in life is the person who takes care of the details in raising children. Yes, sir. Come on. My wife's gonna tell this story and I gotta go. I don't know you guys make it too fun to talk anyway. My mother knows that I make my bed. When I got out of the bed this morning, actually I couldn't make my bed this morning, my wife took all the sheets and blankets off her property. There's nothing to make this morning. But at the hotel last the night before, last night when I left the hotel, I make the bed. It's on my side of my wife, if she's there, we make it together. If not, then I make the bed. Even at the hotel, I'm I don't I just I think I think they're just little thick details. Well I'm I'm kind of left with that way. My mother shows up at my, this is like four or five years ago, shows up at our church, and this is when she was not living, she lives in us and not dust living in our church in our place now, Kansas. She goes into the car, grabs it, she looks in the car and it's filthy, and she's She goes and she takes a garbage bag and she starts throwing away all the garbage in the car. And she turns it inside and says to my wife, I don't know what happened. And it's Scott's car and saying, well. I'm not the kind of person that when I get in my fast food, I throw it in the back. So Stacy said, Scott wouldn't do that. She said, I look at this bag full of garbage. She went into one of our church members' cars. Hey guys, I'm just telling you raising children is not easy. But part of it's the detail. Mm-hmm. Just making sure. Fellows, some of you are the way you're raised, and I I again I'm sorry, I'm I'm so he you should have somebody else come. I I guess all I'm trying to say is there's no perfect fathers, but we should strive to be a perfect father. No, I'm not the I'm just so bad when it comes to my wife, but I do want to be a good husband. Get on harvest through desire, man. There's gotta be a desire that shouldn't be. Amen. And your kids are looking at you, they don't even know if they're looking at you or not, they're looking at you. And by the way, some of your some of our kids are not gonna go by my my oldest adoptive kid, um, I I'm I don't know what she do. Not in our church, I don't know where she what she doing. There's a disconnect. And it's not easy. Now I'm just telling you guys something. I don't want you to come to campus like this and think you're doing everything wrong. You're not doing everything wrong. It's just that what can I do more right? You're right. And I won't tell you where it starts. It starts with us. Yeah. Self discipline and schedule and thinking of others and all these things. And then you know what? Then what here's what happens to our kids. They have a dad that says, Well let me pray about that and they're gonna look at you first time you do that, like pray about it. I just wanna know that's what God's will is. You know, you're not going over spend the night at somebody's house. Pray about it. Constitute. Be an example. Because I I'm I'm d I'm just more seconds and I'm done. It's three eighteen. Are you guys okay? Can I stay some questions? When's the last time your children heard you tell your wife you love her? When's the last time you picked up something at the house instead of just telling the kids When's the last time you checked your bedroom? Oh. If you check your bedroom you better make sure your bedroom's fine. Not next to the handle. Not next to the handle. See that you get that? Not next. I haven't met your families, I haven't met your children, but God wants to do something with you and He wants to do something with your kids. And if God carries this coming, we're gonna go to heaven and they're gonna be left behind. Until the Lord comes back. I'm telling you, there are fewer kids going to college and college is not the answer. There are fewer kids that are going into ministry and everybody everybody's not God's welcome to go to ministry. There are a few missionaries going to the mission field and everybody's not just being missionary. And there's fewer families together. Did you realize that in one in in in the United States of America that one in four families do not have a father in them? That's twenty five percent of them of our nation. I don't care what they say. If you've got a kid is rebellious and they want to mistreat you with words, death and life on the power of the tongue. Oh tell you be strong about it. God gave you to me. I'm not I'm not I'm not having you in here because uh you know, I chose you. God chose you to be here. And I want to be the Father of God on Spirit. We're actually blessed their marriages and more than and their their children. Lord one of these days their kids will be somebody's pastor, somebody's bus worker, somebody's Sunday school teacher, somebody's deacon. Lord I ask you, please help us stay faithful. Lord again, help the devil not to get in. And Lord, help us stay strong. Help not to give up. Help not to quit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.