We'll be in Ecclesiastes chapter 8 tonight, and I hope this can just be an encouragement to you, a challenge to you, and we'll just see what the Lord has for us tonight. Ecclesiastes chapter 8, and we'll be looking at verse 10. And it says, And so I saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and there were forgotten in the city where they had so done. This is also vanity. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil Though a sinner do evil an hundred times and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow, because he feareth not before God. The title of my message tonight is Fearing God in a Fearless World. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness to us, God. Just thank you for this opportunity I have to preach. I just appreciate that, and I pray that you would use me tonight, fill me with your spirit. I pray that you'd empty me of self and sin, and that uh just uh could relay the message that you have for us tonight um effectively. Just thank you for all you do for us, God. We love you in your name. Amen. So I'd like to give some context to this passage of Scripture. The book of Ecclesiastes, of course, was written by King Solomon. And he wrote this in his life much later. This book he was looking back on his life, reflecting on his previous life experiences. A man who had everything: wisdom, power. wealth, I in my brain I compare him to the modern Elon Musk. He's got everything he you know, there's nothing else that he needs He had pursued life under the sun, as he says in Ecclesiastes, with every advantage given to him by God, yet he allowed his heart to drift from wholehearted devotion to the Lord. The impetus behind this book is to show that without God at the center of our lives, even the best that this world has to offer truly is vanity. Temporary, elusive, and unable to satisfy. I remember a few years back, I don't I think it was in Indiana, I was going to the mall Um, I enjoyed that so much in high school and college and I at this point in my life I could care less to go. I would way rather just stay home. Um But I remember going to the mall and you can't go to the mall without stopping at the Cinnabon store or the pretzel store, I think I heard Cinnabon or something over there. Um so yes, you guys understand. You gotta get you gotta treat yourself uh to a nice snack. But I was going later at 730. It was later towards the end of the day before the mall was going to close. And um I got there and there was one cinnamon roll left. Alright, this will work. Uh so I I don't think they were taking orders, but uh so I just said can I you know I saw it in the display case there, can I have the cinnamon roll? And it looked so good. The glaze on the roll was perfect. It smelled good. You guys making everyone hungry in here. It just it was the perfect cinnamon roll But I I remember purchasing that cinnamon roll for way too much and um biting into it was way less pleasurable as I thought it would be. Way less satisfying. I was expecting one thing, but I got something different. And and and probably the reason was it had been sitting there for hours. It was their last one. It wasn't brush. Um, but it was just so disappointing to me. I was so disappointed I couldn't finish it. I was like, I don't even want it. And I threw it away. It was just like No interest anymore. Um, you know, isn't that such a vivid picture of what the world has to offer us? You know, it it looked good. It it looked right. Uh it promised satisfaction. Um but once we partake and Once we partake of the world's pleasures, we discover it can't fulfill what it promised us. It didn't m do good on its promise. You know, life lived without the fear of God may look good in display, but it will never truly satisfy us. You know, take it from Solomon, the man who had everything. You know, and and and we get in our head that you know if I just had one more thing or if I just had one more experience, uh he had all the experiences, he had it he had all the wealth, he had everything, uh, but it didn't satisfy Vanity is what he said it was. Vanity. What is vanity? Emptiness. Not the you know, not the uh kitchen vanity or the the uh bathroom vanity, but emptiness The danger in the is not that the world offers nothing. Because it does. It does offer something. The danger is that it offers things that can't last. And the call of wisdom in Ecclesiastes charges us to seek what is truly fulfilling and satisfying in the presence of God. And that truly is fearing God. Specifically in chapter 8, where we just read. Solemnly, uh solemnly, solemn Solomon solemnly reflects back in his life. Say that five times fast. And he grappled with a troubling reality that he repeatedly observed throughout his life. And that is this wicked people can often live without restraint, receive honor and accolades, accumulate great wealth while facing little to even no consequence for their wickedness Verse 10 says, And so I saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done. This is also vanity. In verse 10, Solomon says he observed wicked people who had come and gone from the place of the holy, meaning they moved freely within the church or within the sacred spaces at the time. Likely the temple courts participating in worship and enjoying the public respect that came with that But they were living corruptly. Their presence in the holy places gave people the impression that they were right with God You know, just because we come to church doesn't make us right with God. Just because we do the right things doesn't make us right with God. These people, these corrupt people were um even after their death, they were honored with glorious burials, verse 10. Um It says there, and saw the wicked buried who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had done so done. And the and the chapter goes on before and after as well. But even after death, these people were being honored. You know, you think of people that you know, you know, maybe they've gone away from the Lord or, you know, they're a drunkard. And and they die and they kill someone. Uh but you see on their eulogy, you know, people, you know, saying, Oh, he was such a great guy and he he was so um you know just what what a great guy, you know, have a such a good memory of him and you're like He just killed someone. You know, he's he you know, I understand people have experiences, but um that's the same thing that was happening here with Solomon. Maybe they weren't drunkards, but they were corrupt people and they were receiving honor. And it Solomon's sitting there scratching his head saying, What's going on? What's going on? How can these people live so horribly and then be honored so wonderfully at their funeral? You know, I think of the Pharisees and the scribes and believe in Matthew chapter twenty-three who Jesus referred to as white sepulchres Jesus' strongest rebukes in the Bible were reserved for those religious leaders who looked righteous outwardly, but were corrupt inwardly. We don't like hypocrites, do we? We can't stand them. It goes against us as human nature. It's so interesting that Just as easily as we can spot a hypocrite, it's so much harder for us to spot it in our own lives. And we can all be guilty of that. I know I am. I feel like every day I can be guilty of being a hypocrite If we are honest with ourselves, we can be more worried about the external more than the internal Which makes us a hypocrite. Look at verse eleven. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. This eternal struggle, internal struggle that Solomon faced is one that we have faced in our lives and we will continue to face in our lives. Why does evil seem to win? We see people in the world living comfortably, doing harm without consequence. We see our co-worker get promoted, even though we were the ones who've been faithful to God. We see others making outlandish wealth while we're the ones just barely making it by month to month, and we're the ones who give to God. Sometimes the math doesn't add up. These harsh truths can often lead our minds to wonder how this Christian life is even fair. I mean, if the wicked prosper, why should we live righteously? Why should I live honest and work hard when it doesn't even seem to make a difference? Why should I come to church when the world doesn't and they're just fine? Why should I spend my Saturdays knocking on doors when it doesn't even seem like it matters? Believer, that's the answer is because that's not the end of the story. You know, those people in the world, the wicked in the world, they have their reward here and now on earth. We are to lay up treasure in heaven, not on this earth. And we know these things, but it it's it's it'll be good for us to be reminded of these things over and over. We must trust that justice is ultimately in God's hands. And it is. And we are required to live faithfully even when the immediate outcomes are unfair, because they are. You know, I figured that out in the last you know, specifically being married because that's when, you know, I I have a family and things like that is Life isn't fair. It isn't. It's not fair. But we must trust that God's going to take care of it in the end. Because He does. We are required to fear God. Christian, we are required to fear God. To the last verse in Ecclesiastes in chapter 12, verse 13, it says, Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. What's next? Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man, and isn't that true? It's our whole duty to fear God. You know, when I was younger it was hard for me to understand what that meant, fear God. It's like, oh, you know, I'm hiding in the cor in the corner somewhere, you know, just afraid. because I would generally associate fear of of my dad with fear with God, and those are not the same things. So I will get in uh get into that in a little bit here. But first we see uh I just want to mention the patience of God. The patience of God. Many times in dealing with sinners There is a delay of judgment. Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. You know, just because we sin one time doesn't necessarily mean that God's going to judge us right away. Um and that's the same way in the world. Yet what Solomon is observing here is that It's emboldening the sinners because they're getting away with it. You know, you you know, someone robs a bank You know, if they get away with it the first time, they're highly likely to do it again. Uh same thing with the lottery, right? Um you win the lottery once Now you have that, you know, you have that taste in your mouth. You want to do it again. Um that's you know how casinos work too. Um but that's just basic human nature. Uh and that's the way the wicked is. God is patient and long-suffering with man, giving sinners time to repent. 2 Peter 3:9 says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Aren't you glad God had mercy on you? Aren't you glad God had long suffering for you? You know, God doesn't always punish man right away, and certainly not when we want him to. So because of that, many w people will mistake God's patience for God's permission. They think they have a right to do that because God was patient with them. I remember when I was fifth or sixth grade, uh my mom would buy these chocolate granola bars, chocolate covered granola bars. And those things were so good. I just remember thinking this is as good as a candy bar. Like it's it's a granola bar, so it's partly healthy. Um and it's so good. So but these granola bars were specifically for Our lunches. We couldn't, you know, just go in and grab one. That was not allowed. They were for lunches because if she allowed that, they would have been gone the moment she got home from the store with six kids. You can understand that. And so somewhere down the line I told myself that it was okay to have one. I think what happened was I forgot my lunch for that day. And so my lunch was still sitting on the counter when I got home with this granola bar. So I thought, well, I didn't have it at lunch. It's only fair that I have it now. Um now you moms in here are saying that's not how that works. You had your chance to have the granola bar. Now you go put it back. You know, you can have it tomorrow. Uh well I ate the granola bar and my mom walked by. And I don't know if she saw me or not, but she didn't say anything. So that meant it was okay that I had the granola bar, right? Well, that's how it worked in my brain. So then I got looser with it. Then it was easier for me to go and oh well, you know, I haven't had dinner yet and Let me go get another one. And she must have been okay with it because you know, she never said anything. You know, after the third time I got in trouble. And she knew the whole time. You know what happened? I mistook my mom's patience for me for her permission. Those are not the same things. Let me ask you, are you mistaking, are you doing that in your life? Is there something you're doing that You think, well, God hasn't punished me yet for it, so it must be okay. Uh us as humans, we can really work ourselves over in our brains and think that that's okay, but God says it's wrong, it's wrong. Doesn't just because we haven't gotten caught doesn't mean it's right to do. Many are emboldened to sin because they haven't been punished, and that leads to deception Many sin sinners feel secure in their sin, believing that their prosperity will last forever. You know, I I've been doing this for years. You know, it's not right, but I've been doing this for years. It's it's it's okay, it's fine Just because you've sinned and continually have done the same sin for the years, you're presuming on God's mercy. You're presuming on God's long-suffering for you. That that day will come to an end. Back in Indiana when I was a a bus captain, there was this um a woman that I would pick up for church uh that was living in a homosexual relationship. Um now she knew better. She actually uh close to where we were there was another college um and she used to go to college there. uh at a at a fundamental independent bachelor's college. So she knew better in this relationship. She told me, you know, I know this isn't right, um, but it is what it is Uh she was in that circumstance for um for security or for whatever it was. I don't know the whole circumstance, but she knew better and she repeatedly refused to change. Uh and this is all her telling me this. Um, you know, sh she told me, well, I've been living this lifestyle for so long. God can look past that. And I don't know. I that really that really irked me. You know, I I know God is love, but God is also holy. And She knew better. It's not like she didn't know and she was just coming to the Lord. No, she had she told me all up front that hey I know I'm not supposed to be here. And just because you've gotten away with something doesn't make that okay. We know that is very deception deceptive and that leads to deception. We think that we're we're okay to do what we d d what we're doing because we've all always done it Psalm 73, you know, Asaph there in the Bible. Um he was struggling with that. And You know it was okay with him? Because he saw their end. If you if you read that chapter, that'll certainly goes parallel to this, and that would be an encouragement to you. All sin will be judged at some point. And this deception of thinking they can get people can get away with whatever they want will ultimately lead to defiance. And that is continuing in rebellion against God. That will invite God's righteous, and it is righteous, his judgment. You know, if we judged ourselves and took care of the sin in our life right away, God would not have to judge us First Corinthians eleven thirty one says, For if we would judge ourselves, we shall not be judged. That's pretty um that's pretty easy to understand. Young person, ignoring God's warnings leads to inevitable consequences. Please turn to Proverbs chapter 1 with me. We'll just be there for a moment and we'll go back to Ecclesiastes. Proverbs chapter one Verse twenty-four says, Because I have called and ye refused, I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded. But ye have set at naught all my counsel, and would none of my reproof. I also will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when your fear cometh. Wow. When your fear cometh as desolation and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind, when distress and anguish cometh upon you, then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they will shall not find me. For that they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They would none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices. That's a sobering passage of Scripture. Are you taking God's patience as an excuse to continue in sin? If so That's not the way to go. That will only lead to destruction. So first the patience of God, and secondly, we see the prosperity of the godless. The seeming success of sin. At times, sin appears to be rewarded, and the godless seem to prosper. Verse 12 says, Though a sinner do evil in a hundred times, and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him. We as humans can get so near-sighted that we see that and it causes us to get discouraged when we see others getting away with their sin. But their success is just temporary. They're temporary success. It only lasts for a moment. We know that and I won't repeat that. Psalm 73, verse 12 says, Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands innocent innocency. For all the day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. Like I mentioned earlier, Asaph struggled with the reality that many can seemingly get away with wickedness. But he understands it at the end when it's all resolved because he understands their end. He understands What happens to those people truly at the end. And it's much better where we are now, Christian. It's much better. Believer, God truly gets the last laugh. Doesn't he? Uh to to use if if you could allow me to use that word. Stay faithful. Don't allow the devil to discourage you because of the longevity of the witness because of their success, because of the rich person next door, or any other circumstance. You know what circumstance it is. Fill in the blink there. While the world focuses on temporal gain, their eternal consequences are they're not thinking about eternity. True wisdom in our lives will value eternity over earthly pleasures. So let's keep eternity's values in view. And then thirdly, the promise to the God-fearing. The promise to the God-fearing. Believer, we need to fear God. That doesn't mean to be terrified of him, like I mentioned earlier. It means to have a reverent awe, an obedient respect for God. So not only knowing who he is, but that motivates us to obey him, to respect him, to live a life pleasing to him. Ecclesiastes 12. 13. Fear God and keep his commandments Fearing God will, if we truly fear God, we will keep his commandments. Doesn't mean we don't always do it, but that should lead to us obeying God. If you fear God, you can have confidence in His will. You can have confidence that God will work all things together for good. Psalms thirty seven verse five says, Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass When we fear God, we will have confidence in his will. And that comes by having a healthy reverence for him, a healthy awe for him. A respect for him that motivates us to obey him throughout our day. And then lastly, we see the peril of the godless. The peril of the godless. The fleeting nature of the godless days. Life is short. For them, it's uncertain. Ask someone who's successful, who has everything, what's going to happen to them when they die. Most of them don't know. Their eternal future is totally unknown. James 4 14 says, Whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away A life is over in an instant. And they're so focused on building this life. You know. What do you want? What do you want? You know, I've I've many young people I'll I'll talk to, even people my age. What do you want? W you know, what what do you want to do when you grow up? What I don't care. Whatever makes the biggest dollar. You know, and and there's nothing wrong with making money, you know, I totally understand and and certainly in the world we live in, but um that shouldn't be our focus. Our sh if that's our focus, it's not gonna uh satisfy us. It's not going to um it's not going to end well. And we see also the finality, the finality of them, the of their doom. The judgment for the godless is certain and inescapable. Hebrews ten twenty-seven, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Their judgment's coming. It's coming. So allow that as sobering as allow that to encourage you. They will give an account for their sin. There will be a payday someday for all of us. But specifically the wicked who can go and do anything without thought or without consequence. Let me ask you this evening, what foundation are you building your life on? Are you pursuing your own desires? Thinking that that's going to lead lead to happiness? Thinking that's going to lead to satisfaction? It's like that cinnamon roll, right? It looks so good, but as soon as you take a bite, it's not what it was all talked up to be. What foundation are you building your life on? Are you building your foundation on the God's Word? In fearing God? Psalm seventy-three reminds us that we that what we see is not always what is true. You know, that's the day and age of social media, right? That people can post things and like, oh, they're doing so well, you know, they they just bought a new home. You know, they they bought a they bought a brand new hundred thousand dollar truck you know, they just took out a hundred thousand dollar loan. Uh but sometimes that, you know, can seem so like how do they do it? Um sometimes what we see is not always You know, what is the reality? And the prosperity of the godless, it sometimes can be confusing. And the patience of God can be misunderstood. But when we step into God's presence, When we fear the Lord, when we follow after Him, when we see life through His Word, the illusion fades and reality becomes clear. Tempted and tried were oft made to wander. Why it should be thus all the day long, while there are others living about us, never molested though in the wrong. Farther along we'll know all about it. Farther along we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother. Live in the sunshine. We'll understand it all by and by. I like verse 4 of this hymn that says, When we see Jesus coming in glory, when he comes from his home in the sky, then we shall meet him in that bright mansion. We'll understand it all by and by. Farther along we'll know all about it. Farther along we we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother. Live in the sunshine. We'll understand it all by and by. God's patience is not an approval to sin. It is an invitation to repentance. The success of the wicked is not security, but It's temporary. And the fear of the and the fear of God, for us to fear God, it shouldn't be a burden. The Bible says the fear of the God is the beginning of wisdom. And every life, all of us, life goes so quick, doesn't it? I and I'm only twenty-four, but I already feel like the last like literally the last five years I don't know where they went. And I know I'm just going to continue to say that for the rest of my life. Um but I think about the godless. Their foundation is not Christ, the solid rock. Their foundation is slippery. And they're slipping. No matter how stable they appear, even though they might seem stable, they're not. Specifically, eternally speaking. The God-fearing, we might we might walk through trials, and we do. All of us have our own trials, but we walk with God. And our future is secure because of God. So whatever you're going through tonight, your trials, who's walking with you? It's God. He is our rock. He is our security. So rest in that today. Take encouragement in that today. The question is not who's prospering now, but the question is It should be who will stand in the end, who will be there at the end. Are we measuring our lives by the moment or by eternity? May we leave here tonight resolved to not to envy the wicked, not to get discouraged when we see the wicked prospering. And not to waste God's patience. There's something in our lives we shouldn't be doing. We should get that taken care of. We need to resolve to fear the Lord. Motivate us to obey him, to trust God's promises, and walk faithfully until we see him face to face. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your goodness to us, God. Just thank you for just the lesson here tonight of fearing you, having healthy Fear of you and how that motivates us to live a life pleasing to you. But I pray that we would be encouraged tonight. I know all of us are going through trials of our own and sometimes they seem Overwhelming, but we can rest in you. On Christ the solid rock. We can rest in that. The wicked, they don't have that. Their rock, their rest is in what they have right now, and that's shifting sand. I pray that we would be encouraged, God, to live our lives pleasing and honoring to you. To not get discouraged at the wicked, to not get discouraged at the prosperity that they seemingly have with no consequence. Just pray that we would understand this truth and allow it to change our lives and to motivate us to live Better uh to live and to be better Christians for you. Just thank you for this truth, God. Uh we love you in your name. Amen.