Now turn your Bibles to Joshua chapter number twenty-four. Joshua twenty-four I am going to preach this morning a message that I've entitled Fifteen More Years. Uh it's hard to believe, as I said as we opened the service this morning, that uh Anniversary Sunday has passed. That it is done and gone, and we're already another Sunday. We've already moved uh another seven days, and isn't it amazing how life marches on Uh you have a culmination, uh a victorious day like that, and just so quickly life marches on. It just continues. God gave us a great day. I was walking out this morning and so excited that uh last Sunday was not like this Sunday, as far as the weather goes. I was praising the Lord that He uh held the rain off and he gave us some sunshine and even though we had a little bit of breeze uh you know got a little windy there for afternoon service it wasn't too bad and And uh we praise God for the day that we did have, because it certainly would have been a lot more difficult with this much water. Uh so I'm glad that we had that. But I praise God for the good good day that he gave us. As a church, I would love to see God give us fifteen more days. years. I would love God to see even beyond that. But uh I think about Hezekiah and he was going to die. He was going to pass off the sea and he said, God, please know. And God said, okay, I'll give you fifteen more years. And uh, you know, so uh I I just look at that and say, well, by God's grace and for his glory, if he would give us fifteen more years, what a glorious thing that would be. And if the church can put up with me that long, it would be my privilege to continue to serve and and to be the pastor and celebrate our thirtieth anniversary together fifteen years from now. And would love to be able to do it with you, the church family, still here, still serving. honoring God with your lives. As we look at this thought this morning, uh I want to see what would cause uh that not to happen. Um we see the children of Israel here and we as we read this portion of scripture you're gonna see that uh Uh Joshua's about to pass off the scene. He's reached the end of his days, and he's kind of he's worried. He's worried that the people are going to depart from God. And you see that over and over again in his conversation that he has here with them. He says, hey, this is important. Don't miss this. Uh I don't want you to stray. I don't want you to go away. And uh so Look with me in Joshua chapter 24. Familiar passage of scripture here, especially verse number 15, but uh Joshua 24, verse number 14 is where we'll start reading and read down through the end of the chapter. You follow along with me He says, now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and truth. Now understand, these are essentially the last words of Joshua. He's getting to the end of his life. He knows he doesn't have much time left. And he's challenging the people. He says, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose this day whom ye will serve, whether the gods which your fathers served, which were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose lands ye dwell But as for me, in my house, we will serve the Lord. Amen. And the people answered and said God forbids that we should forsake the Lord to serve other gods. For the Lord our God He it is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage and which did those great signs in our sight and preserved us all the way wherein we went, and among all the people through whom we passed. They said, man, how could we possibly forsake God? He's the one that freed us. He's the one that provided for us. He's the one that protected us. In verse number 18, he says, And the Lord drove out from before us all the people, even the Amorites which dwelt in the land. Therefore will we serve the Lord, for he is our God. And Joshua said unto the people, You cannot serve the Lord, for he is a holy God, he is a jealous God, he will not forgive your transgression nor your sins. If ye forsake the Lord and serve strange gods. What Joshua is saying is you can't serve strange gods and God. God's not gonna just overlook that. He's a jealous God. You can't do both. He says if ye forsake the Lord and serve strange gods, then he will turn and do you hurt And consume you, after that he hath done you good. And the people said unto Joshua, Nay, but we will serve the Lord. And Joshua said unto the people, Ye are witnesses against yourselves that ye have chosen you the Lord to serve him. He says, Hey, everybody heard you say it. You said it. You said you're going to serve God. You said, Pastor, I'm going to be here. You said, I'm going to continue to serve God. I'm going to continue to trust Him. I'm going to continu to be in my place He said, everybody was a witness to that. Verse number 23, he says, now therefore, put away, said he, the strange gods which are among you. And incline your heart unto the Lord God of Israel. And the people said unto Joshua, The Lord our God we will serve, and his voice will we obey. So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and set them a statue and an ordinance in Sekem. And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God, and took a great stone and set it up under an oak. that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us. For it hath heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us, it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God. So Joshua let the people depart, every man into his inheritance Every man went back to the place that God had promised him, the land that he had given them. They went back to the inheritance as he met with them and said, I'm passing off the scene. God's been so good to us. God's blessed us. God given us this promised land. He's given us this inheritance. And he says, let me caution you. God is a jealous God. You can't decide to serve him and the God of your fathers who were in Egypt. You can't do that. And he had this fear, and they said, Oh, Joshua, no, no. No, we are going to serve God. We make a testimony to you. And he says, Hey, everybody heard it Hey, we're going to set up this stone. This stone is going to be a witness to the testimony that you made that you were going to be faithful to God. As I've had many times people tell me, Pastor, I'm there. I'm part of the church. I'm going to be there. I'm going to be in my place. I'm for you. I'm for the church. I want to see God bless. If we're going to experience and know the joy of celebrating our 30th anniversary, we've got to learn some things from the people of Israel here today. I think we've got to set them down in our hearts and minds as a testimony and a commitment with God right now to prepare that we might. Because It's only a couple of chapters later when Joshua's fears were realized. You see, in Judges chapter number two and verse number eight, uh Joshua passes off the scene. It says that in Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being a hundred and ten years old. Now, Dr. Keller, you've got a little ways to go. We'll throw a party for you if you get to 110. Amen. We're going to celebrate with you. Now, in all fairness, the Pastor Gus, Dr. Keller, told me this morning he was 101. That's what he told me. And I said, really? And he says, yeah. So uh I think uh we must have been hearing incorrectly here, but uh I suppose when you get that old it doesn't matter, right? Gotta count him down. Praise God. Uh I'm excited that Dr. Keller can get here and be here for church. And uh that he's doing as good as he is. Amen. He died when he was 110. Why don't you turn over there to Judges? Judges chapter number two You realize we're just a couple of chapters forward. You're in the end of Joshua. We're going to turn to Judges. Joshua Judges, chapter number two. Look down to verse number 10. And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers. And there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works. Which had done for Israel. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam, and they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which had brought them out of the land of Egypt. And followed other gods of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger. And they forsook the Lord and served Baal and Astrod. Just two chapters later. How is this possible? How could they so quickly go from uh hey we're there We're going to be apart. We're going to see God do this. We're excited about the future. Boy, we're going to celebrate 15 years. We're going to celebrate 20 years. We're going to celebrate 30 years together. Amen. Let's do it. Let's see God. To just two chapters later later forsaking God. How do they do that? What happened? I want us as a church to maybe glean some things from this, put them away in our heart and our mind, and help us not to go the way of the children of Israel. That we might have the joy of celebrating twenty years together. Have the joy of celebrating twenty-five and thirty years together. That God would give us fifteen More years. Let me pray and we'll ask God to speak to our hearts. Lord, we come to you this morning. We ask you, God, that you would open the scripture to us, give us understanding. We pray, God, that you would speak to our hearts. We ask you, God, you would stir us. To commit to you and to our memory these things that we learned this morning from the children of Israel, that God, we would put up a hedge, a barrier. To mark and guard ourselves against heading the way that the children of Israel did. That Lord, it wouldn't be said of Hunt Valley Baptist Church that they were on fire, but they've turned away. They were serving God, but they've fallen by the wayside. I pray, God, as a church, we would continue to honor you and lift high the cross of Jesus Christ and Lord for many, many years to come. We can continue to be a lighthouse for you in this community. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. What happened to the children of Israel can happen to any church. Any church that was a lighthouse in their community, any church that stood as a beacon to the to the goodness and the glory of God in any community can go very quickly From that lighthouse to just a shell of what it used to be. To just a shell of what it once was. Once a group of people that were on fire for God to see God do great things, now just existing together in what would be a social gathering. You understand that it's the hand of God. Just as quickly as God can take a group of people, a place, a church, and put his hand of blessing, provision, and protection upon a church. He also can take his hand off. And that quickly the church goes, and they might as well put Ichabod on the front of the church. The glory of the Lord has departed. If we as a church are going to stand for something and continue to have a strong impact and a strong heart for people, To reach those nearest, our neighbors in all nations. If we are going to continue, we must be vigilant, be sober, because our adversary, the devil, would try and stop us. We must reach the next generation with the truths of what God has done in our hearts and what God has done in our lives and impart unto them a faith that would carry them through into days to come. How many churches have you seen over the years that once were thriving, that once were vibrant, that once were on fire? And now are just a shell of their former glory. I don't want that to happen here. I want to have the same fire, to have the same zeal, the same ambition, the same desire to impact and reach people for God, the same goal. to help people head towards God any way we can 15 years from now that we have right now. If we're going to see that, we've got to learn some things. First of all, we want to learn as we look at them something that they forgot. What'd they forget? What did the children of Israel forget? What led them down this path? Verse number 17 in our text back in Joshua chapter number 24. He says, for the Lord our God, he it is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt from the house of bondage. You see, they forgot their start. They forgot where they began. They forgot that God brought them up out of bondage. God brought them from a place of bondage. They forgot that they once were in total and complete captivity. I apologize. I've got this cough this morning that doesn't want to quit. And I got water. It's just uh I don't like drinking it because it's distracting. For you, not for me. They forgot their start. They forgot the fact that they were in bondage. Christian, let me just take a moment and apply this to the Christian. You understand that we were dead in our trespasses and sin. that we were in bondage to Satan, that we were bound up in the chains of sin, and that Jesus Christ in his glorious way died on the cross for us that we could be forgiven of our sin and freed from that. We've gotta never forget, never forget where we came from. That that Jesus saved us from bondage, that he freed us from that sin. Why would we continue any longer therein? Why would we go back to that which held us captive? They forgot that they were bound as slaves, that they had no control over their lives, and God in His mercy reached down and picked them up, pulled them and delivered them from this bondage. They forgot the struggle. Of how it was and how God brought them up out of that land. As a church, we can't forget where we started. We can't forget the days that there was nothing. We can't forget the days that there was no property. That there was no church building, that we met in the storefront, that we as a church began to fast and we began to pray and beg and Seek God that some way, some way, God, could you please in a miraculous way we need you to do something to provide for us a place to have church? I mean we sought for it, we hungered for it, we wanted it, we looked for it, we fasted and we prayed. We can't forget it. We can't forget those days where we saw God do the miracles that brought us into this place. That we gather now and worship him. What a joy it is. We can't forget the days when there was just 20 or 25 people in a service. And twelve of them were batrels. I remember those services. We can't forget the days like that where God brought us up. God lifted us. This was God's church, and he miraculously put his hand of blessing on it. And continued to bring people and continue to bring people. And we saw people saved and we saw people baptized and we saw people growing in the Lord. And God would bring some more people To the point where we couldn't fit in the storefront anymore. And we said, God, we can't, you keep bringing them, and we have no place to put them. We need you to do something. And God miraculously provided this place Man, we can't forget what where God brought us from. It's easy to walk in now and feel like it's just always been this way. It's easy to come into church, and now that we've been in this building for 10 years, it's mind-boggling. We've been in church here for ten years. In this building, in this place, and it's easy just to feel like it's always been this way. That there wasn't some prayer and some struggle and some fasting and some miracles of God that brought us to this place. We can't forget what God has done. They forgot their start. They also forgot that their success was given to them by God. They forgot that their success was given to them by God. Somehow, after some time, they began to feel that they had achieved this victory on their own That somehow they had succeeded in their life and reached this attainment without God. We can't afford to do this because we need to understand it's all God. John chapter fifteen, verse number four and five says, Abide in me and I in you. As the branches cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye, abide in me. I am the vine, and ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me ye can do nothing. We can't forget, Christian, that the success of Hunt Valley Baptist Church has been because of God. We can't look at any particular man and say that the success of the church was because of this man, or the success of the church was because of this person, or because we had great Sunday school teachers and All of everybody doing their part and bringing honor and glory to God, but understand the success, any measure of success we've had as a church has been because of God. It was given and granted to us by God, given to us to bring honor and glory to God, not to lift up any man. It has been given to us by God in the past, and understand, Christian, if we're going to continue to see victory in days to come, if we're going to continue to see God bless Hunt Valley Baptist Church in days to come. It's not because of one man. It's not because of one Sunday school teacher or because of the dynamic personality of somebody who gets up and leaves us singing here It's because God Almighty chose in his mercy to put his hand on this place. We can't forget that it's God. And let me just apply it to your life as well, wherever you at, whatever measure of success you've achieved, please remember it's God. It's God that did it. Lest ye forget your success came from God. And he removed that blessing from you You understand that God's blessing, God's power, God's blessing in our lives is conditional. It is conditional. In verse number 20, he says, if ye forsake the Lord and serve strange gods, then he will turn and do you hurt and consume you. After that he has done you good. He says, after God, don't think that because God has blessed you all this way that God has blessed you every day, that God has blessed you and provided for you and met your needs and somehow you've achieved this on your own. Don't think that all of a sudden you can do whatever you want Because God's just going to continue to bless. He says, you turn away from God and listen here, don't trust me if God doesn't start to do you hurt. Even after he did you good. You think, oh, God's not going to do that. I mean look at all this blessing. He wouldn't, he wouldn't hurt. It's not what he says there. The blessing of God on a church or on an individual is conditional on us obeying Him. On us obeying him. Joshua chapter 1 and verse number 8 says, For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Prosperity and success comes because we follow this book. They forgot where they started. They forgot where they came from. They forgot that the success they had was from God and not some program, not some person. But from God. If we're going to continue to see success, we've got to remember that God did it What did they change? What did the children of Israel change? They forgot some things, but then they changed some things too. You see, they softened their convictions The children of Israel. They they they softened their convictions. Instead of living by principle, they chose to live by popularity. You see, God had told them to go in and possess the land and to utterly destroy them. To drive them from the land. That's what God told them to do, but they decided, you know what, we want to be liked by these people We want these people to enjoy our company, and so we want to be more concerned about how we're perceived than we are about obeying God And they began to live by popularity instead of biblical principle. They began to coexist with the enemy. Listen, friend, we don't decide what we're going to do or not do as a church by what's popular in the community. We don't decide what we're gonna do or not do at Hunt Valley Baptist Church by what is acceptable in society. By God's grace and with his strength, we will determine what is right by the Word of God. Standing on the Word of God and continue to do what God has told us to do. Now, I would love it if everybody in Baltimore loved Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I wish they would get on the news once a week and praise the good people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. For their love for the community and their ministry here in this place. That would be exciting to me. But you and I know that ain't gonna happen. And we're not going to change what we believe or what we teach or where we stand or what we practice to try and earn that. What we want to do is try and please God. Continue to have God's blessing. Continue to let God lead. So that we can see God continue to do great things. Instead of separation, they chose cooperation. The new generation began to intermarry with the heathen, with the Canaanites. And as would happen, they began to serve false gods. In Judges chapter 3, verses 5 and 6, he says, And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hebotites. And the Jebusites, and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods. You see, that's what happens. It's not the job of the church to bring the world in to try and Reach the world. I don't know about you, but I come to church to get out of the world. I come to church to have a little bit of reprieve from what the world offers. The last thing I want to do is come to church and have more of the same. More of what they're offering everywhere else. I don't want to have the church filled with the world's tools or the world's methods. But I want to have it filled with God's power and his presence that he might change my life. They also strayed from their commitments. They softened their convictions and they strayed from their commitments. You remember we read it. They said, Oh no, Joshua. We will serve God. We will. He's the one that brought us up. I mean, how could we not serve Him? He freed us, He protected us, He walked with us. Through all these battles, through all these struggles. I mean Joshua and the children of Israel, they saw so many things. I mean you think about it They walked in across the Jordan and went up to Jericho and experienced the victory of seeing the walls of Jericho come down. Wow. They said, Joshua, we're going to serve him. How can we not? But they forgot that commitment. Right? I can tell you time after time after time I've sat in the hospital with people who said, Pastor Caleb, I know why I'm in the hospital. Pastor Caleb, if God I'm telling you right now, if God heals me and I get out of the hospital, I'm going to be in church every Sunday. Where are they? They forgot that commitment. Did they promise God or not? If we're going to continue and be able to succeed and see 15 more miraculous years, we've got to remember the commitments we've made to God. And sometimes they're going to get hard to keep, and sometimes the devil's going to come in and try and bind us up and keep us from succeeding and continuing on with that commitment. But we've got to remember it and keep doing it. Amen. Consider with me what they lost. They lost a few things. They lost the vision of what could be possible. They lost a vision of what God could do. I mean, here they were, a people that came into the promised land, and at first they look at the giants and they think, man, we can't look at these giants. They saw this land and thought, wow, this land that floweth with milk and honey, my goodness, this is miraculous. We I mean we could actually possess this land. That's amazing. God, we're with you, boy. We're excited about it. We want to see you do it. They went in and took the land with heart and with passion, like Caleb, who said, I want that mountain. I want that mountain. He saw it, saw what was possible with God and went after it. And as a young church, With just a few people in the pews. We had a group of people that had what you might call a pioneering spirit. They saw what was possible with God. And they said, we're going to go after it. We're going to pay the price. Amen. We're going to pay the price. We're going to do what's necessary. We're going to work hard. We're going to serve. We're going to pray. We're going to seek God. We're going to Be right with God in our own hearts Because we want to see God do something, and we're going to do whatever we need to do to see that happen. We've got to. Because if we don't, this thing's going to fail. If we don't, we're going to fall by the wayside. Like the old taking of the West, the pioneers who went out all on their own. They were out there by themselves and had nothing. And they said we can do it. And as a young church, we had a church full of people with this heart and this passion and the desire to see God do something great and willing to pay the price to see it happen. And God continued to bless. And God continued to bless. And now, as a church, we've been sitting in the promised land for a little while. We're enjoying the benefits of the faithfulness of the earlier generation. And I wonder if we've lost the pioneering spirit. I wonder if we've lost the desire to pay the price, to do what's necessary, to see God take the church to the next level. They lost the spirit that motivated them to reach for the stars. When this church was just a dream, there was a few that were committed to pay whatever price is necessary to see God do something great. But now that we have a building, now that we have ushers serving, now that we have teachers in the Sunday school classes, and we have choir that sings and somebody that leads the choir and instrumentalists that play. There's other people that can do the ministry. It doesn't matter if I'm present or not. It doesn't matter if I'm at church. It doesn't matter if I come and help because somebody else will help. It doesn't matter if I do my part because somebody else will pick up where I left off. What I'm saying is if we want to see God do something great for 15 more years, we've got to get that pioneering spirit back. We gotta get that vision of what's possible with God and be willing to go after it. We can't just sit on our oars and say, God, do something. We've got to see God, but He's gonna do it through us. If we're going to see fifteen more years of victory, if we wanna, as a church, go forward instead of backwards. We've got to get hungry again. We've got to desire it again. We've got to get a vision of what's possible. with God at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You see If we're going to have 15 more years and celebrate 30 years together as a group, still seeing and experiencing the blessing of God, we can't forget where we started from We can't forget that our success comes from God. We can't afford to change our convictions. We've got to remain true to the Word of God and to the truths that He has taught us. We've got to stick by the stuff. We can't forget our commitments. Can't change the commitments that we've made to God. And we can't afford to lose the vision of what's possible with God. Because with by faith all things are possible. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Dear God, I ask you this morning that you would come in a real and powerful way to the heart of your people today, each and every individual Every person present, I pray God there would be a renewed commitment to you. A renewed vision of what's possible in this church, in and through your power. A renewed desire to see that come to fruition. I pray, God, we would not forget where we came from, that you've saved us by grace. You've lifted our feet out of the miry clay and set them on a rock. I pray our success would be recognized as from you. Lord, would you motivate your people? To be willing to pay whatever price is necessary, to bring honor and glory to you, to see you do great and mighty things. And we'll praise you for it. Dear God, if there's one here that hasn't trusted Jesus, Christ, that hasn't had their feet lifted out of the mirror clay, that hasn't bowed their head in submission to you, that's been free from the bondage of sin, I pray God, they would come today before it's eternally too late. We ask you to be with this invitation in Jesus' name. Amen.