I want to begin Sunday school hour here with a word of prayer, and then we're going to get back into our lesson that we introduced uh last week. But uh let's just start this morning, ask the Lord to bless as we meet this morning. Lord, thank you for the privilege to gather in your house. Thank you for these that have made church a priority this morning that gathered here for the Sunday school hour. Lord, I know there's some that are tuning in online. I pray God that you would uh use the word uh in their heart and life as well. Thank you for them taking time to uh tune in and pause life for a few minutes and be instructed from the Word of God I ask you that you would bless our time together, that it would be profitable, that Lord, you would speak to our hearts and challenge us spiritually and strengthen us in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you so much. Well, we have been looking, uh started last week and we did basically just the introduction to this this thought or idea of putting your life in order, written and put together by Brother Townsley, a series of of lessons. And uh I'm gonna try and I I mean I have my notes typed up here, but Uh I I want to look and see what you're looking at uh so that I can make sure I get you the the proper blanks. Now last week we just kind of really dealt with the introduction to the introduction and and this morning if you're there's no page numbers it would help if there was especially once we get further down But we are on the page that actually says introduction. And last week we gave you the first two blanks. The Apostle Paul is an example of a what is the word that goes there? Victorious Christian, correct. So at the end of his life he wrote to Timothy stating, I have fought a good fight. Now you must learn How to experience victory. And we need to learn how to experience victory over the world, the flesh, and the devil. The apostle says, I've fought a good fight, I've finished my course, I've kept the face. Beloved, we're in a battle and Paul is saying that I want to fight a good fight So we're beginning here with point number one in the introduction is are you fighting a good fight? You must have an awareness of the battle on a daily basis. You must have an awareness of the battle on a daily basis. We have to be living in a constant awareness of the battle. Uh this battle readiness. How many of you have spent time in the military? Anyone here that's been in the military? No? Okay, well, I haven't either. However, I from talking to those that have not just served in the military, but actually been uh either to Vietnam or to the Iraq war, uh you know, the idea of battle readiness, that wears on an individual. That type of thing that it's just always there. You just have to always be vigilant. They've spent time on the front lines And you never know when the enemy's gonna attack and happening to be ready for an attack at any moment and that battle readiness and and it is such a reprieve when they get some R and R and they're able to step away from the front lines for a little while because they can relax. They can relax a little bit. Because they don't have to be so vigilant and so on focus and point because they're not on the front line anymore. But the problem b is that many Christians spend their life in R, in relaxing, not battle ready. You know, Satan's not going to come up and say, okay, this week uh you're going to have a battle, so you better get ready. And so we, oh, I need to get ready for a battle. I need to prepare spiritually and get strong and be ready to face Satan. He's not going to give us a warning. It's just going to come, right? So we need to be battle ready. We get to realize that we are in a battle. You've got to recognize, because we're in a battle, you need to recognize your need for God's help. Your need for God's help. Beloved, we need God's help in this battle. God is my strength. I look to Him for help. You need to look for Him to help. And God wants to provide help. He's there for us. He's a present help in time of need. He is our God. He is our strength. And he's ready and willing to give us that help, but we do need to rely on him. We need to rest in him. We need to look to him for that help. Are you surrendered to him and allowing him to be the help that you need? You must use the weapons provided by God. You must use the weapons provided by God. So you understand, beloved, we are in a spiritual battle. It's the spiritual warfare. So you tell me this morning what are the weapons that have been provided to us by God? What are our weapons as believers? The scriptures and prayer. Those are our two offensive weapons that we have to fight against Satan. We've got to use those weapons that have been available to us. that we got to be real familiar with the sword. You know, if if uh we you know brother Joe here is our our security uh head of security at the church And you know, he talks about different uh scenarios and he gets with the security team and he says, okay, we've got to practice, we've got to be ready. Hopefully we never need it. Hopefully it's never anything we have to do, but we need to in our heart and minds be prepared for when it does happen. So how is this scenario going to play out? Let's say this happens and they go through these scenarios and they look at this and say, okay, how are we going to respond What is our action going to be? And they they begin to prepare. And we have a couple of men that have been approved. Not because this is private property, not anybody can carry a gun here at church. We we do not just everybody can show up and have guns. We don't allow that. But there are some on the security team have been approved to carry guns. They've they've gone through the training and they've prepared. But you know, they have to go practice to be effective with their gun. That's the problem is we don't want just somebody that's happened to be carrying a gun to show up and start shooting. We want somebody that's practiced, somebody that's prepared, somebody that has gone through and begotten very proficient with that weapon because the last thing we need is somebody shot that's not supposed to be shot. Last thing is we need is somebody taking a bullet from fr because somebody didn't know how to use the tool that they have to defend with. And beloved, if we're going to be proficient, we need to have the sword and be proficient with it. If we went to a practical state and said, hey, here's your sword and we gave you a sword If all you did is strap it and put it on your waist and carry it around all the time, you know, as teenagers we call those guys posers. They they just they're posing for pictures with their sword. But they don't actually know how to use it, you know. Uh if you really wanted to use a sword effectively, it's very hard very difficult. A couple of years ago we did that vacation bible school, the medieval Bible school, the medieval theme And we tried to do some scenarios for skits where we were we were fighting with swords and doing these battles and we were we were trying to uh story play it out like okay now you're gonna come over the top and then then I'm gonna block like this and then and we practiced and practiced trying to get it where we could get it looking at least halfway effective. But it was hard to do that You've got to take time and energy and effort to be proficient with the sword. And as Christians, we can't expect to be able to use the sword effectively in the battle that we're in if all we do is carry it around. If all we do is carry it back and forth to church. If the only time that we are wielding the sword is Sunday morning in God's house. We've got to become more proficient in that. We've got to be better at using that weapon that God has given us. What about the weapon of prayer? How often are we praying? How, you know, sometimes I have had conversations with Christians, and I'm glad that they want to learn how to pray, but sometimes I've had conversations with Christians who have been saved 15, 20, 30 years. And they're saying, how how do you pray? Well that shouldn't be. Somebody who's been saved that long should have a whole lifetime. of experience praying and talking to God. Hey, he's your friend. Praying is just talking to a friend. Just talking to the Lord. Sharing your heart's desires, your pains, your your strengths. You're just talking to the Lord. And there's some principles biblically that, you know, things that we're supposed to be praying for. uh things that should be part of our prayers, such as praise and supplication for others and these things and you can learn that with time, but we ought to learn it. Are you using the weapons? Then you must develop a warfare mentality. We touched on this already, the idea that we're always in a battle. This warfare mentality, that state of readiness. That we need to be ready always. You know, Satan's going to come and attack when you least expect it. Not only that, you know in your life, if you're dealing with something in your life, you know. When you usually fall. You know, let's let's take it real practical and I hate to talk about this all the time, but it's such a prevalent part of my mind. When you're trying to diet, when you're trying to keep when you're trying to lose weight. It's like just always on your mind, like, no, I can't eat. I can't eat. No, I can't eat. It's just, it's always there. But you know I know for me, mornings. I can get up at six in the morning and go till two o'clock in the afternoon and not have any hunger pains. Doesn't bother me. Mornings don't bother me at all. I never have eaten breakfast. I I don't miss it at all. But I know for me from six in the evening till midnight Oh, I'm craving food. I love to snack at night. I will just eat a whole package of crackers and like five slices of cheese. You know, I mean just crackers and just that's a healthy snack. I mean at least it's not Reese's peanut butter cups. But I mean just snacking, just snacking. I love to snack and and oh the cravings and I just want that What I'm saying is I know when I'm going to be weak. And you do too. So you're dealing with something in your life that you're struggling with or that you need victory over. You need to start to acknowledge and look at and say, okay, when is Satan getting me on this? When is this coming? When is this temptation coming? When am I being faced with that? Is it a certain time of day? Is it a cer after a certain thing happens Is it as soon as something takes place in the home? What is the scenarios that that bring this about that cause me to be faced with this? You need to look at it so that you can be ready and be able to win the war. You must be persistent when the battle is severe When the battle is severe, you know Satan is going to continue to come. He's not just gonna, you know, you can't, like in on the wrestling mat, you can't just tap out. You can't just you can't just uh you know, trade in for somebody else what do they call that when they a tag team. You can't just oh hey, I'm I'm tired. Uh w when I went and played on the old timers who uh basketball game with the college kids. I played on the college basketball team in an old timers game and man I'll tell you what, them college kids will run you to death. And the thing is it's four or five times down the court, back and forth, we're running, and then us old guys are Where we're sucking wind and just just barely trying to keep up, but our coach would he would see us struggling and he would say, okay, swap out One of the one the the pastor of the church there he was playing too. And and he went down and and he turned around and you know when you play basketball you're supposed to go to the uh they're supposed to send somebody in for you and you go to the table there where they keep the records and the points and all that and you wait till it's in the middle of uh something and then they'll blow a whistle and then somebody can come out and you can go in. Well this guy this is the pastor of the church he just walked out and sat down and the coach was like you can't do that There's not even there's only four guys out there right now. You have to go back out there until they can switch. He says, I don't care what you do, and I ain't going back out there. He said, I am I am done. He said, I I can not I'm gonna have a heart attack Uh and so he sat down, he was done, you know. Uh but you know in our battle with Satan we can't do that. Satan's gonna keep coming, and sometimes you have got to just persist, even though Satan is causing you great trouble. So there is a c comment there by John Gill. You can read that, that's in your notes, just some thoughts about uh Paul and Timothy and how they relate to this battle. Secondly, he says, are you fulfilling God's plan for your life? Are you fulfilling God's plan for your life? Christians, this is vitally important. Paul sets forth a wonderful example for you to follow when he states, I have finished my course. Beloved, I ask you, are you running the course that God has set for you? What chorus are you on? Whose chorus are you running? Are you running God's plan? Have you found God's purpose or God's plan for your life? I saw a quote last night. I'm trying to think who posted it. It was on Facebook. I don't remember who posted it. Uh but it was a caption of a young man sitting in front of a TV with a controller in his hand playing video games, you know, and uh he's got snacks all over the floor around him and all that typical image, right? But the caption above it says A man without purpose distracts himself with entertainment. A man without purpose distracts himself with entertainment. And is not that the direction of our society today? People are just distracting themselves. Do you think Elon Musk is spending his afternoons and and his days uh playing games? No. The the amount of hours that he puts in, the work he puts in, because why? Because he has purpose. His purpose is to accomplish and fulfill different businesses that he has. But a lot of people are living without purpose. Have you found God's plan for your life? What you're supposed to be doing Not just any plan, not just a plan, but God's plan. Are you accomplishing what you know God wants you to do? The fact of the matter is, is many Christians aren't even conscious or aware of what God wants them to do in a general way. Let alone God's specific will for your life. He says, I finished my course. I wonder, beloved, if we get to the end of our life, all the way down and we get close to the end, are we going to be able to say, God? I've done what thou gavest me to do. Or are we going to have to say, actually, I have no idea what you really wanted? I just tried to do okay. Let me put it like this. What if on the way out of the house I told my kids, I said, listen kids, when I'm gone, I want you to get all this wood split. And uh this needs to be done before I get home. And then when I come home later on, all that wood is still there. I say, what did you guys do? And they're like, Dad, well you were gone. We did not watch any bad movies. We didn't listen to any rock music. We didn't do any fighting amongst ourselves. We didn't even curse or cuss at each other. And you know what, Dad? We even picked some trash up out of the yard. We did some good stuff Well that's fine. That's not what I told you to do. I told you to get that wood split And a lot of Christians are living, I would say, in a like they're trying to do good things. They're trying to keep from living a life of sin, which praise God for that. But what I'm asking you is you do you know God's plan for you? Are you fulfilling and accomplishing God's will for you? That will give you purpose in life. That will give you meaning in life to accomplish and do what you know God wants. Not just living life and hoping everything's okay. Beloved, there's nothing greater than fulfilling God's plan. Men and women today they spend their energy seeking happiness. All of their efforts and goals are seeking happiness, and they're miserable. But the believer seeks after the will of God, and he will often Sit back in awe at how good God is. What I'm saying is a contrast there is somebody that spends their life seeking their own happiness oftentimes are very miserable. But somebody that's looking to just fulfill and do God's will for their life, they look back in awe and say, man, God is so good. The joy that I have The the the the happiness that I have that I'm living because of God and what God has done, they'll sit back in awe and they'll think, man, I don't deserve this. God is too good to me. I don't deserve God's great blessing But he didn't get that joy and happiness by seeking everything he wanted. He gets it as a byproduct of seeking what God wants. Psalms 3723 says, The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. Are you delighting in his way? Are you delighting in your way? So there's five truths here. There's five truths. In your notes there, that little that verse is referenced, Psalms 37, 23. And uh you may want to ask that question, are you delighting in his way? It's God's way we should be delighting in. But there's five truths here that you must understand if we're going to finish our course for God. Five principles that are that are necessary. And first of all, it's God's plan is found in the Bible and revealed by the Holy Spirit. God's plan is found in the Bible and revealed by the Holy Spirit. Psalms one verses one through six, you guys know the verses Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth and see the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. So we talked about you knowing God's plan for your life. Well the beginning of that The foundation of that is just getting in God's Word. You know that's where God wants you to be. And His ultimate plan is determined and found in the Word of God. And if you're spending time in God's Word, you learn what God wants for you on a general basis. Like we know we're supposed to be reading our Bible, we're supposed to be praying, we know we're supposed to be in church, we know we're supposed to be a witness. And as we fulfill and do these things that we know God wants that ours, there's not any question about it Then we're able to carry a little bit further and accomplish ultimately what God wants for us as an individual. That becomes evident and real to us. So God's plan is found in the Bible. And he says here, as God reveals his will, you must act immediately by faith. Ecclesiastes 9. 10 That verse, Ecclesiastes 9. 10, says, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might, for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave whither thou goest. If you want to do something for God, you need to start now. He says, act immediately by faith. Act immediately by faith. That idea of, listen, when God points out his will, Do it now. Do it now. There are far too many Christians that in their heart and mind they say, Well, I will do that someday. I think that that would be good, and I would like to do that. As soon as the kids are in school, I look through here, there's people in every stage of life, and so we could say, you know You go all the way back, some of you got real young kids. And man, there's so much work. They're non-stop. I mean they're always underfoot and and As soon as the kids aren't underfoot all the time and I can stop and breathe for a minute, then I will go do this for God But then you find out that as soon as they're in school, there's all the running around you have to do in the back and the fourth and picking them up for this and taking them to that and you think, oh It's just so much and and now there's extra doctor's appointments and then you've got to go there here and there and and whatever, there's always something in the way. You say, oh, well, I'll do that as soon as the kids are old enough to drive themselves, as soon as they can handle themselves, and then you say, as soon as the kids are out of the house, then I it's just us again Oh well, I'm going to retire in a few years, and I'll do that for God as soon as I retire as soon as I get retired. I can't tell you how many times I've had a conversation that with somebody that was retirement age or beyond And they've said they wasted their youth on self. And now that they're old and they want to serve God. They desire to take their time and energy and effort to serve God. They said, we have no energy or effort. Boy, I wish I could do so much more for God, but I can't. My body won't allow me to. But when they're young and they could have, they were distracted by the cares of this world. So the principle here is don't wait. God shows you or gives you opportunity, do it now. Do it today. You'll never regret what you do for God today. Victory cannot be achieved through the flesh. Romans 7. 18. Victory cannot be achieved through the flesh, through our own strength. Romans 7. 18 says, For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. For to will is present with me, how to perform that which is good I find not. How foolish is it, beloved, to believe that I could fight a spiritual battle in my own flesh Just we're not going to do it. The Apostle Paul, one of the greatest Christians that ever lived, he says, The will is present with me. I desire to But for some reason, I just can't. And that's because in our flesh we can't do it. We don't have the strength in our flesh to gain victory over that sin. We don't have the strength in our flesh to do what God wants us to do. But in the spirit and in the power of God, we can do it. We just need to know these principles, realize that we're not going to do it in our flesh, so we need the Spirit of God. Disobedience in any matter leads to certain failure. Disobedience in any matter leads to d leads to failure. Um what do they say? Partial obedience is disobedience, right? Yeah, uh this principle or idea, disobedience in any matter, in one area, in one thing, is going to lead to failure. A lot of Christians look at their life and they say, well I'm doing this and this and this and this. Isn't that enough? Well, not if you know God wants this. Then you need to be doing what God has pointed out, what God has shown you. There is some disobedience in any matter is going to lead to failure. Luke 14, 26. He says, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and his wife and his children and his brother and his sisters, yea, in his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. This comparative language, we should love God with such a fervency and passioncy that it looks as though we we hate those that are here In Luke 14, 33 he says, so likewise whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath. Cannot be my disciple. He's saying, listen, there's one thing you're holding back, it's not going to work. Forsake all you that bake in here. You know, it's all of the ingredients put together that make a great cake. You can't say that uh, oh My wife likes to do this. She'll be making sloppy joes or or beef stew or something like that. And she'll be like, well I just don't have that ingredient. I'm gonna leave it out or I'm gonna I'm gonna substitute for something else. She'll throw in something else and then and then when I'm eating it I'm saying, what's wrong with this too? Like there's something wrong with it. It's not it's not right. She's like, Well, I didn't have any of this, so I put that in there. And I'm like, You can't do that. That doesn't work. I mean sometimes you can get away with stuff, but you know, especially like baking a cake or something, you know, you can't just leave the sugar out. You know my grandmother, she could make the most amazing pies on my dad's side, my dad's mom, the pies she could make. Oh beautiful as could be and tasted so delicious. Blessed best blueberry pie you ever had in your life. She's so good. But the last three years of her life she had dementia. and she was living with us and of course she loved to bake and she she wanted to bake things and I mean she just lost the ability to do it. Anyways one time she baked a cake and she substituted salt for sugar and sugar for salt. She's changed those two. She put a cup and a half of salt and four uh four teaspoons of sugar or whatever the numbers are supposed to be. And oh my goodness, you you know how bad that was And then she's like, I don't understand and she's eating it. She's at the table eating it. And she's like, I don't know why nobody's eating my pie. You know, she was very upset at us for not eating the pie But you can't just swap out something. One ingredient wrong is going to be a failure, right? That's the same thing in our Christian life. You know, y you take one small little thing, it's just the timing belt out of a car. Just one little belt. It's not that big a deal. Everything else is present. What's the matter? It's not gonna work, right? That's what he's saying for us. Disobedience in any matter will lead to failure. Turning back from your commitment to Christ is a serious offense. Luke 9, 262, and Jesus saith unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plow, though looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God. You guys know that song? No man having put his hand to the plow. You guys know that? No, well we'll sing it next week. Uh so we want to sing it now because I don't want to sing it by myself. This is recorded. Um so uh No man having put his hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Listen, when we commit and move forward for God, we need to stay committed. We need to keep on going. Don't turn back. It is a serious offense to turn back and say, oh, God, I'm going to do this for you. And then, oh no, I changed my mind, I'm not. We need to realize we need to continue on. In your notes there, he says Lord, thy will be done. Nothing more, nothing less, and nothing else. So here are some surprising people that God used. And what we're pointing out here is that God can use anybody if they're willing to just submit to God. Of course, Paul. What do we know about Paul? You tell me what did Paul do? He was a persecutor of the Christians. He killed Christians, and yet he was used by God, right? He was used by God. You have uh Amos, Amos, who is a herdman. And yet a great a great prophet. Nobody special. Not not anybody that could be recognized, but uh Gideon, the poorest and the least of his father's house, he says. Um Nobody special, but God used him in a great and mighty way. And Rahab, a harlot, yet in the lineage of Christ. So God can use any of us if we're willing to just follow Him. Then we see thirdly here, are you keeping the faith? Are you keeping the faith? The just live by what? Faith. That's your blank there. The just live by faith. Believers are called to a life of obedience to the Savior. Believers are called to a life of obedience to the Savior. And this is a constant thing we've got to submit. This verse he has here, Titus 2. 10, says, not purloining. But showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrines of God, our Savior, in all things Those two words there, perloining and fidelity. They're fiduciary terms or terms that deal with finances. And those terms perloining, it means to embezzle. to to cheat. And fidelity means honesty. That's why there's Fidelity Bank. Because they're saying, hey, you can trust us You can put your money here. See our thread on our name. We're honest. Fidelity Bank. Uh and that idea he's saying That we need to don't don't be dishonest. Don't say we're going to do something and not do it. Be obedient to the Savior. Christ's commands are to be steadfast. Christians, sorry, are commanded to be steadfast. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-eight. Therefore, my beloved Beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. The fact of the matter is that we are called as Christians to be steadfast, to be faithful. to be always abounding in the work of the Lord, just to continue, to keep on, keeping on. Are you doing it? It's amazing people that serve in different ministries in the church and they do it every week. And they do it every week and they do it every week and they do it every week. It's not something that that oh can you get somebody to cover this week and can you get somebody to cover next week and oh I can't be there this week and you know once out of every six weeks they actually do what they were said they were going to do No, that's not somebody who's being steadfast. Now, once a year they're gone on vacation or you know once every six months they have an emergency in the family or something like that, that's understandable, but other than that, they're there. They're in their place, they're serving, they're being steadfast. We are made stewards of the gospel. We're called to keep it and preach it. We're stewards of the gospel. We must resist, we must resist every temptation to quit or compromise. You've got to resist. Revelation 4. 12 says, here is the patience of the saints. That patience there is is the idea of cheerful endurance. Resist every temptation. You guys ever been tempted to quit? Everybody. It gets hard. Sometimes you look at it and say, man, this struggle for the Christian life and for spiritual things, it's not worth it. I've got to be battle ready all the time? I've got to be ready to face Satan all the time? Forget it, I'm I'm just tired of keeping up my guard. And I'll tell you what, that's one of the reasons as Christians we look to the eastern sky. We look for the time when Jesus is going to come back again, and we're we're we're gloriously waiting that day because we're we're tired of the battle. But we don't want to quit. We've got to resist the temptation to quit because Satan would love to get you to quit. Listen, there's many examples in the word uh that we have of Christians that stood by the faith. They're in Hebrews chapter eleven, verses thirty-three to thirty-eight, there's a group of Christians that are mentioned there that are uh we don't even know their names. They were just recognized by God as being faithful of continuing on. You know, William Tyndale. We have a picture of William Tyndale, and he is known for publishing and putting the Word of God in the language of the common man. He was put to death for doing so. And I wonder, are we keeping the faith like that? Are we keeping the faith with the kind of cheerful endurance, the kind of patience that these in mentioned in the book of Hebrews had? Are you fighting the good fight? Are you fulfilling God's plan? Are you keeping the faith? Then there are some things here. How can your life be best described? How can your life be best described? We've got a couple minutes here. We don't have time to really dive into this. I wish we could, but here's a chart for you to look at. Are you living a defeated life? Question number one. You're not faithfully praying and reading the Bible. You're living a defeated Christian life. Or are you lukewarm? You're merely going through the motions of Christianity, but you're kind of holding the semblance of it anyway. Or you are you victorious as a Christian? You're faithfully studying and obeying the Word of God. Just kind of a chart there for you to uh how can your life be best described? Are you defeated? That is not uh changing constantly for the better, not improving, not taking steps for God? Or you're lukewarm, you're kind of existing, but you've lost your passion or your love for souls. Or you're victorious, you see yourself growing. And you can go through those things yourself. Make some notes, figure out where am I, where do I need to move to the right on this to reach a victorious state. Just like dress rehearsal for a play, there's a paragraph for you there. He says you should periodically review your life and rehearse. A rehearsal reveals your weakness and allows you the opportunity to change before the final presentation. Pondering the end of your life can revolutionize your present life. It can revolutionize. That Psalm 90, verse number 10 tells us that's the passage of scripture that tells you uh that our life uh is four score. You know that you're gonna live and if by a reason of strength Um, you know, you may live another ten years. Uh that kind of the length of our days are numbered. That's what he's talking about. And in keeping that in mind, helps us to live today Well, there's five questions that demand to answer. I'm going to give you these two to you quickly so that we can conclude the introduction today. First of all is are you Adorned with a white wedding garment. Matthew 22, 12. And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. He's saying, Hey, you came to the wedding without a garment? But he's saying it's just because you come to church doesn't mean you're saved. Just because you say Lord, Lord, he's going to say, many saith unto me, Lord, Lord, and I'll say unto them, depart from me, I never knew you. He's saying, do you have a wedding garment? The question here is, are you saved? Do you know beyond a shadow of doubt? You're not going to be a victorious Christian if you aren't first a Christian. You've got to know that you know Jesus Christ. You put your faith and trust in him and he's forgiven you of your sin. It's not about how long you've been in church. It's have you been clothed with a white redding garment? Then question number two is how shall you escape if you neglect so great a salvation? That's Hebrews 2, verse number 3, and that is that question is in that verse. How shall you escape you to neglect so great a salvation? Number three is will you be ashamed at his coming? I can tell you growing up there was many times that I was ashamed when mom and dad came home because I hadn't done what I knew they wanted me to do while they were gone. And that's the question here. When Jesus comes back, or when our days are done and our race is run, Are we gonna be ashamed? You don't have to be. There's times when I come home and my kids have a smile on their face. And and they are almost just waiting for me to ask what they did while I was well gone, you know, uh because they did what they were supposed to do above and beyond And they want to show me. They want to, you know, uh what did you do? Let me show you. And they'll take me around. They're like, look Uh I did what you asked, but I also look look in my room. I cleaned my whole room, put all of this stuff away, and I swept the hallway and and then I stopped the fire downstairs. Wow, son, that's awesome. Great job. They were over they they were looking at it. Or there's been times where when I came home and they were hiding. You know, because they're ashamed. Are you are you or I going to be ashamed when Jesus comes back? Is your life a living sacrifice acceptable unto God? Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove that which is good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Are you a living sacrifice? Submitted to God? And have you looked back? Again, no man putting his hand to the plow. And looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Joshua purposed in his heart. You got those blanks there? Yeah, Joshua purposed in his heart to serve the Lord, and Daniel purposed in his heart. Not to defile himself with the king's meat. These are principles that are foundational to the study that we're going to get into. Now the Battle primarily involves three influences. Those are the world, the flesh, and the devil. That's uh on the next page there. We're going to next week pick up with the lure. Lure, lure. That's a hard word to say, right?