We're going to get into the Word of God. Now would uh you turn to Proverbs chapter number 20? That's where we're going to begin, Proverbs chapter number 20. You know, beloved, we often establish expectations for our own life That is, we kind of set forth some goals or some dreams or some vision for what we want to be or where we want to end up. Especially the younger generation. Uh, you know, my uh a large part of my family's kind of right at that stage. Uh uh Alicia, you know, she already got married and it's that's done, she's gone. But uh the others are just right at that stage and they're looking at at you know, kind of thinking about you guys understand the the dreams and aspirations of a young man and Andrew and Timothy currently looking for the future and where do I want to be? And actually this last week Timothy was at an interview for a job and the owner of the business said, well, Timothy, I would like to know where do you see yourself in two years? What is your aspirations? What ultimately do you see yourself doing in two years? And we tend to in our lives, kind of set some goals or some some vision and say, boy, this is what I want to accomplish, or this is where I would want to be Well, we've all done that. We've all envisioned ourselves five years from now or ten years from now or this is what I would love to be or what I would love to accomplish. And for some of us, the reality of life has hit us and realized maybe some of those dreams were a little bit ambitious Uh maybe they w y y I think maybe you've come to the realization you're not going to be an NBA star. Okay, that struck a few of us Uh you're not going to be a movie star. You aren't going to make it big in in business or or whatever that might be. So the reality of life is you say, okay Well, m maybe I've got to be satisfied as a door greeter at Walmart or whatever it might be. I don't know what it is, but Here's what I'm saying. Maybe in your life you had a vision or a dream and thought you would be there by now. You thought, man, I thought I would have kids by now, or I thought I would uh be the the boss of my company by now or that I would reach this level of management by now or I thought by now surely I would be financially stable that I would have a home and and and maybe some retirement saved and I would I would be on my way to financial freedom or but boy I'm so far behind all of those aspirations You haven't quite got as far as you thought you would, your own dreams or aspirations. Well, just this last week, as I was talking to Pastor Mark Wagner uh about coming and and Mm. He's able to come and preach on that Sunday. But we were discussing the church. He's faithfully served in his church for 18 years there, and he's doing a great job. Excuse me, he's a small small town and you know I one of the things I was afraid of when I was submitting gingerly to the Lord's will for my life, you know, okay, you you know, you want me to pastor or or you know, do this, Lord, I I'll I'll be okay with that. But I was afraid he was going to send me to a small town. I'm not a small town pastor. Uh that's a different kind of ministry. It really is completely different. You have to have a personality to serve in a small town, and that's not me. And uh, you know, it just you know I just don't fit that mold very good and I thought, man, the Lord's gonna do it just to punish me. He's just gonna stick me right in some small town and but praise the Lord he did not do that. I I love what where the Lord has us and uh serving here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and in in the community in which we live and uh I don't know some of you may not like it but the proximity to Baltimore and DC and all that I love r I love where we live and The seasons and all that, but that has nothing to do with this. So I was talking to him about this and we were talking about the ministry and the joys of serving the Lord and the burdens that are upon us and You know, I told them, I said, hey, uh, it's exciting. There's a great spirit in the church right now. I mean, the the the church family is excited about the things of the Lord, and and uh I said, you know, I would take a a great spirit in the church. of a hundred people before I would take five hundred people that are bickering and arguing and complaining and mad at each other or just you know just that that disgruntled, you know, clicks everywhere and people don't get along and all that that foolishness. I said, I I'm not interested in that at all. And then I said, but if I was to be really honest with you, Brother Wagner, I said, I uh I do wish the church would grow a little more. I I wish that as a church we could see some more people coming. I mean and and you know I've been doing this really leading the church for ten years now and and I I I looked at it and thought, well, surely we would be pushing 200 by now or or the baptismal waters would be stirred on a weekly basis or at least a monthly basis and and If I looked at myself and said, boy, what would my aspirations be, I have to tell you that I wish there was more And he understood that. He's a pastor. He understands the weight and the struggle and the desire to see God do great things among his people and the battle in your heart and mind where you wonder, is it is it me? Am I the the weak link? Am I the failure? Am I the reason that God is not accomplishing these things in our midst? What seems to be the struggle? Why is it that we that sometimes we look at it and say, oh, well, we take two steps forward and then we take one step back? And oh I could live with that actually But what really hurts me as a pastor is when we take one step forward and three steps back. And I'm like, Lord, what's going on? You know, I don't know what it is. God will bring somebody new to the church and they're excited and they get in and they're participating And then all of a sudden somebody's, you know, life changes come and somebody has to move away to be with family, or somebody's job moves them, or You know, situations come and for one reason or another that, oh, here God brought this person into the church and okay, but now those three people are leaving. Like what Lord, what what's going on? And and my desire and goal is to see a lot more happen. Well, beloved, as we talked, we both came to the very same or similar realization that often in our lives We establish for ourselves expectations from which we measure our success And say you understand we we set a goal. Boy, the church should be running 200 right now. And from that I establish my value, my success or failure as a pastor. We do that individually in our own lives as well. We feel that we should have reached this level by now or accomplished this. But what I would like to ask of you is what is it that God requires of us? I would like to preach to you for a few minutes this morning on finding fulfillment in faithfulness. Finding fulfillment in faithfulness. Maybe you have not reached the level of success in this world that in your heart and mind thought you were going to. Maybe you have not a Some arbitrary value that you established in your own heart and mind. But beloved, what is it that God requires of us? He says in the Word of God, moreover, it is required of a steward, and that's not in Proverbs. We'll be in Proverbs in a second. Moreover, it's required of a steward that what? A man be found faithful. That, beloved, is what God requires of us, and that is something that we can all attain. So look in our text, Proverbs chapter twenty and verse number six. That is our text this morning, and the Bible says here, most w men Will proclaim everyone his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find A faithful man who can find beloved, we are required of God to be faithful, and that is something that we can all accomplish. And we should be able to find fulfillment in faithfulness. Instead of measuring your worth or your value or your success as an individual by your own arbitrary established expectation for your life. Find fulfillment and being faithful. Find fulfillment and being faithful. For the Christian to be successful, he must be found faithful. God's measurement of success is directly tied to our level of faithfulness. You may be the head of a multi-million dollar business and still be a failure in the eyes of God if you are not faithful. Of all the characteristics that you and I may attain as Christians, there is none so valuable as faithfulness. Therefore, this attribute, which is an attribute of God, should be very high on our list. of attributes that we desire to be part of our lives. And if we have a correct focus of the value of it We will find fulfillment in being that way. You guys know that I'm really not a very good student. Uh okay, I'm a bad student. School's not my thing. Never has been. I would mat I would much rather dig a ditch in the rain. Then sit in a classroom. That's who I am. So I'm not that good yes, some some of you are like, yeah, me too. I'm right with you, preacher. Amen. Yeah, well here's here's the thing. I I knew as a student that I was not going to win any academic achievements. I was not going to have a 4. 0. I was not going to have the highest grade point average in my class. I was not going to be able to achieve or earn any type of academic award for excellence. Because that's not who I am. But you know what I decided? I thought there's one word I can win. It's a faithfulness award. And they gave away a certificate if you did not miss a day of school. And for three years, I did not miss one day of school. That's a pretty good achievement for me. What I'm saying is every one of us can do it. If we would determine to be faithful. It is required of a steward that a man be found faithful. So, first of all, this morning we see a required faithfulness. a required faithfulness. This is something that God asks of you and I. He did not ask you to be a success at work. He did not ask you to try and uh be able to buy a home or to reach some level of financial status or to be able to drive a particular kind of car or to or but what God asked of you is he asked of you that you would be faithful Beloved, we must develop faithfulness in our lives. Faithfulness is not a natural virtue to men. It's not something that is naturally part of our lives. He says here, most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness. People will talk about how good they are. People would love to describe and tell you about their own virtues. But he says here, a faithful man who can find. He says there are a lot of people that are talking about how good they are, but to find somebody that's just going to be faithful is pretty hard. It's pretty hard. They're few and far between. That's what he's saying, is it's not quite as popular, as readily available as men today would like to think. There is a required faithfulness, and we must develop it in our lives. We must strive at it. We must work at it to improve our faithfulness. You know, you might not be able to play the piano In church, but you can be faithful to church. You might not be able to sing in the choir, but you can be faithful You might not have the ability to teach a Sunday school class, but you can be faithful. You might not be somebody that can drive the church bus, but you can be faithful. You might not stand up in front of the auditorium and bring a challenge from the Word of God, but you can be faithful. Every single one of us, regardless of our skills or abilities, we can be faithful. Often we consider or look at faithfulness in the Christian life in a single dimension. We like to just think about it in one aspect, and that is our faithfulness to church. And we ought to be faithful to church. I don't want to diminish that or or uh put any less importance on that. I believe that is a significant uh testament to your faithfulness to God, is how faithful you are to church. It's such a small fraction of time compared to our all the other hours we have in a week. I believe we ought to be faithful to church, but you know that's just one dimension of our faithfulness Faithfulness is a characteristic and an attribute of our life that should be present in every part of our life. Are you faithful to work? Or do you call in all the time? Find some reason or call out. I don't know what you call it, but do you call in sick? Are you faithful to witness? Are you faithful to your walk with God? Are you faithful to your mate? Are you faithful to your children? Are you a faithful friend to your friends? The aspect of faithfulness is something that should be present in every part of our life. It takes determination to be faithful. When Nehemiah was working on the wall, he had Sambalat Debiah, the enemies of God, and the enemies of the progress that tried to stop him over and over again. They came in and just tried to distract him. They came in and they attacked him. And the he Nehemiah told his men, you gotta have a trowel in one hand and a sword in the other hand because we've got to keep on working and Sambalat and Tobiah they came up to him and they said, Hey, Nehemiah, come on down here so we can talk to you. And and Nehemiah said, I cannot come down I cannot come down. Why? Because the work in which I'm doing is too great. It's too important. I'm not going to get distracted by you. I'm not going to allow you. To pull me from the job that I have got to do for God. And we need some Christians that have a cannot come down personality, a faithfulness to God, a persistence that is a part of their life, a determination. I can't help but think about Daniel and his determination to be faithful to God. Daniel is a young man in a foreign land. Commanded to bow before the image of a man. And Daniel would not bow. They said, if you don't bow, you're going to be thrown into the lion's den. But he wouldn't do it. I'm sorry, he wouldn't pray. I I mixed up two stories there as I was talking. How many of you guys caught that? I hope a couple of you Shadrach, Meshach, and Abinago are next, but uh that's two different stories. Lord help me. All right. Some of you didn't even didn't even catch it. I I'm glad I caught it because this is going out on the internet. It's gonna be there forever. So Daniel did not bow to the image. That was Shadrach, Meshach, and Daniel was told not to pray, right? Now we got our Bible stories right, okay So let's get back on track. Daniel with the w y you understand, beloved, that it was Daniel's enemies That were looking for a way to destroy him. Daniel's enemies, the Bible says, they sought For cause against him. It's not exact translation, but something like they sought for some and they found none. And they say it says in the Word of God that he was faithful. Daniel was faithful, and they looked at him. His enemies came and looked at him and tried to find something, some cause against him, and all they could determine after all their examination was that Daniel was faithful. And Daniel prayed as he did aforetime, and he ended up going into the lion's den. Why? Because he was faithful. That's a pretty high standard. I don't know about you, but I think if somebody looked at my life like an enemy would look at your life, they could find some area where I'm not being faithful. They could find something. I don't know that I stand up to that kind of scrutiny, that level of faithfulness. What I'm saying is we all have area that we can improve. Amen. That we can be more faithful in our lives. The dictionary says that faithfulness is a firm adherence to a promise or observance of a duty A firm adherence to a promise or the observance of a duty. You know, someone is faithful, is also faithful in their word. What they say. They do. I'm thankful that God is faithful. That every promise He's ever made is a promise that we can count on. We know about the faithfulness of God because He has not one of His promises have failed. Why are we so easy to break our promises? Why are we so quick to let it go? You know, beloved, we often sacrifice faithfulness on the altar of convenience. I'll be there. I'll do it. But if it's not convenient, we say, oh, well, no, I I wasn't able to do it. Yeah, sorry, something came up. Oh, you know, it started raining. What does it take you to miss a commitment? When we're talking about faithfulness, beloved, understand that God is not calling and asking you to stay up all night and pray. He's just asking you to do what you said you would do. He's just asking you to be faithful in your duty or responsibilities. to accomplish those things. And that, beloved, is something that we can all accomplish. Reliability is as much a spiritual thing as it is a social thing. Proverbs 25, 19 says, confidence in an unfaithful man in a time of trouble is like a broken tooth or a foot out of joint. You ever had a broken tooth? That's painful. A foot out of joint, you can't move, you can't function. They said confidence. The Bible says confidence in an unfaithful man. Causes that kind of pain. You see, this this goes beyond just being here on Sunday morning. We're talking about faithfulness in our lives. Let me ask you this. What if your cell phone only works three days a week? You'd be like, I I would get a new carrier. I'd get I would get a new carrier. I I mean, that's unacceptable. That that that uh we've got so used to good coverage that we Wait a minute, wait, wait, wait a minute. Uh that that we get mad when we don't have a connection. So uh my s one of my sons just updated updated his phone to iOS 18 and uh there's a setting on there for a satellite connection, and he's like, what is that? I said, well it's the feature that they've installed now so that when you when whenever you don't have coverage on network, you can now connect with your cell phone to satellites. The main purpose is for emergency services if you were you know hiking and you needed somebody right away, but it it is available. You see, we we can't ever be disconnected We can't ever not have connection. Now now they have got it so we can connect via satellite. Just so in case your coverage of your coverage map, you know, whatever you're with, T-Mobile, ATT, Verizon. you know, boost or whoever you have, uh if their coverage isn't good enough, you can get it with through satellite. You see, we expect that kind of reliability out of a device. But how faithful are we? What if your water heater only worked one day a week? Or randomly decided, I'm not producing hot water today. Just don't feel like it. You say I'd get a new water heater. Hmm. Then why do we expect God to put up with our unfaithfulness? We expect more out of a water heater, a device, a piece of something that that man made to function and work. You see, beloved, faithfulness is much as much an attitude as it is an action. You might still be fulfilling some duty. And yet long ago stopped being faithful. Let me illustrate it this way. The adulterer still comes home at night. Makes meals for the family. Pays some of the bills. But they have long ago stopped being faithful. Does that make sense? You understand it's not just about the fulfillment of a duty or or the accomplishment of a responsibility. It is a matter of the heart. And while we're doing this, if I can have a moment to chase a little rabbit here, um you've got to be very careful because some of you with the with your a addiction to social media and your friends and your old boyfriends or whoever they might be, do you understand you can tend to be unfaithful to your mate? Long before anything physical happens, there is a exchanging of your heart with somebody else. That should only happen with your mate, and you have given your heart to another person online You're sharing feelings and emotions and things with somebody online, whether it's a stranger or an old flame or an old friend, things that you haven't shared with your mate, can I tell you that you've already left them? You see, I haven't left him. Yes, you have, in your heart. We talked about Solomon this morning, how these strange women turned his heart away from God. And that's what happened. Maybe it was not intentional, maybe it was not what you planned, but I'm putting up a warning flag for you this morning. You've got to be careful because You are not far from going down the road to end up losing everything you have right now. Faithfulness is far more than just the fulfillment of a duty in the home. It is a matter of the heart. Ask the Lord to show you if you've been faithful in your heart to those you love. But beyond that What about for your faithfulness in your heart to God? We see not only a required faithfulness, but secondly we see a r a Revealed faithfulness. Turn your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. There's lots of things in the Word of God about faithfulness that we could look at. But 1 Corinthians chapter number 4, I want you to see that God is going to reveal it all. God is taking notes. He is recording everything And praise God. That that's a blessing and a burden. One aspect, you know, it's a blessing because We know that God is keeping record, and if nobody else sees your faithfulness and nobody else sees what you do for God, God sees it. God knows you've been faithful. We see a revealed faithfulness, 1 Corinthians 4, verses 3, 4, and 5. He says, But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you. He says, I'm really not too concerned about you judging me. Or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self. He says, For I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. He said, I'm not justified by my own evaluation, my own judgment, but he that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore, judge nothing before the time until the Lord cometh, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness. And will make manifest the counsel of the heart. And then shall every man have praised God. Beloved, God is keeping record. And the time is going to come when He's going to bring it all to light. When everything is going to be made manifest, God knows our level of faithfulness. Some people's faithfulness is conditional on who's watching. You know it's very, very sad, and I'm sure that nobody in here is this way, but I'm going to be gone for the next two weeks. Do you know there's some people that will not come to church the next couple weeks because pastor's not going to be here Listen, if you come to church for Pastor Caleb, you are coming for the wrong reason. I I am just a man, a wretched man at that And we want to come to honor and worship God and do our best as a church to point people to Jesus Christ. I am not your judge. And what I think or don't think really doesn't matter. Beloved, it's what does God think? What does God think? And do we do what we do to be seen of men? Or because we know God sees us? That's what he's saying. It's all going to be revealed. Beloved, our faithfulness should not be conditional upon who is watching. You know, we need to quit worrying about so much about who's looking and just do right. Worried about looking good in front of people. We gotta look good. Listen, we're in a race. In the race, it's not about how you look. About getting across the finish line. How many of you ladies are wearing high heels today Okay. Now if you had a mind to, not saying you would, but if you had a mind to race me across the parking lot If we went outside and the church gathered outside and they said, I challenge Pastor to a race right here, right now, and we put a dotted line down and We stood there at the spot of light and can I tell you every one of you ladies the first thing you would do? Kick them off. This is no longer about looking good. There's a race on the line. There's something important gonna take place here. I'm about to whoop preacher, so it's about winning the race. You you're not worried about being propped up anymore. You're worried about perseverance. You're worried about being faithful. You're worried about getting to the end. And can I tell you, beloved, as Christians, if we would stop worrying about being propped up? Stop worrying about how we look in front of people and realize that we're in a race and what God has required of us is to be faithful. God wants us to be faithful, even if it's going to cost us, just like Daniel, who went to the lion's den. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who would not bow, but were willing to burn. What does it cost you, or what are you willing to pay, to be faithful to God? We have so many excuses today, and I don't have to list them. Everybody's excuse is valid because it's our excuse. It's my excuse, right? And so my excuse, I I mean I know that Lucas' excuse. That ain't an excuse. That's a sorry excuse for an excuse. That Lucas excuse, but mine, this is this is valid, right? We all have valid excuse listen We need to let go of those. And just determine to be faithful. Why? Because, beloved, there's a reward for faithfulness. We need to find fulfillment in faithfulness. Do you know when I went down front, I should have brought it, because here I am approaching the age of 50 And I still have a little piece of paper that says I did not miss a day of school. Why? Because I purposed in my heart that award is one I was going to win. It wasn't based upon how talented I was, how smart I was, what kind of ability I had to pass a test or to read a book and answer questions. I just had to show up and I said, bless God, that's one I can get. And you know I didn't want to do it. As far as uh I would have much rather s been sick every single day. But I said, I'm gonna be in school every day. I'm gonna be there because I can win that. And when I went down front, there was a reward that I picked up. It was just a piece of paper that had my name on it that said Caleb Botrell had perfect attendance for this year. It was a lot of years ago. I don't remember I don't remember what the year was. Beloved, we can all win that. Faithfulness. It's not about your skills. It's just about doing what God has called you to do. That ought to bring excitement to us. Because every one of us can win that. Every one of us can earn that. There's a reward for faithfulness If you want to turn there, 2 Timothy 4, verses 8, it says, henceforth there's laid up for me a crown of righteousness. which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. Not to me only, but to all them that love his appearance. In Revelation 2. 10, he says, Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. Be thou faithful unto death. Beloved, we just gotta be faithful until the end. We gotta be faithful until death, and we don't know when death's gonna be. It might be tomorrow for somebody in this room It might be five years from now. It might be 50 years from now. But we've just got to be faithful until the end because there's a reward for faithfulness. He says, Paul said, there's laid up for me. There's a faithfulness of word that God has already set aside for you. That God wants to present you, that God wants to give you, but you and I have to earn it by being faithful until the end. What does every believer who loves God and wants to please God, what is it that we're looking to desire to hear when we cross those shores and find it heaven? Well done. Well done, thou good and faithful servant That's what God requires of us. And dearly beloved, the heart of this message that I want you to grab a hold of is that We are sometimes feel insufficient in this life or we feel uh like we have not attained an arbitrary level of sufficient success that we have put on our own lives and said, boy, I should be here by now, or I should be here, I should have accomplished that, or this is what I deem to be a success. But what God has said success is is if you and I are faithful, if we would just be faithful, we can be a success in God's eyes. Therefore, we can find fulfillment in just being faithful I know that I'm not the greatest pastor in all the world, just in the USA. No, just kidding. I'm not, you know, I'm not the I'm not all that in a bag of chips, but I can be a faithful pastor. I can be faithful and you You say, well, I might not be able to do this or I can't do that, but don't put your value upon those things. Put your value upon the fact that you know what I can be faithful at what God has called me to do. I can be faithful. I may not be the greatest husband in the world, but I can be a faithful husband I may not be the greatest mama, but I can be a faithful mama. I may not be the greatest Sunday school teacher, but I can be a faithful Sunday school teacher. I may not be the most accomplished pianist But I can be a faithful pianist. I may not be able to sing with the tongue of angels, but I can be a faithful singer. I may not be the greatest nursery worker But I can be a faithful nursery worker, and I don't know where you are or what God has for you to do, and you may feel deficient or feel you cannot accomplish it as good as somebody else, but can I tell you you can be faithful? And there's a reward for faithfulness. There's a promise to us. Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life. There's a painting in the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool. The title at the bottom of the painting is Faithful Until Death Beloved, it shows a Roman guard standing on duty while the Colosseum is collapsing around him. There are bodies of the perished lying on the ground Others are fleeing for their lives amidst the destruction. They are men. And women, women passing by, but in the middle of it all, there stands the Roman guard. He might too have escaped for his life But he stands firm at his post, faithful until death This kind of faithfulness is what wins the believer's crown. God does not demand of you and I some grandiose gesture He is not asking of you and I many things in our heart and mind that we dream up and establish as our level of success. He's asked of you and I to be faithful. Can I tell you, beloved, you and I can? Because God has said, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?