Turn to Matthew chapter number four. Matthew chapter number four. This is Missions Conference Week. Uh we're gonna be spending time talking about the fields, looking at the work of missions throughout the world and discussing these and getting a vision from the missionaries that are going to be coming and talking about what God is doing in their particular fields. We're thankful for the work that they do. We need to f never forget that all of us are called to be missionaries. All of us are called to be fishers of men. As a son, I'm obedient. As a servant, I serve. As a soldier, I stand. As a fisherman, I fish. These are titles and names that are given to us as believers. We see this title, this name of fishermen in Matthew chapter 4, beginning in verse number 18. Read with me, follow along as I read down through verse number 22. The Bible says, and Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter and Andrew, his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. And he said unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets and followed him. And going on from thence, he saw another two brethren, James, the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them. And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. We see Jesus call these men to be fishers of men. And I want to speak to you just for a few minutes tonight on this idea of being a fisher of men. Now you see, first of all, in verse number 19, the requirement, he looks at these men and he saith unto them. Follow me. There is a call that Jesus gives, and it begins with him saying to those that would be believers. Would you follow me? Are you willing to follow me? Are you willing to do as I ask? What does it mean, beloved, to be a follower of Christ? We know that many who would want to call him Lord really haven't made him Lord in their life. For either he is Lord of all or he's not Lord at all. Because Lord means master. Do you know in the New Testament the word Savior appears twenty-four times? The title Lord appears 728 times. We could extend that to the whole of the Bible, and in the whole of the Bible the word Savior appears 37 times. The word Lord appears 7,970 times. And I wonder, beloved, tonight, how many of us have made him our Savior? But we have relegated him to that alone in our life. You see, Jesus calls and he says, Follow me, and If indeed we have made him Lord of our life, that means we're going to be willing to follow him, we're going to surrender our will to him, we're going to yield and be willing to follow him. Are you a follower of Christ? Peter and Andrew made him Lord. Verse number 22. And they immediately left the ship. And their father and followed him. They immediately left the ship and their follow father and followed him. By the way, let me just throw this out for moms and dads. The father didn't stop them. The father didn't say, wait, wait, this is what you do to make a living. You need to do this to make a living. And I mean, on the side, if you have time, definitely you want to serve Jesus. But don't forget, you've got to make a living. There's too much concern about that today. There's too many parents that are trying to be sure their kids have a career instead of them being a follower of Christ. These men stood up and they immediately left what was their trade. They immediately left everything they knew. They immediately left even their own father. And followed Christ because they said, Yeah, I'll be a follower of Christ, which means they made him Lord. And the Father didn't hinder it. The Father didn't stop. We don't hear any complaint from him. If you're a follower of Christ, then beloved, he's called you to be a fisher of men. And this is not a matter of giftedness, this is not a matter of a special talent. It's not a matter of a skill or personality where, oh, some people are really good at it and others aren't, and that's just not my gift. No, beloved, if we're a follower of Christ, we're to be a fisher of men If we're to have an impact on this world during our time here, then we must daily die to self, pick up our cross, and follow Christ. And if we're going to be following Christ, we're going to be officials of men. Only true followers of Christ can lead and show others how to follow Christ. One of the worst things in uh I imagine most of you, especially those of you that had a few years on you, nowadays it's a lot less. These young people don't have any idea what it's like to have to stop and ask for directions Because we have them on our phones now. And it's just you y y you can get directions anywhere at any time. And I love it. Man, it's so awesome when you want to buy something on Facebook Marketplace. And you can click the button, it'll take you there. It has made the world so small. You know, you could go, I mean, I bought something all the way up in Lancaster. You wouldn't have been able to do that not too many years ago. That guy would have had to sell that to the local crowd just on his street But now you can sell it to all you know, sh all over the place. You're driving all over. It's amazing. I was saying something really important. I don't know. I don't know what it was. Oh, you gotta stop and ask directions. The worst thing when you would ask for directions And the guy just giving you the directions doesn't know. You know, like he acts like he knows. But you in your mind, you know that, like you got enough a sense of direction that you know it's that way somewhere. And then the first thing he does is he says, Oh, okay, what you gotta do is you gotta go and you're like, oh no. This guy doesn't know where he's going. You know, I mean that's the worst thing or you or or or you don't really know and he sends you to the wrong place and you're looking all over for it and then you stop and ask somebody else And they're like, you're on the wrong side of town. You know, you got sent to the wrong place, and that's the worst thing. And you know, there's a lot of people trying to point people to Christ that they don't have the right directions. They they they're pointing them the wrong ways and and and they're looking for truth. They want to know the way, and they're out there trying to find it, and they're stopping and asking directions from people that don't know the way, but beloved, we have the truth. And Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and we've got the means to be able to point them in the right direction. G General William Booth once was asked by King Edward. He sa he he he said uh about his Bible. And he said, what is your ambition? And he wrote, some men's ambition is art. Some men's ambition is fame. Some men's ambition is gold. But my ambition is the souls of men. That's what his ambition was in life, is to reach the souls of men. He was saying, I want to be a fisherman. I want you to see, beloved, not just the requirement, but you see the result. The result of following Christ, he says, follow me. And if we would just follow him, the result is I will make you. I will make you. This is a something that Jesus Christ does in the heart of those that are willing to follow him. Beloved, you ask a farmer what he does, and he says, I farm. You you ask a realtor what they do and they'll say I sell houses. You ask a plumber what he does me. Then he says I I plumb homes or construction sites. You ask a man what he does for uh for his job and he may say, Well uh I'm a car salesman and beloved if he Claims to be a car salesman and you ask him, okay, how many years you've been selling cars? And he'll say, I've been a car salesman for fifteen years. And then you say, Well, how many cars have you sold? And he says, none You would say, Well, you're not really a car salesman then. I mean you could call yourself that, but you're not really a car salesman. And beloved, what I'm saying is that sometimes there are people that claim to be a follower of Christ They would claim and by that they were saying, Yeah, I'm a fisher of men, a fisher of men, but if you haven't caught any fish, you're not a fisher of men The result is he said, I will make you. This is something that Jesus Christ does, and I read this little I don't know if you'd call it a parable or or uh Short story, depiction. I don't know who the author was, I couldn't find the author, but he said, Now it came to pass that a group existed who called themselves fishers of men. And lo, there were many fish in all the waters all around. In fact, the fish were very hungry. Week after week, month after month, and year after year, those who called themselves fishermen met in great meetings and talked about their call to go fishing. They continually searched for new and better methods of fishing and found new definitions to describe in a more culturally relevant way the fishing that needed to be done They sponsored costly national and even worldwide congresses to discuss the need for fishing, to promote fishing, to hear about all the new ways that fishing could be accomplished. These fishermen built large, beautiful buildings and called them fishing seminaries and placed them strategically around the country. and even around the world. They uh of course supported them faithfully through the cooperative fishing programs. They sent their finest and their youngest of college students there and they would study for three, four, five, even seven, eight years to earn doctorates in fishing. The plea was that everybody should be a fisherman, and every fisherman should fish. Only problem was nobody was doing any fishing. Those who had taught at the doctorate level had those who had taught had doctorates in physiology. But of course, they only had time to teach about fishing, not to go fishing themselves. All of the fishermen seemed to agree that something certainly needed to be done, for there were some great disagreements between the liberal fishermen and the conservative fishermen. A peace committee was formed to try and resolve the dispute between the two. And the new cooperative fishing program was launched. A board was needed, of course, and was established to challenge fishermen everywhere, to be faithful in the task of fishing. Oh, it was encouraged that everybody speak about fishing and they redefine fishing again in new and more culturally relevant ways. Many who felt the call to be fishermen responded, and they were commissioned and sent to go teach nationals in other countries how to fish Some spent much time studying, traveling, and learning about fishing to see this done in faraway places where they found many fish of all types and kinds. And group rates and special discounts allowed many of them to take tours of holy fishing places. They took these tours and they were led by, of course, the most notable of fishermen. No doubt you too have seen slides, and your heart has been touched on the need and desire for fishing. Now it's true that many of the fishermen sacrificed and put up with all kinds of difficulties Some of them had to even live near water holes and smell dirty fish and dead fish quite often. They received ridicule. Some of them were made fun of for their fishermen's clubs and for their ten percent dues They anguished over all those that were not committed enough to attend their weekly fisherman meetings. Imagine how hurt some of them were when one day a person suggested, those who don't catch fish are not really fishermen. No matter how much they talk about it. Hurt or not, it sure did sound correct. Is a person a fisherman if year after year they catch no fish? And don't even try. Beloved, the result is up to the Lord, but we've been called to go. We are to be fishermen. This is a work that God does in our heart, a burden for the lost will naturally magnify itself in the effort to reach the lost. If we're going to be Christ like Christ came to seek and to save that was that which was lost, that's what he does. That's what he did. That's his heartbeat. If we're going to be like him, if we're going to be a follower of him, we're going to be Reaching the lost. We're going to be fishing. If you don't have a burden for the lost, you might be like Peter following afar off. I read a poem called You Forgot My Soul, which is really heart-wrenching. Again, the author I don't know, but he said, You lived next door to me for years. We shared our dreams, our joys, and tears. A friend to me you were indeed a friend who helped me in my need. My faith in you was strong and sure. We had such trust and should endure No spatch between us eer arose. Our friends w were like and so much more than any of our foes What sad, what sadness then, my friend, to find that after all, you weren't so kind. The day my life on earth did end, I found you really weren't a faithful friend. For all those years we spent on earth, you never did talk about the second birth. You never spoke to my lost soul and of the Christ who died to make me whole. I plead today from hell's cruel fire, and tell you now my last desire. You cannot do such a thing for me. No words today, my bonds will flee But do not err, my friend, again, do all you can for the souls of men. Plead with them now, plead with them quietly, plead with them earnestly, lest they be cast into hell here with me. Are you fishing for men? Are you doing what Christ if if we were just a follower of Christ, he says, I will make you It's something that God will do. He'll give you the burden. He'll give you the words to say. It's not a personality. It's not a gift. And yes, there are some people that are more outgoing than others, but we're all called to be fishers of men. And it is something that any of us can do if we would stop making excuses. Lastly, I want to give you the recipe tonight. First of all, we see that fishermen need to have a good fishing hole. We see and Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee and saw Two brother and Simon called Peter and Andrew and his brother casting nets into the sea. You see they had a fishing hole, the Sea of Galilee. They knew where the fish were and they went there and they had that, you know, fishermen have their spot. If you know anybody that enjoys fishing. They'll tell you where to go catch fish. boat or whatever, he'll tell you where to go. Like you gotta put in right here and you gotta go down in and this is where you're gonna catch those, this is where you're gonna catch crabs, this is where you're gonna catch this kind of fish. And that kind of fish, you know, they got their spot. They've been out there enough and they've got the spot to go. Beloved, a good fisherman knows where to go. Well, can I tell you? And Jesus said, as thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. The world is where we go. Is where we go fishing in Mark sixteen fifteen and he said unto them, Go ye into all the world And preach the gospel. We're to go into all the world. The world is the fishing hole, and boy, it's it's everywhere. And you can go just about anywhere and you'll be faced with people that need Jesus Christ We see a fisherman has a good fishing hole, the fisherman also cast his nets. We see that kind of a a almost as the statement is made uh and forgive me the English term slips my mind but basically like it's like duh. Like obviously. I mean read it with me, isn't that what he says? He says he saw two brethren, Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting nets into the sea. For they were fishers. They said they were throwing their net into the sea because that's what they do Because they were fishermen because that's with their job. Obviously that's what they would be involved in. Y y you wouldn't say, uh, you know, well, they were carpenters and so they were throwing their hammers into the ocean Like, no, that's not that doesn't go. No, it's the fishermen were casting their nets because they're fishers. Because that's what they do. And beloved, if we are going to be fishers of men, that means we're going to be casting our net. When's the last time you cast the net? You can have the best presentation in the world. You can be the most skilled orator there is. But if you don't ever cast a net, you're not going to see anybody saved. What is it to cast a net? That is to just ask people, talk to people, give out a gospel track, put put some nets out there, just any place you can put a net out there. Brother Crane, uh he's a little old fashioned. You know, he uh um still mails his Bills in uh snail mail, you know. Not a lot of people do that anymore, but he's like, every one of them gets a track, man. Track goes in every one of them. Anything that's got to end it And Mary's done that for many years. Any anything that's gotta be mailed to somebody, she puts a track in there. It's just a net, just casting a net. Don't know what's gonna happen, but we're gonna we're gonna put it out there. Is it on your heart? Is it on your mind? Are you constantly looking to catch some fish and finding ways to cast the nets? There were two boys. They they grabbed their fishing rods and they were heading out the door in the morning and mom was wishing them, you know, uh a a good day of fishing and They looked at mom and they said, Mom, you're not going to have to make any supper tonight. We're uh get ready because we is bringing home the fish and we're going to have fish for supper tonight. And mom's like excited and she thought, wonderful. The boys went out to their fishing hole and they got there and they they hadn't been there just a minute or two and one of the boys saw a snake. coming up through the thro and he was like, Oh and they got a rock and they're throwing rocks and they're trying to get this snake and obviously the snake got away and and uh th they were chasing it, trying to find it and then they got hot and they thought, Well, let's take a minute and let's go let's go swimming and So they went swimming and then they got to the other side of the the creek there and and uh there was a ball game going on. So they watched the ball game for a little while and then they realized boy i it it's getting late We we might need to get on home. And so they went back and got their fishing rods and they went home. And mom mom was sitting there with the frying pan ready to fry up dinner, but there was no fish. She said, What happened? Oh We got too busy. We didn't have time to fish. I wonder, beloved, if Satan doesn't have you, a fisherman, so distracted. With things in this world, so busy that we don't have time to fish. We're fishermen, uh, but we're too busy to do what God has called us to do. Satan is just keeping us distracted to keep us from doing the job that we've been left here for. A good fisherman has the right technique. And you know something, beloved, this can be learned. I don't know if any of you would consider yourself wrangler. You know, isn't that what they call a fisherman? A wrangler. Angler. Angler's cowboy, right? Yeah. Yeah. Mix them up a little bit. One has water and one's in the desert. But anyway, yeah, an angler, that's what it is. You know, but you know, those the angler they know like what bait to use, right? They know what lure to use for what particular kind of fish you're catching. I mean you talk to uh Goes to Alaska fishing every year. Brother Balier catches these great big massive I mean tall as him. He's fish as big as him He catches in in Alaska every year. I mean they they know like where to go to get 'em and what what exactly what lure to use and all that. It just takes experience. It just takes practice. What I'm saying, Blood, if you're gonna be a fisher of men, I know you're a little apprehensive. I know you're a little nervous. You're like I'm not really sure exactly what bait to use. I'm not really sure exactly what to how to approach this with them. You know, it just takes practice. It's really not that difficult. The most straightforward and simple thing you can do is just give your testimony. Just tell them what Jesus did for you. You know, you can just basically open up any conversation and just say, hey, do you get do you get to go to church anywhere? Oh. That's that's neat. I go to church over here in in in Hun Valley and uh boy I've been there a long time. Have have you been going a long time to that church? Oh, you know what? Can I tell you what God did for me? I mean, this was a few years ago, but man, I was so amazed because, and then you just go give your testimony. Tell them what Jesus did for you. That's throwing out the net. That's letting them know what Jesus did for you. And you get better with practice. It doesn't matter how long you've been doing it. Somebody's going to ask you a question that you don't know the answer to. And that's okay. You just look at him and say, you know what? I'm not really sure about that. I'd be happy to find out. But the the purpose that I'm here today, what's most important, is what I want to talk to you about. And that's just knowing for sure your sins are forgiven. There's a lot of things in the Bible that I have to be honest I don't understand. I wish I understood more, but there's some that there's things we you know I just don't, but I'll be happy to study for you. But what I want to talk to you about is what I do understand Try and get them back on point. And then you bring them to the point where you just really address them about their soul. And the first thing, now this is just going to be straightforward and practical tonight, and as some of you know this and don't have any any question about it, but some of you might not, the first thing you've got to do is make sure that they're lost. That is, you know, a person doesn't call for a life preserver unless they're drowning. And somebody that does not realize that they're a sinner and on their way to hell is not ready to be saved. The first thing that they need to do is they need to know and admit that they're a sinner, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. You need to point that out and give them that verse and teach it to them. Say, listen, the Bible tells us that all have sinned Would you agree with the Word of God that you're a sinner? And that short of the glory of God is short of perfection. And there's many ways to illustrate that. You can illustrate it however you want. any any any ball game that you you miss the basket or you uh throw the dart or you uh you know roll a gutter ball or whatever you come short of getting a strike. You come short of perfection And most people in the world, I have met a few that I think they're just being belligerent, but they're like, oh no, I've never sinned. You know, they they they don't want to admit that they're sinners, but most people they they know. They know they're a sinner. They don't really have a question with regards to that. So you want to give them Romans 3. 10, Romans 3. 23. Teaching them that there is none righteous, no not one, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Today you might have to take them to Romans 512. Because the fact of the matter is a lot of people have no idea where sin came from. And listen, I'm not for this easy believism. I'm not for one, two, three, pray after me, and now you're saved, and I get to put a check mark next to my Bible and say I led another person to Christ. It's not about getting getting check marks for us. It's about getting people saved and on their way to heaven. And this is what we need to make sure and that to to make sure that the first thing you need to do is you need to get them to admit, acknowledge they're a sinner. I was guilty for many years, and I put it like this, I was g guilty of winning people to heaven instead of saving people from their sin. And the difference is as I would talk to them about, boy, wouldn't you want to go to heaven? Everybody wants to go to heaven. You know, if you could go to heaven today, wouldn't you like to? Could I show you how you could go to heaven? And the the problem with that is that they need to understand the reason they can't go to heaven is because they're a sinner. And they need to be forgiven of that sin. And unless they're willing to admit that, they're not ready to be saved. So you need to point out the fact that they're a sinner. And then you need to point out the fact that there's a penalty for sin. You can illustrate this, you can talk about, but the wages of sin is death. A wage is something you earn. You earn uh a wage when you go to your job. You can get personal with them and say, what do you earn? They probably want to tell you. But you you earn a job and you get a wage, right? He said, here's the thing, that's what you've earned. At the end of your week If you went to work and you said, Boy, uh uh, I've earned that and your boss says, I don't want to give it to you, you wouldn't keep working there. Because you earned it. Although what we've earned because of our sin is to spend an eternity in hell. The penalty for sin. You can illustrate that that penalty any way you want with losing your license, with spending time in jail, with having to pay fines. with the penalties of even just disciplining a child being grounded. Have you ever been grounded? Have you you know you're talking to somebody young, you know, have you ever been grounded? You talk to somebody older, have you ever been pulled over? There's a penalty when you break the law. Well the Bible says we've transgressed the law, the law of God that was established and written on the hearts of men. So the wages of sin is death. You explain that And then you you explain that Jesus paid the penalty for us. That's the important part where they understand first they need to understand and admit that they're a sinner and realize that because of that sin they're on their way to a devil's hell. A hell that was prepared for the devil and his angels And you can communicate to them that God doesn't want them to go there. God wants them to go to heaven. But in order for them to go to heaven, they have to do what God says. And it makes perfect sense and many times I've asked people, I've said, you know, if I came over to your house and I said, Boy, I want it I want into your house. And you stood at your door and said you can't come in and I'll say, Well, I want in. And I'm a really nice guy. Would that get me in? And they're like, no, and I said, Well, this is your home. You are the uh controller of that you you've established your ownership there and you have the right to deny me entry. Well God is the creator of the universe. And He has uh the Bible says uh designed and built a place called heaven And what makes you think you're going to be able to stand at the door or the gates of heaven and God's going to look at you and say, Why should I let you into heaven? And because you look at him and say, Well, because I'm a nice guy. What if I wanted in your house and you said to me, well, in order to come in the house you need to take your shoes off? A lot of people do that. They say you gotta take your shoes off. And I look at you and say, I'm taking my shoes off. You can't tell me to do that If you cared about me at all, you would let me in with my shoes on. No, it's your house. And if I want to come in your house I have to do what you've asked. You've asked me to take my shoes off. Well, God, who loves you, provided a way for you to be forgiven of your sins so that you can go to heaven. But you've got to do what he says You've got to be willing to submit. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Romans 6. 23. I usually illustrate the idea that that's a free gift. The moment you begin working for something, it ceases to be a gift. You you would be shocked how many people get this wrong. Because I will ask them, I almost always have some type of a Bible with me, and I'll say, what if I told you I was going to give you this Bible 100% free? It's gonna be yours. It's a gift. And then I said to him, but all you have to do is a hundred push-ups. Is it free? Most people say yeah. I said, no, it's not. I said, what what if you stood up and I said, ha, just kidding, and started walking away. No, you see, you would look at me and you say, I earned that. Because I did a hundred push-ups. Well, you need to understand is the gift of God is free. It's eternal life. It's free. You can't do anything for it. The minute you begin to work for it, it ceases to be free. It's no longer a gift. We have here the free gift of God. And can I tell you that baptism is a work? Church membership is a work. Church attendance is a work. These are things that people do to feel like that they're they're being good and so they should be able to get into heaven. But Jesus says it's a free gift. You can have that for free. All you have to do is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. So Jesus paid that penalty for us. You can give him Romans 5. 8, but God commended his love toward us and that while we are sinners, Christ died for us. Some people feel like they need to clean up their life first. Oh, I gotta get presentable. Oh, God, well, well we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He loves you and He'll save you just as you are. He'll forgive you of every sin just as you are. But He loves you too much to leave you that way. It'll begin to change you from the inside out. And what you need to do is you need to accept that payment. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. I'll explain that verse. To them, you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart. It's not a magic set of words. It's not a uh hocus pocus. It's doing what God said. Confess with your mouth. Believe in your heart that God, that would be God the Father, hath raised him, that would be God the Son, from the dead. That's acknowledging the whole scope of the fact that Jesus Christ came in the design sinless life and that he died, was buried, and he rose again three days later uh through the power of God. It's acknowledging and admitting that all in that statement. That God the Father hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Realizing he came and he died for you. I say, boy, if if God would save you. Forgive you of all your sin. If he was willing to do that right now, would you be interested in doing that? And some will say yes and some will say no. Let me encourage you, don't force it. No man cometh unto the Father except he draw them. The Holy Spirit has to draw them, and many times, if you're sensitive at all, you'll be able to tell if the Holy Spirit is working on their heart or not Hey uh Caleb Kamer, I want to illustrate something. I I have seen this taught like this in soul winning seminars more times. uh than I care to mention. They get to this point and they say, this is the most important point. Here's where you draw the net. So what you do is you say, uh let me have your hand. So you give me your hand. And then they'll tell you, now don't even say anything else, just begin praying. And they'll bow their head and they'll begin praying. They're saying, Lord, right now give him understanding. Lord, please lead him. Please allow him to. Well, all the This is a person that's never been around prayer. They don't know about prayer and you've just taken over and they're trying to be respectful. And then they'll say, now don't even look up. Don't even finish your prayer with Amen or anything like that. Move right into, and now I want you to repeat after me. Dear Lord Jesus, and wait for them to repeat. You're in the middle of prayer. What are they going to do? They're going to repeat it. And then you go through the Lord's the Sinners Prayer where they acknowledge Jesus as Savior and confess their sins and ask Jesus to forgive them and save them And then you say Amen. And then as soon as as soon as you say Amen, you say, Thank you, Lord, for saving this man's soul right now, today, Amen. And then you say, Man, I'm so glad you trusted Jesus Christ. And basically you've got another notch in your belt. What you did is took control of that whole situation and and this person is not any more saved than than a man on the moon. You can be seated. So what I'm saying is don't force it. Let the Holy Spirit lead. If men are being drawn, you'll see the conviction on their heart. And you'll see the God drawing them, and you say, Do you you want to confess the fact that you're a sinner right now? Would you like to trust Jesus? And there's so many little things that I could give you, but like Use the John and Romans. It's marked. It's written right down in there what page to turn to, what to go to next. It tells you exactly where to go for the each scripture. You can use that, have it highlighted, and then you can give it to the person you're witnessing to And say, this is for you. Afterwards, whether they trust Christ or not, you've given them the word of God and tell them to, you know, hey, you you can keep this and you can read that. And if you have any questions, reach out, reach out to the church We would love to try and help you and answer any questions that you have. But let the Holy Spirit do the work. You'll get better at it with time It'll get easier. You'll come up with your own illustrations and as people ask you questions that you're not sure about the answer when you go study them out, you'll have the answer and the next time you'll be ready. You'll learn what works for you and what doesn't, how to be kind to people, how to engage with people over simple things. And God will use you to see souls saved. He that goes forth weeping shall doubtless come again rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. We're all to be fishers of men. He calls us all to do it. We can't call ourselves fishermen if we don't ever reach any fish. If we don't ever catch any. And as a follower of Christ, we are to be fishers of men. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?