Has been for a number of years now a pastor of the church there and uh he's been there when did you go? In ninety one, ninety uh eighty nine. eighty nine. So since nineteen eighty nine. I know you didn't think he was that old, but uh he's been doing a good job. The church has been growing and flourishing under his leadership and uh the college there of course Elisi He did tell me that's why he came here because he just had to get away from her. Right. So uh but uh we're glad to have him here and I know that uh if you let the Holy Spirit speak to you, uh that you will be challenged and blessed for having been in God's house today and get privilege to hear Pastor Dammon speak. Alright, if you have your Bibles, why don't you turn to Ephesians chapter 5? I'm going to bounce around to a couple of passages and read them and then we'll get to there. Mention a couple of things as far as the college. We do have some information in the back about the college. We have some new CDs. Actually the there's a group and I think they've come through here called Stringhaven and Stringhaven is no longer right now. All right. They have disband. And part of it is because um they're all over the nation now. Uh one of those was my daughter. She's out in Portland, out there as a school teacher. Uh so she was one of the group. She was a violin And then uh the other young lady that was a violin player is actually up in Wisconsin now as a school teacher. And so God trains people and uh then sends them out. That's uh kind of what we do. Uh but they were able to uh put a CD together, another one called Joy, and that is one of the most recent recordings, so that's in the back there. Everything today is just going to be 10 bucks as far as the CDs. So if you want a CD, everything is They all tell me uh well it's supposed to be this amount, this amount, and I'm like, you know what, I'm doing it, so it's ten bucks. All right. But then we do have some books uh that we put together, uh some of them on teenagers So those are available. And then there is a limited supply. I know there was one guy I gave it to already. If you're a new believer or been new to the the church in the last year you can come by because there's a book on the Word of God and that's free to you. Right, but those are limited. Uh so if you're new to the church and you want one and you see someone go and trip them. Alright, that way you get to the book table first. But we do have some information about the college. We appreciate all of the the graduates. Christina and Amy who grew up in our church and are serving here. Um people that grew up in our church and are out serving God. We don't uh get to see you much, uh, but you're great encouragement to us to stay at it, to stay at the work uh that God has called us to do. So you're in Ephesians chapter 5. I'm going to read and Job chapter 33. And verse four says this: the Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. The breath of the Almighty hath given me life. And so then I'm going to read also in Romans chapter 15. Romans chapter 15. And verse 13, and then I'll get to the text passage there that you're at. In Romans chapter 15 and verse 13, it says, Now the God of hope, which I love that term, the God of hope, fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. So you see uh a theme coming out in an Ephesians Chapter 5. So in the Sunday school lesson, what was interesting is uh Pastor Renshaw was talking about, and he said He's been on a a 30-week series uh on the no but on uh on a series at Ephesians on corrupt communication and jesting and different What's interesting is that the if you know the Apostle Paul's pattern as far as teaching And writing of his books. The Apostle Paul, normally when he wrote a book, in the first section of the book, he is always dealing with more doctrine or theology. So in Ephesians, it's split exactly in half. So Ephesians 1, 2, and 3 are your theology aspect, the doctrine. So what is he teaching? as far as the doctrine. Well, in Ephesians, the the first part of the book, the w the term in Christ. is a very common phrase. In fact, in Ephesians 1. 3, and Ephesians 1. 10, and Ephesians 1. 12, and Ephesians 1 20, and Ephesians 2, Six and Ephesians two seven, uh two ten, two thirteen. So you're getting the point. In Christ Jesus or in him is a very common idea. He's saying that You are now different when you are in Christ. And so that's a a common theme, a theme And then in chapter four he changes, and now with the doctrine, because that's your foundation, and doctrine is built, uh the the the term doctrine means teaching. Sometimes people get all bent out of shape when uh they come into a church and they're like, you know what, we're gonna be teaching on the doctrine. Like, oh no Oh, we're going to be snoozing. That just simply means teaching. So hopefully you're part of a church that teaches. But our doctrine is not just man's opinion, it is based on the word of God. So doctrine, our foundation of our teaching is the word of God. So that's what Paul was doing is he's establishing that. Chapter 4, he switches therefore Because the word therefore is there, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherein you're called. So then he switches and he says, because of the doctrine that I've laid down, the foundation, you're in Christ now. You need to change your walk. Our doctrine should change our actions, our walk. That's how people see us out in the world. And then what uh Pastor Renshaw has been dealing with is the end of chapter four. The end of chapter four deals with your tongue. One of the differences in a Christian's life is his tongue. Act or walk differently, you don't let corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. You're kind one to another So how do you do that? Alright, remember the illustration that Pastor Patrol gave. Sometimes I I think in our flesh We become saved, all right, uh, and still in our flesh we're trying to make ourselves better. And it's frustrating Like, man, this isn't working. You know, they keep on saying to do all these things, and how do I do it? Well, this morning I'd like to cover, look at Ephesians 5:18, because here's a clue. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be what? Filled with the Spirit. This morning I want to look at five evidences of the Holy Spirit in a believer's life. Five evidences. One man gave an illustration of this. To help clarify the importance of the Holy Spirit in the believer's life. And he gave the illustration of deep-sea divers. He said they enter the water with tanks on their backs. These tanks contain oxygen. The purpose of these tanks, dragged to their backs, is so that they can make it in a foreign world. Water is not their natural habitat. It's not the normal place for them to survive in this foreign world of water. They need to be connected to a life source from their real world. Their connectedness is the key to their survival because they weren't meant to live in water. That life source and the life of a believer is similar. Once we're saved, we're not made for this world. We sing a song. What um I'm I'm just a passing through uh what's the come on what's the frame This world is not my home. You know you know it. All right, I don't know it. Okay. Um as you know it, but this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. So we sing that song, but really the way we act as Christians many times, this is what we're all about. We're all about this world. But God, once we are saved, we're in Christ Jesus. We are, even if Ephesians says this: we're in the heavenlies. We're in the heavenlies. Now we're we are sanctified. We have the Holy Spirit. But yet many of us Still don't get that in this world we will not survive as a Christian unless we have that connectivity To the next world. And who is that? That's the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit has been given to us so that we can survive in this world. Although we're part of another world now. That's in Christ. So this morning I'm going to look at five evidences. Some of them we may just a glance. The first point is very long. Just bear with me on that. The first point's very long, and then we'll just kind of cruise through some of the other ones so that you have them. Because really in the Bible the Holy Spirit is so important. It's vital for us, and it's not just for those that are pastors, those of the cloth. They need the Holy Spirit. Actually, this passage in Ephesians 5 is not written to pastors. It's written to the church. Church of Ephesus. And if you understand the Church of Ephesus, what's sad is they didn't get the point. Because what do we know about the Church of Ephesus? And Revelation? They left their first love, didn't they? Because they didn't get it. They didn't get that the Holy Spirit can maintain that first love in your life So let's pray, and then we'll ask God to bless. Heavenly Father, I pray that you bless this morning. Give us wisdom, guidance, as we look at these evidences of a spirit-filled life in a believer. Pray that you would always do what I cannot do, and that is speak to hearts. We ask and claim your power in Jesus' name. Amen. So first of all, there is life. Did you catch that verse in Job chapter 33? I love this verse. It says, the Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life Life. There's a famous passage that we quote a verse out of in John 3. John 3 and verse 16. The context of John 3 is a man named Nicodemus that came to Jesus by night. He was a very religious man. Most believe, I tend to believe that Nicodemus did get saved. Kind of was a secret disciple there for a little bit. But we see Nicodemus after Jesus was dead, he went and kind of helped uh procure the the body of Jesus. I believe that there was some evidence of him being changed. And but in the passage there in John chapter 3, Jesus Indicates that one area of life, okay, we need to understand that the Spirit gives life in salvation. Okay, uh where do we see that? Jesus says, and when Nic Nicodemus comes, he says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom. kingdom of God. And so Nicodemus, remember thinking, he was thinking straight physical. That's when he asked kind of that silly question. How can a man be born when he is old? Why can he enter the second time into his mother's womb and be born? So Jesus uses this term kind of for the first time that we've ever seen it in the Bible, born again. Now we we've all uh you know been in church. We've grown up, we're like, oh Nicodemus, you're so silly. They've never heard that They've never heard that term for it again. So that's why he's like, what in the world? You know what? I'm nigh unto fifty. Right? What sh shall I enter it into my mother's womb? All right. And so we sit there and we're like, what's wrong with them? Well he had never heard that term. He's using the term born again. But Jesus says Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water, and then he says, and of the what? Spirit. And of the spirit. So guess what? In salvation That is life. The Spirit works to bring life through salvation. That's why when we go out witnessing As you're going out and passing out John Romans, when we're going out, what do we want ahead of us? The Spirit Because the Spirit brings life. You can use all the fancy terms you want to, but unless the Spirit of God is working ahead, you're never going to see anything It just falls on uh deaf ears. But the Spirit of God can go ahead and He can work. He can Stir up a person's soul. So this morning, if maybe you're watching and you do not know Jesus Christ as your Savior, you through the power of the Spirit, the Spirit of God can convict you and bring life in salvation. Life and salvation. Many of you sitting here, at least I I don't I don't know many of you, but many of you sitting here, and my prayer is that the majority you have accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior. If you've accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, it has been through the regeneration power of the Word of God and the Spirit, working together. And they have brought you life Eternal life. New life. We sing that song. New life in Christ abundant and free. Also in Second Corinthians chapter five Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things have become new. That's that life. So there is life in the area of salvation. But in John chapter 6, I'm going to turn there. You can turn there if you want. But in John chapter 6, there's another passage. Um John 6 is when Jesus had fed the five thousand. He had fed the 5,000. There was a little stir-up at the end of it. He started talking some hard words. In fact, some of the disciples left. Because Jesus had said that that's where he said, I am the bread of life. And some of them were saying, Man, that's hard words. And they left because they thought that Jesus was coming down to earth to establish a physical kingdom. And at that point, he said, no, no, no. It's a spiritual kingdom. They didn't like that. But at the end of John chapter 6 and verse 61, when Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he saith unto them, Does this offend you? What and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? It is the Spirit that Quickeneth. The flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirits, and they are life So there is a life that comes through the Spirit in salvation, but there's a life that comes to the Christian, the believer, through the Spirit in surrender. In Ephesians chapter 2, the Bible uses that word quickened, and you have the quickened who are dead in trespassing and sin. So that's the idea of salvation. But surrender. Sometimes, as a believer, we get saved. And this is what I see with some people without the proper understanding of the Holy Spirit. There's no life. They're dead. They come into church or you see them out and about and they're just like, they're always grumpy. Always. You know, like man, you you just had the life of the Spirit breathe into you. And there should be an excitement, there should be a joy. And I'm not saying that you're always doing jumping jacks. You're just like, wow, what's wrong with that guy? There's something wrong with him. You know, but there is there's a there's an abundance, there's an overflowing That is there. And where does that happen? It's a relationship with the Spirit of God. And what we don't understand is The Spirit of God, what if you study biblically, we as believers, we can quench The Spirit? Um, we can we can actually um you can you can offend the spirit You can offend the Spirit, you can quench him. Eventually, it's as though the idea of quenching is that it's out. So what does that? Sin. What does sin do for a believer? The same thing that it does for an unbeliever. The wages of sin is death. When as a believer, I am in constant contact with sin, guess what happens to me? I am quenching, I am offending the spirit And that restricts my spiritual life. This morning, if you have a wrong relationship with the Spirit of God Then what that means is probably you don't have the abundant life that you should have. There is life when we are in contact with the Spirit. And John chapter 16 In John chapter 16, this is our next passage that we're going to look at, our second point. So, point one is there is life. Point two in John 16, if you ever want to do a study on the Holy Spirit. John 14, 15, and 16 are the c was some of the classic passages on studying what is the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. What does he do? What is he about? And what's interesting is Christ taught it all. Christ taught all that, and it was a very special time with his disciples. We call that the upper room talks. And Jesus, with his last time with his disciples, guess what he spent the time with them about? The Spirit. And the teaching and the thrill of having the Spirit be in your life In John sixteen, he tells us this nevertheless I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you, but if I depart, I will Send him unto you, and when he has come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. So what is an evidence of the Holy Spirit in your life? There's life. Secondly, there's conviction. If, and uh your theme, Pastor Patrol and I were talking about last night, your theme is on bended knee. And we're going to talk about that with, I think, our fourth idea of evidence of the Holy Spirit. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit helps our infirmities, and one of the infirmities is in your prayer life. Alright, that's in Romans, I believe, chapter 8. So in the believer's life, though, there should be conviction. So in my prayer life. One of the things that I believe most Christians do not include in their prayer life, they just uh I use, I was telling uh Pastor Patrol, I use the acts system for my prayer life. I didn't come up with it. Many years ago there was some teacher or something that came up with the ACTS model. It's A-C T S, and it's kind of an outline for your prayer time. A is adoration. C is confession, T is Thanksgiving, and S is supplication. And so what I believe most people do in their prayer life is the S Supplication. It's like, give me a Lamborghini, pay my house off, help me win the lottery. Alright, so that's my list, Lord. Here it is. Oh, and I I heard the other day Susie at your Alright, but really help me out with my bills. We just we just are on that supplication We have our needs. And I'm being facetious as far as some of the lists. There are good things. I have lists that I pray through. But what I think we forget is the C confession in our prayer life. I believe there's a whole bunch of people that have a backpack of guilt, and every day I've got to come to God and say, God, I want to confess. And you know what sometimes happens? I want to skim through the sea. And God's like, hey, you know what? I'm like, no, no, no, no, let's get to the Thanksgiving right now. You know what? I I love turkey, love things like that. So why just think about that right now? Like, no, no, no, no, no, let's get back to the confession. Remember yesterday you said this. Let's go to the T. Alright? Can we go to the list here? And God's like, no, let's go back to the confession. And he parks it right there. And guess what the job of the Holy Spirit is? To bring some of those things to mind. And he can Convicts. Evidence of the Spirit working in your life is the conviction. If I come to church If in my personal devotions, in my prayer time, I have not had the Holy Spirit convict me, I'm worried. What do we say all the time? Well, nobody's perfect. You're not. Neither am I. So if I'm not perfect and the Holy Spirit's not convicting me, then what am I doing? I'm walking around with a backpack of sin. And unconfessed sin, you know what unconfessed sin will do? It'll lead to guilt, which then guilt packed up a while leads to guilt to bitterness and hatred. I've met young people that I don't even know how they've lived long enough to be bitter. Alright, unless they drank some bitter tea. But that's I'm like, you haven't even lived long enough to be bitter. But I've met young people who are bitter at 14 years of age. Fifteen years of age and I'm like how how can you be better? What is what has ever happened to you? But you know what I as I try to talk to 'em, they have a backpack of guilt. Some of them they have a horrible relationship with their parents and they never have gone to them. They they mouth off and they talk and they do different things. And when they go to God's word, it's just wrote, it's just memorized. It's just I do this, I'm done, I have my list. get up and uh do my ditty and I'm off and they've never paused and never really confess that sin to God. That's the conviction of the Spirit. See, the Holy Spirit, evidence of the Holy Spirit in my life, is that there is life, there is conviction. Notice the third thing. We're there in John 16. Go to John 14 and verse 27. Well actually in the in the uh verse in verse 7 of 16, what did he say? If I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you. Remember that n term? Then in chapter 14 and verse 27 Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Now, I believe that is a name for the Holy Spirit. Why do I believe that's a name? Because in chapter 16 he says, when I go away, I'm gonna give you who? The comforter. And he says, peace, and it's capitalized. All right, I know it's the beginning of a sentence. But I believe that is a name for the Holy Spirit. So what is evidence of the Holy Spirit in a believer's life? Life, conviction, peace Right during all this craziness. I've been talking to my kids and I'm telling ya I I'm like Even with my older folks that that have lived, you know, a hundred and forty years. I th I don't really have anybody a hundred and forty years, but I mean it uh I sometimes think they've lived 140 years But they uh they're like I've never seen anything like it. Never. But I can go to the Word of God, and with the Word of God, and guess who illuminates the Word of God? of God, the Spirit. And as I'm there with the Word of God, He brings great peace. I think it's very interesting that I'm glad I don't live in California, all right, but it's very interesting to me and heavily pagan areas in our country, which California is that. Okay? Guess what they are doing more than anything trying to shut down. Churches. And it's somewhere where the people could find peace. A church that is filled with the Holy Spirit. There's just something about being there that brings peace. It brings peace. It brings comfort. Why? Because the Holy Spirit brings comfort You've probably had similar situations in your church that I have had. I've had some really sad situations over the last couple of years. decades. I I can remember doing a funeral for a eighteen year old that was killed tragically. And sitting at the hospital talking with the parents and trying to help them through it. Remember a couple of years ago I had a um a husband, he called me and he said, I I I can't I can't uh get any um any pulse, anything with my wife the um I called 911, I said, I'll meet you. The hospital's very close to me. Uh I beat him to the hospital. They were willing and his wife. And it It didn't look really well. And I remember they had the life flight into Chicago and we were sitting at uh a hospital and the uh the extended family came in and we asked the them for a room and we went To a small conference room, and we were all just squeezed in there. And I can remember just the peace that was in the room. The peace. You don't have that without the Holy Spirit. During trials and during hard times, guess what the Holy Spirit can do? He can bring peace. to you. So there's peace. We mention the passage, we'll turn there in a moment, but we're there in 14. Look at 14, 1. So this goes into number four. So what is evidence of the Holy Spirit? There is life, there is conviction, there is peace. But look at um In chapter 1 and 2, let not your heart be what? Troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. So in Romans 8, Romans chapter 8, that's the passage I referenced earlier. Romans chapter eight. So and verses four and five says, therefore we are uh I'm sorry Romans eight four might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. So this is all talking about the Holy Spirit. So you go later in the text in verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And he that searches the heart knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God. So number four is that he helps, all right? He's a help for infirmities. So, what does the word infirmity mean? The word infirmity indicates a weakness or something for which we cannot on our own take care of. You will notice that Paul doesn't say infirmity. You'll notice in the text, he says this, likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. So if you were thinking that, hey, you know what, I've got this covered. I am a one infirmity person. The Apostle Paul, who is much smarter and probably a lot more uh spiritually connected to God than we are, said we all not just have one infirmity, we have a bunch of infirmities. Because we need the Spirit's help. We have weaknesses. There are times that we don't even know how to pray, and the Holy Spirit, by developing a relationship with the Holy Spirit, He can help you know how to pray properly. He can lead and guide you. Every day. I I've learned this more and more. And I I know I I'm in the ministry and you'd say, well, it should be as a pastor, you should want the spirits leading. But what is amazing to me is Every Christian has the ability to have the Spirit fill them. That Ephesians 5. And be not drunk with wine. Awareness excess, but be filled. That idea of being filled is in the present tense. The idea is that it's an ongoing action. It is not a one and done thing. I believe that I need to daily, in fact, on my prayer list, there is a prayer that I pray to God, God, today Through the Holy Spirit, lead and guide me. Give me wisdom in decisions. Give me guidance in the things I do. I want to see Him. Alright, I uh an example of this. Last weekend I know you guys are crabbing about your one inch of snow that you got. Alright? It was ridiculous over the last Okay. Pretty sure that we got thirty six inches of snow in like four days. It just every time I looked out the window, it was just snowing again and again and again and again So last weekend, uh on Saturday, well Friday we had a really horrible, and then Saturday we were looking at the weather. And Saturday afternoon I was praying about it and I I got a hold of some of my staff and I said, all right, this is what I'm thinking. We're not going to do Sunday school. We're not running our buses So we'll have one service in the morning. I'll probably then move the evening service up to five. Well, we have uh in fact a whole bunch got back yesterday. But we had a big crew of our Academy heading down to Florida Sunday night after church. All right, we had about 80 people heading down to Florida And they were going to drive all night. So the principal got a hold of me, and this is one thing that I say to Even to my guys, you you pray for God's leading. The principal seven thirty in the morning on on Sunday morning is like, Hey, I'm looking and they're saying that Indianapolis, which is south of us, Nashville, all that they're they're saying they're So right when we're driving you know, we're gonna be driving through that. I said, you know what, we we already canceled Sunday school And he said, you know, can we leave in the afternoon? I said, you know, we already kind of canceled a bunch of stuff. Let's see. Let me pray about it for a little bit. And you know what? They were five hours ahead of the storm that hit, and there was wrecks all over the place. And my bus mechanic uh emailed me on Tuesday and he said, um, thanks. Thanks for being sensitive. to the Holy Spirit. But it's actually my principle. My principal was sensitive to the Holy Spirit because you know what? I wasn't going. You can all like swerve off the road, you know, whatever. That's not me, you know, that's your wife. But you know what? He's sitting there and he's thinking about it, he's looking, and we need help. I don't know everything. You don't know everything. But sometimes we discount the Holy Spirit. Do you know who the Holy Spirit is? It's God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. It's not an it. It's not a thing. Because we say spirit, we all of a sudden think of Casper the Friendly Ghost. That's not who the Holy Spirit is. This is a person of the Godhead. And he's been given to you and I, so that we in our weakness, what am I? I'm flesh, and so are you. And my flesh over and over wants to win the battle. It wants to win the battle in my mind. It wants to win the battle in my in my tongue, in my actions. So how can I overcome this weakness? Isn't that what Paul said? What did he say? Right? The classic passage that we sometimes joke about. It sounded like Paul was schizophrenic. Alright, if you don't know what that is, all right, you'll know it after you uh read this section. In Romans 7, he says this: For I know that in me, that is in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing. And this is what he says. Now, for the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do, then I would not, and it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. It sounds like, wait a minute, so uh so are you doing good or doing bad? Yes. Like what's wrong with you? But then Romans 6 and 7 are all about that sinful flesh. And then he gives us the solution in Romans 8. And in Romans 8, he says, But we have the Spirit. To help our weaknesses. The last thing in the in the text here, not in the text, but uh in a And a passage in I'm in Romans 8. So turn to Romans 15. Romans 15. We read verse 13. Now the God of hope. Fill you with all joy and peace. And he says, through the power of the Holy Ghost. So remember that idea of peace? It's only going to come. Joy and peace. The life. Uh and help for your infirmities is going to come through the power of the Holy Ghost. Look at verse 14, and I myself Uh also and persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. One another, nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you, in some sort, as putting you in mind because of the grace that is given to me of God, that I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable. Notice the phrase, being Sanctified by the Holy Ghost. So that word. So I'm going to give you a couple of big words so that uh tomorrow when you're with your co-workers and different things like that. can just thump their melons as far as like well you don't know at our church we understand the doctrine so this doctrine the doctrine of the spirit is called pneumatology I so n it so tomorrow just knock them out and be like, hey, so what did you do at church? Well we were just studying pneumatology Whoa. Whoa. And don't even tell them what it means. Alright? Like what did you learn at church? So then this other big word, sanctification, is there. I'm sanctified. So that's what you're like, I went to church and was sanctified. I sanctified. You're like, well, what does that mean? It means to set apart. It means to be set apart for God's service specifically. That's what he's saying. When you're sanctified, you're set apart from something. That's the first Thessalonians passage. It says you're set apart from the world, and I'm set to unto God, the Lord. So who can help me to To work at being separated or set apart from the world and being separated unto God. It says here, the Holy Spirit. You know, on your own, you're going to have a hard time with your personal sanctification. All of us will be. And all of us have uh different uh things that we like. We're all individually made by God. So that's why even in music, the Bible tells me that I'm supposed to be filled with spiritual songs. But there's a music, and that's why there's tons of genres of music. I mean there's there's some people that like jazz, but that's kind of worldly. There's people that like country. Alright, then I don't understand that because I think they're living in trailers and have dogs and uh pickup trucks and uh and all kinds of different things like that. So I'm like, I don't know. I I don't know about that. And there's some that like rock and roll and uh different types of rock and roll. But The devil has his thing to get you. And you say, well, how am I supposed to not like that? You can't. But you can be sanctified through the power of the Holy Spirit. He can help you in your growth. And what we don't understand, and this is the In the theological world, what has become really fame uh popular is what's called Reform theology. Reformed theology, there's even now Reformed Baptist, which I don't know, because I don't want to be Reformed, I want to be transformed. Okay But Reform theology does this, right? They love the Bible, they talk about the Bible. In fact, if you um Some of the most popular speakers and theologians in America are reformed guys right now But guess what they don't believe in? They don't believe in a progressive sanctification. And I believe the Bible teaches that. There is a sanctification that happens at salvation I am set apart in the heavenlies. That happens right at salvation. Alright There's a permanent sanctification in heaven. But while I'm here on the earth, the Holy Spirit says that I should possess my vessel unto honor with sanctification. So every day I have to work at that, and I have to become more and more conformed to the image of Christ. So the reformed guy say, oh no, no, no, no, that's not there. And so, as I say, you know what? If I didn't have the Bible, I'd love to be reformed. Because I could say, hey, I love Jesus. I go to church. I love the Word of God. I post verses on my Instagram and Facebook all the time because I love Jesus, love the Word of God. But on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I can do whatever I I can go to parties, I can drink, I can listen to any music I want, but on Sunday, loving Jesus a lot. Alright? Well, guess what? That's not being sanctified by the Spirit. God wants us to have a spirit filled life. And a spirit-filled life. Evidences of that are there is life, there is conviction, there is peace, there is help for my infirmities, and then there is sanctification. Sanctification is very important. Sanctification means to be set apart, to be made holy. That's why we say holy Bible, because it's a sanctified book. It's God's book. I ask you as a Christian, are you a holy Christian? That's not going to happen without a relationship with the Holy Spirit. Many have studied the word that we saw in John 16 and in John 15 it's used. the comforter. In the Greek, it is pronounced Periclete. That's the transliteration of the Greek into English. It's called Periclete. Paraclete means someone called alongside. One man in doing some research found that the Roman soldiers would call their battle partner. That fought, and guess how they fought? If they got into a skirmish and they were surrounded, the soldier, the Roman soldier, would get another battle partner and they would fight back to back with their swords out. And that battle partner was, guess what he was called? A paraclete. He was a battling partner to gain victory. We have a person of the Godhead who is willing to be your battle partner, a paraclete. He will come alongside, and you can fight back to back. And this is A person with a Godhead. And I think that especially in independent Baptist circles, we've got kind of scared of the Holy Spirit As I call it, and some even Baptist circles and charismatic circles, what I term the spookification of the Spirit occurred And so it's like, oh, you know what? I feel it. And so we're all trying to match this feeling. But you know, every one of us, it's going to be a little different how the Spirit works. You know why? Because every one of us are individually made. And the spirit's outpouring is going to be different. Why? Because God cares about you individually. He's not I mean, some of the things, some of the principles will be the same. the same, but God the Holy Spirit wants to produce a victorious life That's why at the end of Romans chapter 8, remember Romans 6 and 7 are sin, uh what? Should sin uh sin abound? In our life? Alright? Because we're under grace? He said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Wait a minute. Alright? We're not supposed to let sin reign in our mortal bodies And that's chapter 6, chapter 7. He's all confused. He's saying, Man, I don't understand this because that which I want to do, I don't do, and that which I don't want to do, I do And then he comes to Romans 8 and he says, I have the Spirit. And that's why at the end of Romans 8, he says, Nay, and all these things. Amen. We are more than conquerors. That's all in the context of what? The Spirit. So I asked you as a Christian today, are you experiencing that victorious conquering one? Life. Maybe it's because you haven't found the battle partner that offers you victory. That's bow to eyes closed this morning.