I was going to uh teach the lessons here on character that counts in basically alphabetical order. Uh in I have narrowed it down to 24 lessons that I have to decide which of the These twenty-four out of the sixty character traits that uh I know were displayed in Christ's life, there's twenty-four of them I thought, well, from these twenty-four we're going to choose, and I was going to just kinda alphabetically go in order and teach them. However, the next one on the list was very applicable to young people. And of course a lot of our young people are uh at camp this week and I thought, well I shouldn't do that. We don't want the young people people to miss it. We don't want them to uh be able to uh not not hear this. So I wonder if there is a topic that Maybe might be a little more applicable to the more mature crowd. Maybe there's a character trait that would be more fitting for the mature crowd and maybe a little less applicable to the young As I looked down through my list, I came upon this one on flexibility and thought, yeah, that's probably a little more fitting to the older older group that uh Certainly we tend to, as we get a little older, get a little less flexible, a little less patient with all the newfangled devices and whatever, and just I want to do it the way we've always done it, you know, and that kind of idea of uh just uh not flexible. And so I thought, well, this would be uh fitting. And good for us to study and be applicable to us and maybe uh not that the young people don't need that, they certainly do, but I think maybe a little more fitting for us and and they have some time to get it in the future. So we're going to look at tonight at character the counts, the character trait of flexibility. Did everybody get a copy of the lesson, the handout you would to fill out? Anyone need Need a copy of that. Alright, then uh there's several. Then uh don't forget the answers from last week, homework and stuff are on the Welcome Center. I don't want to take time during church to go over those answers, uh but they're they'll be out there. You can look at those from last week uh at the conclusion of the service or any time over the next week or so. Um so as he's handing those out we're going to read verses 19 through 23. The Apostle Paul says here, For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all. That I might gain the more. And unto the Jew I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews, to them that are under the law. as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law, to them that are without law, as without law. Being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ. That I might gain them that are without law. To the weak became I as weak, that I may gain the weak. I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be a partaker thereof with you So this passage of scripture here, the Apostle Paul, I mean, if we're talking about flexibility, and looking at this idea here, you would look at, you'd think Well, man, the Apostle Paul is pretty flexible. I mean he says whatever I need to do. Uh I'll do it, whatever it is. I mean if I need to be a weak, I'll be weak. If I need to be a Jew, I'll be a Jew. If I you know, uh whatever, I'll do it, and I do it for the gospel's sake. And many take this passage of scripture and teach just that, that the gospel is what is of utmost importance. Nothing else really matters. Uh the even the idea a little bit of, well, you've got to be like them to win them. Because after all, look at the Basel Paul and what he said here. And uh I want to tonight, as we look at this idea of flexibility, uh of course, encourage you to a measure of flexibility in our lives. But also teach us that flexibility needs to be governed. Now, to illustrate how Maybe we need flexibility a little bit more than the younger generation. I have here a small uh sapling. And Brother Ayler asked me if I was planting bushes in the auditorium. Uh you can see this young sapling, although it's under stress It bends. It it gives. It can snack back. It's under stress, but it's gonna be okay. But Even though this stick here is much fatter, it's much older. And you know that When it's put under stress, it doesn't give. It breaks. And a lot of times we get to that place in our life when we are not flexible. And that actually can hurt us. So we do need to have a measure of flexibility, but our flexibility needs to be governed by principle It is a fundamental fact that things change. We know that things change. I mean Life is simply one change upon another. That's just the way it is. Things change. Sometimes changes are unavoidable There's absolutely nothing we can do about it. That change comes, whatever it might be, a a a stage in life or a change in our schedule or a change in some situation that we weren't aware of and there's nothing we can do about it and and it's that's the way it is. And oh well. Sometimes changes are necessary. We need to make some changes. They're needed Sometimes change is understandable. We can understand why something was changed. Uh maybe I was supposed to go to lunch with Brother Bob and I got a call and Brother Nash had a had a had a fall and went to the hospital and called and asked if I could be there And I called Brother Bob and say, Hey Brother Nash, he he got rushed to the hospital and he asked if I could come. Can we change lunch for another day? Brother Bob would be sure, no problem, I understand that. It's not a big deal. I mean he he had planned to go eat and buy me a steak lunch and And he uh now he doesn't have to. So he's okay with that he's okay with that change. Uh but you know sometimes in our opinion Change is not necessary. And therefore, we are a whole lot less flexible with it. I think uh maybe we're forced to do it, but we don't do it with a good attitude. Right? We the change happens and there's nothing we can do about it, but in our opinion, it didn't need to happen. And so therefore we're not happy about it. We are going to grumble and complain. We are going to express our opinion to everybody we can come in contact with about why this was unnecessary and we don't need to do it that way and this shouldn't have happened and what have you Come on now. Am I right? Is that true? That's the way it is. That's what we do. And what it boils down to is whether we feel the change was justifiable or not. So we want to talk about this idea of change tonight and being flexible. First of all, let's give you a description. A description. The dictionary, according to dictionary. com, change or or flexibility is willing or disposed to yield. Pliable. The 1828 dictionary says ductile, manageable, tractable, as the tender and flexible mind of youth. Flexible years or time of life when the mind is tractable. It goes on to talk about change and how easily, or I'm sorry, flexibility and how easily we should be flexible and talks about how like light is bent. And you think about the resistance. I mean you put something in front of the light and the light just changed. It's just It just moves. It just is directed where it's supposed to go. And that idea was portrayed in the 1828 dictionary with regards to being flexible. Because of how I've already laid this out with the idea that a lot of times change is forced on us, things happen in our lives, and we are forced to be flexible. Of course, I'm not necessarily talking about the l limberness of your of your body. Uh we lose that flexibility as well. Uh have you had a sleep-related injury? You know, woke up and you you have a crook in your neck or you pulled a hamstring in the middle of the night. How in the world did that happen? It used to happen playing football, now it happens in your sleep. So you lose You lose some flexibility uh physically when you get older, but also we tend to lose some flexibility in our lives as well, in our personality. And mostly what it boils down to is our attitude about it. You see, flexibility is adjusting to change with a good attitude. Flexibility is being able to adjust to change with a good attitude. You know, your boss at work comes and tells you, listen, I know that you were going to be making widgets all day today, but now you're going to be over here. and you're going to be doing this. Well you really don't have any choice. You're going to go from making widgets to constructing pallets over here and you're going to be doing that and there's nothing you can do about it but all day you have a bad attitude about it. Now who does that hurt besides you and your relationship with your boss? You see, what it is is many times we can't control our circumstances. But we can control how we respond to them. So what we're really dealing with here tonight is maybe our attitude With the idea of flexibility. What does that look at look like? How would I describe this? As I began to study this, I have to admit, that I gave myself an education as well Well, uh I learned uh that this was a much broader topic uh than I had initially thought. I thought this would be a relatively quick uh thought this evening that we would talk about the idea of being flexible and being happy about it and amen let's go. But as I began to dive into this I really got some some the heart of it and learn some things myself and I hope to be able to share them with you that we may have this character trait of Flexibility displayed in our lives. There are many aspects of this that I had not considered. First of all, there is, of course, the idea of adjusting to change with a good attitude that we've already kind of introduced. That was the direction that I was heading ultimately, and that is the character trait of flexibility. But there is also the idea Well, let me, sorry, I'm jumping ahead here. That that idea of adjusting to change with a good attitude, you see all through the scriptures people that had to change their plan. And Philip was holding revival and and preaching and seeing great fruit and wonderful things were happening and you know he He uh got a call from the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit said, Hey, we want you to get up, get on this chariot. I've got somebody out in the desert I need you to go witness to. And Philip said, oh, I'm sorry, that doesn't fit into my schedule. That's not what I was planning to do this evening. No. He said, Okay, and he got up, he got in the chariot, and he went out into a desert place, and there he found the Ethiopian euk, and Philip Philip ran thither to him and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah and said, Understandest what thou readest? And he said, how can I accept some man should guide me? But I want you to understand in our lives that God may have an Ethiopian eunuch. for us to witness to. God may have a circumstance that He's trying to direct us to, or maybe something He's trying to save us from. And so he would direct our our path, he would change our plans, and we need to be flexible and understand that and have a good attitude about it. You're going to find that a lot of times your usability is really dependent upon your flexibility You see, what if what if Philip would have said, No, I I don't think I can do that today. He would not have had the experience of leading the Ethiopian eunuch to Christ and he would not have been able this wouldn't have been recorded in the Bible for us for all of these generations to learn from. We want to be used of God. We've got to be able to allow God to direct our day. We've got to allow our plans to be changed. We can't get so bent out of shape when something unexpected comes in our lives. This flat tire gets so mad and we walk around and kick the car and and yell at everybody for the rest of the afternoon because we were delayed for wait a minute, why? Why did this happen? What is God doing? He has a plan. We should be sensitive to that and less concerned about our schedule. Less concerned about what we want to accomplish. Your usability many times is directly tied to your flexibility. There are some here in the church that I know I could adjust anything pretty much and it wouldn't matter. I could say, hey, we're going to do this, and or we need to change that, and that's not a problem. There are some that if I give them 24 hours notice, like if we're going to do something different on Sunday and I call them on Saturday and let them know that we're going to do this tomorrow. then that would be okay. They would be alright with that because they would have 24 hours to kind of adjust and acclimate to the idea. And there's some that they're just not gonna like it no matter what. And to be honest, I mean I j as a pastor I just have to kind of learn who's who. Uh who who can I actually do that? Who can I change this on? Nope, I can't change that because I know if I change that I'm gonna ruffle some feathers. I know if I make this change right now, so we can't we can't do that. In my mind I may think, oh we ought to do this right now, but no we can't because I know how this person's gonna respond. Are we flexible? As I began to study this, I found that the definition which I gave you at the beginning was not sufficient to cover all of the areas of flexibility. If we're going to develop this character trait in our life. So a couple other aspects of it that I found was that you also have the idea of being flexible in different circumstances or task that is accomplishing something in both ideal and adverse circumstances. As in being able to teach a Sunday school class in a nice air-conditioned classroom where the kids are sitting in their chair and looking at you and you're standing behind a pulpit, as well as being able to teach a Sunday school class outside under a tree with no pulpit, no chairs, or anything else. Uh y does that make sense? The idea of being flexible, to be able to do it either way. Um I think about the Bible and I think about the Apostle Paul who said, I know both how to be abase And I know how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. You see, we as Christians, we need to develop the ability to be flexible in less than ideal circumstances. To be able to do what we're called upon to do, to be able to fulfill what God would want us to do or our personal responsibilities in less than ideal circumstances. Let me give you another example. We're gonna have a big day, and it's raining. Oh man. It's raining. I don't want to be out in the rain. I don't want I'm supposed to make cotton candy I'm going to make cotton candy in the rain, you know, or I don't want bounce house in the rain. What are we going to do? There's less than ideal circumstances, but can we just do it? And have a good attitude and find a way to get through, the kids aren't going to care. If we as adults have a have a good attitude and a lot of fun, they're going to love it. You know what? You know what? The one year of anniversary Sunday they're going to remember The one that they bounced in the rain. Because all the rest of them were the same. They're going to tell you, you remember we're bouncing and it was raining down like crazy, you know? Oh man. That's what they're going to remember. They had a great time But a lot of it is dependent upon the spirit or the attitude of those people that are organizing it. We got to be willing and able to adjust. And have the right spirit. You also have the idea of being flexible in different mindsets or beliefs. You see, I learned as a young man in construction. That there is more than one way to skin a cat. There is more than one way to do a particular construction job. And I learned a long time ago, you come into a job and you, let's say you're taking it apart and you look at it and you think, man, why did they do it like this? This is not the way I would have done this. And you know, you gotta really guard against telling the homeowner like they really messed up your house You know, you gotta guard against that because you know what's gonna happen? The next guy that comes in twenty years from now and he's fixing something, he's gonna be, who did this? And and you know, y they weren't there to realize that you were doing it by yourself, didn't have any help, or all all of the scenarios that come into play. But what I'm saying is one guy may feel very strongly that you're supposed to do it this way and another guy feels very strongly that you're supposed to do it And to be quite honest, if they both come out with a decent result, it it's gonna be okay. It'll be all right. Um I learned that a long time ago. And some guys are very adamant about it's gotta be this way. So don't do it this way, it's not is not right. That's just because that's how they learned it. And you could learn it another way. Our mindsets are beliefs sometimes. Need to be flexible. We're looking at the idea, the character trait of flexibility in our life. This may have primarily to do with the adjustment of our schedule and the ability to adapt to changing circumstances with a good attitude. But we also have to look at it in light of our current culture. If we're going to keep this character trait in our lives of flexibility, a Christian character trait, we've got to view it in light of our culture. So let me talk about the development of this. Sorry, the deployment. The deployment. We're going to get to development in a minute. The deployment. How does this in our life day-to-day look like? The actual using of flexibility in our life. Our world today has gotten to the place where flexibility is loved and promoted on every hand. It is promoted with catchwords like tolerance, love, and inclusiveness. They would have you believe that there are no absolutes Every serious discussion is relegated to the realm of opinion. The world has shifted so far that even a straight declaration of truth is made useless By the statement, that's your opinion. That's where we're at today. They would have you say there is no truth. And if you declare truth, they'll say, well, that's your opinion. As if your opinion on the matter makes it null and void, as if it makes it useless, as if it's no longer truth and therefore irrelevant. This is why we must have flexibility that's governed by principle. The world doesn't mind spirituality as long as it's not stated as truth. You see, they're not giving the yoga instructor or the spiritualist a hard time about what they're doing Because they don't mind if we gather together and they call for a moment of silence, where everybody present can bow their head. And do with the moment whatever they would like. If some would like to pray to their ancestors, or some would like to pray to their cat or dog, or some would like to pray to the pie in the sky, or some would like to pray to themselves, or not Preetal We can call for a moment of silence and we're all deeply spiritual. And they don't mind that. But if you say that you must pray to the Father in the name of the Son, that they mind. Even though that truth is declared very clearly in the scriptures. They say, oh, that's your opinion. So all flexibility must be governed by principle. It's not just a measure of do whatever you want. In the initial passage of scripture that we read. The apostle Paul saying, to the Jew, I'm a Jew. To the Greek, I'm a great. To the weak, I'm weak. To the strong, I'm strong, to whatever I need to be. But notice he talks about the law, he says To them that are without the law, as without law, being not without the law to God, but under law to Christ. He's saying, I do this, but I do it what? I am under the law of Christ. Understanding that, I do it as unto God, and for the gospel's sake. It is still governed. By principle, it would be wrong for us to sacrifice truth on the altar of flexibility. Oh, let's just be flexible. Let's allow anything. Let's allow everything. Let's do this or that. Let's let's you know We could we could take that down a long road. But do you understand that this is a never ending road that leads to destruction? When we say there are no absolutes, when we say that there's no truth, and it's just a matter of opinion and we can all do what we would like to do. then that road leads us down a road to destruction. And our country is heading headlong down that road right now. I remind you that Christ did not say to the money changers, hey fellas Listen, I know you guys need to make a living as well. And after all, these this space isn't used during the week. I mean we don't need it during the week, so yeah, I I can be flexible on this. Christ help me out. Did Christ do that? No, he he turned the table overs and he chased them out of there. He said, This is a holy place. We don't use this for that. It's sanctified, it's set apart. You can set your table up and sell your wares on any street in town, but not in God's house There is a standard. There is truth. There is right and wrong in principle must guide our flexibility. Turn to Acts chapter number 21. We must be firm when we have a direct command in the scriptures or a call from the Spirit of God. In Acts chapter number twenty-one, I want to show you some stuff. Paul was on his way to Jerusalem He had been planning this trip for a long time. He knew this is what he was supposed to do. He's going to go to Jerusalem. He's going to carry the money that was raised for the for the saints there to them. This is his plan But in verse number 4, he meets up with some believers. Look at verse number 4 in chapter number 21. He says, and finding disciples, we tarried there seven days, who said to Paul, Through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem. So these saints Evidently, directed by the Spirit of God, told Paul, you shouldn't go to Jerusalem. But Paul was going to go to Jerusalem anyway. What I want you to see is the rest of it in context. You see, he knew what he was supposed to do. Look at verse number 11. He says, and when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle So Agabus, the verse number 10 there says a certain prophet named Agabus came to them, and he says, And when he came unto us, he took Paul's girdle and bound his own hands and feet, and he said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost. So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him unto the hands of the Gentiles. So you see in context, they had a message from the Holy Spirit. The message was that if Paul goes to Jerusalem, he's going to be bound and imprisoned. And they didn't want to lose Paul. They said, Paul, man, we don't want you to go. You're going to get put in jail. The Spirit of God told us this. Don't go, Paul. They wanted Paul to stay. It's not safe for you. Stay here. But now look at what Paul says in verse number 13. Let's just start, let's continue on 1213. He says, and when he had heard these things, both we and they, that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem. Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break my heart? For I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem. For the name of the Lord Jesus. And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased saying, what's the next phrase here? The will of the Lord be done. You see, they were saying, Paul, don't go. You're gonna be imprisoned. The Holy Spirit told us they didn't want him to go because they didn't want to lose Paul. But Paul said, hey, I'm willing to be bound. Not to be bound only, but to die. I have to do this. I have the call of God on my life to fulfill this purpose. I must go. He was not flexible in this matter. He was firm. He said, I've got to go because the Holy Spirit told me to go. Because God said I was supposed to go. And if I'm going to be bound, I'll be bound. And if I'm going to be killed, I'll be killed. That's okay, because I got to go. And when the saints realized they couldn't deter Paul, then they said, Okay. I guess we'll stop arguing with you. We'll let the will of God be done. And they yielded to what Paul knew was the will of God. What I want you to see is Paul was not flexible in this matter. Although we saw earlier that Paul said, I do what I have to do for the gospel's sake, and to the weak, I'm weak, and so on, he's saying he does what's necessary to try and reach them. He is flexible where he can be. But there are places where he understood that flexibility had to be governed by principle. He was not flexible when he had a call from God. I think about Nehemiah, who was called to come down from the wall to stop working. And Nehemiah replied, I cannot come down from so great a work. They they they had him and they said you you gotta come down, come down and meet with us, come down and talk to us. They of course wanted to stop the work and Nehemiah said, I cannot come down. He wouldn't be deterred from what God had called him to do. You understand this evening that children must go to the mission field if God calls them to go Even though mom and dad or grandma and grandpa may say, oh, don't go. It's not safe over there. You might get hurt over there. This is not, I mean you're going to be separated from us. Our grandberry bees, we're not going to be able to see them. We want you to stay here. But the young people need to be determined and know in their heart what God wants them to do and say, Mom and Dad, I love you and I want to honor you, but understand I've got to do what God said to do. And they've got to go. Amen? They can't be flexible in this matter. All throughout the scripture we have biblical principle that is clear and commands that are clear, and we are not to be flexible on those. In matters that are not as direct, there should be overriding governing principles that teach us and show us what we should do I'm gonna take this little block here. I have about a five-foot piece of crown mold. And I have two about four inch blocks, five inch blocks off of the uh stage. I'm gonna set this down here, spanning this gap. What I want you to understand is where, when we are called to be flexible, we still need guiding principles We still need unmovable truth that guides our flexibility. You see, I have this thin board here, and I'm going to step on it. And it's going to go all the way down to the floor. You see it did not break because there's something solid underneath it holding it up. In our lives, it's not a matter of just be flexible and do whatever you want to do whenever you want to do it. Let's just be flexible. No. We have got to have something solid as a foundation, a truth. That is our boundary line, that is our guide, that is our overriding principle that teaches us some things, that shows us what we're supposed to do. Like In the scriptures where maybe it's not quite so clear, you have the principle of do all as unto the glory of God. Whatsoever thy hand findest to do, do it with all thy might. We have those principles. There's principles in the scripture that still guide us. Can I do this for the honor and glory of God? What happens when we remove the foundation? From underneath us, we end up breaking. Our flexibility must be guided and bound by principle. Yes, there's areas where we can be flexible and we should be flexible, but those are never without boundaries If we are without boundaries, we will end up going down a road that leads to destruction. Let me read for you a statement about flexibility made by somebody who's lost all his boundaries. And a few of his marvels. Listen to how truth and error is interwoven in this statement. We take non-biblical positions such as only baptized Christians can be saved. Now that's non-biblical, correct? I mean, first of all, baptism has nothing to do with salvation, so that's not that's not a biblical statement. He says, or a person can only be saved if they are person if they personally accept Jesus Christ. Now that is true, but he started out and said we take non-biblical positions like only a baptized Christian can be saved. And a person can be saved by only personally accepting Jesus Christ. We must have flexibility and a natural mind if we are to understand the teaching of Christ. I thought the scripture said that to the natural mind the things of Christ are undiscernible. We don't understand that. We need a spiritual mind for that. But he says we have to have a natural mind if we're to understand the teaching of Jesus. All the way through the Gospels, Jesus tells us time and again that he has not come. That part is true. He has not come, but listen to what he changes here. He says that he has not come to give us nice, packaged, closed, biased ideas. I'm sorry, I've read the New Testament many times, and I have never seen that passage where Jesus said that multiple times, that he's given us a nice closed package closed by his ideas. Each of the teachings of Jesus is about mystery, ambiguity, and flexibility of mind that is required that we may have a truly spiritual life Spirituality is about meaning. It is not about facts or closed dogma. We live in a global pluralistic world that will be held together by means of loving dialogue With the sheep, but with the sheep, of the fold and those that are not the children of God. This is the clear teaching of Jesus. Now, I had to read that about four times to understand what he said. The clear teaching of Jesus, I'm not sure, but here's what I'm saying: when you remove the boundary, Where is the stop? Where does the flexibility end? Where do we say, oh uh no, I cannot be flexible in that? So you understand tonight we must have uh all flexibility governed by principle. All flexibility should be deployed as a matter of practical functionality. We need both firmness in faith, firmness that is based in faith Based in the truth of the Word of God, based, our firmness needs to be based in truth. But we need flexibility that's based in functionality. There are some things that, practically speaking, we can adjust. Now contrary to popular thought, that there are areas that just don't matter. That is simply a matter of opinion, that there just makes no difference. I believe Paul teaches that it does matter, and that we are to find God's will on it. Turn your Bibles to the book of Romans, chapter number 14. This is a passage of scripture that's used to teach the idea of flexibility and letting people do what they want. Understanding people think differently and so on. So Romans chapter 4, number 14, follow along with me. I'm going to read a few verses here. He says, Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not, and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth, for God hath received him. Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up, for God is able to make him stand. One man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man, now I'm going to pause here. Thus far in this text you would think that we are being taught that it's just a matter of opinion. That One guy wants to eat and one guy doesn't. Hey, they're both the I the the idea of received is is taught here through this passage of scripture. I think it's three times it The receive. We're to receive the brethren. Even though sometimes they might not think or do like we do, we're to receive them in love. We of course are supposed to teach them. Him, but he says here, uh, hey, somebody wants to eat meat, let them eat. Somebody wants to eat herbs, let them eat herbs. You almost think that it doesn't matter. But I want you to see that I believe Paul is teaching us that it's the difference here is it's not our opinion. It's God's opinion. You see in verse number five, he says, One man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. So we've got to be persuaded in our own mind, but why? He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord, and he that regardeth not the day to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks. And he that eateth not to the Lord eateth not And giveth God thanks. For none of us live to himself, and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live or we live, we live unto the Lord, and whether we die, we die unto the Lord. the Lord, whether we live therefore or die, we are the Lord's. I believe what he's saying is what you need to do is you need to wrestle with the thought, you need to struggle with this, you need to spend time in prayer about it. You need to look and be fully persuaded in your mind what God wants you to do. Not fully persuaded into your mind what you feel like you want to do or what is what you've always done or what your is natural to you, what your opinion is But be fully persuaded in your mind what God's opinion is, because whatever we do, all the way to being born to dying, we do it as unto the Lord. Amen? Leaving flexibility for practical functionality, we need it, but it needs to be guided by principle. Flexibility is something that we need to have when it's not contrary to a clear command or a call of the Holy Spirit. For instance, changing the time of our services. From six o'clock to five o'clock. We can do that. We can be flexible in that. That that's not gonna we're not breaking any of the laws of God. We're not changing anything. It's okay. We can do that. We want people to be able to focus on the day and maybe get their visitors here and and maybe be a little bit more rested because it's a big day and we've got to put a lot of energy in, and so we're not going to have Sunday school. Wicked. You're not independent Baptists. You've canceled Sunday school. I know. I feel dirty. I feel wicked. I feel terrible. Right? Because we've got this restraint that we've put on ourselves. But that's not uh there's a pastor, a friend of mine, that doesn't have Sunday school. You know what I told him I told him, don't start one. Pastor, you have to have Sunday school. I told him, don't start one until God leads you to. Right now you don't have Sunday school. I said you need to have things in place, you need to have teachers, you need to have workers. Once you start that, it's it's a lot of work, and I'm saying don't do it just because that's what Baptists do. There was no such thing as Sunday school before about the 1920s. I mean there was no Sunday school. We didn't have Sunday. It was just a way to help teach the Bible. And hey, we need teaching of the Word of God, and that's okay, but You know what? We don't have to have it. We can still line up with scripture. Well, I can tell this is going over real good. Pastor, you're preaching heresy. I'm not saying we're canceling don't worry, I'm not laying the groundwork for that. We're not canceling Sunday school. I'm just saying there are areas that we can be flexible in as long as our flexibility is guided by the principles of the Word of God. Amen Any time that we're not going against a direct command from Scripture or a call from the Spirit, something that God has told you to do. You know, there may be something that's not It's not necessarily a biblical principle. It's not necessarily, you know, I here, I'll give you an example. I need to hurry, but I don't like open-toed shoes. It's just personal thing. I don't have anything biblical by it. It doesn't really matter. You want to wear flip-flops or sandals? More power to you, I don't think any I mean it's fine. No problem. But of course, with my family I my wife knows that I don't care for them. So she doesn't wear 'em. I mean who's she dressing for anyway? So she knows I don't really like open-toed shoes. So and to be honest, I haven't thought about that in years and years. It's not something And I I stress over if Mary was wearing a pair of sandals, I would be like, what are you doing wearing sandals? I mean, it's not that big a deal, but I just don't care for him. So the other day one of my kids asked, Dad, how come we can't wear open-toed shoes? So I got to explain to him, well, it's just a preference. It's just something that I like being neat and sharp. I like being uh dressed up instead of dressed down and in our society today where people come to a wedding in sandals, you know, I just don't understand that. I think there are reasons to dress up and Uh I want to be dressed up more than I want to be dressed down. And so that's why. I mean I I don't wear shorts a lot. I rem Remember Miss uh uh uh Taylor, uh she saw some of the pictures from our cruise we went on. She's like, I saw you in a pair of shorts. And I said, I know. So yeah, brother Brother Glover wasn't supposed to be taking that picture. It was nice there on the boat when it was hot and you know. Uh I mean it was nice on the island. What I I mean I wear shorts. I went w when Mary and I went to the Caribbean, I rented a scooter for the day And I was wearing shorts, driving around town in a scooter, and the tops of my knees, which are whitest could be, boy they got burned so bad I couldn't I couldn't touch anything. I'm like, don't touch me, you know That was terribly stupid. But listen, there's nothing sinful about that. You can wear 'em, I just don't like to. So here's what I'm saying. I'm saying sometimes the Spirit of God directs you in your heart. Don't hold your personal preferences over other people. Allow for flexibility. You know, it's it it's not a sin. They can do that and it's fine. You wanna wear open toed shoes? It's not gonna matter. You know, that type of stuff. There's areas like that that are that are okay. And we can be flexible, we can be understanding, and we don't have to try and uh dictate to everybody else our personal preferences. Does that make sense? Every Christian should be flexible both in practical Christianity as well as personal planning. If we in our life are so rigid that we can't adjust, it will destroy you. In 1911, Frank Lloyd Wright was given the impossible task of building the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo. The construction job had never been undertaken before. It was in the middle of an earthquake zone. He researched and studied for four years how to build the Imperial Holy Hotel. And he found out that below the surface, I think it was 11 feet down, there was a seven-foot layer of moldable clay. m uh mushy clay. He ran the calculations and decided that he was going to build this building, not on the solid foundation, But floating on the clay. And everybody laughed. They mocked and made fun of him and thought, this is never gonna work. He dug down, laid this building on this clay play and left room where it could float and built the building that way. Well in 1919 the work began Many onlookers and skeptical skeptics mocked and made fun. This difficult building that up to this time the world had never seen. was almost completed when the worst earthquake in 52 years hit. 6. 8 on the Victor sale It caused all of the adjacent houses and buildings around him to tumble and fall to ruins. Frank Lloyd Wright was on the top floor. Looking over some plans, when the earthquake hit, his building was almost complete, and it was the only one still standing. Why? Because it could flex with the earthquake They have since learned that obviously skyscrapers, there is an apartment building, a high-rise apartment building in New York City that has a five to six-foot sway at the top. That's like being on a ship. I mean you talk about motion sickness. To keep it from falling down, it's designed to be able to flex. And then it stops moving. The rigid building. gets destroyed. You and I in our life, practically speaking, we'll destroy our spirit. We will have a bad attitude. We're the ones that are hurt when life throws us a curveball and we are not Flexible. We need to be willing to let God change our plans. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. The man's heart divides his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Brother Gerarte, the missionary that we just had, he was very flexible. Hey, brother, can you guys sing another song? What? Yeah, yeah, we can sing another song. Hey, I know I asked you to preach on Sunday night, but could you curtail your message and get it under 20 minutes so we both can preach Sunday night? Yeah, I can do that. No problem. He was very flexible. Had a good spirit, a good attitude. We need to be flexible The development of flexibility, let me give this to you quickly. If we're going to develop flexibility in our life, we need to stretch ourselves. Stretch ourselves. That's how we get flexible, right? Well, stretch ourselves. Do some things that are unplanned. You know, stretch stretch your limits. Do something new. Matthew 2, chapter uh chapter 2, verse 7 through 12, the wise men went to find Jesus. And remember how they had a plan. They were going to go back and tell Herod where where he was at. That was their plan. But then in a dream, God said, hey, don't go back there. So they got up and they went home another way. Their plans changed. God changed their plans. When our plans get changed, we need to check our attitude first. Not check our schedule, not check what's next, what got messed up, how we're not going to be able to do this or do that, but we need to check our attitude first. Realize that a wrong attitude is not right before God. Confess it and forsake it. And ask God to help us to be more flexible In Mark chapter 6, we have the story of Jesus when he feeds the 5,000. If you remember that passage of scripture, we're not going to take time to read it, but he you remember he had been all day working with people? He had been all day teaching. And him and the disciples were tired. And they were hungry. And the the the scripture says they wanted to get away into a private place. They just wanted to get into a private place for a little while. They they went out and to go do that and when they got there it was full of people. People were there and they wanted to hear it. And you remember the disciples were like, send them away We want to be in a private place. We want to get some dinner. We want to eat. And Jesus said, feed my sheep. We've got to change our plans, guys. Jesus, who had planned to go be private for a little while, found there was a need. And he said, disciples, we've got to change our plans. Let's let's sit down here. Let me teach them. You feed them. And five thousand were fed. Let us be sure that we are purposely firm on matters of biblical faith and politely flexible on matters of faith. Beloved, it is a true matter of spiritual maturity to know when to give in and when to dig in. It's spiritual maturity to know when to dig in and when to give in. We on occasion get it wrong. That's understandable. We might dig in sometimes when we really ought to have some grace and be flexible And sometimes we might be flexible when we really ought to dig in and stand. Right? But we need to strive to be led by the Spirit of God. And to only give in when God has given us peace to do so, and to dig in when God says don't yield a little bit Flexibility without biblical principle is just spineless Christianity. Stubborn adherence to biblical principle without compassionate consideration of others is just Pharisaical pride We need to be able to respond to change with the sweet spirit. That is what cre Christlike character of flexibility is A palm tree survives a heavy storm because it can bend with the wind. If you've seen it on the news, you've got them showing these houses, and the houses are being blown over, and the palm trees like leaning like this. And when the storm's over, the palm tree's standing back up. It's designed by God to be flexible, to be able to handle the storm, to be able to weather the change and temperature. temperature and wind and then stand back up. Our text verse for this month Is those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of the Lord of our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age. They shall be fat. And flourishing. That's verse 13 and 14, but do you know what verse number 12 says? Verse number 12 says, the righteous shall flourish, flourish like a palm tree. The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree. I think God's saying He expects us to be able to be flexible, to be able to weather the storm. And still be standing for him