So joy. We're in Galatians chapter 5, verse 22, if you didn't hear that, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. We talked about meeting people that are Very bubbly, overlo overjoyed to see you and you you may be having a bad day and you're like, uh, I just need you to be depressed with me, you know. I just need you to be not happy with me. Um But a fruit of the Spirit is joy. And I think during this time with all the sickness and cold and things going around, I think this message will be an encouragement to us. So there was a man that seemed to be happy all the time. He was one of those people. He seemed to be happy all the time. His daughter was sure that he went to heaven every night and then came back to earth. She just could not figure out why he was so happy. So one day she finally asked him, Dad, where do you get all of this joy? Where do you get um wh how do you how are you so happy? And this was his reply, and I want you to get this because the message is kind of based off of this tonight. He said, Joy is the flag which is flown from the castle of the heart when the king is in residence there So the question for us tonight, and I think all of us would say that the king is is in residence of our hearts. Amen. So if he is, are you flying the flag of joy tonight? Is the question. Good So the title tonight is Flying the Flag of Joy. Flying the Flag of Joy. Let's pray and then we'll jump right into the message tonight. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for the opportunity we have to meet together, Lord. And Lord, thank you that even though many are out, Lord, we still have a group of two or three, and where two or three are gathered, you are in the midst of them. And uh Lord, as we look into your word tonight, pray that it would be uh a minister an encouragement to the people here, Lord, and to the people watching, Lord, I pray that you would use your word to uplift and to strengthen and to encourage. I pray that you'd bless us and use your word again as we look into it tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. So we'll look at uh reasons for flying the flag of joy, some requirements for flying the flag, and the rewards of flying the flag tonight. So the first one, the reasons for flying the flag. Why should we fly the flag of joy? How why can we fly the flag of joy, so to speak? The first one is we have already won the war. We have already won the war. Turn over to 1 Peter chapter 1. 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 3 through 9. We'll read through those First Peter chapter one says verse three blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. We're in verse seven. That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than gold than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ whom having not seen ye love, in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory, receiving the end of your faith even the salvation of your souls. So what's what's uh the Lord saying here? He's saying You may you're gonna face trials, you're gonna face um temptations, um, you're gonna face hard things in your life. But he's already given you salvation. He's already won the war. So can I tell you something tonight? The king that lives inside me has already defeated my enemies. The king that lives inside you has already defeated your enemies. Satan can throw whatever he wants at us. He's gonna throw trials, he's gonna throw temptations, he's gonna throw fiery darts, he's gonna throw everything he can at us to get us to take down that flag of joy. He's gonna throw everything he can. Um but you know why we can keep that flag of joy um raised? Because he has already won the war. My king has already won the war. Um when I was uh really young, my grandparents would babysit me sometimes, um, and we would play this This game. Have you all ever seen those um little army men that they sell at like Dollar Tree and or whatever? So we would we would take like a couple hundred of those. I don't know if I can maybe I can come down here and show you We would take a couple hundred of those and we would uh so there would be two sides, we'd take a couple hundred of those, we would take Legos. And we would build these elaborate like fortresses. And we would set all these army men everywhere. So I would set up my side and my grandma would set up her side. And so she would sit behind her lines and I would sit behind my lines and we take these aluminum foil balls. Um they were like we would just take some aluminum foil make it into a ball that's pretty solid. And we would throw them at each other's side. And whoever whoever knocked over the most army men would win. So actually no, whoever knocked over all the army men first would win. So we would just take turns throwing and throwing and throwing and you know, we'd build like this huge this huge wall with our Legos and put one little army man behind it and have to try to knock it over. So We would play this game like all the time growing up. It was like our favorite game. And we'd usually play like two or three games at a time Um but I remember and my grandma will tell you this, she remembers it too. I uh she beat the one of the first times that she played, she beat me. I lost, but I told her this. I told her Mama, you may have won the battle, but I'm gonna win the war. And oftentimes we We will lose a battle. We're going to lose a battle. Oftentimes we do lose the battles. But the reason we can fly a flag of joy is because he's already won the war for us. Amen. And so we have so much to be joyful about in that area. So that's the first reason why. Um Why we should fly the flag of joy, we have already won the war. Maybe that's something you've forgotten tonight. You you are going through a trial, tribulation, sickness for those of you who are watching. Whatever maybe has you down a little bit, maybe you've forgotten that you've won the war. That's a good reason to fly the flag of joy. The second reason. Uh so the first reason is we've already won the war. The second we have promises from the King of Kings. You know that king that already won the war for us? He's given us promises upon promises in his word. So we'll just look at a few of those. And I hope this is this is just to kind of push us in the right direction. There's so many in the scriptures. We won't look into all of them tonight. But we have so many promises that we can fly. The flag of joy to help us fly the flag of joy. Uh John chapter sixteen. John chapter sixteen. Turn over there. Look at verse twenty through twenty two. Verily, verily I say unto you, this is Jesus talking to his disciples here, just before he goes back to heaven. Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice, and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. A woman, when she is in travail, has sorrow because her hour is come, but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish for joy that a man is born into the world And ye now therefore have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. We have the first promise we have is the promise of Christ's return. No matter what's going on in our lives, no matter um what what we're facing, we have the promise of Christ's return. He's going to come back to us someday. And if you sit down, you know, we say that right now. I'm I may I may be saying that right now, but if you sit down and think about that Christ is coming back for you. Personally. Like you're gonna you're gonna get to see Jesus. personally. And um boy that if that doesn't give you joy at you know in your life, man, that g that should give us so much joy. So the first is the promise of Christ's return. The second, the promise of answered prayer. Turn over to John chapter 16. Oh, you're already there. We'll look at verses 23 and 24. Here. Look at verses twenty-three and twenty-four. And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name, ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. You know, sometimes, I was thinking about this today, sometimes I I I think we don't have joy because we don't ask for it. Maybe as simple as that. And boy, we have the promise of answered prayer. I mean we have the promise of Um and we know that our relationship with the Lord has to be right for that to happen through the scriptures. Um but if that's the case, we have we have the promise of answered prayer. And whatever situation you may be going through that may be causing you to lower that flag of joy and replace it with the flag of anger or depression or bitterness. Whatever situation you may be going through, you have a direct access line to the Lord. And not only has he promised to hear you, he's promised to answer your prayers. So we have the promise of answered prayer, the promise of Christ's return. Number three, we have the promise of renewed strength, Isaiah 40, verse 31. We could turn over there. We know uh that verse very well. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength, they shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be wary, and they shall walk and not faint. We have the promise of a place in heaven, John chapter 14, verses 2 and 3. So I'm just listing all promises for you These are if you're a Christian, these are promises that directively are directly related to you. You have them to claim. John chapter fourteen, verses two and three. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you, I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself. that where I am, there you may be also. If you think if you just sit down and think about that, like, okay, yeah, I had a bad week, it was rough week. But I'm gonna need to sit in heaven forever with the Lord. He's prepared a place for me. Which if you think about that too, he's prepared a place for me. So does that mean he knows what I like? Like it's gonna have a coffee bar and it's gonna have a you know, or for Pastor Mount Dubar or something like that. You know, like he's prepared a place the Bible says he's preparing a place for you specifically. So when you get to heaven, you're going to have a place prepared for you. That's a promise. That's a promise from the Lord. Hebrews 13, 5, He will never leave us or forsake us. I love that promise. Uh let me get over here. Hebrews thirteen five. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Yet another promise. He'll supply all my needs. Philippians 4 19. But my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in Christ Jesus. Romans 8. 28, all things will work together for our good. So these are just, I mean, I just threw down seven promises here that right off the bat. And We forget 'em so fast, don't we? We forget 'em. We forget all the promises of God so fast. Same with Um same with the reasons. We forget we forget that he's won the war for us. We forget that we have all these promises that he's given us. And oftentimes um you know we're flying that flag of joy, we have it we have it put up And then something comes along in our lives and we pull it right down and up goes the flag of, you know, discontentment or up goes the flag of um bitterness, or up goes the flag of depression, or up goes the flag of you name it. But if the king is dwelling in our hearts The flag that should be flying is joy. The flag that should be flying is joy. Um So if you can trust and this the Lord the Lord gave me this thought today as I was studying this. If I can trust Jesus as my Savior. Why can't I trust in his promises? How come I lose sight of those? But I can trust him as my Savior, but I can't trust His promises. Well, he'll never leave me or forsake me. I think he's forsaken me before. He's m he's messed up that part. No, he hasn't. The Lord hasn't done that. Um and oftentimes we lose sight of that. So those are some the reasons for flying the flag, why we should and why we can fly the flag of joy, because he's won the war and because we have his promises. So secondly, the qu the requirements for flying the flag here, the requirement for flying the flag. First of all, your input has to be right. If you're going to fly the right flag, your input has to be right. Look at turn over here to Psalms chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. Psalms chapter 1, verses 1 and 2. Blessed or happy is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night Have you all uh well our simple requirement here for flying of the flag of joy is to is to Um have the right input. And starting with the right input is starting with God's Word. You want to start with the right input, start um getting back in God's Word. Um have you all a good example of this, have you all ever uh seen that show My My Six Hundred Pound Life? Yeah. Have you ever heard of that? Well, I I've heard of it. I've never seen it. I watched a clip today. You know, they have these people that You know, they they just get really large and way overweight and they have a show about it. Um and you just watch them eat and eat and eat and eat and it's very disgusting. It's almost it's very disgusting But you just watch it and they eat all these calories. They just they just eat and eat and eat and eat and eat. And you think to yourself as you're watching, why don't they just stop that? Like why don't they just stop eating all that food? Like if they just stopped for a while, they would they would lose the weight, right? Like why would you want to weigh that much? And um you think to yourself, why don't they just stop? But how often do we get on the wrong diet spiritually? The wrong input, and we're We're reading this we're reading this wrong book or we're watching this uh watching this TV or doing doing going to this place or putting in all these wrong things and We're just as bad. We we just keep feeding ourselves, feeding ourselves, feeding ourselves, feeding ourselves when our input needs to change. And we wonder sometimes why am I not happy? Why am I why am I not flying the flag of joy? Well What is your input? What's going in? Because if the input's right, usually the flag of joy will be flying. Um so maybe that's the reason you say, well, I can't I'm not flying the flag of joy right now. I've just been a grouchy, mean, depressing person to be around. I'm I'm just sad all the time and Um well that's not how we're supposed to live our Christian lives. That's not how the Lord wants us to live. Um He wants us to be flying that flag of joy. So what's your input? What's your input? Maybe there's some things you need to cut out, maybe so there's some things you need to add. Only you and the Lord know that, what those things are. So, not only must your input be right, guess what? Your output must be right too. Let's turn over to 1 Corinthians 15, verse 58, also a well-known verse. So these are just some requirements for flying the flag of joy. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. A re maybe a reason you're not seeing the flag of joy fly in your life is because you aren't serving the Lord. And maybe you've gotten to a place, well I have all these things all these things going on in my life. I can't serve the Lord. Oh, if you get to that place. Maybe you need to cut out some things in your life and get back to serving the Lord. A mother gave her little girl a quarter and a dollar before church. She said, put whichever one you want in the collection plate and keep the other for yourself. When they were coming out of church, the mother asked her daughter which amount she had given. Well, said the daughter, I was going to give the dollar, but just before the collection The man in the pulpit said that we should all be cheerful givers. I knew I'd be a lot more cheerful if I gave the quarter, so I did. Isn't that how we are though? I mean we laugh at that, but oftentimes, well, I've got something going on every day this week, so Saturday is gonna be mine. I'm gonna stay home and not go to visitation. Or I have um You know, I've been busy the last three weeks and uh I haven't had you know I haven't had a week off but There's missions conference going on at church or you know there's all these things going on and now obviously I'm not saying don't rest. Um the Bible says Rest. We need to rest. But I'm saying, how are are we taking time for ourselves that should be given to God? That's the question we should be asking. Are we taking time for ourselves that should be given to God? And oftentimes oftentimes I find myself in that in that decision time where, ooh, it's been a long week. I don't really want to do it, but should I do it? And the Lord the Lord will usually, you know, if if you're if you're in touch with him, he'll you need to do it. And you have to submit yourself. Um but the quite but the we all know that acronym, Jesus Others U. Right? That's where this input, Jesus, output, others, and then you You come last. And oftentimes something comes into our lives, bump Jesus down, bump others down, you goes up top, right? Just that fast. And so Maybe that's a reason why you're not seeing the flag of joy fly. Jesus and others, bump down, you goes to the top. Well and we give all these excuses, but really we know our input has to be right spending time with the Lord and His Word. Our output has to be right serving the Lord and serving others and then we come last. So your input and output, if you're gonna s if you're gonna fly the flag of joy, those have got to be in the right in the right priorities. And you most likely won't have good output if you don't have good input. So that's why Jesus comes first than others, then you. So the requirements. Um seen we've seen the reasons. We've seen The requirements, now the rewards First of all, your flag, your flag is a symbol to the lost. Your flag is a symbol to the lost. The loss the world around us sees a different flag other than joy most of the time. Probably ninety five percent of the time, maybe ninety nine percent of the time. Most of the people out in the world are not are not hoisting a flag of joy. There's not a flag of joy. They're not walking around with a flag of joy. They're walking around with the The flags you mentioned before, bitterness and anger and um discontentment and hatred and all of these all these flags that th that's what the world sees But if we can if we can hoist the flag of joy, even because the world faces trials, the world faces hard things, the world faces all the things that we do. But if we can show them a different flag. Something different that they most people don't see Boy, how rewarding is it would it be to point somebody to Christ because you had joy through your trial, because you had joy, you were raising the flag of joy. So your flag is a symbol to the lost. Your flag is a symbol to the believer, to those around you. If you're hoisting a flag of joy, it might help somebody else to hoist theirs. Oh, they're going through I know what they're going through, but they They're still happy. They still they still are serving others. They seem they seem to be happy and content with where they're at. I can do the same. We get so focused, we get so tunnel visioned. when we get into a hard time or um when something something hard is going on. Um You know, even even when we're sick, all you think about is just getting better, right? You just think, uh I need this for me, I need this for me, I need this for me. Like that's just that's just how we think. That's just our human nature. But the Lord the Lord doesn't want us to live with that. We're gonna there's gonna be times where we have the tunnel vision where we That's just who that's just how we are. But the Lord wants us. He doesn't want us to live like that. He wants us to live like this. And so oftentimes it's just getting our eyes back on him. So As we uh close things down tonight, the question tonight is simple. Are you flying the flag of joy right now? Or is it a different flag? Um the reality is that we all fly a different flag every once in a while. We all Probably yesterday we were flying the flag of discontentment or you know, one of the flags that we mentioned. You know, it's it f it's not just, oh well I I put up the flag of joy and I'm good for the next two years. It's it's a pretty much a daily thing, flying the flag of joy. Um but we are we're we are going to fly different flags at points in our lives. That's just the way we are. That's just how humans are. But the reality is we don't have to live with those different flags up there. We can live with a flag, flying the flag of joy. So we looked at some reasons, reasons, reasons why you can f each of us can fly the flag of joy, why each of us Um don't have to have a different flag. We can we can um know that we've already won the war We don't have to worry about that. We can know that we the same king who won the war for us has given us so many promises in his word that we can trust in. Um the requirements. If we're if we're putting in the right things and we're putting out the right things, we can fly the flag of joy as well. And then the rewards that we get for flying that flag, bo boy, we get to point people to Christ. How exciting is that? So, whatever reason may be keeping you from flying the flag of joy tonight, my prayer is that each of each one of us can walk out of here, or if you're watching on the live stream, you can Turn off the live stream tonight and start tomorrow with a renewed sense of joy. You start tomorrow. You may have had the flag, a different flag race today. You may have come into church, come to church with a different flag race. Today. But tomorrow a flag of joy can be raised because boy, I know I know in the grand scheme of things I've won the war. I know in the grand scheme of things I have a God who loves me, cares for me, and has promised me all these things in his word. He's never going to leave me or forsake me. He's going to take care of all my needs. All of these things. All of these promises that he's given us. Well, Lord, I need to change my input. I've been inputting wrong things. Start tomorrow, inputting, start off with his word with time with him. Raise that flag of joy. Or output. Oh, I haven't been serving the Lord like I should. I've been key I've been serving myself more than I've been serving the Lord and serving others. That needs to change. And then boy will get to see those rewards of pointing people to Christ. So if that's you tonight, you say, I'm not flying the flag of joy, then this message was for you. If he stand with me, every head bowed every eye closed, we'll have just a short time of invitation