If you could stand with me, we're going to turn to Esther chapter four. Esther chapter four. We'll read verses thirteen and fourteen. This was uh the passage from Thursday night of camp Um some of you some of you were there for that. But I'm just going to talk about three three areas. that the Lord spoke to me about and I think will be a challenge to you, especially as we go into the next few weeks of VBS and things to come. I think it will be a challenge to you. But we'll just read verses 13 and 14 and we'll jump right in. Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. And who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? We're going to focus in on that phrase tonight, for such a time as this. Let's pray and we'll get started. Heavenly Father, thank you for the wonderful week we had at camp and Lord how you've spoken to us and Lord renewed some things in our lives, strengthened some things, showed us some things that we need to work on. And Lord, it's always a week like that, and it's always a week to remember. Lord, I pray for each of the teenagers and uh juniors who made decisions, Lord, um uh as they said it's gonna the devil's gonna attack them, Lord, and um it's gonna be easy to forget. Lord, I pray that you would make those decisions clear in their lives, Lord, help them to um draw closer to you because of it. Lord, I pray that uh all of us as a church would be able to take something away from the message tonight in the weeks ahead. Lord, I pray that uh you would uh just speak speak um to hearts, Lord, and take me out of the way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Um I love camp. Camp has always been a huge part of my life. Um Ever since I was nine years old I went to camp. So it's always been a huge part of my life. Um what the thing I love about it is um fun until fun until you drop, but at the same time um preaching and spiritual things until you drop And really, that's what I want to focus on tonight. We had a good time. I won't tell you some of the games we played just so that you will send your kids back next year. We did we did some crazy things, but we had a good time. So um so for such a time as this, um a phrase that Brother Webb brought out in his Thursday night message that I want to share. with you. And the main thing is the main thing I want you to take away from tonight is God has placed you where you're at for such a time as this. Whether that be next to your neighbors, whether that be in the community you're in, whether that be in the church you're in, um the people that are around you. God has placed you exactly where you're at for such a time as this. So the first area I want to look at is the area of soul winning. And what the Lord spoke to me about that. And I just have listed a few areas here that may be a challenge to you. Here's here's here's an area. Our secular relationship. So um going to the doctor, your mechanic, your dentist, God has placed you in their lives for such a time as this. Right now. Um and you you may say, Oh uh why is the why do I have this affliction? Why do I have this sickness that I have to keep going back to the doctor? Maybe the Lord wants that that doctor saved. And the Lord really brought that out in the message Thursday night. He said You you you guys you you teens and you workers and you whoever was in the building you are placed in the area of your life for such a time as this because the Lord wants you to be used of Him And man, so many times, I was thinking as he was preaching, so many times, I wonder what what would we do if we could see all the opportunities we have missed. We're going to get to heaven and we're going to see so many opportunities that we've missed. We're placed here for such a time as this, and we've missed so many opportunities. Um so that's just a challenge to you. Um d your soul winning. Um the Lord maybe maybe you can't make it on Saturdays during the week. You Cockysville, um Parkville, all of the all the areas around here, Timonium, Towson, we're placed here for such a time as this to reach those places. And that was just the challenge and a and uh a really um even going to the grocery store, taking a track with you. You're you're going through the grocery line for such a time as this. to hand out a track to that person. And how many times do we miss miss that opportunity? Um I was thinking of when I was in eleventh grade. Uh we were able to go on our church was able to go on a missions trip um out to Arizona to the Navajo Nation. And we went um soul winning and Um we didn't really uh all of us teenagers didn't really want to go, but I ended up going out with my best friend and we knocked on the door and the lady opened the door. And we were able to talk to her for like half an hour. Us two eleventh graders, we talked to her for about half an hour. By the time we got done They're her whole family ended up getting saved. Her her husband, her she got saved, and then her daughter got saved. And it was just a reminder to me, I was placed there for such a time as this to reach her. What if I wouldn't have gone? And uh just a reminder to us tonight and our soul winning, we're we're placed here for such a time as this. Wherever you are and um You're placed here for such a time as this. So soul winning is the first one. The second one is your service. um to the Lord serving. Uh and I just listed some areas here. Prison prison ministry. You're placed in this church for such a time as this. Maybe you're supposed to go to the prison. BVS is coming up. We're all placed here for such a time as this. We're all placed here for a reason. Maybe it's our time to jump in and serve there. Children's ministry, bus ministry, choir ministry. We have the choir open house coming up, things like that. We're all placed here for such a time as this, and God has given us talents. for a reason. And all these areas that and there's more I'm sure that we could that we could list out. But the Lord just spoke spoke to me in these areas and something that I found was Um he was preaching on this and immediately I started about thinking about other people that could be doing more. And the Lord hit me over the head, he was like, No, that uh this is for you. And it's so e it's so easy for us to think that way. Oh, so and so so and so could be doing more, so and so could be, you know, they need to be a better Christian, they need to be a whatever. But no, we if If we're all honest, we personally can be doing better. And so the Lord really spoke to me with that. Um serving, serving. You're placed here for such a time as this. God has given you gifts, God has given you talents. Are you using them for the Lord? Are you using your talents for the Lord? Because if you're not, you're missing out on an opportunity. You're missing out on God blessing you. And just just so soul winning and serving, two areas. And then the last one, those around us. You're placed in the church for such a time as this to help other people. You never know what somebody's going through. And one of the one of the first areas that one of the first group of people that the Lord really struck me about is the teenagers. What what am I doing to encourage them spiritually? What am I doing to hey what you know, I got this from my devotions. What What what did you what did you learn this week, or um things like that. What am I doing to encourage them spiritually? I'm placed here right now to help them. Um other people in the church, you know uh We all need we all can be used to help somebody. And uh we forget that, you know, we Um I was thinking of ways that we miss it. You know, we we're we've got our own trials that that can cause us to miss an opportunity. We have look we get so busy in our schedule. I've got to be here next, I've got to do this, I've got to do this, and we miss an opportunity to help someone else out, to be an encouragement to them. And so these are three areas that the Lord really challenged me about. And especially going into VBS, where this VBS is for such a time as this. Um there may be kids out there that this is the best gospel presentation they're gonna hear is through VBS. And what are what are we gonna do to get 'em here? Um the Lord spoke to me. Uh I'm gonna be going out to some parks during the week and all these kids playing baseball and things like that. The Lord is like, hey, why don't you go talk to them? And so just your place here for such a time as this. What is your area that you could be missing out on? Your opportunity that you could be missing out on And if if you look at if we read through this whole story of Esther, which I won't take the time to do, um, could you imagine if she wouldn't have been there? What would happen to the people of Israel? And Brother Webb brought that out on Thursday night. You can go back and listen to it. But she was there, she followed the will of God, she was ready for the opportunity, and that's what all of us need to be able to do. We've got to we've got to be in touch with the Holy Spirit, we've got to be looking for the opportunity, we've got to be um r looking for people to minister to and boy, uh it's easy it's easy to get lost in our schedules and in the trials that we have and the hard things that we're facing and um always always look for the opportunity that God gives you to soul to be a soul winner to um um be of service in the church and then to be an encouragement to those around you. And I really challenge us. The Lord really spoke to me about um spiritual being being there spiritually for the teens and sometimes that may be s saying speaking the truth in love to them Sometimes that will mean listening to them when they're going through something. But really, as I sat there in the back, I was looking at probably a hundred teenagers. And that they're they're the future. You know, and any any little thing that I can do to help them to serve the Lord, to serve God, to be fully committed to God, I want to do that. And so I really challenge us as um, I I'm not that old of an adult, but I guess all of us as a church to really um be there spiritually for the teens and to encourage them and listen to them and uh speak the truth and love to them. But I encourage you in these three areas, soul winning, service, and then setting the example. um to those around you. And maybe the Lord spoke to you about one of those things tonight. I don't know. But if if man, we miss out on so many opportunities in those areas. So I encourage you in those areas.