It's not in your notes, but I think it's pretty powerful. Forgiveness is not forgetting. Forgiveness is remembering that you forgate. And I want to tell you something. This idea of, you know, if I forgive my spouse, then I'm not going to remember it. And that's false. Alrighty? It's because we're human. Hey, can I go ahead and just hit this while I'm here? The Bible says three times in the Bible that God remembers our sin no more. I got a question for you. If the three attributes of God is God's omnipotent, all-powerful, omniscient, all-knowing, and omnipresent. everywhere, how can he not know what you did wrong? Okay, let me explain how that happens. In Isaiah 43, when the Bible says he remembers their sin no more, the actual Hebrew meaning behind the word remember means he mentions them no more. Now if we can just be a whole lot more like God and stop repeating a person's offense, then you're on your way to forgiveness. Okay, that went over really well. All three of you agree. Thank you so much. Hey you got your Bible, let's read a couple verses together. This is David's unforgiveness toward Absalom. Many know the story as well. I'm in 2 Samuel chapter 13. Let's pick up verse number 37. 2 Samuel 13, verse 37. But Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Amohad, king of Galaxy. Gesher, and David mourned for his son every day. Verse number thirty eight, so Absalom fled and went up, went up went to Gesher, and was there three years, and the soul of David longed to go forth unto Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead. young people, whoever you are, can can I just remind you that in your life, in your marriage life, you think they don't want it to get right, but really deep down they want it to get right. Because they're just as miserable as you are. Alright? And David the Bible says longed, for three years long to go to Absalom because he wanted the burden off of him. I'm just telling you there's so many marriages that they can't let go of stuff and every day of your life there's tension in your marriage. And the reason there's tension in your marriage is because somebody's being unforgiving. Yeah. Not a good idea. You know the Bible says there's thirteen things a husband's supposed to do for his wife. There's six things the wife's supposed to do for her husband. I don't think six memorizes I'm not a woman. But the Bible says as far as a man, you're supposed to love your wife, honor your wife, cherish your wife, nourish your wife, cleave to your wife, be ravished with her, allowed, rule over her, pray for her, be an example to her, know her, rejoice with her, be kind to her, and listen to this last one, and not be bitter against her. Did you know God doesn't command the woman not to be bitter, but we talk about women, that woman's bitter. You know what's interesting to me that God only tells the man not to be bitter. You know what causes bitterness? Unforgiveness. That's right. Unforgiveness. The reason a husband and wife, a man doesn't want to spend time with his wife, he doesn't want to take her out, he doesn't want to spend money on her when they're together, you know, he's just being nice because it's what husbands are supposed to do. I want to tell you the problem is unforgiveness. something you figured out that the things that we are unforgiving are so trivial. Trivial. Okay, so she didn't remember something that you remembered and you think she did that against you. If I was married to you, I'd forget on birth. I'm gonna tell you something. Forgiveness is something that we need in our heart. It's not just something you you want. Now I'm gonna give you some answers, we're just gonna walk them quickly as quickly as you can. What is forgiveness? Forgiveness is parting and offensive Pardon an offender which he is considered and treated as not guilty. Now I want to tell you something, ladies and men and ladies, that's a very difficult thing to do, but the bigger Christian does it. He pardons somebody and makes them not guilty. By the way, last time I checked, that's what Jesus did for us. Hey, how many figured out we're still sinners? How many still figured out we don't deserve to go to heaven? Do you know why God let us go to heaven? Because when you got saved, you put on the robe of righteousness. The shed blood of Jesus Christ. When God the Father sees you, he sees Christ's righteousness. And he pardoned us as not guilty. And so this idea of forgiveness. I want to look at the story of David, and I'll have to read and go through it because time saves. But I want you to notice what forgiveness is not. Now, I believe this is what's in your knows. But there's four things what forgiveness is not, and David showed us what forgiveness is not. Alright? The first thing I want you to notice letter A, forgiveness is not sorrow toward the offender. He cried every day. He sorrowed every day for three years. Hey, can I just tell you, just because you don't like it and just because you're sad about it doesn't mean you forgave somebody. Alright, think about this. Next one there. Forgiveness is not allowing time to heal the offense. Now I'm going, again, we can read the passage, and most of you probably know the story of David and Absalom. If you figured out that Absalom was a guesser for three years, and when David brought him home, he was home for another two years and didn't see his face. You know what his thought was? His thought was that if a person would just allow some time, that time heals all wounds. Time does not heal all wounds. See the best thing you can do, don't you think it's interesting the Bible says don't let the sun go down upon your head. You think God says, Hey listen, I want you to take care of it. Now so teach us the number of our days. In other words, when you've got a problem, you want to take care of it right there. Don't wait to take care of it later. Next one number three. Forgiveness is not just a desire to make things right. The very next verse in chapter 14, Joab says this about David. It says this. It says, now Joab, the son of Zariah, perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom. Even those around David knew he didn't like having unforgiveness in his heart toward Absalom. And so again, it's not just a desire. Hey, how many of you would like for your marriage to be blessed? all of us would say yes. How many would like to make sure there's nothing between us? All of us would say yes. But desire and time and this idea of, well, I'm really sad about it. That's not going to fix the problem. Now I want to get to it in a second. But I want to tell you what fixes the problem. Talking to the person. And we didn't deal we didn't deal with communication, but we'll say you don't try to fix the problem. Debate thy cause with thy neighbor himself and discover not a secret to another. Look at me. Some of you think that you're gonna be able to salve your conscience by telling your best friend what your husband's doing wrong. It doesn't fix the problem. You know what gossip is? Gossip is telling somebody else who's not part of the problem or a solution to the problem. Yeah. Yeah. Well that that That would knock out a lot of the things we tell other people. I'm gonna tell you who the solution to the problem is, your Heavenly Father. I'm gonna tell you who the solution to the problem is. The person who's offended you. Hey, turn it uh I think it's Luke seventeen. Jesus said about this. Look at verse number one of Luke chapter 17. In Luke 17, 1, this is a powerful verse, verse number 1, what Jesus said here. He said, then said he unto the disciples, which means he's talking to the believers, it is impossible that that was. Alright? How many of you ladies think you've got Quirk of Cuscan? Would you raise your hand? Three liars in the room? I'm just telling you something. No one has a perfect wife, nobody has a perfect husband. I don't think the Lord told me to teach on us telling other uh the pest and tell him. But I I want so And if we just look at what Adam and Eve did before the fall, we could have a perfect marriage, but we're not going to have a perfect marriage until we get to heaven, it's been overglorified body. Are you all women? Okay. So it's not a matter of the He is not going to do something stupid like put it not put his clothes in the hamper. He's your brother, did you know that? And no, neither one of them put their clothes in the hamper. Would you raise your hand, alright? Now how many of those things at the beginning you decide, oh surely he'll change? How many of you figured out it didn't happen? You know, our personalities are made and of what we are, our character is made before we get married. After we get married, a lot of those things that we kept hidden to everybody else, we don't care now because it's the person that's closest to us. We don't mind them knowing what we are and what we do. What we do in private, how we let our hair down. And so those things become offensive. Alright? And I want to just tell you something. If forgiveness is always going to start with you, first of all, realizing offenses will come. It's just part of it. You have to let them be. human. Alright? But I want you to notice what happens next as far as what Jesus tells the disciples in chapter 17 there. He says in chapter 17 verse number 2 He says, let me look at verse number three. Take heed to yourselves, if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, Forgive him. And if he trespassed against thee, how many times? In a day. And seven times in a day, turn it into thee saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. Now, church, let me think for a second here. Jesus was not using this magic number to Keep score like he just put up the video a second ago. Okay, I'm sorry. That's number eight. I don't forgive it. That's not what God's talking about. We understand that the word number seven is a number of completion. What's today? What's the date today? Okay, not the date. What's the day today? Okay, just make you start. Right, what? What comes after Saturday? Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. So our dating system is made up of a cycle that is complete. In other words, I'm going to start the next week on it. How many find it interesting in the book of Proverbs where it says, a just man falleth how many times? Okay, so does God say, okay, I fall down, I mess up, I get up. I fall down, I mess up. I get the number seven, I just stay there. No. What he's saying is the number seven is a cycle. And so here's what he's really saying. I fall down, I get back up. I fall down, I get back up. I fall down, and it's a cycle, and it continues just like Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. If we can get into our marriage as the cycle of forgiveness, that okay, I'm holding on to this one. Do you really think you're going to keep them in prison because you're holding on to it? The only person in prison is you. Because you're the one that's aggravating. You're the one every time it comes up. You have ill feelings in your heart. Forgiveness is not forgetting. I want to tell you something. God knows every one of my sins, past, present, and future. But when I get forgiveness, the word remember, he never mentions them again. Right. Amen. Forgiveness. Look what David said here quickly, and a couple more if we can. I want you to notice that forgiveness is not sorrow. Forgiveness is not just time to heal it. Forgiveness is not a desire to make things right. Forgiveness is not avoiding the offender. For five years he avoided him. How can I forgive? Number one, ask God to forgive you. Wait a second here. I thought I was supposed to give forgiveness to the person that offended me. But wait a second here. The first person that has to get right with God is you if you're going to be able to get right with somebody else. We talked about that in the model of prayer. How can I ever help somebody else. We don't have time this morning, but help me out here because you know your Bible. Most of you are saved and you've and you've been saved a while. But think about the passage on the model of prayer. Remember the model of prayer our father would start in heaven, hello that name? Do you find it interesting that when Jesus finished the model prayer, if I was going to recap the model prayer, I'd say it's really important to make sure your sins are forgiven. If I was to recap the the model of prayer, I would say it's really important that you praise me. Do you find it interesting the only promise that comes with the prop with the model of prayer? The only promise. If you forgive your debtors, I'll forgive you. But if you don't forgive your debtors, I won't forgive you. Remember when God said that if a person, a man does not honor her? his wife that his prayers will be hindered. You know why it's uh forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors? Because you cannot get forgiveness until you forgive somebody else. I would take some as a pastor. I've had some people that have just done horrendous things to our church. We have a printing ministry, we've been printing for a long time, and I had this guy who worked for me for about, oh, I don't know, seven, eight, nine years. Um, and uh and he was my printer, and we use those manual manual presses before we went to Digital. And he got offended with me. Anyway, long story short, he decided to leave. But when he left, we were in the process of getting another, another printer, another, a brand new one from a put from a company down the street. And He didn't tell me, but on his way out the door, he went to that particular company and he was having that that it was a huge uh printing machine is what it was, mechanical. It was a full four-colored printing machine, and he was having it delivered to where he was going instead of being delivered to our church. And I'll never forget the day he was back in town visiting his staff member, but uh obviously he doesn't leave right, but when he but when he was back in town and I heard from somebody else he was in town, and to be honest with him, when I found out he was in town, something I something bothered me. Hmm. Well, I I started finding out where Wy was here, and sure enough, down at five two miles down the road is was this printing company, uh Lawrence Printing Company, and they were giving us a four-color press to our church for our printing ministry, and I found Out he was taking it. He had spent two days taking it apart and he had put it on a semi-trailer. And when I found out, I drove straight to the printing company and they were putting the last strap on the printing press, the last strap so we could go to Oklahoma. I was so mad. And I'm telling the pastor, I was so mad at him. And I looked at that, the truck driver said, you're gonna drive that down two miles down the road and you're gonna look at Harriet's Baptist Church. And he said, Well, I've got papers here supposed to go to Oklahoma. I said, I don't care what your paper says, that belongs to Harriet's Baptist Church, you're gonna send it there. He said, okay. I'm driving back to the church, I'm calling a rental company to get me a fourth lift, and I call my father. And I said, you're not gonna believe this My staff member is stealing the printing press that was given to our church. I don't want to tell you something. My dad told me something I never I could not imagine. He said, Scott, let it go. And I don't know I've I don't tell you something for me to let that thing go. I couldn't let it go. I was so bad to hurt that fellow. I hung with my dad. In my mind I said, I don't care. I'm not at home anyone. I'm a pastor, I can do my own face. I drove to the church and got my. . driving the semi and he pulled into that. He pulled into that. My dad called me back, which he never does. He says, Scott, you let it go? I said, Dad, I I can't do it. He said, Down all the freedom saying he said, No, but no. He said, he said, if you don't let it go. He said it's gonna hurt you. He said, He said you gotta let it go. Maybe. I went over to the truck driver and I said, I'm really sorry, I give him twenty dollars today. This is for a bunch you can take the trick take where you're supposed to take. doing here right now. You're not willing to let it go. And I'm telling you what my dad told me, and I'll tell you after 30 years I look back at life. That pretty press went to Oklahoma. It's funny, it's interesting, years down the road. That pretty press went to Oklahoma. I didn't stay there and the place at all overcalls me and said, Hey, we have a printing press, you know who you'd like to have. I'm going over. Can I take two more minutes? Yeah. I'm gonna just share one thought on and I'm done this thing. I forgive myself just a little bit of the burst here. You know, the thing with forgiveness is the most important thing is that you keep it covered because you're not going to forget it. It's probably 179, not reference. The Bible says he that covereth the transgressions seeketh love. Think about that. Probably 179. that covered the transgression seek above, but he that repeated the matter separated very friendly. Now, here's what God did for me, okay? You can't see very well. I'll just I'll just go over here. This is the transgression. This is what's hard to forgive your husband for. Maybe your wife, I don't know, that other person. And maybe it's somebody that's on you around the room. This is the thing that really bothers you. He that covereth the transgression, seeketh love. But he that repeateth the matter? Separate very friends. Listen, I know there's things about your spouse that you weren't raised that way and you don't like in your in your life. I'm just telling you, if you don't cover it up, you're not going to have a good marriage. I am so glad that the God of heaven who's omniscient and knows everything I do wrong, never does that. Hey Scott! Hey. You know why he doesn't do that? You know, come with the transgressive secret. Because he loves me. Father in heaven, I should be couple. partner's father, but one that's a little big and forget. Things that get to be rough in their marriage, the devil Bring it up. Lord I understand you, please help us to be a spiritual Christian. Lord, thank you for forgiving us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.