We've been studying uh for not the last couple of weeks because we had missions conference, but beginning two weeks before Missions Conference, we started looking at the idea of biblical civics and kind of just gave you the history of why I began to approach that topic, just kind of figuring out my role as a as a Christian, as a pastor, as a husband, as a father, as a citizen, uh in in our country and all the things that have been going on over the last uh year especially, but just kind of seeing w what's the Bible talk about this? And we've looked at the idea of civics and it's it's the relationship of a citizen with his government as well as those who are also under the same government. So what what does that mean biblically We looked last week at the idea of the three institutions that were founded by God and saw what those were. Remember the three institutions we we talked about last week? Or not last week, two weeks ago. We've got to go way back. Three institutions. Melissa. Sure. Church, family, and government. Church, family, and government. Three things that were instituted by God and were ordained the institutions that were ordained by God. We looked a little bit, I know we went through that material a little bit quickly, but we looked a little bit about the ways that those three overlap with each other in the realms of authority and how they can have an effect on each other. So we kind of gave that kind of as an introduction to the idea of institutions. and power that's been set up by God. We're going to come this week and narrow our focus down to the institution of government and discuss the foundations of human government. And we'll see a little bit more detail of how this overlaps with God's other institutions that he has set up. So let's begin this morning by reading Romans chapter 13 and verse number 1. Then we'll open with a word of prayer and see what the Lord has for us today. Romans 13, verse number 1: Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. And the powers that be are ordained of God. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. And again we thank you for this time we have to be in your house, Lord. Thank you that although it is a uh Pray you be with us now as we fellowship around your word that you would challenge us uh with this thought, uh Lord, to understand biblically uh the foundation And role of government and Lord as we look over the next few weeks, how that can apply into our daily interactions as uh Christian citizens and church members and members of the families, Lord. I pray that you would uh challenge us with these thoughts. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. I was going to say at the get-go here that we are going to cover a decent amount of material today, and I believe this is one I don't often say this when I'm teaching, but this is one that I would encourage you to go back to and listen again. We'll try to have the guys that upload them get this This one uploaded online fairly quickly because I guarantee when you listen to it again, you're going to catch things that you didn't catch the first time when it comes to the foundation of human government. As by way of introduction, first thing I'd like to point out is that human government was not part of God's original plan for mankind. Human government was not part of God's original plan for mankind. If it was, God would have instituted it in the Garden of Eden. We looked last week last week two weeks ago. I'm gonna keep saying that. Um so when I say last week, I understand what we're talking about two weeks ago When God started mankind in the garden, he didn't set up a human government. So it wasn't God's original plan. We know that man's sin uh messed up or corrupted God's original plan for mankind. God originally intended for man to dwell in fellowship with him without sin in the Garden of Eden, but we know that man's sin messed that up. We also see that not only did God not start human government in the Garden of Eden, God did not ordain human government until after the flood, which took place around 1700 years later. For the first 1700 years, God hadn't set it up. God hadn't ordained that institution. When time is done and God creates a new heaven and a new earth, there will be no human government then either. You can almost see, and as you look through this idea of government in the Bible, that there seems to be a resistance by God to the idea of human government And I believe as we study this out we'll see why that why that is. God often tries to dissuade the idea of human government. For example, when Israel wanted a new king, remember they were ru were um living under the authority of Samuel as both a judge a uh prophet and a priest. So um Samuel was fulfilling those roles to the nation, and Samuel's sons weren't walking after uh the way that Samuel had raised them to to and following God. So the people came to Samuel and they said, We want a king And uh Samuel tried to say, hey no, you don't want a king. We're following God as a nation. That's who that's who we follow. You don't want to put this you don't want to subject yourself to human government. We haven't had it uh as a nation. We don't want to put ourselves into that. They say, No, no, no, we want to be like the nations around us. So God tells Samuel, we'll read the passage here in a few minutes, but God says, okay, let them let them have it. The reason that they want this government is because they don't want me ruling over them. So let them have it, but warn them, tell them what's going to happen if they go through with this idea. God told Samuel that they had rejected him and he needed to try and dissuade the Israelites from pursuing this idea of human government. Notice that when God told Samuel that they wanted a king, it was because the people had rejected God's authority. It is in the rejection of God that the need for government arises. And we'll see this bear out in the progression of the history to the foundation of government. I just said a few seconds ago that human government was not part of God's original plan for mankind. Now we know that God is om omniscient. God knows everything. God knew when he created man that man was going to rebel against him. Just because God knew, and this gets into the whole thing about God's sovereignty and God's will and not something we have to time to discuss here. But understand that Just because something happens, it's not because that's what God wanted to happen. God wanted mankind to live in fellowship with him without sin, but he knew man was going to rebel against him, and that's a that's a side of God that we can't fully grasp uh in our minds his his omniscience and how he can know those things but not be the one to cause those things, we know that nothing takes him by surprise. So even though he did not intend for man to need human government, he did know it was going to eventually take place Not everything that happens does so because God wants it to. And we can see that God knowing man would need human government, we see that God knew that man would need human government, but still resisted the idea in Israel's desire for a king Back in Deuteronomy, God told Israelites, When you have a king, here's what you need. This was hundreds of years before the Israelites were going to set up a king. So that's an example of God knew they were going to want a king. Even though he didn't want them to want a king, he wanted them to follow him. The people um so we see that God was gave them instruction was contrary to the will of God. So why do we see this resistance? Why do we see this resistance in the Bible to the idea of human government? I believe it will become abundantly clear as we continue our study of biblical civics, but every human government goes far beyond God's intention for the purpose of government. The human government, God knows that power corrupts, and uh when you get that power into people's hands, sinful people, uh they're going to corrupt that power. And so God wanted people just Just follow me. In in Christ there's liberty, there's freedom. We can enjoy that if we follow God, but people rejected God, and in the rejection of God they came to the need of a king. If you go to with me to 1 Samuel 1 Samuel chapter 8, we will see that story of when Israel desires their first king and what God says about it. God lets them know that, yeah, you're going to get a king, you want the king, but here's what happens when you give that kind of authority to fallen people, when you give that kind of authority to sinful men. 1 Samuel chapter 8 Verses 7 down through verse number 18. We're not going to take a lot of time to comment on this, but I do want to read it for you. It says here, the Lord said unto Samuel, hearken unto the voice of the people. in all that they say unto thee, for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. Now therefore hearken unto their voice, how be it, yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of king that shall reign over them And Samuel told all the words of the Lord unto the people that asked of the king of him a king. And he said, This will be the manner of the king that will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them for himself He wa for his chariots and for his horsemen, and some shall run before his chariots, and he shall appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments And he will take your fields and your vineyards and your olive uh yours, even the best of them, and give them to his servants. And he will take a tenth of your seed and of your vineyards and give to his officers and to his servants. And he will take your men servants and your maidservants and your goodliest young men. and your asses and put them to work. And he will take a tenth of your sheep, and ye shall be his servants. And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king, which ye shall have chosen you, and the Lord will not hear you So God warns them, I'll give you the government if that's what you want. But when I do, here's what's going to happen. Here's the kind of power that the government is going to exert, and you're not going to like it You're not going to like the liberty that I've given you being curtailed by human power. The government will inevitably result in a loss of freedoms and property. It's amazing that people can understand this consuming uh nature that government has uh and and still long for it at the same time. You've all heard the joke before that the scariest thing you can hear is I'm from the government and I'm here to help, right? That's the that's we all know that the government doesn't do things very well. Uh yet at the same time I I remembered hearing recently about this idea of the government helping, so I tried to research it and White House We have the Help Is Here campaign going on right now. People understand, yeah, government, they don't do things very well and and and they take things and And they have a consuming nature, but people still desire that help. They still are willing to subjugate themselves to a government because they want the government to take care of them. Because where there's liberty, there's responsibility. If someone else is taking care of me, then I don't have to worry about that. I heard one man put it this way: freedom is a value while the desire to be taken care of is an instinct. We naturally, in our lazy, sinful nature, want somebody to take care of us. But freedom means you have responsibilities. That's something that is a value. That's something that's learned. That's not inherent to our nature. When people reject God's authority, they lose the values that go along with it, and this includes our value of personal liberty. So that being said, kind of a background there to God's perspective. uh on government, let's see how the foundations of governments got started. Where where did government come from? Where did the need arise and how did God set that up? So number one, we go have to go all the way back to the founding of self-government The founding of self-government. You turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter 1, all the way back to the beginning. I know I said that the human government wasn't established until Genesis chapter 9, but self-government was ordained in Genesis chapter 1. If you remember from our lesson two weeks ago, we discussed the five realms of authority that are pictured as houses in the New Testament. We did talk about the three institutions, but there are realms of authority, and they pictured as houses in the New Testament We had the Father's house. That's heaven. There's no human authority there. God exercises complete authority. We had the authority of the home and of government and of the church that we talked about. These three houses, the house of God And we also dealt with the idea of the individual house, that you can exercise authority over yourself. Now that didn't count as an institution because Within your self-government, you're not exerting that authority on other people. So it's left out of the idea of the three institutions. But we still have the idea that God established the first government was for you to govern yourself For you to follow God, follow God's will, to be obedient to Him, and make your own choices to limit what you are going to do in order to please God. In Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 29, we see the creation of man. Genesis 1, 26 through 29, it says there, So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth, and every tree which is in the fruit which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed, to you it shall be for meat So here's the creation of man, and God gives to man a role of authority over creation. If we go to chapter 2, Verses fifteen through seventeen we see the actual uh rules that God gave man to follow in order to govern himself This verses fifteen through seventeen of chapter two it says, The Lord God took man and put him in the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. So we have there God giving mankind the first laws Here's the limits of your freedom. You can do whatever you want, but here's the one thing that you cannot do. He gave man the responsibility of following that and governing himself to not go beyond God's boundaries. These are the first laws given to an individual. So we have the idea of self-government tied to the individual. They were given, if you notice in our chapter, that they were given before the creation of woman, so this was an individual's responsibility. Now that individual responsibility carries on as God creates women and they have children. Adam and Eve have children. So we have that idea of individual government being passed on to individuals. We see here in these verses that man was given labor to keep and to dress the garden. Man was given the reward of his labor, thou mayest freely eat. And man was given the law of God not to eat the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Man was also given the consequences for failing to follow that law In verse 17 he says, For in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. So in this couple of verses, God gave man everything he needed to live and thrive under self-government, to have liberty and a relationship with God He was given the rules, he was given the consequences, he was given a job to do, he was given personal property and the reward of his labor and the fruit of his work. He had here everything he needed to govern himself. The purpose, that was the first form of self-government. The purpose of self-government was to allow man to live freely within the liberties of the law of God Within this structure of self-government, man had free course over his labor, over the fruit of his labor, a perfect relationship with God, and perfect liberty within God's law. That's what he enjoyed with self-government. If you can control yourself You actually don't have need of somebody external to you controlling you. That was God's desire for man to learn to control himself. Had man submitted to self-government, this structure could have continued forever. If man had not fallen into sin, if man had not gone without the bounds of um self-government, then he would have been able to live in the garden uh forever and enjoy that liberty and enjoy that fruit. But unfortunately we know that man failed the test Turn to Genesis chapter three, verse number six we see, and when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise. She took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also to her husband with her, and he did eat. So we see there the failure of self-government. Adam had the opportunity. You control yourself. You can enjoy all the liberties that God has in store for you. But what did man do? He failed the test of self-government. He had the opportunity to live in freedom and he faced the consequences of his actions. In this failure of self-government, man lost many of the privileges and liberties that he had enjoyed up until this point. And because man failed in the role of self-government This necessitated God creating a second form of government to help control individuals that could not control themselves. So moving from self-government, say if you can't control yourself, somebody's got to be there to control things for you. And this is going to cause us to rewind and go back and visit the um structure of family government. So back in Genesis chapter 2, verses 18 and 21 through 25, we see the ordination of the an Now I know we're going back and forth here, and we'll see why as these two uh two play out. Verse number eighteen, God said, It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him and help me for him Jumping down to verse 21, and the Lord God caused the deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took one of his ribs, and he closed up the flesh instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked and a man and his wife and they were not ashamed. So in this structure, uh God set up a home and God set up within the home realms of authority and roles of authority In this structure, God placed the man in a position of authority as the one who is responsible for the oversight of his throne, or of his home. Sorry. In the New Testament, uh we learn that the husband is under the authority of Christ, and we see that the same is true here at the beginning. Why who was whose authority was Adam underneath? He was under the authority of God. And that was the authority structure that goes from from God and from Christ down to the man, and he is the um he is the authority figure in the home. Now there's some debate concerning whether or not Adam was the authority figure in the home pre-the-fall, before sin, because of the punishment that was given to Eve. in verse three saying that her desire shall be to her husband. We don't have time to develop this now, but I do believe the Bible clearly teaches that God established the man as the head of the home and his position of authority is not a consequence of sin. If that's something you'd like to know more about, shoot me an email. I wrote an article about that a couple of years ago, kind of doing a Bible study on that topic. But say God created a home and put up authority structures within the home. In establishing this form of family government, one thing that God did is he separated the authority of parents from children, being the children the ones who got married. Look at verse number twenty-four. He said, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother. Now Adam and Eve had no father and mother, but God was setting up a principle here. When you leave to create your own home, you're creating a new authority structure. While parents do have authority over their children, God said that in the establishment of a family, the husband and wife were to leave their parents and cleave to their spouses. And break off that direct authority that was exercised by their parents until that point. And we see also in creating family government that God set the parents in a position of authority over the children. We talked about this last uh two weeks ago, but both parents exercise God's authority within the home when it comes to the children. When you are a parent giving rules to your children, You actually, going back to Romans 13, verse 1, you have power, uh, and that power was given to you by God. Uh that is the authority that you have. This authority is the closest to absolute that one person has over another that is granted in God's plan for every And this authority does end at some point when the child leaves the home and the responsibility of his parents, especially when it comes to creating a family of their own. Now, same as with self-government, within family government, God intended for there to be liberty within the bounds of His law. God wanted them to enjoy freedom Think of Adam and Eve in the garden with each other. They were to fully enjoy one another and God's creation within the limits that God had placed on them. Adam's position of authority was completely natural as Eve helped him to fulfill his role that God had placed him in. And this liberty was enjoyed until Adam and Eve sinned against God. With their sin, they both became sinful, fallen, and corrupt individuals. No longer did they enjoy the liberty of self-government, and no longer did they enjoy the liberty of family government, where the members exercised the role in a godly biblical fashion. That is part of the the curse on on Eve there for for her sin is thy desire shall be to her husband. That no longer is that family structure gonna just work the way that God set it up. There would be corruption of of both the husband and wife, and neither would want to fulfill the roles the way that God had set them up. So that's some of the corruption there that happens to family governance. What was the purpose of family government? It was to provide external control to supplement self-government. There's three ways this plays out. Family government provides external control to aid in self-government. The self-government of Eve. fell under the family government of her husband. The law regarding what they should what they could and could not eat was given to Adam, with the expectation that he would pass that along to his wife. And we see from Eve's response to the serpent, she knew what God's law was. Adam had told her what it was. The self-government of Adam was aided through family government in that he now had others who depended on him and his self-control. He was responsible for his family, and if and if he messed up he would throw off uh the the proper role in his in his family and he messed things up for those who depended on him. So family government puts some restrictions on the on the on the one in in authority, it puts restrictions on the wife and it also puts restrictions on the children The self-government of the children was aided through parents that exerted external controls on their behavior. So family government is an aid to self-government. Secondly, family government is given to help its members develop their own self-government. The easiest way to see this is in children. Children, I don't know if you've seen any of them before, they don't have self-government. Especially the younger they are. No level of self-control. That's something that is a value that has to be trained into them to have this self-control. They do whatever suits their immediate desires with no thought of what's right or what's wrong. So God puts children within a family structure, a family government to help them develop develop their ability to operate within self government It's my job as a parent to take my three-month, four-month, five-month, all the way up to a teenager, and instill in them, here's the way you govern yourself. And because they can't do that at a young age, I do that externally as a parent. I control their behavior. And that is one role of the family government. And we also see that, thirdly, family government will step in where self-government fails. Because they cannot control themselves, my authority has to be exerted so I can control them for them. When my four-month-old starts to throw a fit, when my three-year-old, all the way up to my teenagers, If they can't control themselves, if they're in my home, God's given me the authority to control their behavior for them. That's family government. And we see that family government, yes, God created it for the fall, but we see that family government is an aid to self-government. Self-government is primary. And that family government helps when you can't um act in self-government. So we see also that man failed at his responsibility of family government. This starts with Adam and Eve. As the head of the home, Adam had a responsibility to help his wife with her self-government when it came to eating the fruit. And we see that Adam failed in his duty to do this. Look back at verse number six of Genesis chapter three. At the very end it says, where she took of the fruit thereof and did eat and gave to her husband, what's those next two words? With her. Husband with her. Adam was there with her. What was his responsibility as a authority figure in the home? If she couldn't contr o operate under self-government, it was his obligation to exercise family government and help her uh in that self-control. But he didn't do it. In fact, he went along and lost his self-government and ate along with Eve and disobeyed God's command. And we see that God held Adam responsible for both his and his wife's failure. And we get to the New Testament by one man. Sin entered into the world. It's not by a man and a woman. It's not by Eve's failure. It was by Adam. By Adam. By one man, sin entered into the world. God held Adam responsible. Why? Because he was the one in authority. With with the one in authority comes uh comes the responsibility. You're the one that has to answer uh for it. Where in the Bible authority is always tied to responsibility. And wherever you exercise authority, God holds you responsible. This is why James tells us Be not many masters. Don't try to be the one in charge. Why? Because we shall receive the greater condemnation. We see not only did the failure of family government start with Adam and Eve, it continued when it came to their children. Turn to Genesis chapter 4. Verses 5 through 8. But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. There we go. loss of self-control. He he no longer was governing himself. And the Lord said unto Adam, Why art thou wroth? Why is thou countenance thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well shalt thou not be accepted, if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door, and unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. And Cain talked with Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. We see what happened with Cain there. He failed at self-government. He no longer was able to control himself. But where did that responsibility for a child to develop self-government come from? The family government. And so Adam and Eve failed to train in Cain the ability to control himself. We don't know here if Cain was, I believe he was older. We don't know if he was married yet at this point. We do see his wife later on in a couple verses, but regardless whether he was in the home or out of the home, the home had failed to teach him to control himself. So there was a failure of family government Adam failed in his responsibility to exercise control over his child's will and develop failed to develop within him. the self-control necessary to operate as an adult within proper uh with a proper self-government. So from the very beginning, man failed in his responsibility for both his self and his family government. This brings us number three to the foundation or the founding of human government. What we see in the next couple chapters of the Bible is that God allowed man to operate within these two structures of government, self-government and family government for the next seventeen hundred years leading up to the flood. Although man had already failed both tests, God still gave them the opportunity to look, you just follow these simple rules and you follow me and you can enjoy this peace. And this liberty, but when happened, uh man did not do so. Remember from our introduction that liberty thrives as a value when men recognize God's authority. In fact, self-government and family government can only thrive when they are submitted to God's authority. So the only question to whether or not man would thrive over the next 1700 years under self- and family government is did they recognize God's authority? Unfortunately, the answer is no. Men rejected God's authority, and with no authority from God, family government broke down, and self-government broke down as well. Turn to Genesis chapter 6, verses 5 through 13. We see this described, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of his thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Jump down to verse number eight. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. So in those verses there we see man's failure at self and family government Man failed because he failed to recognize God's authority, and this led God to punish man for living beyond the bounds of God's law. Man had to face the consequences. for his failure to govern himself. And God did this through a worldwide flood that wiped out all of humanity except for one family, the family of Noah. If you look back there, Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And if you look at verse number nine, these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Verse 10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. So this one family, God chose to kill off all of humanity except for this one family. What made this one family different? I believe it was they were operating within self-government. And family government. We see Noah being a just man, that means he was controlling himself in a wicked world. And what do you see? You see his sons and their wives joining Noah on this endeavor of building this ark to prepare for the saving of their house. Noah had his family government set up properly. His sons had learned the self-control from their fathers. So this one family that was operating correctly with self-government and family government, God allowed them to avoid the judgment that He was bringing on the whole earth. Then we come to the time after the flood in Genesis chapter 9, and we see the founding, as we talked about a couple weeks ago, of human government. Genesis chapter 9, verses 5 through 6. So God established human government. If you see this progression Self-government failed. So what happened? We have family government. Well what happens when family government breaks down? God instituted human government. It's built, these are building off of one another Verses five through six of Genesis chapter nine, and surely your blood of your lives will I require, at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man, and at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God made he him. When man operated beyond uh outside the bounds of family government, and he failed to govern himself God here gave a group of people the authority to exercise governmental control over him. The example given here in Genesis chapter 6 is that of murder. If a man murders another, he is operated outside of self-government and outside of family government. So to prevent him this from going unchecked or unpunished, a group of individuals, God said, as a group, you can exercise this authority over them to this governmental authority to put him to death. Capital punishment was the first thing instituted by God for um human government. So we see um from this idea what we've been building to this point, human government is an extension of self and family government. It was to step in when the first two failed. When someone is exercising self-government, they actually have no need of human government. If I'm governing myself driving down the road, going forty-five miles an hour because that's the speed limit, uh I don't need a police officer watching me to make sure that I do that. In fact, if everybody controlled themselves on the interstate, we wouldn't need state troopers to tell people over for speeding. If there is self-government, there is no need for human government And so human government steps in when self-government fails. A family government that is functioning biblically has no need of human government either This is why when I was a kid and uh when when most of y'all were were children, if a kid got in trouble at school, the principal called the parents. What's happening today? Family government's not working. Self-government's not working. So the school has to call the police, human government, on six-year-olds that aren't controlling themselves. It's it's a terrible thing, but it goes back to the breakdown of family government That six-year-old should be being controlled by his family. But families failed. So what has to happen? Human government has to step in. And it's sad that that's the case, but that's where human government comes from, is a failure of self-government and a failure of family government. So seeing that human government comes from these areas, we see that human government is actually an extension of an individual's rights. A French philosopher I mentioned a couple weeks ago put it this way. He said, the law is defined as the collective organization of every individual's right to self-defense. So how does this work? I'll give you a couple examples. First of all, the example of murder we just talked about in Genesis chapter 6. When someone is murdered, their right, their individual right to life has been violated. Justice is demanded for that violation of that individual's rights. So human government is a group of people exercising that person's right to self-defense and right to life by bringing punishment against the one who violated that right. They should be taking the life of the murderer in order to extract justice for the individual's right that has been violated. What about theft? The Bible clearly supports the rights of individuals to private property. When someone steals from someone else, they have violated that person's right to their private property Human government exercises is a group of people collectively exercising that individual's right to their private property and to protect that private property by bringing justice against the one who stole against them and causing them to repay what they have stolen. To bring about justice. What about self-defense? This can kind of be brought into a country or a community. I as a as a person have a right to defend my own life Self-defense is the right that I have. A government can exercise that individual right of self-defense on a collective scale, and this is where we get the idea of a government controlling an army. They're a collective force exercising individual rights. So we see that human government was founded as an extension and a collective organization of the individual rights. So any individual right can be exercised by the collective. This is why we don't have time to talk about this, but this is why it's very important. on who defines what a right is. Because when you say something is a right, that means the government has the right to ex extend that right. Since government operates as an extension of individuals, should it have the right to exercise, the power to exercise rights that individuals do not have? No, they're collectively enforcing individual rights. This is the danger of human government. People without self-government realize that they can use collective force to do things they would not have the individual right to do. One example of this, and we'll move on. Do I have the individual right to take Jake's money and give it away to John? So if I get a whole bunch of us together to go take Jake's money and give it to John, is it okay then? No, we can't use collective force to do something that we don't have the individual right to do because govern human government stems from individual rights and it steps in when individual um government fails. So that's kind of the foundation there. What was the purpose of human government? The purpose of humor human government As we said already, the purpose of human government is to step in where self-government and family government has failed. We dealt with this in detail already. When you don't control yourself and you're not under the control of the family, human government has to step in and control you. So it's it's to step in when self-government family government fails. The second purpose of human government is to operate underneath God's authority. We started this point in the introduction considering Israel's desire for a king, but their desire for human government started with a rejection of God's authority. We don't want to follow God, so we want a human government to be over us. See, it is only by God that there are any rights to collectively enforce. We understand the rights that we have, we could go to our um for our country, the Uh Declaration of Independence where it says all men are created equal and endowed with cr their by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and a pursuit of happiness. So we have these rights. Where does the rights come from? God. So if it's the government's job to collectively enforce individual rights, you can't have individual rights without God. If the government rejects God, everything is going to get out of whack. Everything is going to become corrupted. And we see the third purpose of human government is to punish evil. This is seen in the first power given to human government in Genesis chapter 9 was capital punishment. The purpose of government? Punish evil. When somebody kills somebody else, what you need to do is you form a government and you go execute justice against them. That's the first instance of government, collective human government in the Bible We see this further explained back where we started in Romans chapter thirteen, so you go there Romans chapter 13 is kind of a New Testament chapter dealing with government authority. We'll be in this a lot throughout our study. But Romans chapter 13, verses 3 and 4, it says, For rulers are not a terror to good works. but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. For he, speaking of the government authority, is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. God's saying here, government is set up to punish evil. That's why it's there, to be a terror to those who do bad works. we see in this that is supposed to be harmless to those who do good works. Notice what it says there. If you if you uh um Do that which is good, and you shall praise the same. You don't have to be afraid. If you're doing good, you don't have to be afraid of that power. Why? Because government power was instituted to punish evil. But this brings us now to the failure of human government. The failure of human government, just as we see the purposes of human government, their failure comes when they stop fulfilling their purpose. So the failure of human government begins when it rejects God's authority. Without recognizing God's authority, a government loses its foundation from which to act. We as we saw through this whole lesson, this begins when individuals reject God's authority. God can't tell me what to do, so I'll live my life my way. No self-government Family government, when that breaks down, it rejects God's authority. And then that rejection of God's authority carries into human government as it's set up by individuals, individuals who are no longer operating with a self-government. When families and individuals reject God's authority, human government will not be very far behind. We see that the failure of human government continues when it goes beyond its purpose. This is the nature of government. Every government is going to grow beyond this purpose that's been given to it by God. This is the nature of fallen man. When sinful man is given power over others, and he lacks self-government that comes from a fear of God's authority, he's going to use that collective force for his own benefit. I was reading from this French philosopher, he was talking about the idea of voting rights. He says there's a lot of clamor. This is in this 1800 A lot of clamor about who gets to vote and this idea of universal suffrage and getting everybody to vote. He said, you know, if we went back to what government is supposed to do, It really wouldn't matter who voted, because as long as the people doing wrong are getting punished, who was it matter who's doing it? But the problem is that's not all government does anymore. So now we often clamor for our rights so we can jump in and say, well, we want to be the collect part of the collective force that's benefiting ourselves. And it goes both ways. We want to jump in and be a part of the collective force. Why? Because government has gone beyond its purpose. This is seen from kings that gathers themselves gold, silver, wives, and horses from Deuteronomy. And we see this even in democracies who use the power of majorities to benefit themselves. And the failure of government culminates when it inverts its primary purpose. The ultimate failure of human government is when it ceases in its primary purpose of punishing evil. Remember, God established human government to be a terror to evil works. Human governments that reject God's authority will get to a place where they will, instead of being a terror to evil, become a terror to the good. Instead of punishing evil and rewarding the good, they get to the point where they can reward evil and punish those who do us right. This is a complete inversion of God's purpose and foundation of government. And unfortunately, this is where our country is at already. Let me ask it this way. In the past year, who has had more to fear from their government? Pastors who opened their churches contrary to lockdown rules? Or abortion doctors who've made a career out of murdering children? Who has more to fear from the government right now? Because the government is no longer a terror to that which is evil. They have inverted their purpose that was given to them by God. And we see also this idea of rewarding. Who's been rewarded by their governments? Churches who have been fined tens of thousands of dollars for holding services, some churches $5,000 of service for having church as a fine. Or criminals who received stimulus checks while on death row. Uh Planned Parenthood, the number one killer of children who received six hundred million dollars from the government last year. Or the dozens of pastors who were arrested and all the church members who were given tickets for having uh and attending. church services. Government has flipped its purpose. And so we see here the foundation of government, where does it come in? It comes in from a failure of self-government. It comes in from a failure of family government and that carries on to a failure of human government. And so how how do how do we fix it? We'll be looking at this more in um in future weeks, but we've got to go back to the beginning. Self-government. We're not going to have a proper human government if we can't get individuals to control themselves. And where does that start? Family government. Parents teaching children to control themselves. We see we w it's almost become uh a very sad joke that the the people out there that are doing whatever they want weren't told no when they were kids No self-government, family government fails, human government's gonna have to step in. And when human government has to step in, they're gonna make things worse. But it's a necessary, we can say a necessary evil, uh, because what's happening? People aren't controlling themselves. themselves. So we see there in these couple ideas, I hope you can see this progression, and I encourage you to go back and listen to this again to kind of pick up some pieces you may have missed along the way. But it starts with the failure of the individual and it moves this way up to the failure of human government that we see today.