Privilege we have as individuals to live in this country. There has been a driving force in this country from the first day that the ships Set their anchors, anchors on the shores of this amazing land. That driving force has been a force Empowered by the heart's desire to be free. It was the desire and motivation for freedom that caused men to risk life. And all they had to try and come to a new world and begin here a new life. For freedom. To have and enjoy freedoms, the freedoms that we now today get to enjoy and quite literally, for the most part, I think almost take for granted. The freedoms that we have is astounding to others that live in countries and nations. that don't experience this. There are many places around the world that in all of their history have never had a time that they've enjoyed the freedom that we have in America. Freedom to come and go as we please. You can decide to load up your car and drive anywhere in the United States you want to go today. Just load up and go. I mean you don't have to get permits to cross uh one state line into the next. You don't have to get approval or have paperwork to try and go do something like that. You can have the freedom to just travel Even come and go from our country. Because you have that American passport. Allowed privilege to enter and come and go from a lot of places around the world. Freedom to gather in houses like this, houses of worship. And praise God. Lift your voice in song and bow your hearts in prayer. Freedom to do so. We have freedom in this country to vote, to participate in our elections. Freedom to influence the outcome and to at least cast our vote in legislative matters that we can have an impact and an influence on our local communities and on our state and ultimately the country because your voice counts. Your voice matters because of the freedoms we have in this country. Jane Benns, the daughter of George Binns. George Vins was a prisoner in Russia for many, many years because of his faith. Well, America heard about it. And America had captured some Russian spies. And they Heard about George's plight and they traded these Russian spies for George's freedom Allowed him to go free. They did not owe it to him. He was not an American citizen. America has always stood for freedom for all people. They traded back these Russian spies to Russia for Georgia's freedom. And Georgia's daughter, Jane, came to the United States and when she was in the United States, people would often ask her, What do you think is the most amazing thing about this country? Look at this country and they they wondered and they thought that, well, it might be the size or the magnitude of the cities and and how big the cities are and the big buildings or or maybe how many cars are on the streets They were shocked to hear that her answer was not that. She said, No, I'm from Kiev. I live in a big city. There are many, many cars in our city, more than fit on the roads. She says, but what I'm most amazed by is your freedom. Your freedom. She said, just to see people come and go To watch on a Sunday at the multitude of people that can freely gather in one place to worship God. To see that people can carry the Word of God and have a Bible with them without fear, your freedom is what impresses me the most. Boy, our freedom here in this country is unsurpassed. Can I tell you this morning that America, with all of its problems and its progressive nature towards an ever-increasing socialist agenda, and yet it's still The freest countries in the world. It's amazing when you think about and consider how far we've come away from the freedoms maybe we once had. And yet we're still one of, if not the freest, country in all the world It's amazing. I want you to see in John chapter 8, look down on the Word of God with me to verse number 32. The Bible tells us here in this passage of scripture a verse that I'm sure all of you could quote, maybe without even looking at it. If you don't recognize the reference, you certainly would recognize The verse. The Bible says in John 8:32, and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. With all of the freedom That there is to have here in America. There is a freedom that's far more valuable. Far more precious than that. And that is the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ. Amen. We could spend the entirety of the hour this morning and discuss the freedoms that we have in America and certainly give God honor and praise for those freedoms. But as we're gathered in the house of God this morning, I feel it may be more fitting if we talk about the freedoms that we have in Jesus Christ. So let's look at those and consider these topics uh this freedom that we have in Christ. And I'm cramming two sermons into one this morning because I have six points. But I don't think we'll be here long. We're just going to kind of walk through these quickly and consider this topic that freedom we have in Jesus Christ. First of all, I want you to realize that we have freedom. Because of the shed blood of Jesus Christ, we have freedom from the penalty of sin. We have freedom from the penalty of sin. In John 3. 36, he says, He Now you'll stay in John 8, because we're going to be back there in just a second, but he says, He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not on the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him You see, beloved, there is a penalty for sin, and those that have not experienced the forgiveness of Jesus Christ, they lie in a position of the wrath of God abiding on them. They're under the judgment of God and that penalty of sin, but because of Jesus Christ and his forgiveness of us, we're free from the penalty of sin. How many of you have ever been stopped by a police officer? How many of you let me ask you this How many of you have ever been stopped by a police officer and you were guilty? Okay. Uh I've been there And it's amazing how your prayer life takes on new fervency immediately when you bowl over. God, you know my heart. Lord please give me have help this officer to have mercy, you know. He's coming up to the up to the car, and I'll tell you what, you're sitting there and you're like, oh no, I'm gonna get a ticket Oh, my insurance is gonna go up. You know, you're standing there as guilty as the day is long and the officer comes up and he's filling out his paperwork and he's, you know, taking your license and you're just sitting there being as respectful and as nice And as as you can be and you know, he's like, okay, do you know how fast you're going? Well are you gonna be honest? Too fast. Uh yeah, uh you you know you And and how many of you have ever experienced that when you're there and then for whatever reason, maybe because you were kind, maybe because you're respectful, maybe because he's just feeling like a generous guy that day, but the officer looks at you and he says, I'll tell you I'm just going to give you a warning today. And you're like, hallelujah. Praise God. I just got a warning. You're like, oh man, that's exciting. Well, I was guilty, but I had mercy. You see, I I deserved punishment. But I was freed from the penalty of my sin. That's what Jesus Christ has done for us, because we all stand guilty before an Almighty God, and there's a penalty That we deserve because we're sinners, but we've been freed from that. Amen. We've been freed from that. Man, look at John chapter 8 and verse number 32 again. He says, And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Excuse me. Then answered him, they answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man. How sayest thou, ye may be free? Isn't this just like, you know, Jesus is talking here to the Jews. Isn't this just like people today? They completely deny the fact that they're in bondage? These Jews were in bondage, first of all, to the law. They were in bondage to the law, but they also stood there talking to Jesus in bondage to Rome. They were in bondage to Rome right there, and yet they stood there and they said to Christ, we've never been in bondage to anybody. How can you say we'll be made free? They completely deny it. I don't know if they stick it out of their mind or not, but isn't that how people are today? You talk to them about Jesus Christ and being forgiven from the penalty of sin, and they're like, what sin? What penalty? They completely deny the fact that there is a need for a Savior. Jesus says in verse number chapter 8, verse 34, he says, Jesus answered them, Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever commit a sin, is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not in the house forever, but the son abideth, him teaching, describing for them there the difference between sonship and servanthood. And in verse number 36, and he says, and if the son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Wow. Beloved, there's a penalty for sin. The Bible tells us very clearly: for the wages of sin is death. There's a penalty. The wage that I've earned because I'm a sinner is death. Death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. This is describing and talking to us about the fact that I could try and pay that penalty myself by spending an eternity in a place called hell. Which really was made for the devil and his angels. But because of man's sin, if I want to pay the penalty of my sin myself, that's how I've got to do it. That's the penalty for sin. We know that all have sinned. All have sinned to come short of the glory of God. If you don't know that you're a sinner, I thought about being sarcastic, but I'm gonna be nice. I'm gonna be nice. You're either simple Because there are some people who are simple. And you know what? They're not under judgment because a child who doesn't know that he's a sinner hasn't reached the age of accountability yet. And so they are safe. They will not be held accountable because they don't know And there are some adults who are sinful. Their brain, for whatever reason, God saw fit to allow them to be to be born and raised, and their brain can't function, and they don't have that comprehension or understanding of sin. There are some that are simple, but then there's some others that are just denying the facts. All have sinned. Wherefore as by one man sinned into the world, for all have sinned. From Adam till the last person that will ever be born, we all have that sin nature. And we know it. We know it in our heart. And because I'm a sinner, there's a penalty for that sin. But you don't have to pay the penalty. Christ paid it for you. Because of Jesus Christ, we are free from the penalty of sin I read a story this last week about a man who took pity on another man who was in bondage. This man was in bondage and he was held in bondage by the old ball and chain that uh he was captive and he had this ball and chain around him, and this man took pity on him and he he gave him a Bible. And the hell, the man that was captive had the had the Bible and he had no need for the Word of God. And he he put it down, he basically discarded it. And for several more years, never opened the Bible, never even looked at it. One day, in complete and utter despair, he stopped and finally decided to crack the pages of the Bible, and in the Bible was a file. And within a few hours, he gained his freedom. For years he had right there at his hand the means of freedom And did not take advantage of it. Well, in our country, beloved, the Word of God is everywhere. And the message of freedom from the penalty of sin is readily available. I mean I look at it and consider it and I just think about uh on on the internet and how many presentations of the Word of God are right there How many videos about salvation are right there? How many messages are at anybody's fingertip at any time? The message and the truth of salvation is available. And yet so many people, it's so close, yet they've never cracked its pages. They've never taken advantage of it. They've never experienced the freedom that they can have from the penalty of sin. Can I remind you this morning that Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the what? Truth and the life. You see, if you would be free from the penalty of sin, Then you must know the truth. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Jesus Christ is the truth. I am the way, the truth, and the life. If you're going to be free from the penalty of sin, you've got to come to a place of a personal relationship with the truth The truth is Jesus Christ, and we could continue on and talk about how the Word of God is truth and gaining and knowing and understanding that. But of course the Word of God is Jesus Christ personified. And we're getting a little bit deeper there. But this is true as well. If you're going to know the truth to be free from the penalty of sin, you've got to know Jesus Christ. In Luke 4, verse number 18, the Word of God says, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because He hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted. To preach deliverance to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised. Jesus came. To give liberty, to set free the captive. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free You know, some people act like they're just going to go to heaven because they grew up in a particular family They're just gonna go to heaven because they want to, or they think it's a good idea, or they're just gonna go to heaven because uh everybody in their family's talked about it. But that's not how you get there. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free We're free from the penalty of sin. We don't have to spend an eternity in a place called hell, not because of anything that we did, but because of what Jesus did for us, and we accepted his payment completely and fully for our sin. Amen. Amen. Well, secondly, I want you to see that we've been set free from the power of sin. In Romans chapter 6, verse number 18, he says, being then made free from sin. Romans 6. 18. Why don't you turn to the book of Romans, if you would? Just keep going in the New Testament there a little bit towards the right. Romans chapter number six. I want to show you some verses there. But he says, being made free from sin, you became the servants of righteousness. You know what, beloved, the unregenerate man. The man who has not known the forgiveness of Jesus Christ, they are in bondage to sin. They haven't been made free from that But you, as a Savior, have been set free. In Romans chapter number six, look at verse number 11 Look at verse number 11, Romans chapter 6. He says, likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin. But alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. He says, Here, let not sin therefore reign That is to rule, to control, to be a king, to have dominion. He says, Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that you shall obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Look at verse number 14. For sin shall not have dominion over you. Sin shall not. I want you to understand, and I'll tell you what, it ought to encourage your heart this morning that you've been freed from the power, the dominion, the reigning, ruling power of sin in your life. In and through the power of Jesus Christ, you can have victory. You can get past that sin. You don't have to submit. You are not a slave to sin in our Text verse this morning in John 8. 34, he says, Jesus answered them, verily, very, I say unto you, whosoever committed sin is a servant of sin. And the fact of the matter is the unregenerate man is a servant to sin. He yields to that. It reigns in his body. It has dominion over him. Sometimes you wonder how can the world go so fast down so far and what it happened because men are slaves to sin. But you've been freed from that Freed from the power that sin has over you. Oh, we know that Satan is a powerful enemy. And he is in this world, and he is the prince and power of the air, and he is the ruler of this world. But the Bible tells us that greater is he is in you than he is in the world We know that we have the power of God to have victory over sin. This is not to mean that you won't ever sin. Certainly doesn't mean you'll you'll never be tempted. We know you'll be tempted, but what we do know is the truth of the Word of God tells us that uh That with that temptation, God will offer a way of escape. And that escape is through Jesus Christ. You can have victory. You can live the victorious Christian life because you've been freed from not only the penalty of sin, but the power of sin. And one day, beloved, we praise God, we're going to be freed from the presence of sin. That's coming. When we'll finally be out of out of this place. The Bible says in 1 John 3, verse number 2, he says, Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be. Praise God, you know, as the old song goes, hey, uh I'm not what I was. I'm not what I will be, but I thank God I'm not what I was and I messed the song all up, but you know what I'm talking about, right? How does it go? Somebody tell me. My mind just went blank. You gotta say it loud enough for everybody to hear. Not what I want to be not not what I'm gonna be, but I think I don't have what I was. Amen. Praise God. And one day we'll be in glory and we'll shed this old, you know, when this this mortal puts on immortality, and we shed this old flesh. We're going to be on out of the presence of sin and be with Jesus Himself. I'm going to give you a couple other practical things that we're freed because of Jesus Christ and His shed blood and what He's done for us. Why don't you know that you're free from phobias? Yeah. 1 John 4. 18, the Bible says, There is no fear in love. But perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. Listen, because of Jesus Christ, we don't have to live in fear. We can have hope for tomorrow. This world has so many unknowns. I mean you think about it and what's going to happen tomorrow and oh my goodness gas prices are out of control and and the the riots are gonna start and and society's about to split up and and who knows where we're gonna be in a few days and what's gonna happen tomorrow. We don't have to know what's gonna happen tomorrow because we know who holds tomorrow. Amen. We know who's in control and as a blood-bought, born-again, Bible-believing Christian, that is somebody that Jesus gave his life for. He loves you. And you know he's looking out for you. The Bible says, let love cast out fear, knowing that the creator of the universe, the savior of your soul, loves you. And whatever happens in society and whatever happens in this world, God is on your side. He's for you and He loves you. And man, that love cast out fear. We don't have to live in fear today because of what Jesus Christ did and the relationship that we have with Him. Regardless of circumstances and situations in this world, we don't have to live in fear. One of the greatest fears that men have is the fear of dying. But as Christians we know, beloved, that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Present with the Lord. Love casteth out fear. I sat yesterday with a couple of guests that we had at the Back to Blue barbecue and was sitting and talking to them, and they, you know, they said The most amazing thing is that I don't have to be afraid. This was their words. They talked about it. I don't have to be afraid. I don't have to live in fear. I can live my life and and do what I what I need to do and I don't have to live in fear. Just not having that fear over us because of the love of God. God's love this morning can help you overcome your anxiety. The fear that you have. Not only are we free from phobias, but you're free from prejudices. Because of Jesus Christ. In Galatians chapter 3, verse number 28, he says, there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither bond nor free. There is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Jesus Christ. You're free from this foolishness. This allowing a air of superiority to enter your heart Because we realize what Jesus did for us. We realize that we are all just sinners saved by grace. We're created by God and we stand as fallen men before a righteous and holy God. We stand guilty. Under the wrath of God, but Jesus came and shed his blood for us and he forgave us. And we are all equal at the foot of the cross. And it doesn't matter red and yellow, black and white, they're all precious in his sight. It doesn't matter if you're short or tall or rich or poor or or uh successful or struggling. It doesn't matter where you are because We are all equal at the cross. Amen? And when you come into that realization, all that air of sheer feriority, all that mindset of, oh, uh, this is where prejudice comes from, because you think in your mind somehow that you're better than somebody else. But we're all just sinners saved by grace. And God Loves Anderson as much as he loves Shamar. And he loves Lucas as much as he loves Anderson. Now the girls I'm not sure no just kidding. That's the there's nobody in here that God loves any more than anybody else. And when you experience the love of Christ That love comes through you to society, to others. And you can overcome and let go of any prejudices that you might have had. And see men, regardless of their status or status or or uh society they come from as an equal. Because of Jesus Christ. We can be free from that. An American nurse was being held captive. By the Turks, along with her brother. They were both being held captive, and this American nurse through the course of her captivity I don't know the exact course of events, but she was with her brother and a Turkish soldier killed her brother in front of her. Progression of time, she was freed from captivity. She went back to work at the base in the military uh hospital there. Sometime later, she found herself standing at the bed of a Turkish soldier Who was a captive of war, who had been injured, and was brought to the hospital for medical treatment. And it was the man who shot her brother. She said, in her heart, she heard the loudest cry for vengeance. She says, but then in the back, there was a still small voice that cried for love. And she nursed that man back to health. When the man was able to speak, he opened his mouth and looked at her and said, Why? Why did you let me live? And she said, because I serve a God who says, love your enemies. And his love allowed me to do that for you. A few days later, that Turkish soldier put his faith and trust in Jesus Christ. We're all equal at the cross. His love will allow you to overcome whatever it is in your mind. That makes you think someone might be less than you. Lastly, this morning, I want you to see that because of Jesus Christ, we are Free to pray. We're free to pray. This ought to be exciting to you You see, in the Old Testament, there was a veil that was up between the holy place and that of the holy holies. And that veil was there and and only the high priest could go into the throne room of God, into the holy place, the place where God's glory rests. And He could only do that after a process of purification and cleansing and only once a year to offer sacrifice for all mankind and for the sins of the people. But you and I, because Jesus Christ came and died on the cross, the veil was rent in two, and we've been given the privilege this morning To add a moment's notice, whenever we need to, we can come into the throne room of God and call upon our Savior and beg his help in our hour of need And beloved, if we are ever going to turn the tide in this country, if we're ever going to see God bring back revival to his people and to this nation, it's going to be because we have the privilege of prayer We can pray. We can call on God. We have the privilege. We're free at any time to come into the presence of God. And pray to him directly. Man, that's just that's amazing to think about. Any one of you. And I ask you this morning, are you taking advantage of your freedom? Are you taking full advantage of your freedom to call on God last night? Somebody text me maybe around eleven, eleven thirty in need. And we prayed. And by their testimony, God came on the scene. By their testimony, God strengthened their weakened body. God wrapped his arms around them. And they experience the strengthening hand of God because of the power and the privilege of prayer. Do you have a need? Have you prayed? Pardon Popov was tortured for his faith. All that he had to endure, I don't have time to even begin to describe to you. Just because he was a Christian, imprisoned. Beaten, starved, locked up, lost all of his freedoms because he professed Christ. At one time, he spent an extended amount of time in solitary confinement, and he said, after 10 days of being completely alone, I felt so close to God. Hour after hour spent in praise and worship. Oh, such closeness and communion I had with God. I talked with him and he comforted me. It was a spiritual feast. Though my body was wasting away to nothing, tears of joy ran down my face. For here in prison, completely alone, with nothing at all, I actually had everything because I had Christ. Stripped of everything in this world, with no worldly distractions, I found a deep and beautiful communion with my God. As my own body ached with starvation, my spirit had never before been closer to my Savior. Lying starved and alone and too weak to even move. But I felt I could reach out, and the very arms of God would lift me Listen to these words. He said, I was freer in that cell that day than I ever was on the outside God's presence surrounded me, strengthened me, and filled me. I will never forget it. The freedom to pray, to come into the presence of an Almighty God, to call on Him for help, who can help in your hour of need when nobody else can. Dear friends, as we close, let me say, are you taking advantage of your freedoms? Are you rejoicing and celebrating in the freedoms you have in Jesus Christ? That's what he died for. To set the captive free. You see, for you and I to live without changing Jesus came and he saved our souls. He set us free from the penalty of sin, and we say, praise God. He set us free from the power that sin is supposed to have over our lives. One day we'll be set free from the presence of sin. We can be free from the phobias that anxieties that hang on our hearts. We've got the privilege. Of prayer and freedom from prejudice because of Jesus Christ. But here's the question I have for you. You see, if you don't allow the work of Christ in you to change you, It would be like somebody who was diagnosed with a terminal disease, and they went into the hospital, and the hospital found a miraculous cure And they said, we are gonna cure and they they treated him and they cured him. But he spent the rest of his life in a hospital bed. Because at one time he was sick. He's been cured. He could get up, but he's living in a bed Christian, you've been cured from the power that sin is supposed to have over you. Are you taking full advantage of the freedoms that we have in Jesus Christ? Or are you still laying in the bed?