You can turn in your Bibles tonight to the Book of Ruth. We are going to be concluding the Book of Ruth tonight. This is our final lesson from the book of Ruth. And uh Because I'm concluding Ruth tonight and I'm not sure what the Lord wants me to preach on yet for the next series or the next book study or whatever, I'm kind of looking at that. Uh next week uh we're going to have uh Brother Stephen uh speak for us on Thursday night, so next Thursday night he's planning and preparing for that. Uh so you come and be a part and hear what the Lord brings uh you know speaks to him about and that he'll share with us next Thursday evening. Um for that, but we're going to finish up the book of Ruth tonight. It's going to be a little bit different. I do have three points in a poem. However, uh I've given Gus a bunch of extra little tidbits to throw onto the screen because really As we kind of conclude this up, I I just was kind of reading through these and in my study just uh kind of thinking about some lessons that we can learn. from these concluding verses. When you read 'em on the surface and you and I just reading through that I'm like, okay, we have a genealogy and we have a uh basically the conclusion of the story. I mean w where are we going to go from here? But the Lord really gave me several lessons that we can learn as we bring this to conclusion. Our journey through Ruth uh this evening comes to a conclusion and it is the story found in Ruth is fit for a Hallmark movie. It's a story that started. It started with uh you know tragedy and tears. And then turns a corner and ultimately true love won out. I mean, Ruth wins the heart of Boaz and they get married and they have a child and Uh Naomi is restored and she's thrilled and excited about her future. We see Ruth in chapter one, she was weeping, and in chapter two, she's working, in chapter three. She is told by Naomi to just wait and see what God would do, and then in chapter four we see that she's winning. Can I tell you, beloved, that as Christians, we're on the winning side. In the end, regardless of what courses or paths we travel through in this life, in the end, we're on the winning side. The end of the story has already been written, the the uh final chapter is done, and we know that ultimately as a Christian, as a believer in Jesus Christ, when it comes down to it that we are on the winning side and that a Christian will win in the end. And so we've just got to continue to be faithful and we will see that tonight. The title of this evening is From Ruin to Royalty. From Ruin to Royalty. And we're going to kind of walk through this. I'll give you the three points, but really just some lessons. that we can take away. First of all, God's blessing is revealed in verses 13 through 15. The Bible says, so Boaz took Ruth. and she was his wife. And when he went in unto her, the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. And the woman said unto Naomi, the women, sorry, said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel, and he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life And a nourisher of thy old age, for thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath borne. There's several lessons I want you to see and just remind you of in these verses that we're looking at here. First of all, that children are a gift from God. Children are a gift from God. God declares this here in verse number 13, talking about the Lord gave her conception and she bare a son. this all through the pages of scripture and really in life that the the gift of children is a gift that men should desire. That's what uh is part of the responsibility of being married And uh having a family is that God would give you children. He gave the command to Adam and Eve and to uh Noah after the flood, be fruitful and multiply. It is God's plan that men would multiply. And there's a whole lot of and it's very popular the the the family planning and people have their agenda and and they want to set a oh well you know I I want one kid. I want just one child or I don't want any kids because I want a career and This is what I want to do, and they're purposing to do that. But can I tell you birth rates are way down in our country? Do you know that in Japan uh adult diapers are outselling baby diapers? They they're their birth rate has decreased to the point that they're selling more adult diapers than there are baby diapers. And that is bad for a society. In in South Korea, they're they're fast on the way towards the same problem and it won't be very long and North Korea will just be able to walk over and and take it because there won't be any youth there to defend them. Because parents are not having children. And children are a heritage of the Lord. They are a gift of God. They are a blessing. Now I know there's different situations and sometimes people can't have children or there there's other complications. They told my mom she wasn't going to be able to have any kids for whatever reason and nine months after their honeymoon they were uh you know, well shortly after their honeymoon, they were surprised to find out, well, I guess she is gonna have a kid, right? And uh, you know, ultimately God is the one that gives life and takes life and those things should be in his hand. Now I'm all for using wisdom and uh trying to use some caution and listen, there's some people that If they ask my opinion, I would say I'm not sure you should have a child. Uh you know, but God is the one that's in control of that. And you you need to use some wisdom and think about what you're doing, but The the mindset of today is what I'm talking about where people just don't want to have kids because they're inconvenient. And that to me is not godly. That's not biblical. It's God's plan that men would be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. And uh train up a child in the way he should go and raise your family to honor and glorify God. And uh that's God's pattern and God's plan. Children are a gift from God, they're a blessing Lo, children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of his re womb is his reward. Psalms 127. And blessed beloved, if children are raised right, they truly are a blessing. And we were down in Tennessee, there was somebody asking me about five kids and the age-old question, like, oh my goodness, five children, like how did you ever do it? And I said, Listen, if you raise them right, they're they're they are a blessing, not a burden Th they're not they don't drain you down and wear you out and you're ready to pull your hair out if you've trained them right. And all that takes is some consistency and some discipline. Just uh last night or the night before I was in Walmart picking up a battery for Melissa's car. And uh getting a battery for her car. And uh I was on my way to the the uh Oh, I had already done the you know battery exchange where they got at the core charge and that stuff. So I'd already done that at the service desk and I was walking out and they have that little section there where you ladies get your nails done and your hair done or whatever all they do in there. I don't know what they do in there But man, there was like a five or six year old boy who was throwing a fit. I mean, jumping up and down and screaming and yelling, and his mom was standing there like she had no idea what to do with this kid Like she just didn't know what to do. And I don't know what he wanted to get his nails done too or what. I I don't know what. But his sister was having a time in there and he was screaming about something. But I just thought, well, i if that's what you're dealing with, you certainly don't want more of 'em. But it's bec they the fact of the matter is is mom and dad raised the child to be that way. They trained the child to be that way. And if you'll raise your children, the nurture and admonition of God, if you'll raise them up to be obedient, they are a blessing. They are a reward, and uh they are such a joy. He says here that they will be a nourisher to you in your old age. That's how it's supposed to be, young people. You need to think about that. It's by God's plan and design that you care for your parents when they get older. Uh listen, they changed their diapers when you were young, the day may come where you be changing their diapers when they're old Now, Lord willing, hopefully not, right? That's not where anybody wants to go for sure, and I pray the Lord will take me home before that happens. Hallelujah. Maybe well, I'm not going there. But we'll pray that it happens. I don't I just certainly don't want to do that. Uh but listen, you need to be ready to be that nourisher, that strength, that help to your parents in their old age Don't lose patience with your parents, kids. I know they're not as cool as you. And I know they're not as up on all of the the lingo and they don't understand the gibberish that you guys and and you're communicating and all the all of the uh the stuff that you guys do and and you know what and they're they're they a little slower to pull out into traffic than you or or whatever. But listen, they live their day like you you're living it And now it's where they're at. And uh the day will come when you're there. You need to respect them, honor them, and be a help to them. Look at any way you can be a help to them, especially in your youth where you have the strength and the capacity and the ability to be a help. You know what, Eli, it's not going to be long and you're going to be married, man. Is there anybody any anything you want to announce? No. You guys are like some pastor must know something. I don't know nothing. I'm just you know throwing him under the bus. But what I'm saying is it's not going to be long. God's going to move you on. The ability for you to be a blessing in your home is going to be gone. Like you're gonna start to have your own life. You gotta have things you have to do and dad and mom might need some help in a area or capacity, but now you're no longer living there. Luis is going back to Mexico and and he's taking mom with him, so that's even worse. Uh he's gonna leave dad all alone here. He's staying here all by himself Uh but you know what I'm saying is the time that that you can do something for mom and dad is gonna come to an end. Not not that you can't stop by. I mean I'm looking for a way to go out and help my dad do some work there in Indiana just 'cause I want to try and be a blessing to them, but I have to look at all the schedules and figure out what a where I can squeeze it in and how can we accomplish this is travel time and all that. That's what life is, but while you're there, while you're around Try and be a blessing, amen. Amen. Well, uh listen We don't like talking about old age. We don't like talking about how uncomfortable things get and how hard things are and how disconnected we are from the you know life and current you know, tech and all that kind of stuff. It is a little frustrating to older people to not understand why a five year old can't can take a device and get it to do whatever he wants and the ad and and the adult can't. You know, you're sitting there like, how is it this five year old can maneuver this thing and I can't? That's frustrating to them. You know, beloved old age is going to expose you for what you are. Whether you like it or not You know, youth the people in their youth are given a lot of grace, a lot of patience, because they're young and dumb. Right? I mean since we're getting hard on the old people, we'll throw the young people there. They haven't learned yet. But when you get older, people kind of lose patience for that. They look at you and say, Well, you ought to know better. You know, you should know that already. That's something you ought to understand already. But you know, you won't be able to have any excuses It's going to make known whether you have prepared or planned ahead or you have not. You know, i we always think, well, I'll start that next year, I'll do that next year, I'm gonna start saving for retirement next year. And then before you know it, retirement's here. You haven't planned. You haven't prepared. What I'm saying is old age is going to reveal. Old age is going to reveal whether you've t taken care of this old body or not. There's some things that are out of your control, but those of us that know, we know the reason our knees hurt. Because we were down on the ground, you know, laying tile without knee pads for so many hours or we were kicking carpet with you know by hand instead of using the machine and and you know all of those things. We know we abused our bodies for so long and now we're reaping that, right? That's that's just the results of having done that for so many years. We we know that. What I'm saying is old age reveals that. And we're gonna need somebody to come along and God does this for them in his great blessing. The second truth or lesson we can learn is that you will, or it is possible, to experience joy again after sorrow. Man, you remember the story opens up and Naomi is so bitter. She's so angry. She's reached the end of her road and she's just almost ready to give up. But beloved, God didn't forget about her. God brought her along and used Ruth to restore her life and to minister to her even in her old age. I can think about how hard it must have been for Naomi to turn and go back home You know, beloved, there's some people that never get back to a place of joy, and it's not because it's not there or not available. The reason they don't get back is because they're so afraid or so concerned about the perceived shame. the perceived embarrassment that they don't. I can't tell you the number of people I've talked to over the years that miss church for a month or two. And then when I'm visiting with them, I'm like, well why don't why don't you just come back? And they're like, well I'm afraid what people are going to say. Well people are going to be excited that you're back. I mean that's what they're going to say. They're going to be thrilled that you've come back to church. But there's this perception like, well they're going to think where have you been and what have you been doing? You know, all these don't worry about what people think. Worry about what God thinks and God wants you in church. But there's this perceived like embarrassment or shame, and there's a lot of people that would rather go through life away from God than come back. And so they live the entirety of the rest of their life away from God and just kind of at arm's length from God. Not that they've rejected God and left God, but they know that because of a situation that happened way back here in this church or with this member or with that family And they've decided, you know what, I don't want to go back and apologize. I don't want to own up to that. I don't want to say I'm sorry. And so they stay the rest of their life over here And don't ever, but it's possible, beloved. We see the story of Naomi here. And she, I can imagine when she was coming back into town how her gut felt. And I'm sure she was just sick and she probably was thinking, man, everybody's thinking, oh look, there's Naomi. You remember she left when she shouldn't have Oh, look at the results of her going down her husband did you hear? Her husband got killed. Yep, now she's coming back without her husband. And you can imagine all this stuff going through her mind Isn't that what Satan does to us? He has us kick it around and think through everything and and we know what everybody else is thinking, don't we? Yeah, they're thinking this and they're thinking that and so because of that perceived shame we don't ever want to go back. But listen beloved Naomi went back and you see the result of what God did. God restored her. God did a miraculous thing for her. You can experience joy again after a season of sorrow. The third lesson I see in these verses we just read is that people know what you love. People know what you love. Verse number fourteen And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. in the name that his name may be famous in Israel, and he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and nourish thee in thine old age, that thy daughter-in-law which loveth thee. Which is better to thee than seven sons as bore him. Beloved, it was evident to society, to those people that were around that Ruth had a love for Naomi that was full and and committed and on target. And everybody saw it. They recognize it. We've seen it several times through the story here, through the book, the chapters that we've read, and what I want to tell you, beloved, is that God and the people around you know what you love. She said here that her love is better Then somebody that's born seven sons. You know the number of seven is the number of completion, it's the number of perfection. It is the idea of her love is better. than if you had a whole complete family. If you had what would be perceived as a perfect family, you you you already have Ruth's love. I wonder, beloved, what do people think or know that you love? What you love is evident by what you spend your money on Where you invest your time. You can say you love this or you love that. You can say I love you. But where you spend your time, where you invest your money, where you invest your your thoughts and your energy, it's evident by what brings you joy. Here's some people love hunting, and it's just a joy to talk about it. I was talking to a young man uh on Monday night. I'm sorry, Tuesday night. I was talking to a young man on Tuesday night and uh he just got married, has only been married a few months and he said, Well, the first time I ever saw her she was carrying a deer and I was I was she I was struck He said, I was in love. I mean that that's the one for me, you know. He loves hunting. And then it we got done with what we were doing, we walk outside and there's five vehicles in the parking lot and one of them is a big jacked-up truck. I said, That's your truck, ain't it? He's like, Yeah. I mean there was no question, all the vehicles out there, that's what he was driving. You know, people know what you love. Do they know you love God? By where you spend your time. Do your neighbors know that you love God? Because you're gonna get out and be at church, you're gonna be present, they know that because of the activities that you invest time and energy and effort in People around you know what you love, beloved. It's a sad thing that there are some people more faithful to a television show or a football team than they are to God's house. Oh, I can't miss. I don't even know what's on TV today. And I know today you can you can, you know save it and watch it later and it's all streamed and you can adjust all that and people are still stuck on whatever program. They can't wait till the next episode comes out. And you can watch it anytime. Not sure you should either way, but it it's amazing how I mean I've had people within the last year tell me, man, we love that show and we we catch it every week. Do you catch church every week? Now I know I'm preaching to a Thursday night crowd here, but there's gonna be people listening to this on sermon audio. Those of that you know, do you do you go to your midweek service? Do you go to your Sunday night service? Let's show God and let's show people around us who we love. There was a day I'm not going to tell you who it was, but we had a visitor just recently and uh Lord willing they'll end up coming back and maybe one day you'll hear the rest of the story. But uh they said I'm not sure. I mean The uh gentleman, the wife looked over at the man and said, Uh are you are you ready to start going to church on Sunday night? Like I think that's like seems like that's kind of expected there. Like if we're gonna be going to church there, are you ready to go to church two times a a week? Well, I think it ought to be expected. I think if you love God, you ought to desire and want to be here. Now I think it's a step of growth, but I wonder uh you know it's one thing that I wonder about as far why why uh there isn't a level of commitment to that It ought to be important to us. People know what you love. We need to be careful what we long for at the expense of what we already have. You see, beloved Naomi was so discontent. Yeah, she had experienced some loss. There's no question there But you understand she had Ruth there who loved her in a very evident way and was willing to do whatever for her, and it's almost as though she was disregarding that. seeing no value or worth in that because of the loss she experienced. You guys have all have seen it and and I don't downplay the loss. The loss is real and the burden and the weight of grief certainly is heavy. Whether that's the loss of a mate, or here the loss of a mate and two sons. I mean that is something that I in in reality I can't comprehend, but I have enough insight to know that that was brutal But how many of you have seen people that stop living? They have a mate that still loves them. They might have other kids that are still in the home. But because one of their children passed away, it's almost like they decide to stop living. They they lose the heart to keep going when They still have reason to live. Cost you what you already have. Secondly, we want to see in verses 16 and 17 and 17 that faithfulness is rewarded. And Naomi took the child and laid it on her bosom and became a nurse unto it. And the woman I'm sorry, and the women, her neighbors, gave it a name, saying There is a son born to Naomi, and they called his name Obed, and his father, the father of Jesse, the father of David. So these ladies, the neighborhood ladies got together and named Ruth and Bohas's child. Not sure why. Maybe that was a custom in the time. Maybe they let the name stick because of what it means. Which we'll get to in just a moment. But I want you to see faithfulness is really all that's required. You don't have to be the king, you don't have to be the commander, you don't have to be the one that everybody is looking to. You don't have to be the pastor or the song director or the leader of any ministry. You just have to be faithful where you're at. Whatever it is that you're doing, if we would but just be faithful at that, God would reward us. I believe, beloved, that we see the faithfulness of God more in our day-to-day consistency than we do in the one-time extraordinary event. We don't live on the mountaintops. They're exciting and they're fun and it's great to experience those. But beloved, the faithfulness of God and the faithfulness of God's people is seen in the day-to-day. It's seen on a Thursday night in January. I would say a cold Thursday night, but it's not that cold today. It was pretty nice today, wasn't it? I gotta some work done outside. It was wonderful. I was glad. I was actually Stephen took his coat off. He's like, Man, I I'm I'm gonna take my coat off. It was too hot. We were d lifting those countertops and they're heavy. And so working up some sweat there. It was nice out But hey, faithfulness is seen in those days. And there's nothing big going on. Everybody loves the anniversary Sunday, and you know, praise the Lord, people can make it out for that. And they should. But faithfulness is when you show up when there's nothing big going on, when there's no potluck. We had somebody a few years ago get mad because I didn't say it and I'm not sure it should have been said, but somebody in the church told them the only time you show up for church here is when we're having food. Now whether that was a true statement or not, and probably was pretty true, but they got mad You know, the truth hurts sometimes. That's what I'm saying. I'm not sure if it should have been said or not. But that in reality really was about the gist of the situation. The only time they came is when we were having a potluck or graduation night or sometime when the word went out and they were we they found out we were having food and so they would they would show up for that Well I'm glad they came and pray the Lord would speak to their heart and they would start to be more faithful. But faithfulness is what's required. Simple obedience today has a lasting effect. I've got to get moving these lessons. Beloved, we see through the story here Ruth starts on this journey back in Moab, a new believer, unsure of her future, not a strong Christian, not full of faith, but she declares her faith and she proves her faith by sticking with Naomi, remember in one sixteen, and Rue said, Entreat me not to leave thee or return from following after thee, for whither thou goest I will go and Where thou lodgest, thou will lodge, thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. And that statement was made and she declares her faith, but then her faithfulness is proven because she did it. She stuck with her. She went on. And we see that through the entirety of the book and all of the story. We see that her faith grows in chapter number two And Ruth the Moabite said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the field and glean ears of corn after him, in whose sight I shall find grace. She said, Boy, I I'm not real sure about this. I don't have any reason to believe that they would give me anything. I'm not even an Israelite I I know Naomi you said that God has this pattern where people can go and glean from the edge of the field, but I I'm not even an Israelite. Why would they give me anything? But she, by faith, she went and she said, boy, I'm going to go do it. And I'm going to pray that I'll experience some grace. And she goes and her faith is exercised and her faith is rewarded. And beloved, when that happens, your faith grows. Her faith grew. The Lord recompensed her and gave her a reward. And then again in chapter number three, we see her faith. put into practice as she follows the suggestion of Naomi and she approaches Boaz and asks for his hand essentially by the way of illustration there And God rewards that, and ultimately we see that in this chapter where she is rewarded with being getting to marry Boaz and God giving them a child. Beloved, you know faith is like any other muscle. It'll grow if we exercise it. The problem is, and You guys know is certainly one of the things I say. I I feel like I I don't have as much faith as I should to to lead a church like this. And that's my fault. Because I want to see where I'm going to step before I step. I hesitate to tell the church, let's go this way. Unless I can see a way to make it happen, unless I can see a solution. And sometimes God wants us to step out by faith. Moses didn't see his way through the Red Sea. God said go and he stepped out. Sometimes God wants to lead that way and wants you to believe in faith, and it's certainly an area that I need to grow, which means we need to exercise, I need to exercise that faith muscle and experience God's deliverance and answer to prayer so that the faith can grow. Others recognize, we see in chapter 17, others recognize the blessings of God on her life and on your life. Naomi is restored here. She went away empty, but now her house was full. Her heart was full, her arms were full, verse number seventeen. And the women, her neighbors gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to the Naomi, and they called his name Obed. Sorry, I had 16. And Naomi took the child and laid it in her bosom and became a nurse unto it. She picked up this child. She held the child. Her life that was once empty has now been made full. Others around you are going to be blessed as well. Can I tell you that God gives you purpose to live for? Naomi, who didn't have anything to live for, who didn't see anything beyond her next meal, who came back empty and said, I wonder if it's worth anything at all. God gave her a purpose. She had a grandbaby now that she was holding in her arms and she had a new uh purpose, something to live for. Something to get her out of bed in the morning, something to to decide I've got to live right and do right and and I gotta for for modern application, I gotta be in church and I gotta walk with God and I've got to be a witness and I gotta be able to get a hold of God. Why? Because I got a grandbaby I need to influence for Jesus I wonder, beloved, are you living with purpose? The Christian has a purpose to live for. The Christian is not living for himself, but for those who come behind him. I can imagine here this grandmother teaching Obed what his name means. Servant. And spending time to show him how to be a servant, and spending time teaching him what this means, and how to live as a servant, and even though you might have position Even though you might have authority, but you're still a servant leader. And here's what I think, beloved. I th I don't think necessarily that Naomi had a direct impact on David, but I believe Obed did. I believe Obed, as a grandfather, could have been around and could have had a very direct impact on David. I think the lessons that Obed learned From her, from his mom, grandmother, were carried all the way down and put instilled into the life of David. You say, why do you think that, Pastor Caleb? Well, the Bible says in Acts chapter 13 and verse number 36, for David, after he served his own generation by the will of God. fell asleep and was laid unto his fathers. David served his generation. I think there's some lessons that got carried on and passed down You know, beloved, we're not living for ourselves. Sometimes I think people think, well, I I don't want to necessarily go to church because I don't get anything or that service is not as exciting for me or it well that I it's not as you know, it's not really what I like. Do you know, beloved, we're not living for ourselves. And pray God will speak to your heart and God will stir you. And if you need to, pray for the pastor that he'll get some more fire or get another lesson or whatever he needs to stir you. But beloved, we don't just come to God's house because we need it. We come to God's house because we influence the other people around us. Because we are influencing the next generation, and whether it's the Sunday school kids you have the opportunity to minister to or the kids that you see here in the church house or your own children or your own grandchildren, beloved, we are living our lives in a testament and an example before them. And we are influencing them How you live and talk and what you do and what you make a pro set as a priority, that sets a priority for them. We don't live for ourselves, but for the next generation. There is an old poem that's very powerful. Called The Bridge Builder by Alan Dumglow. I'm an old man going a lone highway. Came an evening cold and gray. To a chasm vast and deep and wide, the old man crossed in the dim, in the twilight dim. The sullen stream had no fear for him. But he turned when safe on the other side and built a bridge to span that tide Old man, said a fellow pilgrim near, you're wasting your strength building here. Your journey will end with day's end. With end of day, yawn, never again will you pass this way. You've crossed this chasm deep and wide. Why build this bridge at evening tide? The builder lifted his old gray head and said, Good friend, in the path that I have come, he said, there followed me today a youth whose feet may pass this way. This chasm that has been at naught to me, to that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be. He too must cross in twilight dim. Good friend, I'm building this bridge for him What I want you to understand, beloved, is we're not living for ourselves. Our life, our example, our testimony, it affects more people. Jason and Chloe, you don't have any kids yet. But your life as a young married couple right now speaks volumes to all of these younger men And ladies right up here. It speaks volumes. You're at the age you can do what you want Nobody's going to be telling you, and I want to commend you for your commitment to God's house and your faithfulness here because that says something to these young people. That example. And the day will come when you'll do it because you got kids in the house. I remember the day when, you know, my own children are come to me and they're like, are we gonna read the Bible tonight? You know, how do you feel? You gonna look at him and say, No, we're not reading the Bible? Like your own kids put you under conviction. Like, well I guess yeah yeah, yeah, of course. Let's go, let's read the Bible. That's just what I want to do. Stop my project and go sit down and read the Bible. Uh but you gotta do it because it's your own kids. But what I'm saying is we all influence a whole lot more than just the ones that are in our house. We're living for the next generation. The next lesson that I see here under this point is that don't underestimate the significance of what God has already given you Naomi didn't understand all that God had done. She was just a child. But it was the father of Jesse who ultimately Was the Father in the line of Jesus Christ? You don't have any idea How powerful, how meaningful, or how fulfilling what God's gonna do with what He's already given you Whether that's a talent or means or capacity or uh a job or vehicles or children or whatever God has blessed you with your in your life. Sometimes we lose patience with that or we don't see the value of it. Don't underestimate the power of what God has already blessed you with. What God could do with what you already have. Lastly, tonight, I want you to see that God is always at work. We see here in verses 18 through 22 basically the genealogies. That short list of he begat, he begat, he begat. Ultimately, we see that Obad begat Jesse and Jesse begat David Beloved, there's times in your life that you look around and it seems as though God is not doing anything. We get the idea that there's nothing really significant happening right now. Like there's no major events taking place in my life right now. There's nothing I really have to be on fire for. There's nothing really life-changing that's that's in the works. But beloved, can I tell you that God is always working? As we see here, oh I think if somebody would have told Ruth, do you understand the significance of this child, do you realize what God has done and his mercy and and and his miraculous nature, how he has put you into the line of the ultimate, the the the the redeemer of the world, the savior of mankind I think Ruth would have been, what? That's just Obed. That's just my son. I mean, yeah, he's special to me because I'm a mother. But I mean, I don't know that anybody else thinks he's special. Some think he's special led, but I I don't know that you know I think she would have not have thought about the significance or the magnitude of what God was doing and what I'm saying is God declares to us here one last time in this book where we have seen the providence of God over and over and over again That God directed their steps and put them where He wanted them and gave them what He wanted them to have so that they would come out where He wanted them to be. And I'm saying in everything in our lives When we think it's ho hum, just another day, no big deal, God is nowhere to be found, I want you to know that God is working We need to remember that in the back of our mind, that God is always working. His will is going to be done. Our lives are but a vapor. They're just something that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away in the whole of our days in the span of eternity. It's but a blip on the calendar, it's but a little uh just as quick as a candle blows out, and it's gone and over. There's no way that we could comprehend the workings of God from beginning to end. But we ought to, by faith, have it settled in our heart and mind that in all of it, in every day, even when we don't think anything's happened, that God is working And that'll keep your heart focused on him and looking for the miracles that he's doing and desiring to see the results of what he's doing. Beloved. Ultimately, in the end of my days, then I want to be used of God to help bring about His will in this world. And I know you desire the same thing. But it won't happen if we're living for self, if we're not seeing the Savior, if we're not walking with Him. Let's remember that in everything he is working. The unseen actions of today are sure to become part of God's story tomorrow. They may be small actions. They may be something small that you did at church or for somebody else and you don't even realize. You didn't even I mean for you it was just a just a meal. I just dropped off a meal. It was easy to do. But for them it made a big difference, and they decided not to quit on God. Because a brother or sister loved them enough to drop off a meal. And for you, it was just uh I'm just dropping off a meal. But God was working. For you just stopped to say hi, just spend a couple minutes. You just wrote a little note of appreciation. Not that big a deal, just something that was on your heart, but God's working Let's be sensitive to the Holy Spirit and let God work through us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed