Second Timothy chapter two verse number two. This is also has been our Theme verse for the month. We've been encouraging the church to put commit this verse to memory. It's on the screen there as our theme verse for every month is. We as a church try and say that together. So if you're uh able to read the screens or if you want to read it from your text, or maybe you have it committed to memory already. And uh you would like to say that with us. Let's uh say that verse all together, uh starting with the reference, and then as many Do uh finishing with the reference. 2 Timothy 2, 2, and the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses. The same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Good job. See, you guys remembered and I forgot. Told you I had a bad memory, so that's pretty bad. You would forget that you were going to do that, right? Just between the start of the verse and the end of the verse, you forgot you were going to repeat it. Oh well that's life. You guys doing okay today? Amen. Well I'm excited about being in God's house. I'm excited about our day today, Fifth Sunday Fellowship, an opportunity to uh Spend a little time with one another, get to know somebody that maybe you don't know quite as well. You've got people uh that attend church with you that they sit on the opposite side of the auditorium, and so you do not talk to them Right? Because they they sit on the wrong side. And so this is an opportunity to to cross the the center aisle, as it were, and and spend a little time talking to some of those others. It's just a casual thing. Listen, if you came this morning and you didn't bring food, you say, oh man, or I didn't bring food. That's okay. My wife made a bunch extra. And so, uh, and besides my kids aren't hungry, so they don't have to eat. That'll cover five hungry people if my kids don't eat. Uh but no, there's plenty of food down there. Don't worry, my kids eat plenty And there's plenty of food. But if you're you're interested at all, come and just to see it, hang out for a couple of minutes. We would love to have you be with us and get to know a few of the people in the church here. And uh of course we'd encourage you to stay. The purpose for this This is that you might stay and experience a Sunday evening service. This is a little bit more of a relaxed service we have on our Fifth Sunday fellowship. We have a testimony time. and allow the church family to kind of share. We will be starting a few minutes before two o'clock with a little bit of history of our church. We'll be going uh showing some of the pictures and And some of the video and some of the things that we've uh been able to do over the past uh well we're coming up on our fifteenth anniversary. as a church and so we'll be looking a little bit of that history, uh maybe around one forty five or something like that. So if you can can stay and be with us, we would we would love to have you be a part of this afternoon. Well, you're in your Bibles already, and we've already read the text this morning. I want to preach for you a message today entitled From Disciple to Discipline. From disciple to discipling. This here is the admonition given to Timothy by the Apostle Paul. And the things that thou hast heard of me, or we could say from me, among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to teach others also. The word disciple means learner. It means follower There is with it the connotation or the implication that you would desire not just to learn, but that you would desire to take the things that you've learned and translate them into activity. in your life. You want to be able to learn what God requires or what God desires Not just for the sake of head knowledge, but that you could learn that to implement it into your life to be more like Christ. After all, the name Christian, which we call ourselves, means what does it mean? Christ-like. Means Christ-like. So if we want to be like Christ, we need to be a learner, a disciple of Christ. It is one thing to be saved, to know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, and another thing to be a disciple of Christ It is one thing to know that your sins are forgiven and that if you should pass away today, that you have an assurance. that you know you will wake up in heaven because of the promises of the Word of God given to you for having believed on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And to say, I want to be a disciple of Christ, not just to know him as Savior, but to know him as Lord. Salvation comes through childlike faith. Through the simple step, the act of believe. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. If you believe that Jesus Christ came Died, was buried, and rose again for you. The Bible says you can know Him as your Savior. Be forgiven of your sins. And taken to heaven when you die. You can be assured of your home in heaven. You can be assured that your sins are forgiven. But to as many body body As many as believed on him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. To the manage receive him, to them gave ye power to become the sons of God. We've got to believe on Jesus Christ, accept him as our Lord and Savior And you become a child of God through that step. But that's just the s that's just the first step. That's just the beginning. That's how we become a Christian. Do you understand that there were great multitudes that surrounded themselves around God, around Jesus Christ when he was here on earth? But there were only a few disciples. There were only a few who chose to take that next step Yes, they believed on him. Yea, thousands of people believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and trusted him as Lord and Savior. But how many of those do we see in the pages of Scripture that are disciples? Of Jesus. There is a stark contrast between those that have just taken the step of belief and those that have purposed in their heart to be a disciple. You know, Jesus Contrary to popular opinion today, contrary to the popular methods today. Jesus did not see the multitude and think, oh, I need to appeal to more people. Therefore, I need to ease my requirements. Contrary to the popular belief today, Jesus didn't say, Oh, I would like to have more disciples, and so instead, I'm instead of requiring this or stating that this is needed or asking this of them. I'm going to lower my standards. I'm going to decrease my requirements. That way I can have more disciples. Did Jesus say that? No. He said, Yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution. He says, Hey, take up your cross and follow me. This is gonna be fun, guys. Isn't it great to be a Christian? Take up your cross. You're gonna suffer some persecution. Hey, if the world hates you, realize they hated me first. I mean, over and over again, if you read the New Testament. And you read it in the light of the fact that Jesus was looking for disciples, you would think, Lord You've got to stop telling them how hard this is going to be. You got to stop. I mean, it's almost like he's discouraging them from pursuing after him. Because he says it's going to be difficult. But there are those who are so moved by the power of God in their life, they say, you know what? Regardless of the cost, sign me. up. Because I want to be a disciple. So I want to talk to you first about the call to be a disciple. I believe that every believer, every person that professes the name of Christ, they call themselves a Christian, they know beyond a shadow of a doubt that when they die they're going to go to heaven because they're Sins are forgiven, I believe that there is a call for you to be a disciple. That God wants you to be a disciple Now, Jesus is not going to force you to do it. He's not going to twist your arm behind your back and go to your house and get you up on Sunday morning and you're going to church. Now, you might do that with your children, but God's not going to do that with you. God gives you the choice. He says, come, follow me. And you have to decide. Am I going to follow him? Or am I going to do my own thing? Do you desire this morning to be a disciple? There is in fact a call, he says in 1 Timothy 2. 2, and the things that thou hast heard of me. You see, Timothy decided early in his life, when he was with Paul, to learn To be a learner. He he I could see him with Paul, and I have a list of things that I ask older pastors. I have a list of things I'm on my computer that any time I'm in contact with an older pastor, I I ask them these things I'm looking for wisdom from those that have had much more experience than me and those that have walked down the roads of life and I have set some some things that I want to know from them. What how to do this and how to do that? And I could see Timothy asking. Paul, what do we do with this? What does Jesus ask of us here? What would God require of us here? How would we accomplish this? I see Timothy hungry, desiring to learn and wanting to learn, and and Paul investing, investing, investing. And teaching Timothy over and over again. God is calling you today. He's asking you to be a disciple. Paul was saying to Timothy, hey, The things that you've learned from me, the time that you've sat at my feet, how you've desired to learn. Every believer must choose to follow Christ. Every believer must make that decision. Do you understand that every disciple is a believer? But not every believer is a disciple. For there are multitudes that have believed, that have not picked up their cross And chose to follow after God. You know, just singing the song, I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to follow Jesus. I have decided to follow Jesus No turning back. No turning back. You know, just singing that song doesn't make you a disciple. You understand if I told my son, hey son, I want you to bring in a load of wood. It's getting a little chilly outside and we want to miss And my son stood up in the living room and said, I have decided to bring in wood. I have decided to bring in wood. No log left behind. No log left behind. He could stand there and sing as long as he wants, but he hasn't done what I've asked him to do, has he? He may sing with the most beautiful and eloquent voice possible. We may be astonished But as his father, am I going to be pleased? I'm going to say, son, why don't you sing well you're bringing in the wood? There's some wood that he's brought in Every one of us has to make the choice to decide to follow after Christ and just standing in church and singing about it is not being a disciple. So I ask you today, first of all, have you taken the first step? Are you saved? Do you know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that should you breathe your last breath, that you would wake up in heaven? The Bible gives us very clearly God's plan of salvation. Tells us very clearly how to know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, if you've laid in your bed at night and wondered what happens after death, I want you to know the creator of the universe has told us And he's told us how we can be forgiven of our sins and be taken to heaven when we die. You don't have to wonder. If you're here today, I ask you. Have you taken the first step? Have you become A son of God. Have you believed on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? And thou shalt be saved And if you're here today and you have trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior, the second question for you is, are you a disciple? You say, oh, I know that I'm saved, Pastor. I know that I'm on my way to heaven. Jesus gloriously saved me, and you may give me your testimony. about the day when the message of the gospel became true to you and in your heart and you bowed your head, believing on Jesus Christ and asked him to forgive you of your sins and take you to heaven. What a glorious day. You say, I know that. So can I ask you, from that day till this, have you been a disciple? Have you tried to sit at the feet of Jesus? Have you tried to learn? We must be a disciple. You know Our second point this morning is there is a call to discipling. A call to discipling others, but you know you can't disciple someone else if you're not personally a disciple first. You know, I can't hope to lead somebody west unless I'm going west. Doesn't that make sense? I can't hope to lead somebody else or to help somebody else on their path of the Christian life that we're called to live unless I am pursuing that path and I am walking down those paths. Jesus condemned the scribes and the Pharisees for as it were standing up and singing, I have decided to follow Jesus, but not doing it. Oh, they knew how to carry their Bible and they knew how to talk to talk, they knew how to walk the walk, but they weren't doing it. Jesus talked to them about leading others, and he said, Yay, it's as if the blind were leading the blind. And you're gonna fall into a ditch. Into a pit. We can't lead somebody unless we are personally going down that path. You know, you can't ever lead somebody any farther than you've been You know, if basic math is all that I had ever taken, I really would have no hope of teaching somebody algebra. Now, if I had been through advanced calculus, algebra would be pretty easy. Why? Because I've been so far beyond that Christian, if we're gonna be a discipler, we've gotta be on the road and down the road a little ways. ourselves. You can't teach somebody about the sweet hour of prayer unless you spent an hour in prayer You can't teach somebody how to be an intercessor, how to get on their knees and to get a hold of God and how to see prayers answered. You can't teach them. How you can come into the throne room of God Himself because He tells us to, and we have the power to get God on our side and to have Him help in our situation. You can't teach them that unless you at first spend some time on your knees And you've gotten a hold of God, and you've seen God do things in your life that cannot be explained any other way, except that an almighty God interceded for you. But when you walk down that road, you can with confidence look at a friend or a brother or a sister or a mom or dad or grandma and you can say, let's take it to the Lord in prayer. Because I know God answers prayer. We've got to be a discipler and learn we can't talk to people about obeying God When we're not obeying God, we can't encourage and challenge others to evangelize the lost and to be a witness if we never are a witness. If we don't do even the basics, the smallest thing about leading somebody to Christ, pointing them to the Savior. The most basic question to ask yourself before you can become a discipler is, are you a disciple? Are you practicing these things yourself? Are you personally seeking after God? This truly is the duty of every Christian, to first be a disciple, to sit at the feet of Jesus, to learn. with the intent of translating what we learn into our life That means we've got to make some changes. That means we have to adjust our path. That means we might learn some things that we enjoy and find out that God is not very thrilled with that. And we say, well, here's where I make the choice. This is where the rubber meets the road. I decide, follow Christ or do what I want. This is our duty first to be a disciple, but then it goes beyond that. It actually goes beyond to passing on, to committing to others. What we've learned. In our text verse, he said, And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. He said, Timothy, you've seen how I did it. You've seen how I've taken time and I've taught you and I've trained you and I've invested in you. You've seen how I've showed you The principles from the Word of God and what God would desire. Now what you've learned Take that and commit that to some faithful men. Do you know any faithful men? Teach them what I've taught you. Paul invested in Timothy's life. And then encourage Timothy to invest in somebody else's life. Paul telling Timothy You say, Pastor, this is great. Paul encouraging his son in the faith, Timothy, to go teach somebody else But you know that's not the only admonition that we have to do this. In Matthew 28, 19 and 20. We are told to go and to teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I've commanded you. You see, we have the admonition as the Great Commission To not just go and to see people saved and baptized, but to go the next step and teach them to be disciples. Teach them how to learn from God and how to study the Word of God. Teach them what it means to be a Christian, to act like a Christian, to talk like a Christian, to look like a Christian. Teach them what it means to follow after Christian. Jesus. What does it mean to take up your cross? What does it mean to spend time in prayer? What does it mean? What is it all for? Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. We're to make them disciples. We're to make them learners. Brethren And our church, and in Christendom as a whole, I'm burdened about this last step of the Great Commission. That I feel in so many situations and in so many places we are missing. We're losing it. We're not doing the job. We're not teaching them to observe. We're not making disciples. It is our responsibility to pass it on to the next generation of Christians. All over America today there are churches that are closing down. They're closing their doors. They're no longer in existence, or there are but just two or three or six or eight. Elderly folks that gather there for worship. Why? Because there was nobody over the past ten or twenty years that said, we've got to make some disciples. We've got to reach the next generation of Christians. There are people trusting Jesus as their Lord and Savior. There are people that see their need of a Savior and they don't want to go to hell and they want to be forgiven of their sins. But that's just the first step. They need some godly Christians That have walked the road, that have spent some time in this Christian life to invest in them, to help them, to make disciples of them. And beloved, our church is not immune from this. If we do not reach the next generation of Christians with this message, Our church will cease to exist. We have got to be making disciples. I think we fail in this area sometimes because we look at the idea of our philosophy has been wrong We we gauge our success many times by how many converts we've made. Do you know that's just the first step? We talk about, well, we've seen 27 people saved. And praise the Lord for that. We do value salvations and we understand that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And that is the paramount message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But that's not the end. And if we hope to continue to reach more, we have got to bring those that are converts to the point of discipleship. This is our mission as a church. We watched the video We're on a mission. We want to reach those nearest, our neighbors, in all nations. With the gospel of Jesus Christ. We give our money, material, and manpower to see this happen. God is not concerned with as concerned with where you are as He is with the direction you're headed. What that is saying is wherever you are, we've all ended up in a place where we didn't want to be. We've all ended up in a place maybe we were all away like the prodigal son and we found ourselves And we woke up, as the Bible says, he came to himself and realized where he was. But God is not as concerned with where you are right now as he is with the direction you're headed. Are you a disciple of Jesus Christ? Are you following after him? And we want you to understand, beloved, that we will not make disciples because we show a video on Sunday mornings. That is our mission statement. We want to help you in your journey towards God, being all that God wants you to be. But just showing a video is not going to do it, folks. We have got to decide in our hearts that we are willing to invest some time and some effort and some energy. To disciple the next generation of Christians. God's people have to get serious about their walk with God. And then serious about helping somebody else on their walk with God. We have to move beyond salvation decisions to a place of discipleship Yes, we're concerned about souls. Yes, we want to see people make a decision for Christ, and we want them to decide to choose Jesus Christ opposed to choosing eternity in hell, which is the alternative. And we point them to Jesus as their Lord and Savior. As hard as it is to see somebody saved, that's easy. Compared to making a disciple. Compared to investing the time, energy, and effort needed to bring them along in their Christian life. To share with them the things that we've learned. To begin talking about how many are being discipled. Not just talking about how many got saved. But I want us to begin talking about how many people are being discipled right now. How many people are being led on their path and their journey with God If we don't start making disciples, our church will die. In the two thousand and eight Olympics The US team was doing very well. They were running the relay race and They were in fact pushing the front of the line and had a real possibility of gaining the gold medal As they came into the last section of the relay, and m many of you probably saw this happen or you've seen recaps of it, but they were in the last section of the relay and they were doing good and people were excited about it and they were thrilled and then the runner reached forward to give the baton to the guy in front of him. And he dropped the baton. There was no hope of winning that race. It was not because they didn't practice. It was not because they weren't sincere. It was not because they didn't exert and try and have as much effort as they could to see the race won. No, it's because they failed in the area of passing on the baton. And Christian, church member of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, if we fail in the area of reaching the next generation of Christians. We will not win for Jesus Christ. We have got to reach them. Yes, we need to see new births, but we must see new growth I don't know all of your stories and where you come from and what your life has been like and what you're exposed to and not exposed to. I grew up in a pastor's home. My dad started three churches from scratch. We started a church in our house and The garage of our home in El Paso, Texas, in three years. We had built a building, had a high day of 352 people in attendance. Seen God blessed in churches in many ways over the years, and I've been in this church thing for a long time. I've seen a lot of churches come and go. You know, you even have some churches that talk about the 200 or 300 that they saw saved last year. And they've been seeing hundreds of people saved and maybe even hundreds baptized in the last twelve months. But it's still the same 60 people sitting in the pews. We're failing. We're failing Because we're not being a discipler. You know This would transform some of your older Christians. It would transform your stagnant Christianity If you began investing in the next generation of Christians. If you saw the need of it And began pursuing the next generation. How do you make disciples? Let me give you a couple of things about making disciples and we'll be done. If you ever if you have a hope, if you have a desire to make a disciple, the first thing that you've got to do is you've got to be real. You have to be real. It has to be something in your life that God has done that is that is unchangeable, that's undeniable, that God Almighty has changed you from the inside out. And are you perfect? No, you're not perfect. Are you still a sinner? Yes, you're still a sinner, but you're headed towards God Your desire is to please him and you're focused on him and going after him. It's got to be something that's real to you. I'll tell you what, this world and Christendom as a whole has experienced and they're fed up with the hypocrites. There is not any th I don't want to encourage failure, but what I'm saying here is that we as Christians we may fail. We may falter. We may on occasion trip. But the question is, is what direction are you headed? Is your desire to run from God or is your desire to go after God and please God? Yes, you've tripped up. Yes, you've slipped. Okay, you weren't all that you wanted to be today. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. So the flesh got the victory today, but is your heart's desire to please him and him most of all, if it is real to you, then you've got something worth sharing to somebody else. But it's gotta be real, and you've gotta be real in your heart and in your life. It's gotta be something that you believe that means something to you. Not only do you, if you want to make a disciple, you've got to be real, but you've got to be ready. Do you understand? Being in a discipler means somebody may call you up. At 10 o'clock at night. Say, man, I'm fighting with this right now. What do I do? I need somebody to pray with. Oh, call Pastor Caleb. He's usually available. I am, and I'll be glad I'll be glad for you to call me. But what I'm trying to encourage you to do are you just to be a discipler. You gotta be ready. You might have to give up one evening a week to go Spend some time with somebody and say, hey, let's meet once a week. Let's meet every Thursday at this time. Or let's meet every Tuesday at this time. Let's meet every week and and Study the Word of God together and spend a little bit of time and answer your questions about this Christian life. You've got to be ready to invest time and energy and effort You gotta be real. You gotta be ready. I know as this list goes on, I'm discouraging more and more of you from participating in this m this message of discipleship. But you've also got to be well read. What I'm saying is the Bible says, study to show thyself approved unto God. If you want to teach, you've got to have something to say. That means you have to be in the Word of God. You have to be well read. You have to know what God's Word says when they come to you and say, what does the Bible say about drinking? What are you going to tell them? My church says, uh uh What is What does God's word say? What does the Bible say about adultery? What does the Bible teach about sex before marriage? What are you going to tell them? What does the Bible say about homosexuality? What are you gonna tell them? I didn't say what are you gonna have Pastor Caleb tell them? You've got to be well read. Listen, you're not going to be asked all those questions the first day. Don't let me scare you off. You're on a journey too And you know what? There's nothing wrong with you saying, hey, I'm not a hundred percent sure. I I think I know, but you know what? Let me study it. And I'll get back to you this week. I've been in this thing my whole life and just like I said I got a bad memory. I mean there's if there's people in here that have come to me and asked me a question and I said, let me get back to you, would you raise your hand There's two, three. There's probably a few more, but listen, I don't know everything. And if I did, I probably forgot it. Not everything, I mean the little bit I did know I forgot There's nothing wrong with saying, I'm not sure. Let me look at the word of God and find it out, and we'll get together next week. But you're guiding them on that path. You've got to be willing. Be real, be ready, and be well read. You're discipling people anytime that you're together, when you're living a godly example before them. You're giving them something that they can follow They're going to learn more by who you are than by what you say. Just spending time with them and letting them see how you love your wife. How you care for your husband. Letting them see the compassion in your home instead of the war that's in your home. You see, Jesus Christ makes a difference in our homes. We can, through the power of God, get over our selfishness and love our mate like God wants us to. And we put that on display for those that are coming through that. And they say, wow, if God can do that in their home. I want him to do that in my home. And they begin to pursue after and say, I want to be a disciple. I want God to change my life. I want God to be real to me because the Lord knows I've messed up everything so far. Anytime you're together you live the Christian life and your life is on display and you say, Well, I don't want to be an example. Too bad. I don't either. But I don't have a choice. I count it one of the biggest thrills of mine to be able to serve God and to strive to be an example. That's in one of the requirements of the pastor is there to be an assample of godliness to the flock Now, Christian, I may let you down sometime, and I'm apologizing for that. I want to be an example that you could follow. That you could do what I do. But I ask you, are you discipling somebody? Is there anybody that you can reach? Is there anybody you can disciple? Encourage them to be in Sunday school. We teach the Word of God there. We help them learn. Set a time of planned Bible study where you walk through the scriptures together. Why do we make disciples? The last phrase of 2 Timothy 2 2 tells us. is why. And these things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to Teach others also. We make disciples so that they can go and make disciples. So that they'll come along to the point where they say, hey, what I've learned from Matt Mills, I'm going to take and share with Timothy. What I've learned from Don Wilson, I'm going to take and share with Abraham. And Abraham takes what he's learned from who taught him and shares it with Marley. The purpose that we are disciples is that those that we disciple would go and make more disciples. When we are discipling, we're no longer adding to the flock, but multiplying. I could take time this morning in about 10 minutes we'd have this whole side of the auditorium emptied, but if you guys stood up, I think I would lose you. But you know the principles. If I won one, stand up. Come here. And then both of us go win one, stand up. Come here. I've discipled her. Now she disciples somebody else. Now we discipled them. Now come here. Stand up. And about four more times this whole side is going to be empty. We're no longer adding. We're multiplying. Good job. You guys are awake now. You can be seated. That's the message of discipleship. So that they would be able to teach others also. Pastor Gus, do you have those slips for me? Ushers, will you hand these out for me? You see, the purpose of preaching the Word of God is to bring people to a point of decision. Now you understand if you're here and you're saved and you know you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that you're on your way to heaven, you ought to be. One of two things. You ought to be in a stage in your life where you say, I'm a disciple. I'm seeking after God. And I would like some help in that Or you say, you know what? God has taught me, and I'm ready, and I'm able to be a disciple So I'm asking you here this morning, everybody here, if you're saved, you're a part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we have some visitors, you're certainly welcome to fill them out, but please don't feel any pressure to. I'm encouraging you to make a decision. To say, Pastor Caleb, the first point you talked about being a disciple of Christ, and I need some more of that. I would like I would like to and would be willing to take some time to study the Word of God. And what I'm talking about is we we as a church want to build a vehicle through which you can be discipled. And other people in the church who are ready can disciple you. We are going to implement a plan over the next few months, and as I said, I want to change our focus from how many we saw saved to how many we're discipling. How many people are being discipled in the truths of the Word of God? So I'm bringing it all the way down to an actual decision this morning where you decide I want to be discipled by somebody or I want to be a discipler. And you decide. And then you're going to turn that in. And over the next couple of months, we're going to build a program, time frames in which you'll take some time and go once a week. Together at a mutual, mutually agreeable time, and study the Word of God together. And we'll give you the study materials and we'll lay out the program and we'll show you exactly what to cover and how to teach it. And we'll take time here at church and to prepare you if you're a discipler that you need to learn what to teach to those you're discipling. We'll lay all that out and give you as much help as you need. But we need to be reaching the next generation of Christians. And it's going to take more than just the pastor. We need you deciding that you're willing to invest in somebody else. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses is the same, commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to teach others also? Some of you right now, you filled out the slip that says, I want to be a discipler. Some of you filled it out and said, I want to be discipled. I need somebody to work with me a little bit before I'm ready to share. In a couple years, I expect you to be a discipler. Because that is the goal of discipling. Is to bring us on to the point where the things that we've learned, we're ready to share with somebody else This is what is God's plan. We're right now laying the groundwork for these changes that are going to take place in our church. And I believe it's going to revitalize some of the dead Christian lives that come in and sit and warm a pew and they wonder what it's about. Because we need to be investing in the next generation. So the question is, who are you discipling right now? Who can you point to and say, That's my Timothy. That's who I discipled in the faith If you've been saved for a number of years, you really should have somebody that you could look to and say, I discipled them. I invested in them. By God's grace and for God's glory, I just was a vessel that was used, but I had the privilege of discipling them. I hope this morning that you purpose in your heart. First, if you're not saved here this morning, you'll take the first step and trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. If you are saved, you'll say, you know what, I need to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. I want to take that step and follow after him wholeheartedly. And if you've been following Jesus, I hope you'll say, I want to help somebody else.