Well tonight you can turn your Bibles to uh Nehemiah chapter number eight. Nehemiah chapter number eight. The hospital waiting rooms are kind of rooms that you you go and you sit in and you can feel the tension. You can feel the the apprehension, the the fear kind of the the worry, the anxiety that's on the hearts of those that are sitting there in the waiting room for their loved ones who are in the back being looked at or or maybe are in surgery and and uh you know you're just there they're they're waiting for them to come out and Uh you feel all that pressure and and that anxiety that's there until the doc comes out and he he m removes his mask and he has a smile on his face and Uh he says everything went as planned and they your loved one has come through the surgery successful, they're in recovery, there was no problems and and uh all that All of a sudden that relief uh comes over those who have been gripped by it and all of the uh the the grief and worry is changed to gladness. That's the transformation that we see taking place here in Nehemiah chapter number eight. The citizens of Jerusalem. They had come back and a group having come back with Zerebabel many years earlier, they rebuilt the temple and they began to rebuild and work on their houses and of course you know Nehemiah comes and they rebuild the wall and The wall's finished and Nehemiah chapter six and seven there and you get to chapter number eight and there although all of these things are done and they're kinda dwelling in their houses and Everything from a physical or worldly standpoint looks like it should be pretty good, yet there was something missing. The walls had been rebuilt, but their hearts still needed revival. They must have realized it, and that is why they gathered together and they called. For the word of God to be read to them. We see in Nehemiah chapter 8 and verse number 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded Israel. We see here in verse number one there's several things. The people gathered together. The Bible says they gathered together as one And I'm not going to belabor this point tonight. I'm just going to mention it as key and foundational to revival that took place in this chapter. I believe that when they came together in unity, when they came together as one, this was the beginning of them being able to see God do a great work. And we see that in Acts chapter two, and we see it as we talked about on Sunday So I'm not going to uh belabor that, but we see them that they came together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. Now it's notable that they were gathering there at the water gates. I don't know how many of you might remember Brother Bagwell coming and preaching on the gates. and uh in his unique and gifted way of expounding uh the typology and the pictures that are there and him describing the the water gate and that the water gate stands for and is representative of the scriptures of the Word of God. That is what it is represents. And do you know that of all the gates that Nehemiah had to rebuild, the gates that he had to fix, The Watergate didn't need any fixing. The Watergate was still standing strong and beloved. The Bi God's word tells us that the gates of hell aren't going to prevail against the church and that God's word is settled forever in heaven. That this doesn't need any fixing today. It's not outdated. It's it's not uh unrelevant for society of today. The word of God is sound and true, and it's good for every generation. The Watergate didn't need any fixing. And they gathered together themselves there at the Watergate and they called for the Word of God to be read. They sought the law, beloved beloved. In verse number two and three, and Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of the men and women, and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand, and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. They asked for Ezra. They asked for the scribe to come to bring the law that they could have it read before them. And you see here several things. First of all, that those that were present were those that could understand. Now, I know that this is not popular today. I know that especially with the idea of the home church movement. Uh and the idea that people they they they want to say, especially in the South, you'll see this a lot, that they say, well, bless God, your family needs to see you worship God, and your family needs to be and the whole family needs to be together in the auditorium, they need to be sitting together, and your kids don't need to be going to any Sunday school classes and your kids don't need to be in the nursery. They need to see you worship God. And I tell you right here, he said, those that could understand We're gathered together for the reading of the Word of God. And uh listen, your 18-month-old that you're letting sleep through church anyway is not watching you worship God. He is not learning how to worship God from you. Your two-year-old that you have to get up and leave the service, every service, because he's not under control, is not learning how to worship God by being in the auditorium. Okay, that's a a a uh a m fallacy and uh something people want to grab a hold of, but we have nurseries here, and if you have a baby, you ought to put your baby in the nursery The ladies that are in there have more years of experience caring for children than you do. And uh they're they're trustworthy, okay? You need to put your baby in the nursery. And if you you have kids Listen, we we have kids start coming to the auditorium when they can start to understand at about the age three years old. And three years old is pretty young. By the way, if you're gonna let your kid come in the auditorium at three years old, you need to keep them awake. Okay, if you're just going to sleep through the service, then just send them to the nursery. Let them sleep in the nursery because what you're teaching them by having them in the auditorium and letting them sleep is you're teaching them that church doesn't matter. Are they just all of a sudden at five years old or six years old going to just get spiritual and all of a sudden think, oh, church is important? No, you need to start instilling that. If they're going to be in here, listen, there's many services that my children stood for the service. When their eyeballs would barely reach over the pew, they stood and they looked over the pew. Why? Because when they were seated, they were going to fall asleep. And you're not going to be in church and sleep. Because this is important. And we made them listen and pay attention. And by the way, they didn't get to go to the bathroom either. Now listen, one none of my kids ever wet their pants. Not one time in the whole years that all my kids growing up, five of them In church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, every Wednesday night, every missions conference, every revival, none of them ever wet their pants. But you know what, I let them go to the bathroom. I always told them that's fine, you can go. But you're gonna get a stankin when you go home. And you know it's amazing how many times that they oh I don't think I have to go. You know, they they just decided they didn't have to go. And they held it. They don't have to get up and leave the bathroom leave the auditorium. And that's part of training. You need to train them to uh sit and to listen to to be sure they use the rest of them ahead of time. Now sometimes They had to go. They had to go. And I said, okay, you know what it means. And they're like, I know what it means. And they had to go. They went to the bathroom in the middle of the service. But then when they got home they got a stanking. Because they're supposed to take care of that ahead of time And you need to train them for that. Those that had understanding were gathered in. Now that's just in practical teaching, but we want to remember what the coming together in the house of the Lord is for. It's to hear the word of God. And it we want to remove things that would be a distraction from that. And a lot of times if we aren't careful, our own children can become a distraction, not just for us, but for everybody else in the room. So we see here that those with understanding can't gather together. Not only that, those that were present were attentive unto the book. The end of verse number three there. And all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. Boy, we need to come into the house of God with a heart and a mind to be attentive to the Word of God. To listen to the Word of God. That's why we've gathered together. We want to hear the Word of God. And it's not about the skill or the the eloquence of the man who is speaking. It's about the word of God that's being preached. And uh listen, we need to come with the desire to hear it and ready to listen. Now I understand uh Jacob's pushing sixty five or sixty-seven hours or something this week he's got in uh already and you know you get to the point like that in a long week and you're tired, man, and you're fighting it and you're you're trying to be as attentive as you can and your mind is like just struggling I understand you have those times. But listen, just looking on your phone and playing around on your phone during the service, that's foolishness. That shouldn't be we that should not should be grabbing our attention. Our attention ought to be on the Word of God. And by the way, while we're talking about it, since we're being real practical and you guys are all in a good mood tonight Let me just throw this out. Uh Ushers and Security Team, there's only supposed to be two guys out in the foyer. Not six guys out in the foyer. Did we come to church to get into church and hear the word of God, or did we come to church to try and get out of church? Come to church to try and find a way to miss the the the preaching. It's amazing what what'll happen you know you're in here for the whole song service, you're in here for all all of the preliminaries, and then that we get up to begin open the open the service and then there's five guys standing out in the foyer talk talking. And I can see you through the window right here. You're standing out there just talking, just chatting away. And I don't know how much it might disrupt the back pew pew's here if they can hear you or not. I can't hear you because I'm talking. But I just say w we ought to want to come to church to hear the word of God We ought to be attentive. We ought to have minds that are ready to hear and ready to listen. Beloved, if we want to go from grief to gladness, if we want to go from uh just getting through to seeing God do great things We've got to get refocused on the Word of God. Notice they stayed for a long time. They stayed there in verse number three, and they read therein before the street that was before the water gate from morning until midday. Now, in round numbers, that's about six hours. That's about a half a day. From morning till midday, they had six hours of reading. Get this? The law. They were reading the law. They weren't reading the book of John. They weren't reading, you know, uh the book of James, uh, you know, or one of your favorite books. They're reading the law. You know those chapters that you want to skip in your devotions, those chapters that you you're struggling to get through because they don't grab a hold of our attention like some of the New Testament does and some of the messages from Christ do They were reading the law, beloved, and they did it for six hours, and they were attentive to it. Beloved, revival requires that we have a willingness to stay until God does something. Now I know our services here by and large are pretty pretty structured and and I typically get done I'm not long winded, I typically get done around the same time and And and we're not just gonna end up, you know, unless God does something. There's a couple times God's done something in our service and we went substantially longer, but most of the time that's not the case. But you know what? You you ought to personally get in the Word of God like Jacob of old and say, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. And you get and you get hungry for the word, and you get hungry that God would do something in your heart and in your life, and you begin to Stir and look for that and spend time, extended times in prayer and search of the scriptures that God would do something in your life. So we see the people gathering together here. We see the glorifying of the Lord in verses 4, 5, and 6. They glorify God as they get up and present the Word of God. We see that Ezra in verse number four, and Ezra the scribe, stood upon a pulpit of wood which they had prepared. For that purpose. They had made for the purpose. They had something that they had specifically set aside that they had put together and constructed that He might be lifted up that he that the word of God might go forth so that people could see him and people could hear him and they could understand him as he preached the word A pulpit is a raised desk, a lectern, a platform through which or on which an orator or public speaker will address an audience. They had a pulpit of wood. They had prepared something so that the word of God could be preached. They preach the word of God, but I want you to see their reverent response. In verse number 5, and Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people. For he was above all the people. You see, he was lifted up. He was on some type of a platform. He was addressing the audience. And when he opened it, all the people stood up. We see their adoration for the law, for the book, for God's Word. They they stood up out of respect for the Word of God and I don't know. Maybe I should have you do that. There are many churches that at the beginning of the service, at the beginning of the message, they all stand for the initial reading of the Word of God and and I don't necessarily do that in a particular practice, but I believe that we ought to have a reverence for the Word of God as it's read. That we ought to look at this as it as it is the Word of God, and maybe I ought to do that more often that we might keep it in our in our heart and minds that this is the Word of God and it is worth standing. for and we need to call ourselves to attention as the word of God is read and we focus our heart and minds on that. But you see their reverence, can I tell you, beloved, that your attitude affects your attentiveness How you feel about the book that's being read affects how much you are are are focused on it An unrown writer said this. This book is the mind of God, it is the state of man, it is the way of salvation, the doom of sinners, and the happiness of believers. Its doctrines are holy, its precepts are binding, its histories are true, and its decisions are immutable. Read it to be wise, believe it to be safe, practice it to be holy. It contains light to direct you, food to support you, comfort to cheer you. It is the traveler's map, the pilgrim's staff, the pilot's compass, the swords, the soldier's sword, and the Christian's character. Here is paradise restored, and heaven opened, and the gates of hell disclosed. Christ is its great subject, our good is its design, and the glory of God is its end. It should fill the memory, it should rule the heart, it should guide the feet. Read it slowly, frequently, prayerfully It is a mine of wealth, a paradise of glory, a river of pleasure. Follow its precepts, and it will lead you to Calvary. To an empty tomb, to a resurrected Savior in the power that comes from Christ. That is the Word of God. That what it can do for us, but so many times we address it because for us it is so normal. For us it is ever present. For us, we have so many copies of it, and we've got it around all the time that it has lost its preciousness, it has lost its value, we no longer reverence it like we should Beloved, our respect for the Word reveals our respect for God. Psalms 19, verses 7 through 11: The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul, the testimonies of the Lord are sure, making wise and simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart, the commandments of the Lord are is pure, enlightening the eyes, the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever, the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether, more to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey in the honeycomb. More by them is thy servant mo moreover, by them is thy servant warned And in keeping of them there is great reward. We see they stood in adoration and respect. But we see also they raised their voice in agreement. Look at verse number six. And as a breast the Lord, blessed the Lord, and God and I Can't read. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered. What's the next two words? Amen, amen Now you guys remember brother uh Heidenreich from my dad's church in in uh New York. He always said, Amen, amen. Amen amen. He always said amen twice. Maybe he got it out of the Bible. I don't know, but he always he always said that. He was amen amen. Amen amen. Amen amen. Always twice. It was so funny to me. But as I read this, I thought of him. Brother Heidenreich always says Amen twice. But you know what? It wouldn't hurt us to say amen once in a while. It actually would help the preacher. Now, uh I know that my preaching typically does not solicit amends. What I'm saying is you can preach in such a way that you build to a point that it draws an amen out of the crowd. And then sometimes you have preachers that often will say, Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. You know, they're they're asking for it continually, continually. And I certainly don't ask for it continually, and I know a lot of times I do a lot more maybe like teaching and and so it doesn't build itself to a point where you would it would draw an amen. But if you're listening and you're engaged, could I encourage you to say amen? I know that my personality is self. We're calling this is the pot calling the kettle black for sure Because my personality, I'm a quiet person. You know Mary's the one with more energy. She's the one that's more engaged and she's definitely uh out there a lot more. I'm I tend to be pretty quiet. And and so I have to work at it. And so I'm Telling you let's work at it. Let's let's say amen. Let's get engaged. Let's be focused. Hey, it can help you stay awake Especially if you say amen at the wrong place sometimes. I I've done that when I was tired and trying to focus and and uh say amen at the wrong spot. Uh But you know, just staying staying engaged and being part of the service. We see their response. They lifted up their voices in agreements. Not only that, beloved, they raised their hand in praise, we see here. With lifting up their hands and they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. Listen, there's nothing wrong on occasion with you just saying, praise God. Amen. God's doing something in your heart and in your life, lifting your hand in praise and adoration, and just you know Uh I I testify to that. I I agree with that. I see that God is speaking to my heart and and lifting your hand in praise that way. And I I think that I just want to encourage Hunt Valley Baptist Church You know, we we don't want to go full on Pentecostal, but the problem is we're so afraid of wildfire that we don't have any fire at all. That that we tend to we're we're letting the services get dry and get dead and and empty and and and maybe that's partly my fault as a pe as a preacher But I want to encourage and ask you guys to be engaged and to be saying amen and to be responding to the message and letting the Word of God because you can encourage the preacher and help him preach if you're engaged and involved. Occasionally I'll ask you guys, are you okay, it's really quiet. Like, are you guys asleep? Are you are you doing okay? And basically it's just it's maybe I'm preaching and it's so contemplative and your mind is so overwhelmed with the thoughts that You just you you just not but sometimes I just need to know that something's reaching you. If it's not, then we can just pray and go home But if it is, then it's good to know about it. We see they raised their voices in agreement, they raised their hands in praise, but they also bowed their heads in worship. They bowed their heads in worship. Beloved, when the Word of God gets a hold of our hearts, and we see who we are in light of the scriptures and in light of Jesus Christ, there is an aspect of humility that takes over. We are humbled before an Almighty God, and like the prophet, we say, Woe is me. They bowed their heads in worship. They weren't lifting them in pride. But just humbling themselves before God. We see as Ezra continues to give them the word in verses seven through twelve, we see his method. Of doing so. In verses eight, verse number eight, he says they they read in the book of the law of God distinctly. And gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Beloved Ezra took care to be sure it was clear. They read it distinctly. Now, if you're paying attention, I skipped a bunch of verses in here. That's because my chance of reading those verses distinctly are pretty low. Because there are thirteen names in the first set of verses I skipped, and there are thirteen names in the second verse. The first thirteen names there are men that stood with Ezra, and they were supporting him and helping him as he shared the Word of God, and the other uh thirteen names there serving and helping and It's very hard to read those names sometimes and to try and read them distinctly and and I I wish I could pronounce them like Brother Sasser. I mean it's fun to just listen to Brother Sasser as he reads the Old Testament 'cause he reads those those Hebrew words and stuff, you know, like they're meant to be said. You know, he has the that that growl in his voice he can say 'em just like they're supposed to be said and and uh I can't do that. Uh you guys don't know it, but I will oftentimes Uh listen. When I have a passage of scripture that I gotta read, I will listen to the name over and over and over and over again so that I can read it and say it like it's supposed to be said. But you know what happens between my office that I leave and I come up here, somebody talks to me. And we have the song service. And I get up to preach and I'm looking at it and all of a sudden all those letters that I had so distinctly in my mind ready to read, now they're moving around on the page. You know, I'm trying to figure out, okay, how was that said? Where was the emphasis? And and I I do my best with that, but I certainly know it's an area that I struggle, but hey, he he worked hard to make it clear He wanted to make it clear. He also gave the sense. I believe that's something that God is uh enabled me to do, allowed me to be able to do, to uh give some practical explanation and help to understand what the word of God is talking about for us today. That's what he's applying it. He's saying, okay, this is what God was saying, this is what this means. And he caused them to understand it. The preacher certainly needs to work hard to be sure that he's clear, that he's giving true biblical sense. What is the Bible saying? Not what is my pet peeve or what do I think or how do I feel, but what is the Bible teaching here? And then helping ever all of the listeners to understand. Evangelist Tom Farrell said this, some preachers. Verbally throw theological frisbees from their pulpit, and the audience watches them fly over their heads, and they're wowed by the speaker But other preachers are humble and honestly declare the scriptures in the audience is wowed by the Savior. And that's what we want. We want to be wowed by the Savior. Not the eloquence of the man speaking, not the dynamic nature of his presentation, but we want to see the Word of God and And see Jesus Christ honored and glorified and Him move our hearts. We see here that the conviction brought them to the place where they wanted to be clean. Sorrow is a sign of conviction, beloved, in verse number nine, and Nehemiah, which is Tershana, that means chief governor. And Ezra, the priest, and the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people: This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not, nor weep, for all the people wept. when they heard the words of the law. You see, beloved, they wept and they mourned because their hearts were under conviction. Sorrow is a sign of conviction. Now we have to read the rest of the chapter and get the rest of the context to understand what uh Nehemiah and Ezra were saying about listen y You've had godly sorrow. Godly sorrow brings repentance. And when you've repented If you confess your sins, he's faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. And sorrow is replaced with joy. And so he tells them here, he says, Hey, don't weep, don't sorrow anymore, because godly sorrow brings the cure Verse number 10, then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared, for this day is holy unto the Lord. Neither be ye sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. Beloved, revival that begins with tears will end in joy. A stirring of the heart that brings you to the place of tears. When it brings you to a place of repentance and you come to God humbly and confess your sin, He forgives you of your sin, and that sorrow is replaced with joy. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning. Can I tell you what they were reading? They were reading in the book of the law. And what they were under conviction for Is they found in the book of the law that they were not doing something that God had told them they were supposed to be doing They were reading in the book of Leviticus, chapter 23, verses 41 to 43. Let me read it to you He said, And ye shall keep it a fast unto the Lord seven days in the year, and it shall be a statute forever in your generation. And ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month. Ye shall dwell in booths seven days. And all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths. That your generation may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booze when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. And I am the Lord your God. Those of you that have a study Bible or a Bible that has divisions in it may very well have right here in your margin or in your heading, it may say the feast of the booths. Or it may say the Feast of the Tabernacles. They're the same thing. In the Feast of the Tabernacles, they were supposed to be Going out and gathering sticks and building booths, basically little makeshift huts That it might remind them of the day when God brought them out of Egypt. And they were supposed to do this every year as they observed the Feast of the Tabernacles. They were supposed to also, for seven days, they were supposed to dwell in booths. But you know what they had decided? They had decided that that was inconvenient for their Christianity. They decided that, I mean, after all, we can still Love God and and only we can observe the Feast of the Tabernacles and we don't have to do that part. You see, they wanted Christianity on their terms. They wanted their relationship with their God on their terms, but God had said, this is what you're supposed to do. Do you know it had been almost 900 years since they had observed the Feast of the Tabernacles in the way which God had said to do it? Here's what's notable, beloved. They hadn't been doing this for 900 years, but when they saw it in the book, they said, Wow! I mean, we're talking about generations. You're talking about kids who had never heard this in their life. They looked at it and they said, This is what God wants? This is what we need to be doing. How do you respond when there's something brought to your attention that you have not done before? Or that is new to you. And you look at it and say, well, I mean I I'm still a Christian. I don't do that. Why do I need to do that? Because that's what God's Word says. You see the reason I know that it's been 900 years because of verse number 17. Look what they say in verse number 17. We're not there yet, but I'm just gonna I'm gonna jump there. Well I lost my place. Now I gotta Let's find it. Nehemiah chapter eight verse number seventeen. Alright, he says here And all the congregation of them that were coming Again out of captivity made booze and sat under the booze. For since the days of Joshua, the son of nun Unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. They hadn't done this since Joshua went into the promised land. That's been almost 900 years since then that they hadn't done this. But they saw it and they said, man, their hearts fell under conviction. They said, we need to be doing what God says Not what our what our pattern is, not what we think. That would be like us stopping observing the Lord's Supper for generations. And then all of a sudden somebody reading in Corinthians realize seeing seeing the Lord's Supper and saying, Man, we we're supposed to be observing this thing called communion, called the Lord's Supper. We're supposed to be doing that. I'm saying we need to do that. You see, beloved, study reveals truth. And verse 13 and 14. And on the second day, notice this is the second day, for seven days they stood and listened to the scripture being read. But this is the second day. On the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests and the Levites, and Ezra the scribe, even unto the words of understanding the words of the law. And they found written in the law, which the Lord had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths. In the feast of the seventh month. They found it. They said, wow, we we didn't even realize that. Their study revealed truth. You know, if you get into the Word of God and you're hungry, God will reveal truth to you. God will show you things in His Word. If you'll be sensitive and respond to it, spirituality requires obedience. As the word of God is revealed to us, as the Spirit of God guides us into all truth, if we're going to continue to see God do something in our heart and life, we have to respond to that in obedience. They saw it in the book and they said, let's do it. This is what we're supposed to be doing. I know we haven't been doing it this way. I know it's not what we're used to, but this is what we need to do. And can I tell you, beloved, this submission results in joy. Any time. Look at the end of verse number 17. He describes and says they hadn't done that since Joshua. But then he says at the conclusion there, and there was very great gladness. You know when you do what God tells you to do, there's very great gladness. There is joy in your heart. You know what, beloved? There is joy in salvation. I mean, there's rejoicing in that, and we're glad about that. There's no question that there's joy in knowing that your sins are forgiven. But what we're talking about here is we're talking about what the Bible describes as the abundant Christian life. And he's talking about very great gladness. And there's very great gladness available to anybody who would say, Man, I'm going to respond in obedience to God. We see that all through the scriptures. There was joy in Israel when David was made king according to the word of God. 1 Corinthians 12, 23. In the days of Hezekiah, the Bible says that there was very great joy in Jerusalem when the Jews kept the Passover, the feast of unleavened bread, as God had commanded them to do so. Psalms 32:11 says, Be glad in the Lord and rejoice, ye righteous, and shout for joy. All ye that are of an upright heart. There's joy when we do what God wants us to do. Great joy. God wants us to experience and have this gladness. How do we get to that place where there's great gladness? Well, it starts all the way back at the beginning. Where he says, hey. Let's gather together. Let's open the Word. Let's read the Word of God. Let's spend some time in it. Let's hear the Word of God preached and clearly spoken. Let's let the Spirit of God impact us. Let's respond in obedience to it. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?