Amen. Turn your Bibles tonight to Psalms one hundred and forty two. Our theme for Vacation Bible School this year is the Colossal Cave Crusade, taking the young people on a crusade through some caves that we see in the scriptures, allowing them to learn of God, to see the glory of God and Uh that he is a protector and a provider and a savior and you know many lessons they'll be able to learn. But our theme verse some people may have wondered why I chose as a theme verse, Psalms 142, verse number seven. It doesn't talk about caves. uh doesn't talk about you know coming out of a cave or whatever just why why would that be a theme verse well this is when david is in the cave of adullahum and he is running from Saul. And he is finds himself in a cave. And uh he's looking for God to do something Just follow along as I read the text. We're going to read all seven verses and then just learn some lessons from this tonight as we ponder and think about uh what I've titled from a cave to a cathedral. Uh David has taken this place where God took him. God brought him here into this cave and he saw it initially as a cave, as a place of hardship and trial and torment and test Uh but as he got alone with God in the cave, he turned it into a cathedral. And uh we'll see that he praises God uh with his voice as we get to the end. So look at Psalms 142, verses 1 through 7. We see here a prayer When he was in the cave, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. When my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knowest my path. In the way wherein I walked, have they privily laid a snare for me? I looked on my right hand and beheld, but there was No man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. I cried unto thee, O Lord, I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living Attend unto my cry, for I am brought very low, deliver me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I. Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name, the righteousness Shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. Lord, we come to you tonight and ask you to Lay bare this portion of scripture. Ask you that it would speak to our hearts, that it would meet the need of each and every person here. Every need is different. But you know where every person is and what every need is. You know those that are carrying burdens or those that are discouraged today, you know those that feel as though they're all alone and there is no one that cares for them. You know exactly what's going on in every heart here, and Lord I pray that you would speak to every heart in a way that only you can Use your word here in our lives, and just for these few short minutes in Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, I'd have you see David's plight here. He says in verse number 2, I poured out my complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. David's complaint listed there is not, I don't think, necessarily as we would consider the idea of complaining. as uh you know just grumbling and murmuring and disputing and these types of things. I think the idea was the the description of his problem, what was going on. He went on to say the trouble he was in He laid it out for God. He says, boy, I I'm in trouble. Look at this mess that I'm in. That word trouble uh literally means a problem that has no solution. You could do a deep dive on that with strong's and see the the source of it and and do a etymological study and find out exactly ultimately where that comes from. But it Has literally the meaning behind it is that there's a trouble, there's a situation that can't be fixed. In our mind, in our eyes, there's a situation, there's a problem. It's not just an inconvenience that he's talking about He's saying there's some real trouble. There's a real burden there that I have. There's a real problem that I have. You see, David, you'll remember, had been anointed to be the next king. God had already told Samuel and God had told him and he had been anointed to be king. But the problem was that Saul was still on the throne. And so David, who is supposed to be the next king, ends up having to go and serve the king sitting on the throne that is supposed to be his. If that wasn't uncomfortable enough, he humbly responds in that situation and Does what he's supposed to do and he's there playing music and instruments. But ultimately, you know the story. Saul decides he doesn't like David. And wants to kill him. So he tries to kill David on numerous occasions, and David says, for the sake of my neck, I'm out of here. And David runs into the hills. And he goes into this cave, the cave of Adullam, and there are many other caves during his uh time of hiding and running through the mountains and abating uh Saul who was coming after him, but he's here in in this cave because Saul wants to kill him. David has no way of fixing this problem. He can't call the police I mean he he can't appeal to a higher court. The king is the highest court in the land. The king gets to do whatever he wants. The king decided David's dead, David's dead He has no solution. He's looking at this as I I don't know what I'm supposed to do. I'm supposed to be the king, but here I am hiding in a cave. And and and the current king is going to kill me, and I have I have nobody to care for my soul. We see his condition in verse number three. He says, When my spirit was overwhelmed within me. I know that we've all been there at times in our lives, whatever the circumstances, and they vary, and they are different. When you see a young person, sometimes their spirit is overwhelmed by what as an adult you look at, and it's a very small thing. But their spirit is overwhelmed. For them, it's more than they can bear. And as you get older, those situations get more and more uh impactful and you start to have adult problems that have adult consequences and your spirit gets overwhelmed and and it it seems to be more than you can handle You're just looking at it and say, what can I possibly do? How can I do something with it? He says, he starts to begin to acknowledge that God is there. He says, My spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knowest my path. But he says, hey, while I'm on this path, there are those that I trusted, there are those that are my friends, and they laid a snare for me. You see, there were some who to try and get in better with the king, to try and make themselves look better, they thought, well, I'm gonna catch David, and that'll give me favor with the king. So they laid this snare. They David thought they were his buddies, but when he got close he found out they were just trying to trap him. So even the people that he thought cared for him actually didn't. Verse number four says, I looked on my right hand and beheld there was no man that would know me. Refuge failed me. No man cared for my soul. Nobody, beloved, came to the cave to see how he was doing. Nobody called them. Nobody sent him a text and said, just check and see how you're how you're handling everything. Just wanting to see how things are going for you. Just letting you know there's somebody else out here that cares for you. He was in there all alone in a cave, in a cold and damp cave. He wasn't staying at the Ritz. He was in a cave You get alone in a situation like that, with a spirit that's overwhelmed, and it gets to be more than you can bear. When people reach that situation, It's quite literally a place where people begin to contemplate and think about ending it all. They get to the place where they say, what's it all for? What's the use? And they think, I just want to end it. I just want to be done with this. I can't take it anymore. And other people sometimes might look in on the situation and say, why does that bother you so much? You know, we've all been through it. It just comes to my mind I think about y you remember the pain of losing your first love? You just you thought that was it. That's the end. Life is done. There will never be anybody that will love me like her. Or him, or whatever the situation, you know. That losing that first love and and then as a parent you see your children go through that. And you know the pain they're carrying, you know the hurt they have, and and you know how they're overwhelmed, but you've been there and you try and tell 'em it it's gonna be okay. You're you're going to grow past this. You're going to be able to get through this. It's going to happen. Sometimes people look from the outside of situations and they think, well, I've been there, I know that you're gonna get past that, but for the person that's going through it It's more than they can bear. Their spirit is overwhelmed. It's a hard place to be. We see that David was in a mess, a situation which had no human solution. He could see no way out. He felt there was nobody that cared for him. There was no place he could turn. But beloved, if you're there tonight, I want you to know that David was there. Not only was David there, but there have been many Christians from the time of David until today that have also been there. In the place where they felt there was no nothing left worth living for. And yet we see David takes time to pause and we see he prays here. It opens up in verse number one a prayer. A prayer that David prayed in the cave. He said, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. With my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. You see, he was not just complaining, he was communicating to God his trouble that he was in. He was laying it out to the Lord. He was letting the Lord, he was bearing his soul before God, saying this is what I'm dealing with, Lord, and no one ever cared for me like Jesus. David begins to Give his prayer. And beloved, sometimes the only thing that you can do is to cry out in prayer. It certainly is the best thing you can do is cry out in prayer. To get alone with God I mean, really get alone with God. You see David here in the cave, and there was no place for him to go, there was nothing left, and he was all alone. But in that solitude is where he saw his Savior. And that's what we can do if we would get alone with God, get away from the world, and get away from the distractions and call on God, cry out to God. He begins to see a little bit of light in verse number three. His spirit was overwhelmed, but he says, then thou knowest my path. God knows the path I'm in. God knows exactly where I am today. He did I I'm all alone in this cave, but I'm not alone because God knows where I am. And God is with me. He understood that truth. The powerful truth that God was there. And he begins to turn his heart and mind towards God. When men left him, he found refuge with the Lord. He says in verse number five, I cried unto thee, O Lord. I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. That word refuge literally means shelter. You know the Lord is our protector. He is our shelter. Dave begins to see some light as he Crawls into the arms of God. There's nobody else there but Him and God. He begins to experience the care and the concern of an Almighty God that knows where he is and he begins to see what God is doing for him. 1 Peter 5, 7 tells us to cast all your care upon him, for he careth for you. He begins to see that and he realizes that although he's there in that cave, God is going to bring his soul out of prison. His soul was captivated. It was overwhelmed. He had no way out. It was more than he could bear. He literally felt bound by all of this pressure. But then God lifted that pressure. God allowed him to escape from the prison that was in his own soul. He says, that I may praise thy name. Righteousness shall compass me about, for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. You see, David praises here. He finds that place of refuge in the cave, and his cave becomes a cathedral. He begins to see that place as a place where God gave him a place to be protected, where God was with him, that he wasn't alone, even though his fellow man may have forsaken him, God didn't forsake him. And he was with him and he had him to commune with and him to walk with there. He praises him. You see, David's tears have stopped because God has met a need in David's soul. What I'm saying, beloved, is David's situation didn't change. He was still in the cave. He was still, from a human standpoint, all alone Saul still wanted to kill him. The situation, the circumstances hadn't changed at all, but here in just a matter of a few verses, he goes from being overwhelmed to being able to praise God and say, Oh God is going to deal bountifully with me. God is going to bless me beyond measure. God is going to allow me to be fruitful in a way that I can't even imagine. He begins to see what God wants to do in his life. He begins to praise an Almighty God. Regardless of his life situation, he knows that God is there. And God is worthy of praise. And he begins to see a God who cares for him and a God who's going to deal bountifully with him. And then his hopelessness is gone. And hope is restored. Why? Because he sees that God is still in control. I love that word, hope. There's so much meaning in that word hope. And beloved, if you've lost hope, you need to get alone with God Begin to look into the eyes of your Lord and Savior. Begin to see him again. Allow that hope to be restored. Beloved, what you you don't need life circumstances to be changed to fix your problems It starts in here. You need God to do something inside. You begin need to begin to have hope and know that God is working miraculously on your behalf. regardless of what's happening in this world. The poet said, under his wings I'm safely abiding. Still, I can trust him. I know he will keep me. He has redeemed me, and I'm his child. Under his wings, under his wings. Who from his love can sever, Under His wings my soul shall abide, safely abide forever. Under his wings, what a refuge in sorrow How the heart yearningly turns to his rest, often when the earth has no balm for healing, there I find comfort, and there I am blessed. Beloved, get alone with God and see Him. And He'll bring you out of the cave. He'll turn it into a cathedral. Well you'll praise him with your voice for how bountifully he's dealt with you. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?