We ought to be rejoicing people, amen. We rejoice in the Lord. We ought to have the joy of the Lord in our heart. If anybody's got purpose or cause to rejoice, it's the believer. But it's noteworthy what he says to rejoice in here. He says to rejoice. In the old truths. He says, Rejoice in the Lord to write the same things unto you Some of you get up and say, Pastor, I've heard that message already. Or I've heard that thought. You know, I tell you to turn to John 3. 16, you're like, oh, here's another message on that. I've heard that a lot Hey, he says, Rejoice in the old truth. Rejoice that I write the same thing unto you. To me indeed it's not grievous, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of constituents. Three people listed here, the dogs, were Judaizers. That's what he was referring to. The Judaizers. In the book of Matthew, the Judaizers, they were referred to as those that have a dog's face As I thought about it or contemplated I think it's Matthew chapter twenty five, uh not a hundred percent on that, but I I thought about that and thought, you know I wonder if that's because they're just so sour about their disposition. They have they look like a bulldog or something, you know. I don't know, but that's what he was referring to as far as dogs. He wasn't talking about the animals Um I think it was the Apostle Paul who said that they are like dogs that return again unto their vomit, referring to those that went back So he that's what he was talking to about there. In verse number three he says, For we are uh circumcision, which the which Worshiped God in the Spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any man other if any other man think that he hath wherewith he might trust in the flesh, I the more. What he's saying, he says, hey, if there's anybody that could have confidence in their flesh, it's me. It would be like Bill Gates saying, hey, if anybody has means To fund their own project, it's me. How many think Bill Gates could fund his own project? He has the money to do it. He he certainly could do that. That would be a statement. He's saying if there's anybody in America today that could has enough money to do the job, I'm it. Well Paul was saying if there's anybody that had means or ability to be confident in their own flesh. It would be me. And he says right so light rightfully so, and he gives us a little bit about his history here. He says in Verse number five there, he says, circumcise the eighth day of the stock of Israel, not just of Israel, but of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews. As touching the law, a Pharisee. Concerning zeal, I persecuted the church, he says, touching righteousness Which is in the law, blameless. He said that, hey, as far as the law goes, I was blameless. I don't know if there'd be anybody here that could say, even if even if we were looking to the law, could say, according to the law, I'm blameless. I have never lied. I have never stole. I have never thought an evil thought. I have never no, no. Paul said, hey, I could do that Look here, it says, verse number seven, but what things were gained to me, those I counted lost. For Christ. He says all the religion that I had, all the good works that I had, all the things that I could do in and of myself, it was nothing. That I might have Jesus Christ. Verse number eight. Yea, doubtless I count all things but lost, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung. that I may win Christ. And being found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is a truth, the faith of Christ The righteousness which is of God by faith. He says here that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. the fellowship of his suffering, being made conformable unto his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead Not as though I had already attained either, were already perfect, but I follow after, that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things which are before. I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us, therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded And if anything, anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you I know I've read a large text this morning and giving you the foundation here that Paul was a Hebrew. He was a Pharisee. He kept the law. He had, if anybody had righteousness in and of himself, he had it. And he said, hey, all of that is counted as dung that I might know Jesus Christ. And he gives us that most familiar verses: I press toward the mark. I press toward the mark. This morning I want to preach to you a message that I've entitled The Fruitfulness of Focus The fruitfulness of focus. You understand today that we're living in a digital age. We're living in the age of instant gratification and satisfaction. We're living in the age with an innumerable measure of entertainment and amusement at our fingertips We're at a place where it doesn't matter what's going on in our life, we always have ready at hand some type of distraction. We are in a time where, God forbid, we actually have to pause for a couple minutes. We have at our fingertips a means by which we can help pass the excruciating pain of two and a half minutes without doing something. We laugh because you know it's true. I mean you get stopped by a train and you know it's gonna be a couple minutes and out comes the device. Out comes some form of entertainment and some type of distraction. I believe we are fast approaching a society which has completely lost its ability to focus. and thereby has lost its ability to truly be great at anything. Do you understand this morning that you will be successful at that which you focus on? I'm going to put to you this proposition and I hope to establish it with Scripture and some thoughts this morning that we are a people that need the ability to focus. And you will be successful at that which you focus on. Even in a church house, as we gather, you hear me say to you, Are you doing all right? And I'm looking for a response. Are you doing okay? Ah, uh, I'll ask you, are you still there? Are you awake? Are you with me? Why do I ask all these questions? Because I'm trying to bring your focus back To me, to the message of the Word of God, that you might get what God has for you, because I know that the attention span today of the average American, according to a study done by Microsoft Is eight seconds. That is why Twitter is successful I am sorry, but my message this morning is longer than 140 characters. That's why our our attention spans, it's not that we don't want to hear something. It's not that we don't want to sit and listen or watch something. It's because in today's world we have an infinite number of possibilities. And if something doesn't grab our attention immediately, if something doesn't hold us or encaptivate us, we so quickly just change and slight left. We just swipe up. We just log on to a different website. We just play a different game. We just tune out the preacher and think about something else. We're living in a day where we are so utterly distracted, I believe that the devil would have us be distracted into oblivion. We are running to and fro at breakneck speed to accomplish nothing. Nobody is achieving anything great or getting to the place where they're great thinkers or accomplishing great things because they don't have the ability to focus. They do this for a little bit and they run over here and they do this for a little bit and then they run over here and they do this for a little bit. It's like the it's like the dog that went outside and he started chasing a fox And he's chasing a fox. He smelled a rabbit. And he turned and he started chasing a rabbit. And as he was chasing the rabbit, he smelled a mouse. And he chained and he started chasing the mouse And as he got to the mouse's hole, he found a snake. And so he started chasing the snake. The end of the day he was still chasing things and still hadn't eaten. That's what we're like today. We're running all over the place and accomplishing nothing. And we wonder why we're failing at so many different things. We're wondering why we cannot succeed. Would you heed the warning this morning? Would you find purpose in the truth of the Word of God that I press toward the mark? I count all things but lost. He said, everything else I'm going to let go, that I might know him. Jesus Christ. I'm going to give you a couple things this morning that I believe are paramount that we focus on. And I hope will help you. First of all. I believe that we as a people must first focus on Christ. We must focus on Christ. He says, Paul says here in verse number 10, he says, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. You see, beloved, Paul had all kinds of religion. He had all kinds of uh things that he would do on his own that he might earn uh favor in heaven. He was as religious as you could possibly be, and he said, All of that means nothing. But he wanted to know Jesus Christ. And let me tell you this morning that any religion That puts forth or or minimizes or takes away the Son of God, Jesus Christ, being God in the flesh who came Dwelt among us, lived thirty-three years of sinless life, and died, gave himself on the cross that we might be saved in and through him. If they take that away, it's a false religion. Because all the practices of religion, all the ceremonies, all of that is nothing if you don't have Jesus Christ. He must be central and paramount. He said that I might know him and the power of his resurrection. It's empty and no use without Jesus Nothing, no other names given among heaven whereby you must be saved, given among men whereby you must be saved, except the name of Jesus All of the other practices won't accomplish anything. You know it won't matter. It does not matter how hard you focus on earning your way to heaven. You will not get there. You can focus with such an intensity that you get out of bed each day, and as some do, begin the day by beating yourself. You may fast two, three, four days a week. You may daily go to the house of God and bow in prayer. But do you understand this morning that will not save you? Only Jesus Christ. This is what Paul was saying. He said, All of the religious stuff I did before, I count nothing. Nothing that what? That I might know him and the power of his resurrection. You see, Jesus Christ rose from the dead. He took and defeated death and went back to be with the Father. And he says, I want to know the power of his resurrection. I want to be raised again one day. If you're here this morning, you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. Let me encourage you and challenge you that you must focus on Jesus. He alone is the Savior of souls. He alone is the one we turn to. It doesn't take a major of work. It's not by works of righteousness which ye have done, but according to his mercy, he saved you. But God committed his love toward us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. This morning I want you to know Jesus Christ died for you just as you are. And he wants to save you and take you to heaven. And you don't need to work and do a great measure of effort. All you've got to do, like the song says, is look and live. Look and live, my brother, live. Look to Jesus now and live. Tis recorded in a word, hallelujah, if you only just look and live. Look and live. Say, Pastor Caleb, that's awful easy. That's all Jesus required. Is that you look to Jesus That you look to Him. Look to Jesus. If you're here this morning, and you've already done that Give me l let me back up. Do you understand? The devil would have you be distracted right now. The devil would have other thoughts come into your mind. The devil would make you think of other things. The devil would distract you you because he knows that there's a difference. You are standing at the crossroads right now of making a decision between heaven and hell between your eternity in a place called hell, which is a place of fire and brimstone, and God never planned for you as a as a human to be there And the devil would say, oh, put it off. You can do that later. Let's not think about that. Let's think about something else. But God draws your heart and wants you to make a decision for Him. Don't be distracted. Focus on Jesus. Let his love draw you to the cross Where he died and gave himself for you. Look to Jesus. And live. Christian, if you're here and you've already done that, you're looking to Jesus, you know him as your Savior, your friend, and your Father. Can I ask you, are you still focused on Him? Maybe you've been saved for some time and you know him, but have you lost your focus? Have you been distracted? Are there other things that are consuming your heart and mind? What I'm saying to you this morning is if you want to succeed at some point something, you have to determine that you're going to focus on it. He said, I press toward the mark. You've seen it. You've seen the racers in the race and they're running. And everything in them, everything they've got is given 125%, pushing towards that tape. Are you pressing towards the mark? You gotta focus on Christ, but you also you need to focus on the cause. As David of old said, is there not a cause? Is there not a cause? He says in our text Verse number 12, not as though I had already attained, either was already perfect, but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended. Of Jesus Christ. He says, hey, I need to accomplish what it was God saved me to accomplish. He said, Jesus apprehended me. He came and he got me. It's just like if I came down here and I grabbed Timothy. And uh who are you? And Eli, come here. Come here boys, I need you. I need your help real quick. We gotta come and we gotta do this real quick. Let's go over here. Okay, here grab this grab this flower right here and and set it down there very carefully. Don't break it. Now grab this and move it. You see I grabbed them for a purpose They had something that they were supposed to do. They were apprehended for a cause. The apostle Paul said, now you boys can put it back. The apostle Paul said, I've got to, I was apprehended for something. I've got something that I've got to accomplish. I've got something that I've got to do. Thank you. You can be seated. And he said, I want to accomplish it. How many of you see that? You hear you you follow me? Look at verse number 13. He says, Brother, and I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth to those things which are before. The Apostle Paul said, I'm forgetting the failures that are in the past. I'm going to forget the things that I did or didn't do yesterday. I'm going to forget what I understood about this thing yesterday. I'm going to forget those things. And I'm going to push forward to the mark for the prize of the high calling of Jesus Christ. I'm going to go forward for Jesus that I might apprehend because I'm focused on the cause and what it is God wants me to do. Have you ever wondered This is pretty big stool. Have you ever I'll use this. Have you ever wondered why a lion trainer takes a stool into the thing with them? Into the ring? You know he has a gun and he has a whip. Do you know why they use a stool with a lion? They go in there and they go before the lion, they have the stool and they get up in front of him, and the lion's Growls at him and swipes at him. And what does a lion trainer do? He puts that that thing out in front of him and he goes like this. He goes like that. You know why they do that? Because this bottom of the stool has four legs. And the four legs, the lion tries to focus on the four legs. And he can't. He becomes disoriented. Unstable because he can't focus on four things at once. I think the devil knows that about you and I. He comes into our lives and we've got something we want to do and all of a sudden there he is Shoving this in our face and shoving that in our face Distracting us with this and that, finding that we don't have the means or the ability to be able to focus to accomplish anything of great value because we're running here and there The fact is, is many of your lives are a mess this morning. Many of your life is a mess. And it has little to do with the outside problems. And much to do with the fact that it's willfully neglected because we've been distracted doing other things There's a few things that cause us I want you to focus on this morning. If you as a Christian are here and say, man, I would love to have great faith. I would love to be just a great Christian. I mean, this is what I want to do. I want to be a great Christian. I want to be honoring pleasing God and I desire that and I want this to be fulfillment in my life And you desire that, but the problem is you're living a distracted life. You come into church on Sunday morning and you're challenged with the faith of the Word of God and you say, Boy, that's what I want. And then you walk out on Monday morning and the devil shoves work in your face. And then and then the the car breaks down and and then the a storm happens and a tree falls down in your front yard and all of these distractions come and you don't give God or Christianity another thought until Sunday morning What I'm telling you this morning is if you want to be a success at something, you've got to purposely focus on it. That means if you're telling me, Pastor Caleb Mandis. Christian life is so hard to live, it's so difficult, it's such a struggle. What I'm saying is you're not focusing on it. If you got out of your bed in the morning, And took some time in the Word of God and refocused your life on what it is that God wants you to accomplish that day, it'd be a lot easier to live for Jesus. Come on now. We've lost the ability to focus and we walk through our life and we want to be a great Christian, but we just want it to happen. Just happened, just oh, it's just gonna all of a sudden the windows of heaven are gonna open and God's gonna pour out all this power on our life. When we haven't given him any thought, any time in prayer, any time of focusing on what it is that we should do. Great faith takes a measure of focus. Michael Jordan said championships are won when the stands are empty. But he's saying he says if you want to win when the stands are full and you want to take home the championship, then you gotta be in the gym when there's nobody else there. You've got to be dedicated, you've got to put in some time, you gotta work long hours. And then you can see the success of victory because you did it when the lights were just coming on I'm saying if you want to be have great faith and you want to be a good Christian, success in the Christian life is one in the hours of the morning. Success in your walk with God is one in the stillness of the day, when we spend some time and focus on God. The Williams sisters, who are now known across the world for their ability with a racket At seven years old, we're rising at six AM to hit tennis balls. They wanted to be good at swinging a racket and hitting a little ball. So much they got out of bed And you want power with God and you want to know His presence and you want to have Him lead you in your life, but you don't want it enough to spend some time focusing on it What I'm saying is you will be a success at what you focus on. If you want it as much as the astronomer Herschel wanted the distant stars when he would lay on his porch during wintery nights With an awkward and weak telescope for hours and hours in the cold of the night just to gaze at the stars If you wanted as much as Edison wanted an electric filament. So he continued to test over 600 different substances. To find the one that would work. I'm saying if you want it, it's gonna take some focus. We've been meeting and talking about getting control of our finances On Sunday nights, we've discussed some of this, and some of you here are going through the Financial Peace University class we're getting offering. Getting a hold of that. Do you understand if you want to get a hold of your finances? It's distraction and living without a purpose that's got you in the mess you're in. If you want to be successful or get a hold of your finances and have control in that area of your life, you're going to have to start focusing on it. You're going to have to get serious about it. You're going to have to get some intensity and purpose to accomplish it. Apple's CEO, Tim Cook, routinely begins emailing his employees at 4:30 in the morning. Dallas Mavericks owner, Mark Cuban, didn't take a vacation for seven years as he was starting his business. Yahoo's CEO, Marissa Meyer, routinely pulled all-nighters, working over a hundred and thirty hours a week. They were focused on it. putting o putting in over a hundred hours a week. You see, we want great finances, but we're not focusing on it. If you want to succeed at something, you've got to focus on it. This next point I'm going to give you here is the motivation for the entire message this morning. As I began to think about and muse upon this idea, With the fruitfulness of focus. What spurred this thought was the idea of having a great family Having a great family. Say, Pastor Caleb, I want to have a great family. I want to have good kids. I want to see. I want to have that loving relationship between my wife and I. People today. Church. Husbands are losing their wives. Wives are losing their husbands. And moms and dads are losing their kids. Because of failure to focus on their relationships. The devil is distracting us to oblivion. We think that she's always going to be there until one day you wake up and she is not. And you say, I don't know what happened. Christian, I'm telling you, it takes a measure of focus. Pepsi, CEO, wakes up at four in the morning, according to the Fortune 500 magazine. And in an Aspen Ideas Festival about greater business, she said that in times during her career, it has been normal for her to work until after midnight. She goes on to say that her intense dedication to her job may have caused her to be a bad parent. She chose to focus on that instead of her family. I'm telling you, husbands, wives, if you want to have a great relationship, you've got to spend some time focusing on it Go with me, if you would, back to the young romance. Go with me, if you would, back to the days when you fell in love. When you were focusing on her. When you were focusing on him. You see, hardly a moment of the day went past when your mind wasn't drawn to her. When your mind wasn't drawn to him, you were focused on them, you were dedicated to them, you were doing things for them, you desired to be in their presence, you hang up, and then two minutes later you pick the phone up and call back and said, How come you're not asleep yet? Okay, I'm going now. No, no, I'm going. No, no, I'm going. Okay. Goodbye. Ring ring. Hello. I you're supposed to be going to bed. Oh yeah, but I just wanted to hear your voice one more time. I'm saying there was intense focus on your relationship, and that's how you won her heart. And you expect to keep it when you haven't given her any thought in months or years? Christian, I'm trying to help you this morning, I'm trying to give you what will save your marriage. Stop letting other things distract you and start focusing on the mate that you say you love more than anything in this world You're losing your relationships. Those that are most dear to you, and the time will come, and you'll come into my office and you'll say, Pastor Caleb. What do I do? How did we get here? And I'll do all I can to help you, but I'm telling you today, if you would just change your focus and begin getting back to expressing and showing that love, you would never need to come and see me. Our families are falling apart because of a lack of focus This last year I had a 17-year-old boy sitting in my office. He said, My dad doesn't know who I am. He doesn't know anything about me. He doesn't know what I like or what I dislike. I don't remember the last time in my life my dad said, I love you. He was heartbroken and looking for somebody to care. Because his dad was focused on other things trying to help you this morning Focus on your relationships before it's too late If we spent half the time thinking about and showing our love to one another as you do about thinking about what they do or do not do for you Your romance would be on fire. You know, there was a day that you knew what flowers she liked. And you would go and stop at not one, not two, three different flower shops to find that particular flower that she wants, because that's what she likes. Now you don't even know what flower she likes. You don't know what ice cream she would prefer. You don't know what drink she would want. You don't know what he enjoys doing. You don't know what restaurant he would pick. And I know I'm not hitting everybody, but I know I'm hitting somebody this morning. Have you lost your focus on your family? You need to stop letting life happen to you and live with direction. You wake up in the morning and you just let life happen. Whatever happens. Man, today was a bad day. Why? You're the one that let it happen. What happens on the day that you've planned her birthday party? You have everything ready and you get it and it's exciting and it's fun and the anticipation is there. And man, today was a good day. You did that on purpose. Why don't you live the rest of your life on purpose? Facebook CEO Shirley Sandberg balances one of the most varied and busiest lives of any businesswoman. However, she leaves work strictly at 5. 30 every day to go home and be with her family. We take for granted that you're just always going to be there Somewhere we've stopped focusing on them. If you're here right now and you're thinking, man, I hope he's listening. Man, I hope she's listening. I'm talking to you. Let's get back to the romance When it was romance, was romance all about you? When you were dating, was it all about you? Were you thinking in that dating time, oh, what's he gonna do for me next? What's she gonna do for me next Is that what you were looking for? No, during the romance it was all about them. You found joy in doing for them. That's what made you happy. But somehow you got married and now you think your joy is supposed to come from what they do for you. And they're not doing what they're supposed to do, and so you haven't been happy in years. Why don't you go back to what it looks like when you're dating and start doing to them, for them, and find your joy in that Get back to the time of romance. What I'm saying is if you want to get to the end of your days and Be sitting in a rocking chair in your living room and look over at your mate with that toothless grin And just glad to have her presence there with you and have his presence and just be glad to be spending your days in each other's company. Everybody else is long gone, but you've got each other. If you want to get there, it's going to take some focus today. You've got to focus on Christ. It all starts with Him. You've got to focus on the cause. What is it that you want? What is the cause? What is your focus? And you've got to focus on the crown. He says in verse number 14, I press toward the mark for the prize For the prize. Why does he press towards the mark? Because there's a prize coming. Because there's victory coming. Because at the end of the race, there's there's a reward coming. And first, he says over in Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 9, 25, he says, And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they all do obtain a corruptible crown. But we am incorruptible. And Peter tells us in 5, 4, he says, and when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. It's first Peter. Focused on the crown. On the goal. On the victory. Michael Jordan spent his summers when others were relaxing, taking hundreds of jump shots a day In a piece written on NBA. com, Coach Phil Jackson writes: Jordan's defining characteristic was not his talent. But having the humility to know he had to work consistently to be the best. It was his hard work that made him a legend. When others were relaxing, Jordan was saying, I'm gonna be the best At this, that there ever was. And he was focused on it. That kind of intensity and that kind of focus to be able to throw a little round ball into an orange. For the praise of men. And we are living distracted lives and losing our families. I know at times it's hard. I know at times it takes work. It takes time. It takes effort. But focus on the crown. Focus on the prize. What are you going to feel like when all that debt is paid off? Wow. Oh what a relief. What a burden I've been carrying for so long and finally the debt is gone. Boy, that's gonna be nice. But you gotta focus today. What's it gonna feel like when the kids are gone and it's just you and her And you have that romance and that love and that relationship that most long for and never see. What's it gonna feel like when your kids rise up and call you blessed? What kind of joy will that be? There's a prize coming. What's it going to feel like when you take your last breath? You wake up in glory. You walk down those streets of gold. You walk into the very presence of God Himself. And He looks down at you and He says, Well done Well done, thou good and faithful servant. What's that going to feel like? Well done, thou good and faithful servant You gotta focus on the crown. When you're enduring the battle. I know it's hard, but focus on the crown William, I'm sorry, Wilma Rudolph was not born an athlete. As a kid, she suffered from double pneumonia, scarlet fever, polio, and the whooping cough. But she was determined to walk, even though doctors said she wouldn't. She did walk, and then she did run. And she began to run without braces in the 1960 Roman Olympics. She won the gold medal. And broke three world records. Later in life, as a coach, she said this: the triumph cannot be had without the struggle. You want the crown? There's going to be some struggle. Focus on the cause. Focus on Christ. Focus on the crown. And you will be rewarded.