Would you turn your Bibles to Galatians chapter 6 this morning, Galatians chapter number 6? Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians. It was the last week of July in 2017 when I received a phone call that was going to forever change the life. Of our young intern named Catherine. I received the phone call and Mary and I had to go sit down with this young lady. and explained to her that her father had passed away. Her dad had been found dead in his office chair in their home. For us, our lives stopped. We put everything on hold to minister to and to help this young lady. She had never been on a plane before. She had never been through the process of flying. I told Mary she can't fly alone. So we bought a ticket for Mary. To walk with her through the airport, to get her on the plane, to fly her home so that she could be reunited with her family As soon as she was reunited with her family, Mary turned around, got on a plane, and flew back. But we did what we needed to to minister to her in her hour of need. As a church we moved to carry that burden with her. A week later I flew to Indiana and was there for her father's funeral This is what a church is supposed to do. This is what God expects of his children I'm going to preach to you tonight, this morning here, just for a moment, on fulfilling the law. Fulfilling the law. That statement in and of itself, by itself left alone, many would wonder, well, I thought we weren't under the law anymore. Well look with me in Galatians chapter 1, would you? We're going to read verses 1 through 6. The Bible says, brethren. If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such in one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens. And so fulfill the law of Christ. For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not another. For every man shall bear his own burden But him that is taught in the word, communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. By no means could I do justice to these seven verses this morning in the time that we have. There has been Hundreds, yea, hundreds of thousands of messages preached just on verse number seven alone. Beloved I could not but bring this thought this morning in light of what the church has done for me and our family over the last week. This charge here to edify, to comfort, to bear one another's burdens, is only one of the many one-anothers that are given to us in the pages of scripture. We know the Bible tells us to love one another, to be affectionate one to another, to serve one another, to bear with one another, to submit to one another, to be kind to one another, to exhort one another. These are all based upon the principle that we find in the pages of Scripture, which is in fact our theme for this year. United in Christ. Though being many, we are one body in Christ, and everyone members of another. This is the church, the family of God, and we are told to bear one another's burdens. There is no place on earth where the reality Of this truth, and the richness of this truth is felt more distinctly than in the body of Christ. I would speak to you for just a few moments about these verse here, verse number five, verse number six, verse number two. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. What about these burdens? We all have burdens, varying in size and varying in quantity and varying in weight throughout all of our lives. At any given time, we're all carrying some kind of burden. Some need in our life, some challenge we're facing, some struggle we are enduring. But there are times that the burden you're carrying is so heavy that the very weight of it feels that it may crush you. You've lost all capacity to serve and to bear other people's burdens because you Having a hard time just bearing your own. We all go through days like this, through challenges like this. I want you to see there's several lessons in the text here. First of all, there are burdens that are to be shouldered. We see that in verse number 5. He says, For every man shall bear his own burden. The fact of the matter is, is we all have different burdens, and some of those burdens are burdens that we really should carry. They're burdens that are ours, and nobody else can carry them for us. Beloved, it really is only in the carrying of our own burden that we learn how to effectively carry another's burden Only when I have lived through heartbreak can I come alongside and comfort another who is going through heartbreak. Only when I have known the pain of loss can I come alongside and comfort and Help carry the burden of one who is going through that grievous pain of loss Only when I've carried the burden and I understand the weight of the concern that a parent has for a child. That I can carry that concern and understand the burden and know what that individual is enduring. So it is in our lives and as we bury our own burdens that we learn how to bear the burdens of others. We've got some things that we must bear on our own, a life that we must live. People can't live your life for you. You've got some burdens you've got to take. Nobody's going to eat for you today. Nobody is going to go to work for you on Monday. That's a burden you're gonna have to bear. You're gonna have to take care of that. Wouldn't it be nice? Maybe if Elon gets these these robots going you can You can get a robot to go go go work for you. I I don't know. But right now you you've got to do that. There's some things that you've got to carry. You have a res your own responsibilities. They said, nobody's going to maintain your relationship with your mate. You have to do that. You have to show love and concern and compassion. You have to invest time and energy and effort in maintaining that relationship. Keeping it fresh, keeping it powerful, keeping it meaningful. That's a relationship you must maintain. Nobody's gonna help you with your in-laws. That's something that you've got to maintain. I don't know why the in-law jokes are so uh like prevalent, but there must, you know, a lot of humor is rooted in in fact, right? I I thank the Lord that I've got good in-laws and I don't I don't endure that that struggle, but I know some do and I feel for you. But those are relationships, those are things that You have to bear. There are some things that we're supposed to carry. Don't begrudge that. Don't get mad at life. That's one of the things I think parents are doing their kids an un injustice trying to teach them that that life is fair or giving them the idea that it's all going to be easy It's not. It's hard. There are struggles. There are burdens. There's things that they need to learn how to carry. And you know, parent, you need to let your child carry some burdens when they're young or when they're eighteen. They won't know what to do. I have a message I haven't preached it in a lot of years. But On David and parents desire to fight the lions and bears for David The fact of the matter is the only way David was able to conquer the giant is because he fought a lion and a bear. And a lot of parents don't want their kids to endure any hardship. They don't want their kids to face any battle. They don't want their kids to endure any suffering and so mama's got to go to school and fight his battles for him. Dad's got to go argue with the teacher because he got a bad grade. You're not letting your kid grow up. You're not letting your kid endure the weight of of some of the battles. And listen, life is going to crush them. Because they haven't learned how to stand. You've got to like them you've got to let them fight their own. Dad wasn't out there in the field protecting his sixteen, seventeen-year-old son from the lion. David had to face that himself. You're doing your child a disservice when you fight those battles for them. There are some things that they need to learn how to bear. There are some burdens to shoulder, and that was kind of a rabbit that we chase there. But I want you to see secondly that there are some burdens that need to be shed. Beloved, the Bible is very clear. 1 Peter 5 7 says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. There are times when God and His desire and His plan is He wants us to come to Him and to cast our burden upon Him, to lay that weight down at the foot of the cross and let Him carry it for you. God is not planning for you to endure that pain. God is not planning for you to have to carry that alone. He is there, he is with you. Beloved, can I tell you the greatest burden any man or woman will ever carry is the burden and the weight of sin. And Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost, and his desire is that you would come to him humbly and submit yourself to him, acknowledging the fact that you're a sinner and that you need a Savior. And when you uh submit to him and acknowledge that he died on the cross for you, you can shed that weight of sin. God will wash that sin away. He says he'll make it as white as snow. He'll remove every glimpse of it. It'll be you'll be justified just as if I had never sinned. You'll be cleansed and made whole. And beloved, the greatest burden, the greatest weight that men carry today, one of the reasons we have so much problems with mental illness today is because men are carrying the weight of sin without a savior and they don't know what to do with it. God would have them shed that weight and know the forgiveness of a Savior who loved and died for them. There are burdens you cannot bear, and God would bear it for you if you would come to the cross. He says, Come, all ye that are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. When you bow your head and heart in prayer. If something miraculous happens, that burden is shed. It's given to your Savior who loves And cares for you. I must tell Jesus All of my trials, I cannot bear these Burdens alone in my distresses, he kindly will help me He ever loves and cares for his own I must tell Jesus, I must tell Jesus I cannot bear my burdens alone. I must tell Jesus I must tell Jesus, Jesus can help me Jesus alone. And I tell you, beloved, there's times when you just need to come to the cross. You need to take that burden that you've been carrying and that weight that you've been struggling with, that that you're you're almost at the point where it's going to crush you. And Jesus says, Come unto me, and I will give you rest. I know what it is to lie awake at night and not be able to sleep because of the burden that's on your heart. The weight of it is so much that you can't focus on the tasks that are at hand. The heartbreak is so strong and the time is so much that you you you almost feel like you you couldn't cry again if you if you needed to. And Jesus says, Bring it to me, and I'll help you. Let me encourage you to take it to the Lord in prayer. Relieve your heavy burden at the cross. Lastly, this morning I want you to see that there are burdens to be shared. There are burdens to be shared. This is what Galatians 6. 2 tells us. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the The law. We are in fact fulfilling the law when we bear one another's burdens. They came to Jesus and they said, ask him the questions about the law and our theme last year. Was love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, and love thy neighbor as thyself. And in so doing you have fulfilled All the law. Fulfilling the law, loving God first, loving your brother and sister, loving man. You'll fulfill all the law when you do that. And he says here the way to do that is to bear one another's burdens. We know that he's talking to the church here. We know that he's talking to the brethren. What does he say there in verse number one? What's the first word? Brethren. Brethren. He's talking to the church family. He's talking to you and I, and he's admonishing us. He's encouraging us. He's talking to those that are spiritual. He says, those that would be spiritual. Do you consider yourself spiritual? That's who he's speaking to. And beloved, this is what we're supposed to be doing. This is the very heart of God to bear one another's burdens. It's going beyond concern. And moving to compassion. You see, because compassion makes a difference This is God's plan. He planned it for you and I to love and care and concern for one another. And I ask you this morning, aren't you glad to be a part of the family of God? There's at least two or three people. I I hope that you're thrilled to know the love of God And that at times in your life you can take it to the cross, and when there is nobody else, and it's not something that can be shared with anybody else in this world, but you can take it to the Savior and He will share that burden with you. You can shed that to him, but beloved, we also have a family, a church family, the family of God, where we can bring our burdens and they carry the burden with us Man, this world is a mess. Week after week you you look at the turmoil in the world and I mean you don't even have to watch the news but that that's just going to discourage you. I mean it seems like the the struggles and the battles and the the dissension, the the problems that are that are on every hand, they become overwhelming. I'm thankful for the family of God where we can gather and encourage and exhort and strengthen one another. This is what we're supposed to do. When one in the family is hurting the rest come alongside. And you know I believe for the first time in my life, as I pondered and thought about that I guess that just speaks to how blessed I've been. But I believe for the first time in my life I Can truly understand what it means to bear one another's burdens. Because beloved, our family has been the recipient of the love and concern of this church family in such a way That it literally lifted a burden that I've had on my heart for months. To a point where I had to lock it out of my mind just to focus to prepare to preach. That I had many sleepless nights over the last few months. That I found it hard to do what I needed to do. But after last Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, can I tell you the burden was noticeably less The weight that I carried, to me, it's a miraculous thing because nothing in my situation has changed. Why is it that the burden is so much lighter? Why is it that I'm not so weighted down with the the situation is still the same? Why is it not so heavy for me? And I sat back in awe as I pondered this and thought about the fact that God's family, the church, came alongside. And in each and every one of your own individual way, you said, Pastor, we're here with you, we stand with you, we're for you, we love you, we're behind you, we want you. And in all those little Words of encouragement in the church family standing with me, you lifted the burden And we were the recipients of it. And now being on this side of that for the first time in my life and being able to literally feel and understand the difference that it made Oh, can I tell you, beloved, how important it is that as a church we lift the burden of one another? I wonder how many of God's people over the years would still be in the house of God and would still be serving the Savior and still finding a walk with Jesus Had there been a brother or sister in Christ who would have come alongside in their hour of need, in their day of burden, and they would have Just said, I'm here for you. I'm with you. I'm not sure what else I can do, but I want you to know I'm going to stand with you and I'm carrying that burden with you. Oh, it has made it so much easier. I cannot even express the difference that it has made. I I literally am in awe But the reality of this text, let me rephrase that, the truth of this text was made a reality in my life. And I commend the church and I say thank you. But at the same time, I admonish us. Don't just do it for the pastor, but let's do it for one another. Let's carry one another's burden because there is a burden to be shared. I wonder this morning how many of God's children through the years we could have saved. I wonder if there's some in our church right now who may be carrying a burden That nobody else knows about. Well, can I tell you? You've got a God who would be willing for you to come and lay it at the cross and you can give it to Him. If you're still carrying that, you've got a church family that would be willing to come alongside and help you strengthen you and stand with you as well. That's what this church is for, what it's about. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?