Uh there's a lot of passages that we could go to that we could spend some time in, um even our verse of the month that's in Matthew chapter six, you know, uh talks about the three aspects of the Christian life that should be present in every Christian's uh journey and walk with God and that is the giving of alms, giving uh of ourselves and of our treasures, and that of praying, praying to the Lord, and uh of course fasting. And uh in verse sixteen and nineteen, in that Matthew chapter six, he says, moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their face, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you They have their reward. What a empty reward for such a hard task. I mean for something that takes so much physical stamina and dedication to to literally follow through with, to complete. Uh what a empty reward that Oh, somebody knew you fasted and and you know, m maybe they think you're a a great Christian because of it, uh and that's your reward. I'll tell you what, you you've missed the whole thing of what the fasting was for. I mean, the fasting, obviously, to get a hold of God, to see God come through and to meet a need, to answer a prayer. And that's the reward we want. Amen. That's the conclusion we want. And uh so not not to be seen of men. But uh because there's been some questions about fasting and something that seems to come up on occasion, uh we put together a pamphlet here that we're going to have just available at the church from from now on, just something from Hunt Valley Baptist Church that talks to you about fasting. Now this title of the pamphlet is the title of today's message, and that's the fulfillment through fasting. You really can uh I think as a Christian receive a lot of fulfillment in your Christian life through fasting. Uh that's where we get prayers answered. That's where we get uh uh you know got God comes on the scene. I think it's in Matthew chapter 17 in the story where the disciples wanted to cast out the demons. And uh they they went to cast out the demon and they couldn't. And the father brings his child to Jesus and says, Hey, could you help me? Here's my son. You know, he's a lunatic. Some of us are saying that about our kids. He's a lunatic and uh he needs some help and he has a demon in him and and uh you know Jesus he reprimands the disciples and and says, Hey, uh listen This kind cometh not but by prayer and fasting. There is some things that are accomplished in the Christian life that uh we desire and would like to see happen, but it really doesn't come to fruition until we're ready to dedicate ourselves or commit ourselves at least on a level of beginning to fast. And so the fulfillment through fasting, a lot of fulfillment in the Christian life, a lot of answers to prayer, a lot of great victories can be be seen if we would be willing to get serious enough and step out and really fast. Fast And beg God to see something. So we have uh the fulfillment through fa fasting, a biblical perspective, on a basic practice, something that should be a basic practice in every Christian's life something that we should be doing. There's lots of different uh benefits to fasting that are in this book in this little pamphlet. One of those is there are many physical benefits to fasting. It's well known, documented, and uh you know there's doctors that really uh obviously it detox detoxifies your body when you fast and and increases your cardiovascular flow. It can reduce the chances of congestive heart failure. There's many, many benefits physical benefits for fasting, but that's not the motivation for why a Christian fast. That's not why we do it. Sometimes we end up fasting inadvertently. Uh, because if something happens. Um, you know, some of you have been sick and when you when you get sick you just can't eat, right? So you end up like, man, I haven't eaten in three days. So you fasted for three days, but that's because your body wouldn't let you eat. Uh and and uh you know there's obviously a benefit to that. It's a good weight loss program, although it's pretty intense. That's not necessarily the motivation for fasting either from a Christian's perspective. We have several motivations, and some of those are listed on the bottom here, is focused on God. Focus on God, to find God's will in a matter, to find direction, or to find what God's will is, or to feel God's power, to see God come on the scene. in a great and powerful way. To answer that prayer, to meet that need, to solve that problem, to to restore that relationship, uh, you know, to see that loved one saved, to fix that situation at work. There's some things that You know, are we really, really serious about it? Are we really, really ready to uh do something serious to see God work? And that's the pope purpose and the motivation. And then there's some scriptures in here, just some basic scriptures. There's many scriptures in the Old Testament and New Testament dealing with fasting. This is something that is For all that the Bible has to say about fasting, it's something that we don't talk about enough, because it is a very prevalent topic even in the New Testament as well as the Old Testament. And uh, you know, of course the the conversation that uh the Pharisees had with Christ on, well, you know, these these men fast all the time. Why don't your disciples fast? And he says, well, because I'm here, because I'm with them, because the bride is present. And and uh when when the when the bride is gone, when the bridegroom's gone, then The bridal fast. And and when you see that like in the book of Acts, as soon as the church starts, you watch walk through Acts and see how many times in Acts you'll see See them talking about fasting. The begin just the very beginning of the church, it's almost you hardly go a chapter or two and there is a mention of fasting. When they chose disciples, they prayed and fasted. I'm sorry, when they chose uh the deacons in the church, uh those men to serve, they prayed and fasted. And just over and over again, any time there was some matter of serious importance, they fasted and they prayed. So there's some scriptures you can read down there. If you've never spent any time fasting, I would suggest you just begin by reading these scriptures. Just look at these stories. Just let the Holy Spirit and the Word of God speak to your heart about the importance of it and what God would want you to do. Then there's some thoughts here on why why do we why do we fast, what is our motivation for it, and the different types of fast that there are. And so Again, if you've never fasted before, you probably don't want to start out like Jesus and go 40 days. Um that wouldn't be the starting point. You want to start out and uh just uh you know maybe fast for for one meal Say I'm gonna skip lunch three days this week. Now I'm gonna skip one meal a day and and just kind of choose that uh standard there. So there's a normal fast is When we abstain from all food uh for that fast period, which may be a day, maybe one meal, maybe twenty-four hours, maybe thirty-six hours, whatever you determine that you're going to do, uh you set that time aside and you abstain from all food, but during that type of fast you also would take in some liquid substance. Uh could even be, well, I'm just going to take water. You might have water, but some people may say, well, I'm going to have, again, this is your fast between you and God. You set the boundaries of it And uh, you know, don't don't be too stressed if you say, well, I'm gonna fast for three days, and you get a day and a half into it, and you find out that you're you're seeing visions from heaven. Uh You know, you're you're hallucinating and and uh you're you're you're found on the floor in the living room and somebody wakes you up. You might physically that might be a little much and so Y you say, oh well I failed at my fast, but you made it a day and a half and and don't it's your fast. You set it up. It's not something that God set the boundaries of and said if you don't do this you you're you're a failure as a Christian That's that's not the case. So take the take it slow, just one step at a time, and uh don't guilt trip yourself or don't let Satan put a guilt trip on you if you don't say, Well, I'm gonna fast for forty-eight hours and you and you only make it for twenty-four. Well, praise the Lord. You fasted and committed to prayer and spent that time uh for twenty-four hours, but there's a normal fast as a abstinence from food. Then there's the absolute fast. This is all food and water that you're going to liquid. You'll stay away from everything for a set period of time. There's a partial fast. This is one one will abstain from particular foods or beverages specifically that they enjoy. You're still going to eat some things Uh you're still gonna have some sustenance, uh but you know, like me, I really enjoy a steak dinner. So I've been fasting from steak for several weeks now and I I think it's about time I have one. Um You know, uh so you know, I don't know what it is. Uh obviously you guys know I have an affinity for Mountain Dew and uh, you know, something like that would uh would be something I enjoy And in just a matter of it's a matter of denying your flesh something that you want or that you would like to have for a set period of time so that every time your flesh calls for that, you call on God. Your desire for the spiritual is stronger and greater than your desire for that physical, whatever it may be. And so that partial fast you may just choose particular things and say, you know what, I I can't go to bed at night without ice cream. I eat ice cream every night and and so from now until the end of August, no ice cream for me. You know, that might be good for you. Uh but I'm saying choosing something to set aside. So that would be a partial fast. And then there's a practical fast as well. And and There's many different descriptions of these things and and different titles or names that people have given. These are ones that uh I've kind of grown up with and uh am used to using but a practical fast would be something more specific more like let's say I'm gonna fast from all digital devices. for a period of time. I'm gonna uh fast from my consumption of news. Maybe you're a news junkie and you you just are addicted to news and You gotta have your news fix every day. Uh well I'm gonna fast from news for a little while. Or you know, you've got TV that you watch every night and it's almost like your day's not complete unless you sit down and spend that time in front of a TV. And uh so a practical fast would be some aspects uh practically that you would set aside and say, I'm not going to do those for this set period of time. Uh I would include in that uh the The Bible talks about the intimate relationship between a husband and wife, that you you set that aside for a time of prayer and fasting. And that's a matter of focusing, letting go of the physical so that you can focus on the spiritual. And that's in a practical aspect, those types of things. And then some simple thoughts there about when you fast, some benefits to fasting. So just something to get people thinking. If anybody has a question about fasting, This is something that will be in our discipleship uh rack out in the hallway over here, uh where we have other brochures on different topics And so that'll be available for anybody that would like to use it, even down the road. If you have somebody that comes and says, what do you guys believe about fasting? You can take them and point them to that. Um you guys should be in the book of Isaiah and again I'm just gonna kind of talk through um Some things about fasting. If you have a particular question, uh you're welcome to ask me this morning. Um you know, it just gonna walk through some of the things with regards to fasting and see what uh how the Lord might motivate us to participate in this very important thing. In Isaiah chapter 58, there's there's a lot in this text. that deals with fasting. He says, let's start maybe in verse number three. He says, Wherefore have we fasted, say thee, and thou seest not? Wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge, behold, in the day of your fast ye find pleasure, and exact all your labors He was reprimanding them here. They're saying, hey, we fasted, we afflicted our soul, and it's like you didn't take knowledge of it, God. And God says back to him, he says, Yeah, but when you fasted, behold, in the day of your fast, you did find pleasure, and you did exact all your labors. You see, they completely ignored the motivation and the reason for fasting. Listen, if you're not spending time in prayer, you have missed the reason for your fast. Now if you're fasting to lose weight, then you're going to lose weight. But don't try and spiritualize that, because that's a physical gain. You're gaining the benefit of losing weight, which is your objective, and you've gained that, and that's great, but that's not what we're talking about this morning. What we're talking about this morning is the spiritual aspect where you get a hold of God and see God do something miraculous in your life. This kind cometh not, but by prayer and fasting, we want to see God do great things. And we've got this problem, this sin that we can't get victory over. And we've battled with it for so long and we're just fed up with it. We're sick of it. And we want to get it out of our lives. And so we fast and pray. He says to him, Yeah, you fasted, but you still took all your pleasure. You still went to the ball game and you still sat and watched TV for four and a half hours and you still had all the fun you normally have You gave no time to praying. You gave no time to focusing on God. You gave no time to seeking God in this time. Ye still did all your labor, he says. You still got everything else done that you wanted to get done So, yeah, I didn't take knowledge of that fast because your motivation for it was not correct. You achieved what you wanted to achieve, but uh you were hoping you'd get the benefit of God's power and God's blessing uh by osmosis, I guess. I mean just kinda because you happen to be uh in the general vicinity and and that it would come. But listen, it takes prayer and fasting. We've got to we've got to spend some time in prayer. Verse number four, he says, Behold, ye fast for strife and debate and to smite with the fist of wickedness. Ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be heard on high. It is it such a fast that I have chosen? He's saying, Is this what I told you to do? Is this how I described it for you? A day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a bull rush and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Wilt thou call this a fast and an acceptable day to the Lord? And then he begins to describe here, he says, is not this the fast that I have chosen? So he questioned calling Hey, what you've done here is not what I've described as fasting. But then he says, this is what I've described as fasting. Is not this what I've described? And he says, Is not this the fast that I have chosen? He says to loose the bands of wickedness. So we're seeing here motivations for why you're fasting. What is it you want to see accomplished? Listen, you've got sin in your life, you've got burdens in your or you've got uh Fasting, to loose the band. The heavy burdens. Are you carrying a burden? It's too great. The the too heavy you can't continue? And to let the oppressed go free, you find somebody in bondage, somebody bound maybe by sin, maybe by an addiction, maybe by an illness. You can let them go free and break every yoke. Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry And that thou bring the poor. See here what we're learning what to do during your fast. We of course read in in Psalms or I mean in Matthew chapter six that uh you're not supposed to uh when you fast do it before men. You're not supposed to be uh Making your contorting your face and oh I'm just so weak today. Oh, why are you weak, brother? Well Don't tell anybody, but I'm fasting. You know, I've been fasting since breakfast and it's too much. And uh You know, you're not supposed to do that. That's not what you what we do, but there is a motivation for fasting. There is something we're supposed to be doing while we fast. And uh it's pretty interesting what he says here that we're to be doing when you fast. Look at what he says. To deal thy bread to the hungry. So he's saying, when you are hungry, when you're fasting, feed somebody else. That's hard to do The last thing you want to do when you're hungry is get around any food. Oh man, I don't want to be by any food. Uh, you know, just keep it away from me. Uh just You know, I'm not even going in the house when when the kids are eating because uh hey, I just don't want to be around it, right? Uh because of that temptation, because of that draw. But he says, Hey Basically, what he's saying here over and over again in different ways is serve other people. He says, uh deal thy bread to the hungry, that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house. Serve the poor. Bring spend time and meet the need of somebody else. When thou seest the naked, that thou cover him, and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh He's saying, even don't go hide from your family, don't go crawl in a hole. In verse number eight, he says, Then shall thy light break forth as the morning. The result of fasting. This is what we want. Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thy health shall bring shall spring forth speedily And thy righteousness shall go before thee. The glory of the Lord shall be thy reward. Amen. Isn't that what we want? And it goes on. You can read the rest of that. I mean if you just read it and think about the statements that are made there. I know that passage will be a blessing to you. But it's amazing this topic of fasting and the benefit that should come for it. Now we know that the the Word of God does not command, uh, like we have the command, go ye therefore into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. We know that we have a great commission. We have a command. We are to be witnesses and reaching people with the gospel. That's a command given to us. There's not a direct command from Christ with regards to fasting. Um and I I believe that there is nobody that is excluded from this as far as everybody can fast in some capacity. Uh I I believe that. Now there are diabetics that I mean if they went twenty-four hours without any type of sustenance They would be in the hospital. You know, I mean that that type of fast is impossible for them. And the Lord knows that. So they could do some practical fast. They can do some fast from They can find a way to deny the flesh. But there's not a command for us to do this, although there is uh many, many biblical examples. And the chief of those would be Christ. Which we as Christians are to be Christ-like. And if we're going to follow Christ's example, You know, the old, what would Jesus do, right? Well, following Christ's example, we see that he fasted And maybe you aren't going to fast for 40 days, but surely you could for four hours. Something. You could you could find something to fast from for a period of time. And uh so we don't have this command, but there is without a doubt an expectation, as I read that passage in Matthew, he says, moreover, when ye fast. There's an expectation there. There's something, I guess maybe Christ didn't command it because he looked at it as something so basic. That it surely just would be a part of every Christian's life. It would there was just an expectation that, hey, listen, I know you guys are fasting So when you fast, here's some thoughts about how to do it to its most profitable end. Which is what we want. We want the most profitable end from it. So Christ gives us some instructions about how and and when to fast and what to do when we fast, so that it brings its most profitable end. But what without a doubt There is an expectation that Christians would be fasting. We spend a lot of time in our church this year has been focused on prayer. On bended knee is our theme. And prayer has been a focus of our church, and we've been blessed to see some great prayer requests answered. We've been blessed to see some great victories wrought through prayer here at the church. But to take prayer to the next level, to to bring God on the scene in a in an even more powerful way, it goes beyond just our devotional life and men and women's prayer meeting. Um it takes a burden that's so great that we say, you know what, I'm gonna deny myself for a period of time so that God can answer this prayer so that God can meet this need. I wonder, I don't want any answers to this. But I wonder in our church how many there would be that from January one, twenty twenty one, until today That would say, Yes, I have fasted at all this year There's an expectation as Christians that this would be a part of our lives. There is not an example as to how often it should be. I think it's kind of like the Lord's Supper. You know, that We we here at the church we don't have a schedule. We don't say, well, every third week we're gonna do it, every third Sunday of the month, or at once a month, or once every three months, or uh from that aspect As a pastor, I just pray and let the Lord impress upon my heart when when to fast and and I'm sorry, when to have the Lord's Supper. And uh about the time that we think, man, it's been a little while since we've Since we've had the Lord's Supper. Well, it's time we do it again. And you've got to consciously uh be aware of that and and strive to do it. D. L. Moody said something here. I've got twelve pages of notes and haven't haven't moved past the first one, so I'm not sure. Uh Trying to find it. He said something about uh choosing when to fast. And wouldn't you know it? I can't find it right now. So basically he said the idea was You can't just wait until you're impressed by God for it to happen. Because if you just wait for an impression of God, you're not spiritual enough to get it. That's what Dia Moody said, not me. Okay. Um he said you really just need to plan and make it part of your life as a Christian. Just like we do with our devotions, our time, our walk with God, we schedule that. We say, okay, I'm going to meet with God tomorrow from this time to the this time. This this is my plan. And so with with fasting I think you you need to schedule it. You just need to say this is supposed to be part of our lives. And sometimes there's great things in your lives that that you need. There's some family situations. that you want to see resolved or there's some major struggles that you would love to see answers to prayer, and those things motivate us or move us to fasting. And uh and they should. But when you're not in the middle of great tragedy, does that mean we put off fasting? It it's also a time to focus on God. And uh so it should be a part, a regular part of the Christian's life. I mean I I don't think we should be going an entire year without any time of just saying, you know what I'm gonna set some time aside and just really try and get a hold of God. Maybe there's just something in my life that I'm not seeing, maybe there's some growth steps I need to take, maybe there's some some serious matters that I'm not aware of. And so I'm just gonna focus on God uh and take this time to do that. And uh just draw yourself back into the presence of the Lord. And so just scheduling that, uh making it part of your life. Um the early church we saw fasted as an example. There's no question. In Acts chapter 13, verse number two he says, And they ministered to the Lord and fasted. In Acts 14, verse number 23, and when they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, uh they commended them to the Lord in whom they beloved. The early church fasted. Our church should be fasting. Paul, uh that example of Christian uh faith and practice, we see that it says that he was in fastings often. In fastings often. We say, well, Paul was tortured and and in prison often too, when he was shipwrecked and he was he was beaten. He had a reason to fast, amen. Well, is that what it's gonna take? For God to make us fast? For God to draw us into his presence? For us to realize how important it is? I I I hope not. But Paul sets that example for us as well. So how often should you fast? What whatever you you set with God. It's not, you know This is not a Pharisaical thing. Brother Glover could never say, Well, I'm more spiritual than Don Wilson because I fast uh twice a month and Don only fast once a year. Well that's just foolishness. I mean that's is that not the epitome of what the Pharisees did? Right. And that's not what it's about. So it's not a matter of of comparing ourselves among ourselves, it's about a personal relationship with God and spending time with him and getting him to come on the scene and do great and mighty things on our behalf. So how often you should do it is is up to you, but it's the motivation is to seek God. Christ, of course, told the disciples and those around that when he was gone, it's in Matthew chapter 9, verse number 15, and Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast? So again, Christ has this expectation, this well, obviously it's going to happen. There's times, beloved, when prayer alone is not enough, when we need more. So as we said, there's a number of reasons or motivations for fasting to to focus on God is a very good one. Just I just need to, uh for a period of time, you heard uh About pastors maybe taking a week or two to to fast and pray about the the plan and vision for the church. for the next year and and we're gonna just take a little time and seek God's face so that he he so where's the church are headed the right direction. Sometimes in in So to find God's will, so to focus on God, but also to find God's will, what God's will would be. In Ezra 8. 21, he says, Then I proclaim to fast there at the river of Av where we might afflict ourselves before our God to seek of him a right way for us. So we want to seek of him a right way. So you say, well I'm thinking about buying this house. Have you prayed and fasted about it? That's that's a thirty year commitment. Is that something you should do flippantly? Thirty-year commitment, like, oh yeah, well the bank said I could. What about God? What what did God say? You might find out that this is not the right time. You know, God knows that you're gonna lose your job next year. You don't know that. And you spend a little time in prayer and fasting and you'll say, you know, I'm not sure why, but God just is not giving me peace about taking this step. God's just not I'm not ready to I mean I want that house, but but It's just not now. And then you look back and in the next year and find out that, oh man, if I would have had that house payment right now, boy, would I have been in trouble. Thank you, Lord. He'll protect you to find direction for your life, what what you should do in major decisions like that. Maybe you're struggling with one of your children and you you just Need to know what to do and how to do it. You know, one of the hardest things you'll ever do in life is raise kids. Just ask my dad. He's sitting here. Or sure. Anybody that thinks they've got it figured out just hasn't woken up yet. Um I used to think I was a good parent when I had a uh one two year old, you know. I I was pretty proud of myself for how I was parenting my one baby, my one infant. You know. Yeah, somebody with infants a few months ago asked me about raising kids and they were being derogatory about somebody with teenagers and I said, Listen, you have no idea You you could just y you don't even have the wherewithal to ask that question. No concept of of what life brings and the challenges there are. So uh you know You just need Web's wisdom when you're raising kids. I mean you need God's grace I remember uh Dave Smith. He's the director at the camp where uh Tim went and served for the summer. I've been a camp director for many, many years, worked with lots and lots of kids and lots of families. And he says you need you need three things to raise godly kids. So I'm going to give them to you right now. Point number one is you need to pray like everything depends on God. And then he preached for about twenty minutes. And then he said, point number two is you need to pray like everything depends upon God. And then you preached for about another 20 minutes. And he said, point number three, you need to pray like everything depends upon God. Because man, it's God's grace and God's goodness. So we pray to focus on God, to find God's will. Sometimes we we pray and fast, I mean, and sometimes we need to pray and fast. to get provision. In Ezra chapter 8, verse 22 and 23, he says, For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us get against the enemy in the way. Because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him, but his power and his wrath is against them that forsake him. And then verse number twenty-three, so he says, We we needed this stuff of the king. But we didn't really want to just go ask him because we told him that God would take care of us. Now, I'm not going to run this rabbit trail, but you just think about our government today and the way people use the government. We told them that our God would take care of us, so we didn't want to go ask the king. And then in verse number 23, he says, so we fasted and besought our God for this. He fasted and besought God. He said, we have this need. There's a major situation here. And those of you that were here back in 2008. when we uh saw the potential of buying this building we're in right now. You remember how this was something that was so far beyond our capacity as a church to even think about buying. I mean it's just no way. And yet we were able to buy it. Why? Because twenty men and many, many ladies committed to fast and pray at least one day a week for six months And as a church we did that. And then the price was dropped by more than half, and God brought in funds from all kinds of places. I mean the miracles that we saw moving into this building was a great moving and working of God, and I think it's because God's people prayed and fasted. And since then we have seen numerous times, not the least of which is the victory in our court case. As many of the church family said, listen, we need to see God do something. We need to pray. We need to fast. And they committed to do so. I had asked the church to fast and pray about one day a week, expecting that this thing would be done within a few months, and it was like a year later. It took a lot longer than we thought. But uh but God did it. So you fast to get provision You fast to get the victory in the battle in Judges chapter twenty, verse number twenty-six. He says, Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up and came unto the house of God and wept and sat there before the Lord and fasted that day. until even and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. They they fasted that God would bring victory in the battle. As we read in Isaiah 58, verse number six, to break yokes uh that that are there. And so we want to uh break those yokes. And so I don't know in your life what's going on. Just encourage you this morning that fasting should be a part of your life. And uh when you fast, it's up to you. And how long of fast is this one day, two days, three days, that's up to you. You you between you and the Lord. And uh what you're going to fast, you know, what y food, food, water, drink, uh, you know, meals, particular things, those those are between you and God. And you just say, I wanna I wanna do this so that I'm focused on you for a period of time And and you just do that for God and His glory. And we talked about what to do when we fast. You pray, you confess sin. Spend time with God. Read the Bible. Spend extra time just reading God's Word while you're fasting. This practical instruction. Matthew Henry said fasting Is a practice that we have reason to lament that is greatly neglected among Christians. It's greatly neglected. So I would encourage us here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church to not make this something we neglect. We just gotta make it part of our spiritual walk with the Lord and remembering these motivations and purposes for it.