And what they were doing, how they were conducting themselves, and Paul was very corrective in those letters. But this book, as we've studied over the last several weeks, is very much correcting doctrine and having the right perspective on on the doctrine especially of salvation and so we walked through a lot of that we won't uh reiterate that tonight and as uh historians characterize the Galatians as a fickle people Uh Caesar said that they're fickle in their resolves, fond of change and not to be trusted. And so the Galatians had been influenced by Judaizers, which is what brought about this epistle. by the Apostle Paul. So the idea of a Judaizer is one who is uh bringing in the teachings of of the Jews to add those to salvation. And so that was the the idea here. Paul is fighting back against the teaching that they had to follow the law of Moses. We find in this book that matter of the just living by faith. And we find the marks of the flesh and the marks of a true believer. And so if you recall, when we talked through the book of Galatians, There was identifying factors in those that were following the law. And one of those marks was circumcision And so the lesson I taught last year was on bearing burdens. And so again, we'll we'll touch on that today, but This book is split into two parts. The first part that we're going through even now, that we're we're beginning to get to close to the end of, is the doctrinal correction and the doctrinal teaching within the that was given to the Galatian people. The last two chapters discussed and the key word in the last two chapters is liberty. And liberty is liberty and how to, the idea in this part of the book is liberty from the law. Liberty from the bondage of following the law of Moses. They were free from that. There was liberty in Jesus Christ. And that liberty was going to bring about certain ways that they were going to live. So there was a identifying factors of a Christian that was going to be very distinct. How you live is going to be very distinct based on the the following of of not following the law but following the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. Now there's one scholar that believes that the Galatians were very rural. So there was a lot of cities that were more spread out in Galatia. And there was a lot of emphasis and this something that might lead uh lend a lot of credence to that is that Paul gave some examples and the ideas and the thoughts, the examples that he provides in this passage, very much were focused on agriculture. And so we'll look at some of those and we'll again bring those into sometimes we can gloss over them, but we'll we'll focus in on those tonight And so the idea or the thought of the message, and you'll see the theme continuing throughout the sermon, is the title of the message tonight is Bear With Me. Bear with me. So as we go through Galatians, I want you to bear with me, and it is a play on words, and I'm not very good on those, but you'll see how we go through that this evening. Bear with me. The first thing that we're going to see is we're going to see fruit-bearing. Fruit bearing. And so in Galatians chapter 5 and verse uh 22 through twenty-three that we'll uh that we'll read uh together and hopefully you can follow along there in your uh in your Bible. Verse 22 says, But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. So what I'll point you to is that in 2019, and I went back on sermon audio to look, in 2019, Pastor did a Sunday school series. on the fruit of the spirit. So if you want to take a deep dive into that, I would encourage you to go to Sermon Audio. You'll see it there. You can look it up by by series. And the series is entitled The Fruit of the Spirit. And it goes through, in some cases, two weeks of each of these elements of the fruit of the Spirit and its importance. And so understand that the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit takes place, it is a natural occurrence when there is life So fruit doesn't come from nothing. And we see that taught elsewhere in the scriptures. You have an apple tree, you're not going to get an orange out of that apple tree. A tree gives forth like fruit. And the same thing, fruit is something that is an indication and it happens when there is life. And when there's uh again if you look at the illustration, when there's water that is being fed into that tree, that uh growth that comes out of that is fruit And so that idea is very similar, and it's something that uh uh a an agricultural society would be able to see, would be able to visualize and see that there was this fruit and there was a tree that was bearing fruit. Fruits, a natural occurrence of life. Now, fruit, if you will again bear with me, you have some lessons that you learn from fruit. Fruit Some very practical applications from fruit. And I remember years and years ago we had a a midweek class that we taught the for the young people before we had master clubs and anything like that. We would break off some of the class and we we we went through the fruit of the spirit and there was some very practical applications that I wanted the kids to take away that I'll share with you tonight. First is that fruit is good for you. Alright. Fruit is natural. There's natural sweetness that occurs in it. And fruit is something that is nutritional and very good for you. And the same thing is true spiritually, right? When you look at the fruit of the Spirit, these elements are something that are a benefit to you. They're a benefit. Love, joy, peace Long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. When you look at that, someone is not going to say, oh, I regret that I am so uh I am so gentle I regret that I am so joyful. That's not something that you hear naturally. So just like fruit, if you eat a fruit, and uh uh I'll get some interaction. Let's see. What is who who has a favorite fruit? I will tell you mine. But I want to know from you what is your favorite fruit? How many of you like apples? Apples are your favorite fruit. I got a couple. Alright. What else is uh someone else have a fruit that they enjoy? Miss Lauren Plums. Oh, we had a plum tree growing up. Plums are good. Miss Nancy, did you have one? Banana. All right. Now here's the thing. I'm allergic to some fruit. I have uh uh an allergy to like watermelon, cantaloupe, uh uh and bananas and avocados, and so I can't eat those things. And uh what else? Someone else have a good fruit? Uh uh Alicia, what was the fruit that you learned to like the most? Avocados, alright, so that's another one. Uh anyone else have a good fruit they want to share? What's that? Figs. Figs? Alright, figs. Peaches? Peaches are good. Alright, very good. Anyone else? Gummy bears don't count for the stars. Miss Kathy? Blueberries. Oh, yes, blueberries. Alright. And so my favorite fruit, if I had an allergy to this fruit, it would be the worst. I love mangoes. I absolutely love mangoes. Mangoes are by far my favorite fruit. And so I enjoy mangoes. And again, that's something that's enjoyable. It's something that is nutritional, and again, it's something that it's good for you. And also another practical part of fruit is that fruit reproduces. So when you look at these spiritual fruits that are going to be coming uh naturally occurring out of a Christian, when you're bearing fruit, when you're bearing the fruit of the Spirit, it is something that is going to reproduce Alright? When you're joyful, when you have that joy flowing out of your heart, it's something that hopefully is going to spread to others When you have love one for another, hopefully that's going to reproduce itself and spread to others. So fruit reproduces. And the other one that I mentioned just a few moments ago is that fruit is to be enjoyed. Alright, it's something that is to be enjoyable and not just nutritious, not just good for us, but it's something that's enjoyable. And the fruit of the Spirit, again, is something that among brethren is going to be enjoyable. Unless you're having a bad attitude, you're not going to get mad that a brother is joyful or uh uh faithful or meek or temperate. That's not something that's that that that comes uh from a person, that's something that you're going to commend and something that you're going to appreciate. So fruit is to be enjoyed. An identifying factor of a Christian is a fruit-bearing Christian. And Another practical thought is if a tree is not bearing fruit, it's an indicator. It's something that is going to alert you that that tree needs attention. If you have a tree that is supposed to be a fruit-bearing tree and it's not bearing fruit, you're going to be concerned. You're going to see maybe there is a disease. Maybe there's something that is hurting the tree. Maybe there's something that is hindering that tree from bearing fruit. That is something, and again, the same thing is true for the fruit of the Spirit. That should be something that is a natural outflow of the Christian life, is the fruit of the Spirit So I'll ask you, is fruit evident in your life? Are you a fruit-bearing Christian? As you look through these these items that we're going to go over, the first one is fruit-bearing. Are you bearing fruit? The second one that we'll go to in Galatians chapter 6, you just move over a couple verses from where we were, and in the beginning of Galatians chapter 6. The idea is what we mentioned uh uh last year is burden bearing. Burden bearing. What is Galatians 6, 1 and 2 says? It says, brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore. such an one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So a Another identifying factor of a Christian is going to be burden bearing. A true Christian will be bearing burdens. And what does that mean? It means that you're lightening the load of a brother. You're helping to carry that load. Now, this is something in an agricultural society that you would see very often. If there was a harvest, if there was a crop, if there was something that needed mood, there were people constantly that were carrying burdens for that that was how labor was accomplished. And again, there would be some that would need help with that. In some cases we use uh Today, it's not something that we see that we would see so apparent in our life. Now we have machinery, we have different technology to help with things. We have, you know, trailers to move things from one place to another. But there was more manual labor that you would see visually as you scanned across the the the the area that you were in and the Galatians would see people if that they were bearing burdens. And so the idea, again, is somebody that is going to lighten the load for someone else. And that gives us the idea that we are supposed to come alongside someone else and lighten their load. That is a identifying factor of a Christian is that they're going to be coming along helping someone with their load. Now, how do we do that? This is taken from the the the message I I did last year. You do that by you bear burdens by paying attention. All right, you bear bear burdens by paying attention. That's very difficult nowadays. It's something that we are a distracted people and we are focused on our tasks. And we're focused on the things that we need to do next, and we're focused on a variety of different priorities that we may have. And Carrying someone else's burden is not necessarily on that priority list. And so we need to be paying attention to see if someone needs help, if someone has a burden. We also bear burdens by praying. Alright, I'll say this. We bear burdens by praying. We can pray for someone. Many times it can be visually apparent. that someone is carrying a burden. And I don't mean that they literally have something that they're carrying, but it's something that is a heaviness upon that. We use those words when we're talking about someone maybe that has a difficulty or a challenge. We say, oh, they look heavy. Like they're they're heavy with something on their heart. And there's a there's a heaviness of heart or there's something that they're carrying a burden. And so you can pray for someone when you see that, that that's readily apparent, but you can also pray with them. Alright, many times if you see and what if you you talk to someone, maybe you see that maybe they're struggling with something or maybe there's some uh angst that that that they're presenting There's no there's there should be something uh within you that would say, you know what, I want to help my brother, I want to help my sister, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna pray with them. And so you ask them, hey, can I pray with you And that's it it's as simple as that. And uh in a lot of cases, I can't right now think of any situation where someone has been like, oh no, no, thank you. All right. Sometimes, and and maybe they just agree upon it because they feel obligated, but hey, at the very least, you're helping to let them know that, hey, I'm here for you I'll stand with you. And if you need help carrying this, I'm here to help you carry that. Alright, you bear burdens also by presence. You bear burdens by presence because Sometimes you just need to be available. We need to take time for those that are burdened. And again, many times with our priorities and the different things that we have going on. That doesn't necessarily make it to the top of our list, but just being available and being there to communicate with someone, to help them with their burden Sometimes just even maybe sending them a message and just saying, hey, you know, I don't know what you're going through, but I'm praying for you. And just letting them know that you're available. And that goes a long way. You can also bear burdens by partnering. And this is also just taking an active role to come alongside someone and help them with that. and uh go with them to go take care of something or uh whatever it is that they're carrying, uh you can help them by coming alongside them. And again, so the question is Again, these are hallmarks of a Christian. Are you helping anyone with their burden? Are you bearing any burdens this evening? We'll move a little bit more down in chapter six to verses seven Verse 7, and the Bible says this. It says, Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, but he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. This idea here of gives us the idea of seed bearing. That is something that you're going to see in an agricultural society. Again, today we there's planters, there's tractors, there's things that go out and plant seed and are very efficient in what they do. But In bygone days historically, in ancient times, this was done manually. This was done by spreading seed across the fields. And so this is something that comes and we have this biblical truth. Now many times we take these two verses and we isolate them And we talk about them, and we do talk about them many times in the negative sense, because we say, hey, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. And so when we look at those things, we're talking about, hey, if you're going to sow bad things, and if you're going to do Things that God does not want you to do, you're going to sow to the flesh, you're going to reap of the flesh corruption. That's what this is talking about. And we we many many times just focus just on that part of the passage. But again, if we take a step back and we look at the book of Galatians and we talk about The first part of it was talking about the doctrine, and the second part of it is talking about how to live and how we can identify those that are living in the liberty of Jesus Christ. One of those Hallmarks is going to be that they reap what they sow. But really where this takes it a step further is that In the second half of verse 8, it says, But he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting And so that implies to us that we need to make sure that as Christians that we are sowing to the Spirit, that we're sowing to the Spirit, because that will give us the ability to reap life everlasting. Now, the next verse also gives another implication that when you're sowing to the Spirit Just like you're bearing seed in the field and you're doing that all day to reap and you want to reap a good harvest, that's difficult. That's challenging. It's hard work. It's not something that is going to be light work. It will make you weary So when you're looking at this, we're sowing to the Spirit, and that's what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to be seed-bearing Christians, and then there's a follow-up there on verse 9 that says And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. That work, that labor, that rigor of sowing to the Spirit is not something that's easy. And you could get weary in it. And the Bible is acknowledging that. But the Bible tells us: don't be weary in well-doing. And so as we are seed-bearing. We're in the fields. It's something that may be tiresome, but continue to do it in due season, the Bible implies here, the Bible tells us. that we shall reap if we faint not. So we're going to be sowing seed This principle, this wonderful principle that we are going to be sowing seed and making sure that we're reaping what we've sown. So the question that comes from this idea is, how are you sowing to the Spirit? Where are those areas that you're sowing to the Spirit? Again, this is a hallmark. This is something that is going to be Identifying of a Christian is that they're going to be sowing to the Spirit, as the Bible says here. So how are you doing that? How are you doing in those areas? And there's ways again, those are the the positive things that we're doing. The things where we're following what the Lord wants us to do and making sure that we're honoring the Lord so that we can reap those things to our spiritual benefit. The last one that we'll see is right at the end of the, right at the end of the book. And the last Thought hallmark is one of brand bearing. Brand bearing. And in Galatians chapter 6 verse 17, all the way there at the end of the book, it says this, From henceforth, let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. Now, again, when you look at this idea of an agricultural society, there are going to be very many things that visually a person would see. And a person would see A tree bearing fruit. A person would see people carrying burdens. A person would see someone that is sowing seed throughout the area. But another thing that you would see is a person bearing a brand or bearing marks, as the Bible says here. That is a common scene of the laborers in these times, and many times these laborers were slaves. And so understand that The slave bore these marks, or what would be considered a brand. These brands were to display ownership. And so when we look and we consider that, let's take a step back there. You see some of this teaching in the book of Leviticus when there was a servant that was purchased. and they were committed to an owner and that person uh if they were there for uh if you recall in the law it would say that after seven years that individual was to be released If he had family, uh, that he had uh maybe have gotten married, maybe have had some kids, those were belongs to his owner. Uh but he was to be set free, but there was an option where he could remain and stay there with his owner if he was satisfied with the work there, and that would be cemented or that contract was fulfilled by that servant receiving a hole in their ear. And so they were wearing an earring. And so that was a mark that showed that that person had relinquished their ability to be free And maintained their owner maintained ownership of him. And so there was this idea of many, these identifying factors to servants. And here, Paul uses this as a picture to illustrate that he's marked as a slave. If you look at that, he says, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. He's owned by Jesus Christ. And when you look at, there's a there's a passage in 2 Corinthians, when you look at that passage, when Paul breaks down a list of the suffering and the trials and the challenges that he has faced He speaks of this, of the suffering that he did for Christ. And some of those left literal scars. And when a slave would be branded, that would leave scars on the individual. And so these scars, these marks that Paul is talking about here, he's saying that he bears on his body the marks of the Lord Jesus. That suffering. was proof of ownership by Jesus Christ. Now, we're not going to go too far in this But there should be some identifying factors for a Christian because the Bible says that we're bought with a price. And so our owner Therefore, the Bible says, therefore, glorify God in your body, because that belongs to God. God is our owner. We are, the Bible uses another term, the the uh servant It's the idea of a bond slave, a person who is enslaved to Christ. And so how what is it? What are those marks? What are those identifying factors? That someone could see that you are Christ's property That you are owned by Christ. That's something that should be readily apparent. We'll wrap up with an illustration I'll give a general illustration of what we would call the hallmarks of liberty. There was a distinction in Our country, when it was founded, there was a distinction in the liberty that we had. And those hallmarks were outlined in our founding documents. When you look at that, there, the Bill of Rights, the Constitution, and there were some markers that made our system of government very unique. at the time. Some of those we still hear about and we communicate today. It was the the freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, those things that are enumerated in the Bill of Rights. Those things were hallmarks of liberty for our country. And so there's a certain Way that you can see how an American is based on how we live our life as Americans. And that's because of the system of government that we've that we've grown up in. And there are some places where it's not that way. In China, you're not free to say whatever you want to say. In China, you're not free to assemble without a permit if you have over a certain amount of people. And not all countries have the same hallmarks of freedom that we have. Now, I say that because there's this comparison that we see even in the scriptures. There was a bondage to the law that we've talked about in the first four chapters of Galatians. There was a bondage in it. And there were hallmarks of the Mosaic system. There was the mark of circumcision. There was the mark of sacrifice and the ceremonial sacrifices that would take place in the Mosaic system. There was the mark of following the law, but in the New Testament there was a liberty that was found in Christ. And so Paul was pointing out that you are free from the law when you're in Christ. Now again, just to wrap it up, that liberty had different hallmarks, and that's really what the emphasis of Galatians was It was that you're no longer bound to the law, and anyone that's trying to put you back in sh the shackles of the law They don't understand the liberty that's in Christ. And there were some identifying hallmarks of that liberty Ways that you would be able to identify a Christ follower. And those were these that you see in front of you. Are you bearing fruit? Are you bearing burdens? Are you sowing to the Spirit? And are you bearing the hallmarks of a believer? Are you bearing the brand of Jesus Christ? And so with that, these are the Things that we're supposed to be bearing. We are looking at how can we be identified with Christ? So we talk about some of those things. We talk about some of those like baptism. Baptism is an identification with Christ. But beyond those things, in your day-to-day life, in how you appear to other people, there are ways that you will stand out, that you will be identified as a believer. And so these are some of those areas, and hopefully you can ask the question, how are you doing in these areas? Is there any that need some extra attention? I'll ask them one more time. Are you bearing fruit? Are you bearing burdens? Are you sowing to the Spirit? And are you bearing the hallmarks of a believer?