Is the book of Philippians and we're going to turn there uh tonight and read some very familiar verses, some verses tonight that uh almost Uh I I'm sure if you've heard any message out of the Book of Philippians, you have heard a message on these verses. And uh so I don't know that I'll give you any new insight, but I think tonight hopefully remind you of some truths and encourage you uh to this as we look at a message tonight that I've entitled The Genius of the Christian. The genius of the Christian. And uh hopefully you'll see why and Jacob Peterson won't give me too hard of a time about stretching my titles. But uh the genius of the Christian Philippians chapter four tonight, we're in verse eight and nine. He says, Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true. Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things of good report. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Those things which you have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do, and the God of peace shall be with you. This chapter four here, we've looked already a couple of weeks at it. We've dived into it. as good of a church as the church at Philippi was. And you know, as far as churches go, uh Paul's letter really is just a commendation for the most part. It's a letter of gratitude. It's an expression of thanksgiving for their care and concern for him. But in he also takes just a minute and he kind of addresses says, hey, there's a little something that uh has come to my knowledge and I I think we need to be aware of it Odius and Syntichy have somewhat against each other. There's a problem there. And what I'm saying is No matter how good of a church you have, there is still going to be some problems. That's life in a nutshell. Because there is no perfect church Because per because churches are made up of sinners. We're all just sinners saved by grace. And uh everywhere you go, I think sometimes, and I've heard people talk about it, you know, well I'm gonna I I'm done going to that church. They got this problem and that problem. I'm going to go to some other church. Well, you know what? You're going to find over there, you're going to find the same problems with different names That's basically what it's gonna be. Uh because there's problems everywhere you go. There's situations and and things that really as the family of God we ought to be able to just work through with the grace of God and still love and care for one another and be of The like mind, the same mind, and that is of course having the mind of Christ, and it's possible to do in an effort, Paul in an effort to try and get Odis and Syndech As well as the rest of the believers there to function as true yoke fellows. He requests that they be of the same mind. He encourages them to rejoice regardless. Rejoice, regardless of the problems or circumstances you might be facing. Allow the peace of God to keep your heart and mind So that they wouldn't have to live in constant anxiety. He reloads and he lets loose with one last salvo, as it were. One last big gun in an effort to get them to to let the peace of God reign in their heart Whatever might be coming, he says, hey, this peace is for you, and you need to have that, and what's going to help you have that peace in your heart is you need to control your mind That's what he tells them. Because, beloved, I want you to realize or remind you tonight that the war is really won or lost in the mind. The war is won or lost in the mind. Many times we will look at the actions of a man. We will see a man and he's taken some steps and uh he's gone and he's fallen into sin. And we say, boy, he lost the battle. Well, at that point he's lost the war. But the battle was lost way back here When he didn't control his mind. Because as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And when we don't control our mind, the mind is what's going to dictate and direct our steps. And when we don't control the mind, wrong thoughts always lead to wrong actions. And beloved, right thoughts will lead to right actions. This is why Satan attacks the mind of believers so much. He comes in and because the mind can function and operate in real relative obscurity, that is, people, your mind is not under the scrutiny of your fellow believers. You know, nobody else besides God and you can see into your mind. When you walk into church and you see somebody and you say, boy. Those clothes don't match in your mind. Nobody else sees that. You know, nobody else, you're like, you would never say that out loud, but you you know Like, oh my goodness, look at her. Wow, uh Lord help me. Uh you know, you you no things that you would never allow to come out your mouth, they go through your mind sometimes, don't they? And beloved, what we've got to do is we've got to control the mind. Because where the mind goes, the feet will soon follow The action will soon follow. And I know sometimes Satan attacks the mind and a thought comes and you know we can say, Get thee behind me, Satan, and we can get that out of our mind. But when you dwell on something when you allow something to to stay there for a peculiar for a period of time, for instance, we just had that study on infidelity And beloved, nobody ever crossed the line of infidelity and were unfaithful to their mate, but for a long time earlier they lost the battle in their mind. As a long time earlier, they started entertaining the thoughts. They started thinking about what it would be like. They started fantasizing and dreaming about what is possible. They thought, well, maybe I could get away with it like this, and no, surely not. And in their mind, they think they're just thinking about it. They would never follow through with it. They would never do it. But then what happens? They end up doing it. Because they allowed their mind to go that direction. I want you to see, beloved, that we have got to control our mind. That is the genius of the Christian. This is where the battle is won. This is where this is one of the strongest weapons we have in fighting against Satan. It's just controlling our mind. Satan's going to come and attack the mind, and we've got to get our mind back in line. Wrong thinking always leads to wrong actions So we see here the attitude that we're supposed to have. He gives us this command to control our thought life. We are to bring, beloved, every thought into captivity. 2 Corinthians 10, verse number 5, says, casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Now what a challenge there. Bring every thought into captivity. Don't let your mind this goes against and is contrary to literally almost all of today's entertainment Because today's entertainment is based on not thinking. I mean, sometimes if you even put it some of the entertainment today is so far stretched Y your mind is almost like, okay, that is idiotic. Like, how in the world can that guy There's 36 highly trained SWAT officers, all shooting their weapons. Somehow they all miss him. Yet he works his way through the group and one shot at a time kills all thirty-six of them. Now where where were all those thirty-six trained? They must have been trained somewhere else because I mean how in the world? If you let your mind engage for a minute, you think, okay, that's pretty stupid actually. Um that did not just happen. He didn't just fly through the air and and somehow spin in such a way that he literally just missed every bullet. Just perfectly you know. And then as he was falling he shot behind his back upside down and killed three people with one bullet. You know? Uh you they don't want you to engage your mind And it's entertainment and there's nothing wrong with entertainment as long as it's clean. But what I'm saying is that fantasy world is where Satan likes us to live. Because we're to bring our mind into captivity. We've almost lost the ability to think on a deep level today, to allow our mind to really ponder and think. The mind is Satan's battleground and he will do all he can to get you to think wrong. I've seen it over and over and over again. One of the quickest ways for Satan to get somebody bent out of shape is they just get something in their mind a little bit wrong. Something that another brother or sister in Christ said, they took it wrong, they they whatever, and they're thinking about that, they're letting that dwell in their mind, and it is just getting them more and more irritated. This is Satan. We need to recognize it as what it is. Instead, we baby it. Instead, we feed it. And we say, yeah, that guy was wrong. One of the greatest weapons we have in fighting against Satan is the ability that God has given us with his power to control what we He says, beloved, to think on these things. And I know you've heard messages on these. I'm going to try and go quickly through this. We are first to think on that which is true. That which is true. That is opposed to that which is false. Manufactured something that's not real. So many times we come up with our own thoughts and own perceptions on things. And many times they're far from correct. They're far from what is actual reality. And I ask you tonight, what is true? Well, you know God's word is true. You know Jesus Christ is true. I am the way, the truth, and the life If you would like to ponder and think about something that is true, think about these things. Start your day thinking on these things, these things that are true, and God's Word and Jesus Christ, and it will help you. It'll keep you from getting mixed up in that which is not true. We're to think about whatever is honest. Honest, the idea here is noble or opposed to that which is vulgar. Satan beguiled evil, uh Satan beguiled Eve's mind through dishonesty. He tricked her. There's a lot of false thinking today in the world. And it's betrayed a lot. And you've got to be careful. If your consumption today is Of your everyday news, I can tell you you're being fed a lot of false assumptions. A lot of false philosophies and ideas And you've heard it over and over again, if you say something enough times, you begin to believe it's true. And that's how a lot of things get we just say it enough, and since it's been said enough, it must be fact. Yeah, I'm not going to chase that rabbit This foolishness with gender identities and all this that can, you know, God made man and woman Doesn't matter how many times they say it. Uh y you don't just get to decide, oh well I'm a woman today. Or well maybe I'm half and half today. I heard a whole new group, a whole new segment today I heard about that's that's literally they're kind of in the middle and aren't sure. And so we've got to recognize them as that. Okay, well, this is just foolishness. And the world is buying this hook, line, and sinker. Because it's being said over and over again. But we're not to be listening to and allowing those things to influence our mind. We're to think on that which is honest. But I fear lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that's in Christ. Don't allow your mind to be corrupted by this world. Think on that which is just, that is things that measure up. Things that measure up to God's standard, because God is always just and his judgments are always true. We should be just in our dealings with one another, not just uh uh doing what is beneficial for me, which is the way the world functions Well, I'll do whatever's most beneficial for me. But we should be just. We should be fair. I bought a a C do for the Min and Voice camp out. And I was told that this thing was running, it just needed a battery. The guy was lying through his teeth. So far I've replaced the battery. I've replaced the computer module. I have replaced the starter module. I replaced the starter, and it's still not running. So uh I have one more thing that Wilby told me to try, which I gotta buy and stick in there. Pretty soon we're gonna be all the way down to everything but the motor. The guy lies through his teeth. Christian ought not to be able to do that. Now he probably is not a Christian. I don't have any reasons, but I'm saying as Christians we shouldn't be handling ourselves that way. You shouldn't be able to say, well, I didn't say it was running. Okay, you lied by not saying what was wrong with it. It's just, hey, it quit last time I was out. I can't get it started. If you really don't know what's wrong with it, you can say, listen, it quit, it's not running. Could be the engine's blowing, it could be just the loose wire. I don't know. But I'm telling you everything I know about it. That's how you sell something. You say, well then I'm not going to get as good a price. Okay, it's about being just About being fair, doing what's right. Yeah. Having a clear conscience before God and man That's what you're supposed to be doing. Think on whatever is pure, that is clean and holy. What a challenge that is today and today's world. We are bombarded on every hand with evil continually. Now, beloved, you might not be able to keep an impure thought from entering your mind, but you surely can keep from dwelling upon it. We've got to bring those thoughts into captivity. Paul told Timothy, Let no man despise thy youth, but be of the believers in word and conversation, in charity, be thou an example In spirit, in faith, in purity. As Christians, we ought to be an example of these things. And the only way we'll be an example of that is when we think on pure things Impure thoughts lead to impure actions every time. You can't continue to just think about those things without it ultimately leading in that direction. Y you just can't. Young men, this is a battle you're gonna have. I tell you something, it's not gonna get easier when you get married. You think, oh, I'm going to get married in this battle and my mind's going to go away. No, it's not. The Bible says that the eyes of man are never satisfied. You have to fight to control your mind. Otherwise, your mind will take you down a road into places that will destroy everything you value in your life. The relationships that you have and those that you hold most precious Think on what is lovely, that is pleasing and agreeable, lovely things And pleasing. Just read 1 Corinthians chapter 13. We're not going to turn time take time to turn there, but it's the idea. Everything God has created is lovely. Deserves our attention and admiration. It is sin that has taken the lovely things of God and perverted them and destroyed them and corrupted them. It's sin that's taken those magnificent things And you could take every area of life and go down that road. There's amazing plants that God has given us that have healing properties and they can be used to heal the body in a magnificent way. Those Satan plants can be taken and turned into a drug that destroys the body. It it's taken what God has created and given us and corrupting it because of man's sinful nature. And we can apply that to many areas of life, but we want to look and think about the lovely things. Think on what is ever what is that of a good report that is praiseworthy things. You know, one pastor gave the example of the Christian who is either an eagle or a vulture The eagle and the vulture both have very good vision. But the vulture is consistently looking for dead things. And vulture's the one looking around to pick at the putrefied bodies of the vile things that have been left And how are you? Are you a an eagle or a vulture? Gravitate and look for those things, look for that little thing that you can pick away at Do you find fault in everything? I can't control what happens to me, but I can control what happens inside of me You decide what you're going to think about. You decide what you're going to conquer. And beloved, it is a mark of Christian maturity when you can direct your thoughts. in a particular way. And it takes it takes time to be able to learn how to do that. It takes walking with God. It takes God's strength. Sometimes some some maybe some I I've talked to and and with people who are really dealing with the spirit of fear, especially over this last year The spirit of fear and the anxiety that came from the unknown and and COVID and and the possibility of of impending death and sickness. And all of that and and can I go out of my house or what can I do? And and and they talked about the idea of this fear grabbing a hold of them and to where they couldn't even function That is something that's real that people faced and people dealt with last year. But praise God that He has given us not the spirit of fear, but of love and of a sound mind. God's given us the strength to overcome that fear. If we can control our thoughts, we got to be careful what it is we're thinking about. I'll tell you, if you spend some time thinking or listening to a message on the love of God and the power of God and the sustaining strength of God. If you listen to that, instead of listening to the news You probably would have a better control of what you're thinking about. So some of it's not just all up here, but you heard and you know that what you put in is what comes out, right? So sometimes that controlling of our mind starts with what we're putting into our mind, with what we're allowing to soak into our mind One of the reasons some people have such a hard time with their with their conversation of saying words that they shouldn't be saying is because they listen to that kind of conversation all the time. And it's one thing if you're in a workplace and you're in an environment where that is prevalent and and it happens nonstop and And you have a very hard I mean you can't hardly get away from it. Some of the construction sites and so on, I understand that. But if you're bringing it into your home and playing it on your television and listening to it on your radio and all that, that's your fault. You let that go into your heart and mind, and then when something happens, bam, what's going to come out of your mouth? Oh bless the Lord. Yeah. Uh yeah, you gotta be careful what you're putting in there because when there's no filter What's going to come out? And I think God will give you grace if you're in a place where you don't have control over it, where you're like in a construction site or somewhere where that kind of language is prevalent. And and you can't con you you have no control over that. I think God will help you to keep that out of your mind. But I think when you're bringing it in yourself and just watching whatever and you've got no no care or concern you just listen to whatever. I think God says, okay, if that's what you want to fill your mind with So some of controlling this mind is also controlling what comes into it. Think on whatever's of good virtue. Whatever's there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Anytime we're not thinking on these things, we're falling short of God's plan for the peace that we should have in our life. It's clear, beloved, the Christian is to have a positive outlook on life. Now, too many Christians have their spirituality wrapped up in how negative they can be. You know, it's kind of like the more we can point out how wrong things are. The more spiritual we are. I'm more spiritual if I can point out this problem, that problem, that problem. But I don't see that in the scriptures We are to be thinking about what is right. No, there are things that are wrong. There's things that are wrong in the world. There's things that are wrong we've got to address and deal with. But the focus, what I'm saying is the focus of our mind should be on these things, on those positive things. We might be a little less discouraged, a little less distracted, and a little less defeated as Christians if we would stop thinking about how bad all the junk is around us and start thinking about how good our God is. Where's your focus tonight? Colossians 3 verse number 2 says, set your affection on things above, not on things in here. Set your affection, what you're thinking about, what you're pondering. As these kids get a little older. Elise is there right now. You know, at that age where she may determine to set her affection somewhere. It it starts to take over the mind. It's amazing how that happens. It's like, you know, I know I got supposed to be in, you know college speech here where I'm supposed to be thinking about algebra, but I my mind keeps going to this guy No. I don't know who the guy is yet, but she's uh you know, it's that that happens when your affection gets set there. Well are your is your affection set on things above? Your mind will just continue to go back to those things Automatically. If that's where our affection is. We see not only our attitude is going to dictate uh our actions, but we see the command here to let it dictate our actions and then to do something about it. He said in verse number nine, these things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. It's not really until we put into action our faith that it makes a difference in our life. We have far too many theoretical Christians They like the idea of it all. They like to come in and sit in church and hear about it But for them, it's just a nice theory at this point. They have not put it into practice in their daily life. And it's not enough to know what is right, are living Should always coincide with our learning. It's not just enough to have head knowledge about what the scripture says. It's got to impact what we do on a day-to-day basis. He says, do this, do what you've learned, do what you've received, do what you've heard, do what you've seen me do. He says, do these things. We know James 1:22 says, be doers of the word and not hearers only. Or you're deceiving your own selves. He's saying, you know, too many Christians they come into church and they sit in church Sunday after Sunday after Sunday and they hear the preaching of the Word of God, but no change is made in their life. They're deceiving themselves. We're deceiving ourselves. We've heard so many messages on prayer, and in my mind I'm pondering and thinking about this next message that's coming the first of next month on prayer. I've been reading and thinking about the direction and what would God have me to do and is there a biblical story or example that God would have me draw from for that particular message and what should we do because we've looked so much at prayer and but I wonder How much has our prayer lives really changed this year? Oh, I know in our mind we know these things, and we say, yes, this is what it ought to be Man, I can't get past the thought that God gave me as I was preaching on this our theme verse for this month. That When you pray in secret, God will reward you openly. And the idea that God will reward you for every minute you spend in secret prayer. That has just been pounding in my heart and saying, Man, you ought to be praying so much more in secret because God's going to reward that. God's going to reward that. And in my mind, I just keep getting hammered with it. But has it changed my steps? Sadly, I have to say, if I'm being honest with you tonight, it hasn't made the impact that I want it to make in my life. We need God to do something, and it's got to change our life. We've got to start to do what we've learned You know, some people are waiting to do some great magnificent thing for God. But you know, greatness is doing the little things. Faithfully. More and more I am struck with how important just simple faithfulness is Just faithfulness. Just do what you said you were going to do. Be where you said you were going to be. complete what you said you were going to complete in every area of our life. Faithfulness in our homes, in our marriages, with our relationships, with our our responsibilities at church, with our job. I I mean one of the biggest problems I went into autozone yesterday getting a part for Mary's car. And big sign right there, $500 bonus if you sign up for work. $500 just to sign up for work. They can't get anybody even just to show up for work. People say I can't find a job. Man, we need faithfulness today. No matter how small of a task, can you be faithful at This is an emphatic word given to us here, do. That is to practice to you've heard the saying, practice what you preach Practice what you preach. Biblical awareness is of little to no value until you put it into action. It makes very little difference how many sermons you listen to or how many Bible studies you complete. If it's not going to change your life. It's not gonna change your action. You take just the things we're looking at right now, think thinking about something that's true. How do I how do I do that? Okay, well, you be true to all that God has talked to. How you do what God has said. Think on the think on these things that are true. Okay, I'm thinking on these things that are true, and if God teaches me that, I'm true to that knowledge. I live that out. I do that Be true to your fellow man as you have interactions with them. Be true to them. Be true to your word. This is how we do what we've thinking about. Putting it into action. Thinking about being honest. Do it. Be honest in your deal in your deal units. And I'm not gonna go through all of them. We don't have time tonight. We m may we be like Ezra. Ezra chapter 7, verse number 10, it says, For he had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it. He just didn't want Bible knowledge for the sake of Bible knowledge and being able to quote a verse because I can quote a verse. But he wanted to know God. So that he could be what God wanted him to be. So he could do what God wanted him to do. Lastly, we see that we have a promise here of the continual presence of the God of peace that will be with us. I can't help but think that many times the God of peace is not with us because of what we've been thinking about. Because of what we've been thinking about. He can't dwell in such built or in such negativity. So by our dwelling on these things, we've pushed out the God of peace that wants to dwell with us. But if we could control this that's the genius of a Christian