All right. I hope all of you had a good night's rest and uh we're looking forward to a good day today, I am, and um this um short devotional I have to I have to talk really fast. My there it is. Now can you hear me back in the back? All right. Praise the Lord. Okay, uh I was reading the other day some some stupid advice for families. And uh one person said it's healthy to have a good fight now and then to keep the relationship lively. Now that's dumb. But uh that was somebody somebody said this use the fight itself as a way of building your own feelings of self-worth If you have very little else to feel good about, then at least you can feel good about your fighting ability. I mean, uh, that's people that have failed and are just trying to look for something to keep from committing suicide, I guess. But uh if the children refuse to clean up their rooms, just close the door and stop looking at the mess. Well that's a solution, isn't it? If you're fighting simply if you're fighting, simply leave the room for a short time when you feel the same old fight pattern begin to emerge. And then uh when your children are happy to dispute, simply go to your bedroom, shut the door and read until the requests for your re to you to resolve the arguments are over Those are really silly, aren't they? Really dumb. And men, uh, there's solutions to our problems that are a whole lot better than those things But somebody said being married is like having a best friend who can't remember anything you say. There's that's the only one that has a lot of truth in it probably that I read. But um Uh I'm supposed to speak for just a few moments on giving your heart to your spouse. I have a message that I preach periodically on how to get the heart of your children, but giving your heart to your spouse. All of us understand that it's more fun to give presents to your children on Christmas than it is for you to get them. You've learned that verse that says it's more blessed to give than to receive. And we understand that, but then when it gets to your marriage relationship You don't like that too much and we have a selfish streak in us. And um uh unless you or your spouse give to each other then uh you'll not have a whole lot of happiness in your home. Um and uh whenever your spouse is kind to you It is pretty nice to express some gratitude to your spouse whenever they uh express uh good kindness to you. Um give your heart to your spouse Uh that's unselfishness. And forget about your own happiness and be Kind to your wife or your husband. And uh in uh it's kind of like uh i in the Bible it says that um If you want to have friends, be friendly. And while you're being friendly, then you'll get friends. If you want to get things, be generous and give things away It doesn't make any sense, but give and it shall be given unto you, good major and pressed down, shaken together. And and folks, if we give of ourselves to our spouse then it returns accidentally to you. You automatically get get uh blessed because of it. Um Your the love for your spouse ought to be expressed every day. Every day. Uh you can ask my wife if you want, but almost every meal that we have At the end of the meal, I'll look at my wife and say, Thank you so much for fixing this meal for us. And Just a little thought there to express my appreciation to my wife for spending all the time making the meal. And I tell you what, she's a pretty good cook too. And uh it's uh hard for me to not weigh three or four hundred pounds uh with uh as good a cook as she is. Um Do you know that the greatest gift that you uh uh can give to your children is to be good to their mother. Be kind to their mother. Do you know actually, however you treat your wife is probably the way your sons are going to treat their wife one of these days And if you're really kind and generous and thoughtful and appreciative to your wife, that's the way they'll treat their wife later. If you're the opposite of that Then that you may be trying to counsel your sons to keep them from getting a divorce because uh they treat their wife so rotten And so uh uh you can just love their mother and be good to them. Uh each person in the home should be treated with respect and kindness. Every one of them should be Uh you ought to not show no any favorites in your home. Uh I have six children, but uh I have twenty these twenty-six grandkids. Whenever I see 'em I say, man, Melanie, you're in the top twenty-six of my grandkids. And love 'em all the same. And um uh then show your affection toward 'em. Uh give 'em a hug. Uh Now the boys shake hands, you know, and and if you give a hug make it pretty awkward, you know, or whatever. But but um but mostly uh shake hands with the fellows. But um sarcasms and put downs are not allowed. We don't allow that. And uh also parents ought not to be sarcastic toward each other because that rubs off on your kids too. I mean, even if you can handle it, then it it has a bad effect. There are millions of people Who need a little kindness. You ought to start with your own family. Uh and um families should go to church together and worship together. It was never ever a question in my home. Nobody none of my kids ever asked me says, well, do we have to go to church today? But uh I'll tell you what, um Jesus Christ is the glue that holds your family together. And if your children realize that God is real to you And that you love your her y your wife or your husband and so on, all of that stuff is contagious. uh to your children. And it says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, all thy soul, and all thy might. And so uh time for Christian activities And the family activities together is so important. Don't be so busy that you don't have time for your children And uh time for your wife. It was nice to have a date by night last night. Only trouble is most of the time that I had date night I did not take my son and his wife along with me. You know. But uh but anyway uh uh we ought to spend time with our family. Place place place a high priority on building memories If I had time I could spend a couple hours just telling you about memories that we've done together. About I took all of my boys moves hunting up in northern Canada one time Man, we had a great time. Took took all my boys to Israel. Spent a week a couple fourteen days over at Israel. Took all my boys to the Grand Teton. But we every two or three years we were doing something together just as a family, building some memories. And we get together then and we can talk about all of those things and we can laugh and play and and just really enjoy Talking about some of the experiences that we have had together. And you need to build some of those things. Eat together and talk to each other when you're eating together and so on. Uh Christianity ought not to be something that you tuck into your lives on Sunday, but Christianity ought to be a seven-day-a-week thing You know. Uh Monday ought to be just as exciting serving God as it is on Sunday. And so uh don't be afraid. Your children will see through it just like that. And if you are different on Sunday than you are on Monday through Saturday. Your children will see it, they won't want anything to do with God because they don't want to be in that uh false life all of their lives. So uh be real uh with your children uh and be uh real on in your Christianity. If your uh if your husband is leading in devotions, like he should, then the wife should support the effort. Uh children need to know that both of you are on the same page concerning that. uh smile and boo uh uh be enthusiastic about the times of devotions and your children will get enthusiastic about it too And they'll start loving devotions. Hey, are we having devotions tonight? You know. Uh every uh night my daughter is fifty-one years old and every night she'd say, Hey, we're gonna have prayer together? Of course we're going to have prayer together, you know, but she always comes and reminds us and and uh the things like that. Now uh be interested in the things that your spouse is interested in. For instance, if your husband likes golf Well then be interested in in his golf game. I mean when he gets home from golf, ask him what his score was. Now of course it'll t he'll be tempted to lie uh about that, you know, so but but uh be interested in that thing. And it wouldn't be really too bad if you even s tried to play a little bit. Now of course you'll never get as good as your husband, but uh on playing the game but but uh be good to to to take it up a little bit. Um and then Uh so be interested in his hobbies like that. If a wife has a hobby, be interested in her hobby, husband. For instance, my wife loves to go to secondhand stores. And you know, to tell you the truth, I can take it or leave it. It doesn't matter to me much. But to tell you the truth, I have become somewhat interested because one time I drove from um from i uh Indiana oh halfway here to new to halfway to New York and I get about to Cleveland and I realize I forgot and left my suit bag uh on the bed at home. I didn't have any suits along with me at all. So I stopped at a Goodwill in Rochester, New York on the way through, and found uh Hart Chapner and Mark's suit for twenty-five dollars that looked like it hadn't even been worn and it fit me except for the length of the tro trousers. And I took th them to a trailor that I knew and he fixed them all up and so on uh for about thirteen bucks and so uh and then I had a like a brand new suit, you know, and found that at a junk store Wow. And so uh you know do you know what the uh uh the fad is today is for everybody to wear brown shoes Now I can't understand why in your wor world you would wear a blue suit and brown shoes. I'd say, Good night, that guy's colorblind. But that's the end thing. Really? I mean everybody all uh you a lot of preachers they they get up if they're wearing brown shoes then man they're in. They're in they're on the they're on the ball. Uh and I found a pair of brown shoes in a junk store the other day That were brand new. Uh they were uh uh uh doctors, doctors, really good ones. And anyway, uh so I bought those things and so one of these days when I get enough courage I'm gonna wear them with a b blue suit. But they're real comfortable too You know, so uh so it's not bad for you to really uh enjoy your wife's hobbies. and have her enjoy your hobbies. And let me just say that hobbies are not worth a marriage. And if it gets to be a problem Quit your stupid hobby. Stop your golf and if she hates it and can't get on board, then do something else. You know, and vice versa. You know, um we have a tendency to be selfish And want our own way and do our own thing and so on and don't be doing that in your life. Uh uh show some wisdom. Show some wisdom in your life. Sometimes come to a happy medium and if you have to. Money ought to be handled wisely. Discuss it openly with each other. In my family, I handle all uh the money. the records and so on. Have it all on my computer. I don't have any secrets from my wife uh the on the money. And uh uh if we have a problem we discuss it together and try to adjust our spending to be c staying within the budget If you're living out of your budget, decrease your budget. Maybe you need to sell your house, maybe you need to sell a car, maybe you need to whatever you need to do to de to live within your budget Whatever you make. You know, if you lost your job, you're probably not gonna die. You're gonna somehow figure out how to exist. Why don't you do that with your spending Rather than getting in debt. The average person is is uh about nine or ten thousand dollars in debt on their credit cards. Paying twenty twenty or twenty-five percent interest. Let me just say that if you uh doing that, you're dumb. Man, you don't want to do that. Don't have that credit card debt. Um well I don't want to end on a being dumb thing there, so uh but You know, every household should share share the task whenever you know, your your wife is not the maid of the house to do all the work in the house. And so uh divvy that up to y from y with yourself and also your children and so on. Uh help uh the children to learn how to mow the lawn and how to do the laundry, how to uh fold the clothes and how to uh empty the trash and how to take out uh garbage and how to keep the room clean, how to make their bed and vacuum and wash dishes and set the table and remove snow when it snows and sweep the garage and rake the yard uh and a thousand other things that you can teach them to do. so that mom doesn't have to do it all. Uh I mean she works her head off. My wife uh my wife uh has gotten such a habit of working that she doesn't stop working And uh uh it'd be nice if she'd probably just take a break and just sit down and with me, you know. I I I'm kinda lazy. I like to sit down and rest when it's time to rest. But but uh but anyway I'm through confessing my sins. Kindness in a home is important, treating your spouse the way you should like to be we'd like to be treated, whether uh she deserves it or not It might be that if you keep treating her sweet and nice, it might change her to where periodically she would deserve it then. But uh be nice to her. Uh we all need a little kindness from our spouse. Um constantly think of nice things that you can do for each other. Well there's a lot of other things I can say but I want to end up with this verse. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, and whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just and whatsoever things are pure and lovely Whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtues or any praise, think on these things. Always think, what does my spouse think? What would she want? What would he prefer? And be willing to change your plan. Forget about your wants. Forget about yourself. Think of your spouse Others, Lord, yes others. Let this my motto be that even while I kneel and pray, my prayer shall be for others. Heavenly Father, I pray that you would bless today's activities and thank you for these sweet people, Lord. And pray that you would bless them today and give them something, Lord, that would be helpful to them. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.