All right, I wanted to start it off by uh saying thank you to Pastor for uh inviting us to come here and share our ministry. Uh this is actually the two hundred and twenty-second different church we've been in over the last twenty months. Uh I can tell you that uh we've seen all kinds, but uh I really enjoyed coming here as soon as I came in uh a little bit after four to uh try to get uh uh table set up and uh get some information about how the service was going to be. There were two people that uh knew me by name. Or at least they they they greeted me by name and I tell you that uh that means a lot to me and I want to say thank you for that. Uh I want to say thank you for allowing us to stay at your prophet's chamber. Um it might not mean much to you, but uh having two bedrooms. It's awesome. Um I tell you, uh as much as we travel, uh we're grateful for wherever we stay, a hotel room or or whatever it is that but you know there's there's seven of us So just everybody being in one room and with that many young kids, somebody's gonna wake up during the night crying. And uh if it's just one of them it's gonna be me later on 'cause I know as soon as I wake up, it doesn't matter if it's two o'clock in the morning, three o'clock in the morning, it doesn't matter. I might as well just stay up because I'm not going to be able to go back to sleep. So thank you so much for having that and I certainly appreciate it. Now I'm going to tell you a little bit about our ministry uh that's that's not in the video, so to speak Want to give my testimony very briefly. Uh I am aware of the time there's a big clock. I don't I don't even need this. Like some of the churches, you know, that they're you know God bless 'em. They they they'll they'll t they'll say things like uh they'll um just as long as the Lord leads And uh sometimes I have to actually go to the the pastor's wife and say, What time does the church accustomed getting out so she'll tell me. Uh and I got one of these right here, but I don't need it because y'all got one right up there. So that's good. Good. Alright. Um where was I? Oh telling about myself. Okay, so um I I'm aware of what time it is. I will sh uh I I got one of those uh accordion messages, I can stretch it out or condense it as much as uh need be, but I'd like to talk to you a little bit about Nigeria here. So I was born and raised in Eden, North Carolina, uh about six hours south of here, roughly, uh on the on the northern end of uh North Carolina. I accepted Christ from sixteen years of age Uh I remember I was sitting on a recliner in a trailer in a trailer park where I was staying at, and uh the Lord impressed upon me that if I didn't get saved right then and there I never would And uh this is the abbreviated version, but I wholeheartedly believe that because I got off that recliner, I went to my bedroom, knelt beside my bed, and I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. Uh I remember uh trying, apologizing to the Lord that uh it took me so long to do this. Uh I've been under conviction for some time. Uh biggest regret in my life was not accepting Christ when he first started working on me. But uh the first thing I prayed for is God show me where you want me to go to church. And uh about four days after that Man knocked on my door and said if I wanted to come to church a bus would come by and pick me up. So I I'm a bit of a bus kid. I was already saved, but if that bus didn't pick me up, I'd have no way to get to church Uh that was Wayside Baptist Church of Ridgeway, Virginia. Um got baptized there, trained out a bit of someone there. Wasn't there for too long because I started attending in February and then in July they took their young people from R Ridgway, Virginia all the way up to Haven, Indiana for a youth conference. And you know there's certain things you don't notice as a uh a kid, but you notice up as an adult. Uh looking back I no doubt was in that because if you ever saw this bus The fact that it made it from Ridgeway, Virginia, to Hammond, Indiana, back to Ridgeway, Virginia, is only by God's grace. I can tell you that right now. It didn't even make it to from uh the northern end of North Carolina to the center of North Carolina the next year for the uh youth conference. So I know Doug was in it. But uh there's a man a preaching by the name of Dr. Eddie Lapina. Doug was working on my heart But more than anything else, when Dr. Jack Howells gave that invitation, it's very clear to me, I wanted to be in full-time Christian service. So uh like the video said, enrolled at House Anderson College in September of 2000. I graduated in January of 05 Uh for me there's two things true. Number one, I went to Bible college. I'd only been saved for a little over a year. Uh uh I was very raw, I was very immature, I had a lot of growing up to do And the second thing is I didn't I I graduated single. I didn't even meet my wife until twenty eighteen. We got married in twenty nineteen, five and a half months later, because by then I knew what I wanted. I can tell you right now she's definitely it. Um So I yeah, th I was mar thirty six, uh a week later I turned thirty seven, make sure I got that right. So sometime we were at church one place and they said, Well brother Barker you look to be about fifty and your wife looks to be about twenty five. Why don't you come up and tell us about that? Um that he was a little bit off on the dates. So uh now my wife on the other hand she has uh opposite testimony of me in just about every single way, and I'm very grateful for that. Uh she's missionary, Mark Bottman's oldest daughter. She grew up her dad was a missionary to Germany for 20 years. So she grew up on the Venschenfield. She was born there, she was raised there Uh came to the United States on her eighteenth birthday. Uh what happened to my father-in-law was that uh of course obviously they were reaching the German people, but obvio uh during the nineteen nineties a large group of Iranian refugees uh were flooding into the country from Iran uh to Germany. Nuremberg was a processing center for that. And uh they were seeing a lot of Muslims at state. Um Uh during the twenty years that he was there, they baptized over two thousand former Muslims. Now they they saw more than that stayed, but that that's just how many that had got baptized in that period of time. And uh God used that to uh work on his heart. He left uh uh Germany and he went to the United States for a brief period of time uh on my wife's eighteenth birthday. He got things together to go to a Middle Eastern country. I'll just call it that for the sake of the live stream Uh but but when he got everything together where he's been there for the last ten years. Um when he got everything together to go there, my wife didn't join him. She went to Roanoke Baptist Church in Roanoke, Indiana Pastor by her grandfather for over thirty three years. By the time she went there though, uh he was already pastor of Meredith in the church. Uh he was no longer the pastor. Uh pastor by the name of Mike Tarr is the pastor now Uh she taught in a Christian school and uh we met in 2018, married in 2019, like I said. The Lord has blessed our marriage. We've had a kid every year. So uh our daughter Karina is four Our son Barrett is three, our son Henry is two, our son Alex is one, and our daughter Joanna in the nursery is uh one month old. So uh y'all please pray for us. We're going on deputation with uh five children that are four years of age and younger And uh if you've ever been on a road trip for one or two hours with one or two kids, you can kinda empathize what it's like for us uh on our way over here We um we stopped at Washington we were in North Carolina, we stopped by Washington, D. C. en route because uh we have visas for all five of us. Uh but my daughter was just born and we just recently got her passport, her social security number, her uh birth certificate, all that other paperwork we needed. So we stopped by Washington DC to get the the submit the paperwork for her visa along with uh her older brother Uh and then uh we came here, uh then went to uh uh uh somewhere else and came back and then we're on our way tomorrow morning back to North Carolina. So Uh we're scheduled to be in thirty one different states and then three in Canada. As a matter of fact, we're gonna go back to Canada next Sunday morning and Sunday evening. We have three services there that we're gonna be going to. So Y'all please pray for us, especially with the weather being what it is and uh everything involved. Not everybody drives like Maryland drivers. I can just say that right now. Uh especially when you travel through I'm not going to mention any states other than the state of West Virginia. Um But anyway. So I had a desire to go to the mission field for years. I just didn't really feel that it I had the peace of God as far as when. And it wasn't until like the video said in 2022 Dr. Inferno was time. Now I'm grateful for a lot of stuff on uh since we've been on deputation. Let me tell you one of the main things I'm grateful for is that when I went to my wife And I told her that because she knew that I wanted to be a missionary, I believe God wanted me to be a missionary, but uh I told her I don't know when, don't know where Uh and then in 2022 we hadn't been married for too too long and uh I went to her and I I told her, Well, it's time God told us we're going to Nigeria. She said, Well I never told you this because I didn't want to influence you, but I wanted to be a missionary. I wanted to be a missionary's wife for years, and uh I did not know if it was ever going to happen for me. And I told the Lord that if I was still single by the time I was thirty, that I'd be a single lady missionary to Africa So uh she had already made plans before she met me that if she was still single by the time she had thirty, there was a place in South Africa she was going to get involved in an orphanage over there. But the fact that I didn't have to talk her into it, the fact that I didn't I'm not dragging her along with me, but that she wants this just as much as I do has been a tremendous blessing and encouragement to me while I've been on deputation. And uh the video that you saw It's a little bit out of date. I'm going to update you on that momentarily, but we were in Nigeria from January 27 to April 27. We were there for three months. Three months is actually the most you can be there without support You can get what's called either a tourism visa or a visitors visa, both of which only allow you to stay for three months in the country at a time. But we stayed for as long as we possibly could Now the video mentioned a few uh statistics. I based that off of the last official census, but I did not realize at the time that the last official census they had in Nigeria was in 2017 So the video mentioned that Nigeria is home to 213 million souls. At this point in time, it is estimated to have 235 million people residing within its borders. Uh I mentioned that it's the seventh most populated country in the world. At this point in time it's the sixth. What's even more sad to me is the fact that uh statutions all across this country that track population growth And the same ones, by the way, the uh accurately predicted with India was going to surpass China in population. Those exact same people say that by the year two thousand fifty, Nigeria should double its population and tie the United States as the third most populated country in the world. But geographically speaking, those are the sides of Texas and Oklahoma put together. So if you just stop and imagine what it would be like in America if only uh everybody lived in Texas and Oklahoma, you got an idea of how compact together they are. Uh as sad as all that is, them packed in all together There's only five independent Baptist missionaries that I can find. Of any any independent Baptist, uh any mission agency, any sending church, any of that nature. Uh pastoring a total of three churches In addition to those five Independent Baptist missionaries, there's an additional two or three. They were born and raised in Nigeria. They went to the United States to uh get uh Bible college training, they raised some support and they went back to their home country. So you're looking at roughly seven uh independent Baptist churches pastored by uh missionaries and only a hundred and fifty independent Baptist churches in the entire country. And I'm telling you, they're wide open to the gospel. This is uh there's been various times in history in in my lifetime I've seen Mexico open up, I've seen uh the Philippines open up. Right now it is my wholehearted belief that Nigeria is opening its borders right now for the gospel to come to its country. So uh we were there from uh January twenty-seven, April 27, like I mentioned, and uh I can tell you this that forty-four percent of their population, almost half of their population is fourteen years of age and younger. Now that's a part of the reason they're so receptive. They're just young people everywhere. And that they have the lowest life expectancy of any country in the entire world. The average Nigerian does not live past 53. Uh during the time that we spent there we saw a great number of people saved. I I just say right now we saw 187 people saved just in those three months. And I can tell you God gets all the glory for that because you know I've been saved for uh see this is uh Almost twenty-six well, twenty-six years. I've been saved for twenty-six years. And I never seen anything like it. You know, God gets the glory for it because you know he's the one that obviously did the saving. He provided the way for their salvation He's the one that worked on the hearts to receive that salvation. The Bible teaches we're so desperately wicked we wouldn't give God a first thought, let alone a second thought, if he didn't work on our hearts. Okay. So he gets all the glory for that. He's the one that gave them the uh my wife and I or I the opportunity and uh for us to be understood and everything of that nature But all that's true about the United States and when my wife and I go soul winning in the United States, we don't see numbers like that. Uh I've done soul winning in the thirty one different states, I've been soul winning in Canada, I've been so winning in Mexico, my wife has been to several European countries and done soul winning Never seen anything like that. They're very open to the gospel in the south, very close to the gospel in the north. And I would say this, probably half the people that we saw saved were under the age of 18 simply because that's what the population is The stigma is different there. So here in America, uh I don't when when I go at someone, I don't um approach uh children Or uh even teenagers if they appear like young teenagers. I'm not always the best judge of how old somebody is, but uh if they look to be a certain age, I don't even approach them uh simply for propriety's sake, especially if I'm going so winning f on behalf of some other church, I don't want to get that church in trouble. Over there in Nigeria it's the exact opposite. Uh the only white people that we saw while we were there were other missionaries. So it's obvious that we're not I mean they look can look at us and not think that okay you're from the village next door. You're not Um and so if they know that we're missionaries and I walk past one of their children or their children and I don't take the time to talk to them about Jesus, I've upset those parents They said what my children are not are not good enough for you? You you're going over to the uh you're too busy for 'em. And so the fact that you can just go witnessing the children and the parents are okay with it and the on the matter of fact they encourage it They'll say go over to that to uh uh go over that to uh uh oebu and ask him why he's here. Uh that's what their term for foreigner or white person is. And uh they they just want us to witness to him. Uh the public schools are open over there. You can go to the preach the gospel in the public schools. Uh they already have an opening assembly and they would count in an honor for an American to come over there and preach the gospel. Uh as bragging rights for them, they would brag about it to the other schools. We had an American come preach our chapel. And uh the the prisons are open over there. You can preach the gospel in the prisons, go back on a regular basis to do uh to do discipleship. It's a it's an amazing thing. Now uh the video did mention uh missionary David Mastey being in Nigeria for twenty-eight years. At this point, he's been there for thirty. We arrived in the country about eleven hours shy of their biggest day that they had since they started uh their 28th anniversary service and on that service they had 817 in attendance. They had 171 first-time visitors, 68 people got saved in the service, and six people got baptized Now he has no assistant pastor or no co-pastor. He has a Bible institute where he'll train people. Takes five years to graduate that, and uh so far he's been able to start ten different churches in Nigeria And what my wife and I are doing, we're doing the same thing. We're raising support to work alongside him for a period of time before we start our own independent work, which would be another souling independent Baptist Church, heavily into discipleship. Uh we do want to start an orphanage at some point. Uh that's not why we're going there. We're going there to start churches. The the the orphanage would just be a ministry of the church at some point at a later date. Um And I will say this, that uh one thing that's a little bit confusing about the video, and I apologize about that, where it talks about an interpreter, English is the official language of Nigeria Uh those were people that were coming to Nigeria from other countries that needed an interpreter. So when we go back to Nigeria we can hit the b uh ground running, we don't have to attend language school or anything of that nature. So If you stop by our table and back there, you take a prayer chart. You want to know what should I pray for them for? Pray for our safety as we travel. I pray that we can raise the rest of our support quickly. Uh pray for health, you know we really don't get sick days. And I can just speak to you from my heart for about the next twenty seconds or so Like the video said, we financed our time there for the most part. We had one supporting church. We had uh our church also take up a love offering to help play with uh pay for some of the cost of plane tickets, but the cost of uh uh being there for three months without regular employment income, we covered that. Uh that's where our heart is at. It's up to me that uh we'd be there right now. We went on my daughter's third birthday and uh she particularly liked it. And uh but just try having a conversation uh with a three-year-old about deputation support visas. They have no idea what you're talking about. They just know that I like it here, my friends are here, I want to stay. Uh we w if it was uh if it wasn't for the uh the visa situation and just raising a little bit more support, I would like to be there right now. So uh Brother Maskey told me it took him three years in deputation, and I'll just be honest with you, I am forty-two years of age I have no desire whatsoever to spend another year or two of my life trying to raise support to get back there. So as soon as the beasts kick in and uh we get a few things squared away, we're going to be back in the country, and we appreciate your prayers. So Genesis chapter number six Genesis chapter number six. I went a little bit longer than what I usually do sometimes uh presenting our ministry, and uh I don't really make any apologies for that. That's where our hearts are at, but I um I will uh abbreviate the message here. Genesis chapter number six. Let's uh let me start here at um So let me start at verse number six. The Bible says, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and had grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created on the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me that I made them. Heavenly Father, we love you. It's a great honor and privilege to be here. It's a great honor and privilege to preach your word. Uh there are people here that uh some of which uh uh May have had to work uh during the afternoon and uh just barely made it home in time to change clothes and make it here. There are people here that have various needs and I pray that you would help me to get out of your way and that you you would use me this evening. In Jesus' name, amen. So in Genesis chapter number six, it's frequently referred to as the flood chapter. It's the story of why God decided to destroy the entire human race except for one man in his family. And if God did cliff notes, he would say that okay, I just destroyed all of humankind except for one man in his family. But uh he didn't do that. God doesn't do that See, the central theme of the entire Bible is that God wants to have a relationship with you, you personally. Any verse that you point to and you look at it, well, why in the world is that verse there? Well, somehow that verse helps you to have a better relationship with Jesus Christ. Okay? And here God wants you to understand him. If you think about it, it's a pot okay, a part of having a relationship with somebody is understanding one another Deep inside the heart of every human being is a desire to want to be understood. It starts from the age of a child. I can look at uh some of my children, uh the two-year-old for example, the one-year-old, sometimes they'll try to communicate something to me And I can look it in their eye that there's something specific that they're asking for, but I do not understand what they're asking for. Okay? Now, it's the same thing. Uh if you think it's impossible for God to understand us any more than what he already does. God knows everything, doesn't he? He wants us to understand him. So he gives us his word. He gives us context. And here God says, I'm grieved and I'm hurt to the point where I'm going to destroy all mankind except for one man in his family. And um I want you to understand what they were like. These are the things that they were doing. This is the world that they were living in And these are the things that bothered me to the point where I did what I did. And uh the Bible says, I'm not uh not to get ahead of myself too much, the Bible says, I am the Lord, I change not Okay? That means two things. Number one many things, but uh two of the things that means is number one, uh God feels the same way about sin today as he did two thousand years ago, three thousand years ago, four thousand years ago. He hasn't changed his mind about sin Okay? It's not like okay, mankind has been lying ever since creation, uh so therefore it doesn't bother me. I've got used to it. No, God does not care for lying. It bothers him. Okay? Now by the same token, things that please the Lord, if you find something in the Bible, you find something in the scriptures that please the Lord, the same things will please the Lord today. Alright? Now look here at uh verse number eight. The Bible says, But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Now I used to read verses like this and think, well, I'm really glad Noah found race and I was the Lord. But uh if he didn't, surely somebody else would. If you think about how populated the earth could have possibly been by then, uh my w my wife's mom and dad, they had sixteen children. Uh same mom, same dad, single births, uh and uh they didn't live hundreds of years or anything of that nature Uh but if you think about the fact that there's uh how long they lived, how many children they possibly could have had, how populated the earth could possibly could have been, surely somebody would have found grace in the highest Lord. But that's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible says that God looked at the hearts of all mankind and there were only evil continually, and then he looked down and out of everybody, the only person he sa said found race in his eyes was Noah. Now that's an encouragement to me because there was something that God wanted Noah to do that only he could do. You know what? God has something that he wants me to do that only I can do God has something he wants you to do that only you can do. God's will for my wife and I's life, he wants us to go to Nigeria and start churches. Okay? God has something different he wants you to do. And you can't have the attitude of, okay, well if I don't do it, somebody else will Uh you know, pastors uh up here giving announcements is that we need uh on Tuesday we need uh fifteen people to come in for this or this, or you know, and or we're gonna have a big day, we're gonna have souling uh uh these three days or we're gonna We have a goal of giving out this many tri or whatever the goal is, or whatever the need is, you can't have the attitude, well, if I don't go, somebody else will. No, listen, God has something specifically planned that he wants you to do. And you can't have the attitude like Moses. Moses, he he didn't really feel like he was worthy, did he? When God called him. Uh Dideon, he didn't feel like he was qualified. And uh Jonah, he didn't even really want to do what God wanted him to do. And I'm going to abbreviate this, but you know what, uh I think I'm stubborn. Uh I don't think I'm so stubborn it would take me three days in the belly of a whale. I do not have that resolve. That's my wife. I don't. I'm a big baby with pain. If it's once I realized collected my thoughts, realized where I was at Uh if I lasted 15 seconds, that'll be a little bit of a miracle. Lord, wherever you want me to go, whatever you want me to do, I don't know what they'll do to me over there, but it can't possibly be worse than this. I'm going But you know what? God knew Jonah was going to do that. God knew that Jonah was gonna God was going to call him to this place over here. Geographically speaking, he was gonna go the exact opposite direction And he still wanted to use them. Now listen, and when he did, you know, he went over there and God used him in a tremendous way, and I don't believe it was because of his message, but God had prepared those people's hearts. Now listen, God has something He wants you to do that only you can do, and this is the type of world that they were living in at the time. Let me skip down here to uh verse number eleven. Let's look at verse number eleven The Bible says the earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence, and God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth. God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. And there were wars, rumors of wars, violence of bloodshed. It makes that violence is a recurring theme throughout all of Genesis chapter 6 Uh that's what the world was like back then, the lawlessness and so forth. And God says this grieves me. It wasn't that was angry. The Bible teaches that that was greed to the point where it destroyed all mankind except for one man and his family. And I find it very interesting that he said he was going to use the very earth to do it, the very earth that he created, and uh he planted a garden and he plant uh put Adam in the garden. He said, I want you to keep it. I want you to protect this And uh instead, mankind stilled it with bloodshed. And if you remember in Genesis chapter number one, God separated the waters that were above the earth from below the earth. Later on we read in Proverbs that God had actually set boundaries for the waters that they would not pass his commandment. He also, uh the Bible also teaches that all things are sustained by his power. Uh what that means is that uh you know the fact that we have gravity and we're not floating up in the sky and the fact that the Earth continues to rotate around the sun, the fact that uh the very molecules and atoms that uh you can see under electron microscopes in these universities that they're not randomly splitting and all things have a Consistency and order. That's not because God just did something and then he let it off to itself. God is actively sustaining everything. Okay? Now, uh, when he says uh uh the things that he's saying here It's it's is if he's taking a step back and let the chaos ensue. So and the separation that I did have, I'm just gonna step away. So the uh the windows of heaven opened up and the waters came from above. The boundaries that he set He just said, I'm greed, I'm just gonna let it all go. And then the the waters came from the sides. And the Bible also teaches that even the very depths were broken up and the water was coming from every situ uh every way it would could possibly come Now, I use that as a reminder to me that everything I have is a gift from Almighty God. Everything. It's not like I have two stacks. And by the way, Pastor, thank you so much for having a nice large pulpit. I like that and uh I get look at this and this very sometimes I get like a little lectern or something like that and I can't put hardly anything here. I got plenty of room. I think for that But if I had two stacks that I couldn't do this, I couldn't say these are the things that God gave me and this is the stuff that I got on my own. No, everything I have is a gift from Mama to God I don't want God to have to get my attention the way that he had to get the world's attention right here because I need his presence in my life. I don't want God to have to take a step back. And say, you know what? You don't realize it, but I'm the one that's been helping you through this whole time. Let me just show you what it's like when I'm not holding all these different things at bay. Let's look here at uh Genesis chapter number nine. I'm seeing an interesting contrast. Genesis chapter number nine, starting at verse number eleven. The Bible says, And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of a flood. Neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for perpetual generations. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth, and it shall come to pass when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow shall be seen in the cloud, and I will remember my covenant which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And the water shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. And the boat shall be seen in the cloud, and I will look upon it that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. Now God repeats himself a few different times, but he does it on purpose and he does it for emphasis. And uh it it just strikes me interesting that over here in Genesis chapter number six God says, I'm going to destroy all mankind except for one man in his family, and then spend about half the chapter uh detailing what that mankind was like back then and why he was so aggrieved And then just about two and a half, three chapters later, he says, You know what? I'm never going to do this again. Let me say that again. I'm never going to do this again. And to have him repeat it a few different times, I'm giving you a covenant promise never to do this again There's multiple promises in the Bible. Some of those promises are, I will do this if you do this. Okay? Here he gives us a coveted promise, which means, regardless of how you treat me, I promise never to do this again. No, what changed? How do we get from Genesis 6 to Genesis 9? That's a big difference. Would you agree? Now we're living in the days of Noah. You know, if I read Genesis chapter number 6, everything you can look at it and say that's the world we live in today. And uh there's wars, rumors of wars, violence, bloodshed, imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. So if something changed in the heart of God that caused him to look at mankind differently, I would like to know what that is, and I would like to repeat it because I am the Lord, I changed not. If something pleased God back then, the same thing would please God today, especially if we're living in the same type of environment. And what I'm really glad about is the fact that God records in Scripture what that was. Look at Genesis chapter number eight, starting in verse 20. Genesis chapter 8, verse 20. The Bible says, and Noah built an altar unto the Lord and took of every clean beast, of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And the Lord smelled a sweet savor, and the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. For the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth, neither will I again smite any more every living thing as I have done. God looked at Noah. And he built an altar and he sacrificed unto the Lord, and that pleased the Lord. We said, I'm never going to do this again. Now there's three very quick things I want to share with you this evening. If you look with me to the book of Philippians, chapter number four Philippians chapter number four. New Testament parallels. This is an old testament story, but I am the Lord, I change not. Uh these same things. So number one, what Noah did, it pleased the Lord. And if you look at Philippians chapter 4, verse 15, the Bible says, Now you Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only For even at Thessalonica you sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desire a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. Look at verse number 18. The Bible says, But I have all and abound, I am full Having received of a papyratis the things which are sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. God uses the exact same phraseology and terminology, and I don't for a moment think it's a coincidence What happened in the book of Philippians, chapter number four, that there was a church that took up an offering so that uh a missionary could go to another country and give out the gospel. And God looked down at that church and said That's a sweet smelling savor unto me. Now look, I'm the Lord, I change not. Your missions minded church. I w uh went through uh the hallway there and saw uh various prayer letters of uh missionaries that y'all support And I want to encourage you to keep that up because when you as a church obey the Lord by returning to the Lord what's his. When you return the tithe to him. Okay? But on top of that, you put more in the offering plate so the gospel can go around the world. God looks down at this church and says That's a sweet smelling savor on the bee. And beyond just a collective body, when you individually, you specifically, God looks at you in your life When you return to the Lord what's his, but then on top of that, you put more in the offering place so the gospel can go around the world. God looks down at you and your life and says, What they're doing right now pleases me And in a world that stinks from saying that this is something I could do that would please the Lord, I would like to think I'll do it, even if there's no reward for it, just out of pure gratitude. Well we get the bust of both worlds, don't we? Not only do we get to please the Lord by doing this, we get rewarded for it as well. Alright. Look at uh 2 Corinthians chapter number 8. Another very familiar passage, 2 Trinity chapter 8. The second thing is, as far as we know, it wasn't commanded what got what Noah did here. If you think about it, God told Noah very specific instructions. He said that uh I want you to build an ark. I want uh it be uh to be made in these exact dimensions. I want it to be made out of this specific type of wood. I want uh it to be three stories tall, I want there to be a door right here, I want there to be a window right here. He was specific about everything. But uh nowhere in Scripture do I see that uh God came to him and said, by the way, uh when you get off the heart, make sure you sacrifice unto me. So as far as we know, God did not command him to do this, but he did it anyway. And if you look at 2 Corinthians chapter number 8, verse number 7, the Bible says, Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith and utterance and knowledge And in all diligence and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. Verse number eight, I speak not by commandment But by occasion of the forwardness of others and to prove the sincerity of your love. You know what I'm really glad about? The tithe is the same for everybody. It doesn't matter how much money you make, it's the same for everybody. It's the 10%, the first ten percent. But how much more you give to the Lord is between you and him. And uh you know what I'm really glad about it. If you if you wanted to show God that you love him, you might say, Well you know what I read my Bible. I pray, uh I go to church, I I go soul winning. You know what? All those things are commandments. And what does the Bible say? So likewise when you shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say we're unprofitable servants. We have done that which is our duty to do But I'm really glad that God in the scripture puts a way that we can put our money where our mouth is. He says to prove the sincerity of your love. You know what, when I go out soul winning, I'm very fond of using Romans 5. 8. It's one of the one verses that I I love using and and I'll have to explain it to him a little bit. I say it says, But God commendeth his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And uh I'll look at him in the eye and most of the time I'll say something like this. Now commend it, that's a word that we don't use that much in the English language anymore, but it means to show and to prove So literally, Romans 5. 8 is saying, God is saying, I loved you. I showed you that I loved you. And I proved to you that I loved you by what I did. And here in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, God is saying, I'm giving you that same opportunity to prove to me and show me how much you love me by what you give. Uh last thing I want you to stay here in 2 Trint chapter 8. I'm going to read Genesis 9-1. The Bible says, And God blessed Noah and his sons and said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. The last thing I want you to notice is that it benefited Noah when he did this. I am the Lord, I change not. So let's look at uh second Trinity chapter 8, verse 10. The Bible says, And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forty years ago That word expedient again is a word that we don't use that much anymore in the English language, but it means advantageous, it means profitable. God is saying that, yes, when you give to the Lord by giving to missions in uh that country over there that gets another missionary preaching the gospel obviously that country benefits. God says you benefit. Now I don't have time to go into uh specific examples, but I I can tell you this right now that when I started giving aggressively to missions, uh my relationship with the Lord got a lot closer. There was a sweetness and a closeness that I wouldn't trade for anything else in the world. There were wisdoms and opportunities that I wouldn't trade for anything else in the world. I can look at every single one of you right now in the eye and say that my wife has a better husband because I David Dressley Domissions. My children have a better daddy because I gave address of the missions. Now it's sad to me, but I've heard the statement before. I'm not really worried about rewards in heaven. I'm just worried about getting there. That's sad for two reasons, or multiple reasons. I'll just mention two. One of which is uh knowing for sure that if you were to die today that you'd go to heaven, it's something very simple to get settled If for whatever reason you're here tonight and you don't have that assurance, you don't know that, you don't have that confidence that uh heaven is your home, I'm sure Pastor would love to talk to you about that. Uh but secondly is the what does the Bible say Well the Bible teaches that Jesus Christ is God, He's in heaven, heaven is his home. And what did he say? He said, Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. What is he saying? He's saying, I know what it's like up here. Trust me, when you get up here, you're going to want to have rewards. You know what, I I just got a cloth a few closing thoughts and I'll pass it over to Pastor. You know, missionary Jim Elliott, he's well known for being a martyr, but he made the statement, he said, he is no fool who gives what he cannot teach, detain what he cannot lose. Let me say that again. He is no fool who gives what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. If you think about that, that's a biblical concept. You know, the Bible teaches you're not going to get up to heaven and find out, well You did have all these rewards over here, but right before you got up here, somebody stole them. You're not going to get up to heaven and find out, well, you know what, you did have this nice outfit over here, but we weren't paying attention and the maws got a hold of it, and uh now it's got all these holes in it. You know, the Bible teaches that you can't even give out a cup of cold water in his name without him noticing it and making sure that you get rewarded for it. You know, every single and if we get rewarded for a cup of cold water, imagine the rewards we get for helping the gospel go throughout the whole world. Because there's, you know, think about what is it that God needs? He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. What does he need? What can I do for him that he would need? He doesn't need anything, but I can tell you one thing that he wants. If you were to see the heart of God, he said, I love the world so much that I gave what was most precious to me. And I would sure like that message to go out in the whole world world. And i if you think about it, every contest that you've probably ever heard of in America goes like this. If you do this by this deadline, there's a chance that you might have this. You might win this. Imagine this. The God of the universe, where the Bible even specifically says it's impossible for him to lie, says, if you do this. I promise that I will reward you throughout all eternity. But imagine this, not knowing where the deadline is You know, when I'm out soul winning and about I meet somebody that uh they tell me that you know I'm not ready to get saved, uh I'm I'm gonna wait till I'm married, I'm gonna wait till I'm thirty, I'm gonna wait till I'm out College and know we talk out of uh the military or or whatever the case may be. I'll look him in the eye and say you need to accept Jesus Christ right now because you're not guaranteed tomorrow. And if you die without Jesus Christ, there's nothing in scripture that says you have another chance afterwards. As a matter of fact the Bible teaches that you do not have another chance. If you die without Jesus Christ, you're immediately going to go to hell, and then one day you'll be judged and then cast into a lake of fire. Forever. If you've ever accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, you don't have to worry about that. But there's a similar concept that applies to you and me. I don't see anything in this Bible that tells me that there's more opportunities for rewards after we die. I don't see that there's anything in the Bible that says there's going to be offering plates passed right in heaven. I don't see anything in the Bible that tells me there's going to be so many opportunities in heaven. The only time that we have is right now. Would you bow your heads and close your eyes, please The Bible teaches that the only time that we have is now. J you know, even if you knew when you were going to die, and I y I don't think you do, but even if you knew when you were gonna die. Jesus point blank said, No man knows when he's coming back. And when Jesus Christ comes back, every single last one of us really gonna say, I'm glad I did, or I wish I had. And really, in a world that stinks with sin, if this is something that I could do, that would number one please the Lord. And number two, I would get rewarded for it. I can't think of a single reason in the world that I would not want to get in on it. Pastor