Your Bibles this morning to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse number 18. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse number 18. This is a very familiar passage of scripture. Many of you could quote this verse without us even turning there. The Bible tells us in 1 Thessalonians 5:18, and everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Concerning you. You can be sure, beloved, that the Word of God, the Bible, does exhort, yea, I would say, even command the people of God to give thanks. There is something about a grateful heart that brings pleasure and joy to the heart of God. It puts a smile on his face. It makes God happy. It's clear that it is the will of God that his people be given to giving thanks, that it be a pattern of our life It is sad, but too many of us are given to grumbling or groaning or griping instead of gratitude. We ought to have a heart of gratitude. And this should be a way of life, not something that we do simply during the latter part of the month of November but a way that our heart expresses its appreciation for the goodness of God in our life and to those that are around us. We know that it's the will of God. He tells us that here in this verse. In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. You see, those that know a lot more than me that understand the original languages have dived into this text here and they've studied the Greek and they have found that here in this text that in the Greek this actually means give thanks In everything, give thanks. After their immense amount of study and diving into this and the original languages, It is to give thanks. Now there is one notable thing, that word there on thanks is a present tense. It is something that we are to be continually doing. This is the will of God, and if it's the will of God for us and we know it is, that this should be the pattern of our life, well I wonder What would be the outcome of that? What would be the profit of giving thanks? I have titled the message this morning, Giving Thanks, but it might be more aptled The Prophet in Giving Thanks. The blessing of giving thanks. What is it that giving thanks does for you and I as the believer? I have a few things I would like to share with you. First of all, I want you to know that it pleases Christ. As I already stated, we know that this is the will of God, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God. It is clearly directed Clearly part of God's divine will for you and I, that we have a heart of gratitude, that we express thanks. God is pleased with this If for no other reason than the fact that it is a matter of obedience, following the command of God Doing what God says to do. How many of you know this morning God is pleased when we are obedient? 1 Samuel tells us In chapter 15, verses 21 and 22 he says, But the people took up the spoil, the sheep, the oxen, the chief, uh the things which should have been utterly destroyed to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal And Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice, as in obeying the voice of the Lord? For behold, to obey is better than sacrifice. God had told them not to take of that, that there was the first fruits, and they said, Oh, we took all of this so we could offer sacrifice to God. And God says, wait a minute, to obey is better than to sacrifice. To just do what God expects us to do, to do what God wants you and I to do, beloved. One of the easiest things we can do to bring a smile to God's face is just to have a heart of gratitude, to be thankful. The sun had just risen on a hot August day in nineteen forty-four. In the small town of Piello in German-occupied France. The 15-year-old boy didn't know why the other citizens and himself stood before the firing squad. He didn't know why they were lined up there on the town square, perhaps. It was because they had sheltered and taken in some men of the French resistance. Or perhaps it was simply to satisfy the bloodlust of the German captain. But what he did know is that he was about to die. This 15-year-old boy Had his life flashed before his eyes, and he remembered life in his little town before the war came, when he would run in the countryside and play in the streams, and when he would play with the the animals on the farm and he contemplated and thought about how simple life was back then and how he took it for granted because he he d he didn't know what was going to happen but He knew that he was about to die and his mind pondered and thought about I wonder what it's going to feel like when that bullet tears through my body. Is it something that's going to hurt, or is it going to be fast? Am I going to die quick? He's standing there before the firing squad. And then they heard the sound of mortar shells. Somewhere beyond their view there was the sound of tanks rolling to the town. The German forces turned and quickly went to advance towards the Ger towards the oncoming tanks, and there was a small group of twenty soldiers under the leadership leadership of a American By the name of Hinsley. Captain Hinsley was asked by a French resistance soldier to come and to save this little town that was being occupied by the Germans. The Germans fought within a few hours. I don't remember how many hours the battle went on, but those 20 American soldiers had killed 50 German soldiers. And had taken captive another fifty. They freed that town from that horrendous event, from the loss of many Of their people. Well, in 1990, the mayor of the town got it in his heart and mind to find Captain Hensley. And to bring him back there to France, to that very spot where he stood and freed the city from German occupation, and to honor him And they built a monument in his honor, and they brought him back, and they found Captain Hinsel, and they brought him all the way back, and as a whole town, they expressed their gratitude and thankfulness. For their for saving their city. The mayor who had it in his heart to honor Captain Hensley was that 15-year-old boy. In nineteen ninety they did honor him. He did express his thankfulness You see, he had decided to find the one who saved his life and to say thank you. Can I tell you, beloved, that we were dead in our trespasses and sin? We had no hope of saving ourselves. We were lost and undone, but Jesus came to where we were. And he is the Savior of our soul, the giver of life for you and I. And maybe this morning some of us need to set a memorial up. How long has it been since you have thanked Him for saving your life? Since you've thanked Him for loving you enough to come where you were and to be the Savior that you needed Boy, our gratitude and our heart of thanksgiving, first of all, it pleases Christ. Secondly, I want you to know that it portrays Christ. I think in many ways, unlike anything else, we can portray Christ when we have a heart of gratitude as you read through the life of Christ. He repeatedly thanked his father in Luke chapter 10 and verse number 21. He says, In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth. In John 11, 44, he says, then took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid, and Jesus lifted up his eyes, and he said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. Can I tell you, beloved, that Jesus thanked the Lord at the feeding of the five thousand? That Jesus thanked the Father for answered prayer over and over again. Jesus gave thanks there when he instituted the Lord's Supper, and we observe much the same thing as we observe the Lord's Supper in thankfulness to God. You know, one of the very things that made Jesus recognizable was his heart of gratitude. You see, the two men on the road to Emmaus, they were walking with Jesus, and Jesus was talking to them. One of the things the Bible tells us that it was after Jesus gave thanks. that they recognized him to be Jesus. It was something notable in the life of Christ that people saw and said, wait. He is a thankful person. When these two men on the road to Emma saw that heart of gratitude, it clicked in their heart and minds and said, wait a minute, that it was Jesus. And beloved, as we grow in grace and become more and more like Christ, we will start to have a heart of gratitude. The more sure we are as a believer, the more Christ-like we are, the more thankful we will be. You know, a baby. is the most ungrateful human in the world. A baby doesn't care. I mean you can hold the baby all day long, you can feed it. You you can give it every toy that it wants. I mean you can do everything for that baby and the moment you set it down, wah, wah, wah, you aren't going to get any thanks out of that baby. That baby's not going to pause and say, let me just thank you for all your kindness. I mean, nope. You see, they have to be taught As the child grows, they're taught to be thankful. And as we grow in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, we are taught to be thankful. I've told you this before, but Kipling, a well-known writer, he was one of the writers who got to see his success while he was alive. He wrote and he became very prominent and well known and his writings were very successful. And one day there was a reporter that came to him and said, Mr. Kipling I read somewhere that they did a study and they took all of your writings and they took all of what you've made off of your writings. And they have determined, Mr. Kipling, that you have received $100 for every word that you've spoken. He said, wow. I I didn't realize that. And uh the man said, uh Mr. Kipling, I have a hundred dollars here Would you give me one of your hundred dollar words? And Mr. Kipling took the hundred dollars. Said thanks. Listen, not only is that a hundred dollar word It's a Christ-like word. It's a Christ-like word. It portrays Christ. Not only does it portray Christ and please Christ, but I want you to know that it proclaims credit. You see, it gives credit where credit is due. Would you turn your Bibles to Luke chapter 17? Luke chapter 17, this is a familiar passage of scripture But in Luke chapter 17, verses eleven through seventeen we have this familiar story. And it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show thyself unto the priest. And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. And when one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, he fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan. And Jesus said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? You see, beloved the Lord Jesus here had cleansed ten lepers. But only one pause to turn back and express thanks. Only one pause to turn back and to acknowledge that he was the one that had done this, to give credit to the one who had done this in his life. Only one out of ten, that's only ten percent. I wonder, beloved, if that holds true in the church today. If there's only ten percent of us that are truly grateful for the things that God does. In our lives. I wonder. You know, many just have a hard time giving credit. They have a hard time Acknowledging what somebody else has done. We just don't like to have a heart of gratitude. There was a lady who had an incurable uh disease. It was called poochie lip It was called grumbling and complaining. She was a uh dear lady, she just always had something to complain about. She just alwa it didn't matter what was happening, something was wrong. Well one year uh her particular crop had done really, really well and the pastor thought, Well today she certainly has cause to praise the Lord. And so when she came to church that day, the pastor said to her Hey sister, uh I I'm sure you're just thrilled and excited. Everybody says that your crop of potatoes has been the best ever. And she said, Yeah, but now I don't know what I'm gonna do to get bad ones to feed the pigs It just didn't matter what was going on or how good God had been, there was something wrong. Some people don't want to give credit no matter what's going on. You know, one way you can tell the heart of a young person and where they're at is you can listen to gratitude. Listen for a heart of gratitude. Everything in a person's life, a young person's life is provided for them. And yet, how many young people fail to be grateful? For some I mean for some people you you could you could provide them a hundred dollar meal And they would not want to say thank you. For them, they would rather not have the meal than have to say thank you to you. You see there's something wrong in that person's heart. It might be some bitterness. It might be some anger. It might be they're holding on to some hurt from the past, who who knows, but there's something there that won't let them enjoy the blessing and then give credit to whom credit is due and say thank you. Because thank you proclaims credit. It's letting you know you did help me. You were a blessing to me. That was valuable to me. I appreciate that. Psalms 103, verse number 2 says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. One stormy night on Lake Michigan. As a young boy I grew up two blocks from Lake Michigan. We used to go down there and go swimming in Lake Michigan. You know Lake Michigan is freezing all year round. It's cold water. I don't care if it's July or August it's cold water. I mean like fifty five degrees or something. It's freezing cold I remember, you know, you guys have probably seen that little thing with the boy standing in the pool and he's like Mom says, Are you cold? He's like, No, no That was us. We used to be so we had blue lips and coming out of the water, mom's like, are you cold? We're like, no, we wanted to go swimming, you know, in Lake Michigan. One fateful night. A steamboat sank almost a mile offshore in a small town in Illinois Of the 393 passengers on board, 279 of them drowned. There was a man by the name of Edward Spencer who was on the shore, and without hesitation, seeing this tragedy unfold, he jumped into the icy waters of Lake Michigan and swam to save a life. He grabbed one person and brought them back to shore. Obviously a very accomplished swimmer having traveled that distance, but Having saved one, he couldn't simply watch the rest drown. He turned around and he went back to the boat and he found another one on a piece of of of of wood or some part of the ship in a boat and he he grabbed him and pulled him to shore and he continued this for a long period of time until he had saved seventeen people. His body was completely 100% expent. He could do nothing else. Actually, the expenditure of energy in that icy water damaged his nervous system. His legs were so injured that he never walked again. He spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair. At the age of 80, he was asked to describe for the newspapers that were interviewing him the events of that day. And what was the most notable thing that you could think of on that day in He described the events and he said the most notable thing. He says, of the 17, not one has ever thanked me. You see, it's a problem, beloved, when we do not want to express gratitude, to sh to give credit. What what gratitude does, what a heart of thanksgiving does, is it proclaims credit. Not only that, beloved, it provokes Christians. Hebrews 10, 24 says, and let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. Beloved is we should exhort and encourage one another to be giving thanksgiving. One of the greatest ways to do that is by example. By example. As people hear you praising God, as people see the heart of gratitude in your life, they will be motivated To do the same. They will understand and be challenged that they too should have a heart of gratitude. When you're thankful, it's contagious. It'll catch on, and others around you will be thankful. There's a little story of a blind girl who in her teen years had uh was able to have with the advancement of of science and technology, she was able to have a surgery and her sight was largely restored She had her sight restored and of course the family was so excited and everybody was so happy for her and they they came home and they had been home for some weeks and Uh one day they were sitting in a living room and and mom was in the kitchen and you know her brother was up in the in the bedroom and And then all of a sudden they they heard her yelling, Yay, hey, come outside, come outside right now, come on, come on, you get come on and Concerned about what might have happened, th they ran outside. She said, You gotta see this, you gotta see this and she's looking up in the sky And and they're all the whole family's out there looking up, like, what? What? And she's like, you don't see it? You don't see all the bright lights, the the twinkling lights up in the sky? And her brother goes, Oh, those are just stars. And then realizing That their daughter was looking at these stars for the first time, and how amazing it was to her fresh eyes They too began to get an appreciation for the beauty that was around them that they had taken for granted. And beloved, when you and I begin to get a a an acknowledgement and to show in thankfulness for the beauty of God's creation and the beauty of what God is doing in our life There are people around us that will say, man, I've just been taking that for granted. Man, I didn't even consider God's goodness in this area. Oh wow I need to be thankful for that as well, beloved. When we have a heart of gratitude, it provokes our brothers and sisters in Christ to do the same. Amen. Lastly, this morning I want you to see it produces contentment. Count your blessings. Name them one by one Boy, one of the greatest ways to produce contentment in your heart or life is to just look at all that God has done instead of looking at what you don't have. Concentrate on God's goodness and God's blessing and God's provision and how God has met your need. And as you focus on that, your heart will start to be filled and say, man, God has been good. I don't deserve all of this, but look at what God has done. Oh, you might not have all that you want, but can I tell you that God's been better to us than we deserve? The opposite of contentment is covetousness, and the Bible tells us in Exodus chapter 20, verse number 17, thou shalt not covet. It's one of the Ten Commandments not to covet. Do you remember which one? Ten. Think about you got ten fingers and you're gonna grab all you can get. Ten fingers, covet. Gonna get all you can get. Number ten, we're not we're not to be covetous. That is the mind of somebody who does not have Christ. He says, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. Nor his manservant, nor his maid servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbors. You see, beloved, in our visually driven society and our uh Media, try marketing, they they market everything. It's it's I I watch for the this stuff and it's amazing to me, you know, like some years it's been a long time now, but you know, they put the little advertisements on the gas pump. I mean you got a gas pump and they reshaped it so that they could put an advertisement right on the gas pump, you know. They've got advertisements that they put in public restrooms on the back of the bathroom stalls. There's a whole media department that that designed these these displays that they can put in the bathroom stalls. Well, you're taking care of business, you're being marketed to. You know, they they they will capitalize on any market anywhere that they can to try and and what I'm saying is everywhere it is is designed to build a heart of covetousness in you That you want something else. And so we become, as Americans, so very focused on all that we don't have. Instead of counting our blessings and remembering all that we do. It produces contentment. Boy. You might not have everything you want, but can I tell you, beloved, God has been so much better. Than we deserve. You see, Paul tells us that our lives can be transformed by the renewing of our mind. Love that tells me that what you're thinking about can shape your reality. If there be any love you love, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. Where we direct our mind, what we put our focus to, shapes how we think, shapes our attitude, shapes our outlook on life If we want to produce covetousness, let's concentrate on all that we don't have. If we want to produce contentment, let's concentrate on what we do and have a heart of gratitude A thankful person says, I have more than I deserve. The unthankful person says, I deserve more than I have. I wonder today, are you thankful? We as God's people are commanded in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Concerning you. And the results truly are profitable. What gratitude does in our heart. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?