There's a handout I'd like for each one to have, and I'm honored to be here. Um I am one happy clam. God's been good to me, and I'm very thankful for his goodness to me. But let's get right to the lesson today. The handout, I didn't ever like it. When I was a student or when I was in a Sunday school class and somebody gave me something to read and then read it to me I always felt like, hey, I I can read. But there's a reason I'm giving this to you, and I want you to have it turn in your Bibles to Acts chapter 20. In this Sunday school hour, I'm just going to assume I know I'm in a good church with sound Bible preaching and teaching, and so I'm not too worried. When you read in Revelation 12, 13, 14, when it talks about how they overcame Satan by the blood of the Lamb, and what's the next clause? And the word of their testimony. Here in Acts twenty, a familiar passage Paul's on his way back to Jerusalem to be betrayed and go. Hey, I never thought. Forget all this for a second. Just turn to Acts 20, keep your finger there, and turn to Acts 27. There's some things I don't I don't imagine Brother Derek has even taught this in this class. If you're a real Bible believer, you know that ever since women got their driver's license, nobody can go to heaven Hey! Hey, that's what it says. Just look in Acts 27. I mean, just so you know the depth of the theology of this teacher. Acts 27 Just slip on down. I didn't make this up. Just read your Bible. Look, what's the last four words of verse number 15? We let her drive. And the what's the last four words? Of verse number 17. And so were driven. And then what's the last half of verse 20? All hope that we should be saved was then taken away. Right? I mean, hey, that's what it says. I can't help it. Don't get mad at me Hey, if you're a Jehovah's Witness, that's how you handle the Bible, so but Wow. Okay, Acts 20, you know, Paul's on his way to be betrayed and and all of that. And uh he's meeting with the Ephesian elders and he loved the church at Ephesus and they loved him and He says, I commend you to God in the word of his grace, and now he's going off to be betrayed in the storm and the sea and Euroclita and all of that. But here, as he's talking to the Ephesian elders, he says uh in uh verse numbers uh Seventeen talks about it, and he gets down to verse twenty, and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house, testifying both to the Jews and also to the Greeks. repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. And then let's pray. Lord, we love you. Bless our time in the scriptures. I do pray you'd help each one here to be professional at giving their testimony that souls might be saved, I pray in Jesus' name Amen. The word testimony and witness sometimes are used interchangeably if somebody observes an automobile accident And they're called to court and they get up on the chair and they're asked to testify of what they witnessed, what did they see, and to tell others what they saw. Here, um there there's a reason. Let me give you a little preliminary why why I'm doing this. My wife was saved as a young girl, and her daddy had diabetes very bad and died in his early 50s. And so my father-in-law had passed, and they had his casket there at the church, and the pastor, I was the youth pastor at the time, but the pastor was going to preach his funeral. And his casket was open and he held up his Bible and it was all marked with verses, you know. And he said, I thank God for Mr. Lind and what a blessing he's been to the church. Then he picked up a piece of paper and he said, and while he was still alive, he wrote out his testimony. Of when he got saved. And so I want to read that so you can hear his testimony in his own words of how God Saved them. Now we know that the Holy Spirit of God has to do the office work in the heart. We witness, we pray, we try to live a credible testimony, but only God Can convict the heart, enlighten the mind, draw the soul, forgive the sins, right? You and I can't do any of that. Only has to be the Spirit of God in it, right? So um He reads his testimony, talked about how they were raised Lutherans, and he heard the gospel and trusted in Christ, and it was wonderful. So when I became the pastor, I thought, that's a fantastic idea. And so one Sunday school, just like this, people just walked in. And Bebop along at 98. 6 and I and I said, hey everybody, I got an idea for today. And I had a Piece of paper and a pen at every seat, and I said, just take up the pen and pencil and paper and let's write out our personal testimonies. If we overcome Satan by the word of our testimony, if we testify to everybody, I think it'd be wonderful if you distill it into writing. And here's what we'll do with it. We'll collate everybody's testimonies into a book and call it the Testimonies of Wildwood Baptist Church. And then we'll publish them in tracks. And you can put them in your Christmas cards. And you can hand them out on the street. And you could. And it was great, nod your head. It was a good idea. Right? So this is just I hand out the papers, they pass them back in. Some of them were blank. Many of them didn't have a reasonable order But a quarter of them read like this. There was a bad lightning storm. And I was scared and I climbed in my parents' bed. And that night my dad took me back to my bed and he knelt beside and prayed with me and told me God would take care of me. And I've been saved ever since. I was a falling down drunk, and I had lost my wife and my job, and I was in jail. And there was a gospel preacher that came to a chapel service, and I haven't touched a drop since. I was in Vietnam and I saw a hand grenade blow up and it just destroyed the guy in front of me. And I've already seen God and I you don't have to tell me anything. I was at camp and the speaker was very bombastic. His eyes bugged out, the veins on his neck stood out. He was all over the platform, and that night I was saved. And a person reading their testimony, and I believe many of these people were genuinely saved. But a person reading it couldn't have got saved if you'd have held a gun to their head. So when you're a pastor, you have a choice. You can either get mad or you can get humble. These are the sheep of God's pasture, but he's given me a job to shepherd this flock. And if our people aren't good at giving their testimony, maybe I gotta look at the mirror. And maybe I need to kind of rethink this. And so it's from that that I crafted this lesson. I said to people, hey. Do you believe God loves everybody? Yes. Do you believe he wants them to be saved? Yes. Do you believe that we're supposed to be ambassadors? Yes. Do you believe we're supposed to be witnesses? Yes. Well then, why don't you witness to people? How many of you passed out of tract? How many of you witnessed to somebody this week, this month, this year? And most of our people were like the Arctic River frozen at the mouth. And I said, well, why don't you talk to people? And they go, I don't know. I was witnessing, and my aunt said she was baptizing Catechized Lutheran, and I didn't know what to say after that. Or I was talking to a guy, he says he's Mormon, he took a sacred vow, and I I didn't know. Or I was witnessing to a guy, he said he died on the operating table. and he saw God and God was orange and furry and God he knows everything about God. That's the truth. I'm not making this up And I said, you know, a lot of our people are paralyzed because they don't know how to answer every possible religious objection or weirdo doctrine And I want our people to be able to be bold. And there's something about giving your own personal testimony. You're not asking people to vote on it. You don't have to answer every possible objection. You should know what happened to you. You stand as an irrefutable trophy of the grace of God Almighty, and at least you could know that much. You remember the boy born blind? And Jesus healed him, and the Pharisees came and said, hey, tell us, was this man who healed him? Was he a sinner or not? And the boy named Born Blind, he says, whether you be a sinner or not, I don't know. What I know is I was born blind and now I see. Right? Hey, here's what I know for sure. I don't know all the other stuff, but I know this. The people that are good at giving their testimony. Are the boldest witnesses we have in our churches. And the people that aren't good at it virtually never talk to somebody. I'm not being critical. I'm saying that's just reality So I wrote this and it was for our church and but I want to just traip through it. But here's the reason I'm giving it to you. I want it to serve as an outline. I want to encourage every one of you to write out your testimony. Not asking you to compare it to anybody else, but what you could use it for. People that get good at it. Are better soul winners, better witnesses. So I make no apology for this. Um I hope it's a help. We'll go through the first twelve quickly. You can Those of you that are in ministry here or queen, you know we could put a Bible verse or two beside every one of these first 12 provisions. We're sinners by nature. We're under the sentence of death. I sure hope we all are on the same page here, or else I'm in the wrong church, okay? We're under the sentence of death, right? God put a sentence of death on sin. We're lost in sin, destined for hell for all eternity. Can't save ourselves. God's the only one that can forgive us. Number five, God loves us and he wants us to be saved, so he made provision for our salvation. I hope we all believe that. And then number six, Jesus Christ, God's Son, came to this earth to pay for the penalty of the penalty for our sin. And number seven, so important, God in his mercy gave his word and sent his message of forgiveness. Now hear me, the Bible says that in in Acts 17, that the world, they're feeling after God. They're trying to find God. They're trying to worship, serve, please him. And the joy of having a Bible, we know, this is his commandment, that you believe on Jesus Christ whom he hath sent. We know what salvation is, and we're not left to our own designs. Our own, I was witnessing to a fella and he says, I got my own ideas. And I said, you know I used to have two. He says, really, what was your idea? I said, my idea was the way to get to heaven is you got to go to Colorado on Halloween. And then you climb up Pikes Peak from the east on your knees, and you get to the top. And you wait till the sky clears and the moon shows. Then you light three candles. And then you take a gopher. And you and you squeeze his blood onto the candles and put the candles out, and then you face west and say, hooey, hooey, hooey. And he says, you can't just make it up. And I said, neither can you. I don't care if they have their own ideas. Big hairy deal. That and a dollar will get you a cup of coffee. It's meaningless. Having a Bible, thus saith the Lord. Hey, thank God we have a Bible. We'd be no different than any other pagan trying to reach out to God. Number eight, God promised salvation to all who repent of sin, believe in Christ, and call upon his name. I believe that's true. Whosoever will may come. I just believe that any person nine who trusts in Christ, and I have the word, alone. For his soul salvation is saved from hell. It's not Christ plus a miracle, it's not Christ plus tongues, it's not Christ plus the Mass, it's not Christ plus the Pope, it's not, it's Jesus Christ period. Number 10, those who come to Christ in faith go to heaven when they die. They spend eternity with the Lord. Those who die without trust in Christ are condemned to suffer in hell for all eternity. Number 12, God wants all who are saved to have compassion on the lost. And to tell them the message of salvation. Is this what we believe? I mean, right, this is the core of the essence of what we believe regarding salvation. And so I just wrote down, I want our people to know, you know, make sure that you know what you're doing when you give your testimony. And I I hate to Say it this way, but hopefully if you're saved, you were there when it happened. I don't mean to be that insulting, but the first couple things, look at here in the next section Some suggested elements to include in your written testimony. This is just meant to be a guideline for you, so you will write out your testimony. Understand what I'm saying? Take it home and maybe these will serve as a reminder, okay? When were you born? Where were you born and raised? When Paul gave his testimony We won't take time to read it all, but didn't he say, hey, I'm of the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of the Hebrews concerning the law of blame. Right. He he gave just a snapshot of his background. I'll understand something. That's not what salvation is. But every person you talk to is going to have some background, and we're just simply trying to identify with them. I kind of know what you mean I was born and raised someplace too. But for every one of us, it'll be different. You were in Schenectady, New York. I was in Omroe, Wisconsin. I was born on a dairy farm in Omroe, Wisconsin Right? I was born and raised someplace. Number two, it says, what was your religious background, if any? Memorize these two words, okay? Devout or nominal? You were either raised nothing like me, or you were raised nominal in name only. Hey, we were nominal Methodists, we were nominal Lutherans. Or we were devout and then fill in the blank. We were practicing Catholics, Lutherans, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormons, Muslim, Buddhist, Rastafarians, something. Episcopalians, right? And I'm saying say it in a sentence. Some people cannot tell a story They tell stories backwards. Well, I was born in well it was a sunny day. Well, not so much in the morning. It was cloudy in the morning, but in the afternoon it broke clear and Uh I say I was born in Oshkosh, but really the hospital was on the outskirts of town in the county. My mother, you know, was Norwegian What about your religious background? Well, I don't know. I mean, I was I was Pentecostal for a while, but Then we kind of dropped out of church and then listen the person listening to you We're trying to get him the message of salvation We don't care about your grandfather's history Just look, if you don't learn anything else today, don't tell me about the labor pains, just show me the baby Wow, I'm telling you One lady was writing, she goes, I don't even know what to say about where I was raised. I mean, I was born in, but my dad was military, and we were stationed for a while in ADAC, Alaska, and then when I was seven, why they moved to Newfoundland and then, you know, I was in Missouri for a while. Okay, fine, fine, fine. Just say I was raised in a military family and lived a bunch of places. Don't I mean look I'm gonna say this I was trained as a chaplain for our police force And doing death notifications for decades. And one of the things they said was, when you go to a home, And you get everybody seated on the couch, and you're about to notify them of the passing of their son or father. in an unattended death or an accident, someone just use the word dead. Use the word killed. Don't try to flower it any different than that. Because humans will fasten. If you say there was just a mortal accident, or there was tragic injuries, or you use any euphemism, and what does the human mind do? It tries to grasp on. I was with a young a young policeman. He said, Chaplain, I'd like to do the notification this time. I I want to have I want to get some experience at it. And he tells the family, now their son was driving 125 miles an hour on the fastest motorcycle in the world. And a van pulled out in front of him and he ran 120 miles an hour into the back of a van, not compatible with life. His head was squished about that thick. And they took him to the morgue, and this cop and I are at the house to notify And he says, your son was in an accident with his motorcycle and they took him to the hospital. Well yeah, they took him to the hospital. The basement The morgue that mother jumped up, grabbed her coat, and ran to her car. I want to go see my son. That's not being nice to people. The nicest thing you can do is tell them the truth. I can tell you stories all day, but I'm saying so the the reason I'm mentioning this is what are we trying to do when we give our testimony? We're trying to give the gospel. It's all about Jesus. It's not all about you. Don't make it all about you. But people sometimes are hesitant to get to the point Or they're struggling with how to get to the point, so they fill the air with a bunch of extraneous stuff. Especially if they're nervous. Afraid. We're not trained. And so notice number three here, how old were you when you first heard a clear presentation of the gospel? Now I'm going to say this, I know it's probably just way beyond what you ever thought of, but if faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God, and if you're truly saved, Somehow, somewhere, you heard the gospel. That's pretty tricky. Right? It might have been a radio broadcast or a gospel tract or in church or at your mother's knee or in a Sunday school, but somehow, somewhere, you heard the gospel. How old were you when that happened? Now again, think of it from the guy who's listening. He might have gotten to be 32 and never heard a clear presentation of the gospel. And you're just trying to identify. I was born and raised someplace. We had some religious exposure, but boy, I was Such and such, fourteen when I heard a clear presentation of the gospel. The next one, did you understand the gospel? Who was involved and how did you respond at first? Why? Why do we say that? Because the person listening that you're trying to give the gospel to, hey, I heard it and I didn't understand, or it seemed too easy. Or I thought maybe they were trying to get me into their religion. Or just why? Because he's going to have some questions. He's going to have some objections. She's going to wonder what your motives are. So just kind of put that at ease. Hey, I was born and raised, but when I was 14 years old, I went to a special meeting at a camp that a kid invited me to, and they said I could be saved. If I just called on the Lord and boy, I didn't understand that at all. I thought you had to be baptized in catechist. Very few people get saved the first time they hear the gospel. The person you're talking to, some might have sowed and some might have watered, and it might be time to harvest But it might be the first time he's heard anything. So you're trying to just be, and I'm going to use, don't be a social misfit. Just be normal and talk to them and tell them your experience. You don't have to elaborate, you don't have to exaggerate, you don't have to lie, but you don't have to cover anything. This is what happened to me, and I didn't understand it, or I was confused, or boy, I thought they were trying to trick me. But Number five, when did you finally understand and respond to the message of salvation For me personally, I was born and raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin, and our family was nominal Methodist, but we were raised out of church. And when I was 17, I heard the gospel. I went with a girl to church. But when I was 18 years old, I understood this is something I need to do for me. And I called on the Lord and I asked him to save me and forgive my sin and take me to heaven when I die. Now, that did not take me one minute to express that. Right? They say, if you can say it in a chapter, don't write a book. If you can say it in a paragraph, Don't write a chapter. And if you can say it in a sentence, and if you can shut up, just shut up. Right? But I can't shut up. So but I can I can I can say it. comprehended truthfully without because the more you embellish things, the more you add details, the more their mind will wander away from the message that you're trying to get to. And so, um, number six, how old were you when you truly put your trust in Christ and called upon him to save you? Why? Because we want the person listening to understand no matter how you got to here, it's possible to have all this background and all this experience and all this understanding. and still be lost. And there's no shame in that. That's what happened to me. I heard it, but I wasn't saved until I chose for myself to respond to the gospel and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. You cannot give your testimony without saying the word saved. or believed or forgiven. Don't try to avoid those words. I mean I we we had people write their testimony. I went to Southside Baptist Church and then I got baptized. That's wonderful, but don't the essential what we're trying to get to is you trust in Christ first. Oh yeah, I just didn't mention that. Well That's your testimony. Getting your pants wet for Jesus doesn't do nothing. I mean, come on. And and the the idea of Saying it, I believed on Christ, I turned from my sin. I called on the Lord. Some people get real twisted up about specific words You gotta be careful about that because really salvation is faith in the heart. You believe in your heart, you confess with your mouth But once you s someone starts getting a rigorous, you have to use this precise You forget, one guy says, Lord be merciful to me a sinner, and another one says, remember me when I comest into the kingdom. In John 3. 16 it says, whosoever believeth in him, in Revelation it says, take of the water of life freely. Don't get too twisted up in the semantics. It does have to include repentance and faith. They believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. They trust in the Lord. Not everybody's going to say, Lord, I turn from my sin. I trust only in Christ. I ask for your forgiveness. Take me to heaven. There might be one or two components missing, but doesn't God know in the heart what they're actually trusting? Right? And then number seven, you might say in your testimony, who led you to Christ? Were you saved as a result of a personal witness, a preaching service, a gospel tract, or a radio program? And I'm saying you should be able to write your testimony on one side of a piece of paper, two at the most. Because why? We're trying to get it down to its essence and say what's important, not, well, my grandmother wore army boots Be very careful. Think through what needs to be there for them to see through. Read the testimonies that they gave in the Bible. And at most It's four or five verses or just a little section when Paul gave his testimony before Agrippa and all, you know, it's it doesn't have to be more complex than that And then what do we know in addition to those simple, straightforward things? We know this. We live here, and although America is a melting pot, still today, 95% of the people you're going to meet are professed Christendom. Yes, there's Muslims, yes, there's Buddhists, yes, there's, but by and large, if you take the world's major religions, Hindu, Buddhist, Muslim, Christian. The great repository of Christianity is still here in America. And so you're going to be dealing with the people that are in this spectrum The Catholics, the Lutherans, the Presbyterians, the Methodists, a sprinkling of Lutherans, whatever. But So what do we know for sure? Well, actually we're worlds ahead if we're talking to one of them. Because at least they believe in a creator God. They still celebrate Christmas because God's only begotten Son came. They celebrate Easter because they believe he rose from the dead. We have many things that we believe that they already embrace. Way different. I mean when I was in India and they they believe in causes sacred And the mouse god and the elephant god and but you have a different starting point. But here, they already believe a lot of the same things we do. But one of the great, great, damnable heresies that's in almost every one of these denominations except for the evangelical Pentecostal side of things, but they believe that infant baptism is efficacious. They believe, you read the Lutheran Catechism, what benefit is there in baptism? Much and every way. Through it we get deliverance from death and the devil, forgiveness of sins, eternal life. That's what they say in their catechism. There's a reason every Lutheran believes he was saved at his baptism, and he reaffirmed at his catechism his baptismal vows that his sponsors made. So do the Episcopalians, so do the right. And so when I say this, be very careful. When you give your testimony, don't make baptism any part of it. Because they will immediately fasten on that and say, Well, I was baptized. But baptism had no part in your salvation, and don't you make it a part of it, and don't you give them something to hide behind? Make it no part of your testimony. I always tell people that's why this bottom is a separate section. If you're going to say, hey, I got baptized, I joined the church, my family got saved. Da-da-da-da. That's wonderful. Put it on the back side of the piece of paper. I'm saying draw a clear line. But also you can capitalize on, and I frequently when I'm witnessing to someone, I'll say Wow, I'm glad you read your Bible. Man, it's good that you're in church. I know you believe in Easter and all of that. And then I'll just say, are you married? Well, yes. When when you were just walking in the park, was that the same as marriage? Well no. When he bought you a sweater for Christmas, was was that marriage? Well no. If he said, I love you, no. Bought a box of chocolates? No. We weren't married until we went to the altar and said, I do. These things might have been good things, but there was a moment in time when I got married. In that same way, praying, reading your Bible, going to church. Wonderful. You don't have to oppose that. That's what we want them to do when they're saved. Right? But hey, you got this far. Wouldn't it be bad to get this far and have them walk away? You don't want to be left at the altar. You've got to go ahead and say, I do. And what remains for you to do is to make that decision and say, I do, to the Lord Jesus Christ. I believe on him for myself. I'm trusting him. Not my church, not my religion, not my activities, not my ordinances. I'm trusting him alone. My experience has been the people who will write out their testimony, distill it down into a relatively brief thing that will hand it out to their relatives, that will make it available for their funeral, that will send it in a Christmas card, that'll collate it in the book for church testimonies. Those people are also the most likely to speak a word of testimony to a person on the street or a co-worker I can't tell you how much I I believe this is important. And I I'm just giving this to you saying, please write out your testimony. Make it something that in at the very least you can carry it in your pocket And give it to someone. Say, hey, this is my testimony. I close with one story. Do I do I are we are we done? What time are we done? I'm in a church and the pastor's frustrated that the church isn't growing, and he says to me, Pastor King, I'll tell you what, if you come back again, you're gonna see a different church here. I'm gonna find something that works No, that's pure pragmatism. And I says, well, what are you talking about? He says, well, I'm going to do one of the four C's. Pretty alert boy, but the four C's, huh? Oh, just humor me. I probably knew once, but tell me what the four C's are Well, brother, he says, I'm gonna go Catholic. I don't mean Catholic doctrine, but Our churches are like carnivals and circuses with people talking and moving in and out, and there's no sense of worship. It seems like that's popular today, so we're going to be a lot more formal and have the call to worship song and everybody's going to be, he's really going to do that or I'm going to be charismatic. We're going to have the miracles. We're going to have the the sign gifts. We're going to get that seems to have a big appeal today. Or I'm going contemporary. I'm gonna get the electric guitar, I'm gonna get the bongo drums, I'm gonna have women in spandex leading a choreographed worship team, I'm gonna Or I'm going to go Calvinist. Sure, people aren't being saved and the church isn't grown, but that's God's fault. He's not calling them anymore. Now listen, he was serious as a heart attack. And you've never seen me with blood dripping out of my eyes, but I said, you're the pastor here? Before you do any of those things, I'm not coming back. But I said, let me ask you three questions. You're the pastor. You got a hundred and some people. Tell me, who in your church do you know that actually prays for God to open the door of utterance? Praise for souls, ask God, use me, help me witness for you today. Who in your church does that? Oh, I don't do that. I don't know anybody in our church that prays for people to be saved. He said, uh that's kind of old fashioned. I said, uh, how about this? Who in your church is carrying a gospel tract, a John Romans? Anything if somebody tackled him, threw him on the floor, choked him by the Adam's apple, and said, What must I do to be saved? That they could give him a word of witness in any way. Who carries tracks in their lunchbox, their purse. He goes, well I don't know. He says, I've been here five years and we have the same tracks in the track track that we had. It's still got the old pastor's name on. Now listen, if people aren't being saved in church, churches are a leaky bucket. Somebody's always dying, somebody's always moving away to be with the grandkids because they retired, and somebody's always mad. You're a Baptist church. You have to have people coming in the top, or it's destined to disintegrate. I mean I hate to be that pragmatic, but I mean, come on. He said no. He said, well, actually, I was behind Susan in the grocery store and she was digging in in her wallet a purse to get her wallet out and I saw a tract in the bottom of her purse, so I think Susan carries tracks. I said, take me to the ten best families you have. Don't tell them I'm coming. I'll drive, you point out their address. And we'll park in front. Don't tell them I'm coming because I don't want to go in their house and I don't want to make her clean it for the first time. But just tell me where they live and you and I will go to the door right next to them and knock on the door and I'll talk. Hey, do you know that right there lives a Christian and they believe they're going to heaven? And you are in jeopardy of hell every hour? Have they ever in any way expressed a concern for your never-dying soul? Have they ever invited you to an Easter program? Have they ever witnessed to you? Did they ever give you a tract in your mailbox? Did they ever have you over for a cook-up? Ever in any way express a concern for your never-dying soul? And then we'll go to the door on this side. Because the Bible does say, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. You should at least have one ounce of the milk of human kindness. You at least should have one shred of spirituality. And go to the door next to him. Hey, do you know that right there lives a Christian? He believes he's going to heaven and you're going to hell. Has he ever verbalized, expressed, or in any way demonstrated a concern for your never-dying soul? Ever? It will go to your ten best families. You're the pastor of this outfit. He says, oh Pastor King, people don't neighbor like they used to. I've lived here for these several years. I don't even know who lives next door to me. I told him, get out of the ministry. You're not a pastor. Do the work of an evangelist, leading your people to be soul conscious. being a bold witness. Listen, don't blame God for churches languishing when we're not out after souls like God's commanded us to be.