I'm going to um be preaching a sermon. It's entitled Go Go All In. Go All In. There is a tendency in my life when I go to camp That when I go to camp I hear really good sermons. I get convicted. I go forward. I make a decision. I get excited, I go back home, and I decide, God, I'm gonna do everything I can for you. It's all out for you. A week passed by, two weeks passed by, and I'm back in the same place I was before And I if if there's anything that I don't want to see is that happen. I've seen that happen with a couple of our teens in in in our church in Mexico, just a couple of friends of mine as the last camp that I was with them, they came up to me and they're like, God really spoke to me. And now they're not in church and it's it's sad for me and I don't want to see that with any team that comes up here and gives a testimony and talks about how God worked in their life because Seeing them here can have a testimony and then seeing them go out in a couple years maybe not be in church is one of the saddest things for me, especially if they're really close. So tonight I want to just give an encouragement to just everyone, whether if you've heard a sermon before and it really touched your heart and you have you've lacked in that area, just go back and go all in and have that same spirit that you had. when you made a decision. Um my text that I'm going to be going to is First Timothy chapter four. First Timothy chapter four. Verses fifteen and uh we'll start with we'll start with verse eleven and we'll end at verse sixteen. First Timothy chapter 4 verse starting with verse 11. These things command and teach. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thine example of the believers. in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity, shall I come give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given to thee by prophecy, which is the laying of hands of the Presbytery. Meditate upon these things Give thyself wholly to them, that thy propheting may appear to all. Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself. And them that hear thee. I really want to just focus on those last two verses. On just um getting some truths out of just getting some ideas. from from those last two verses as we see in this in this chapter. Paul is writing to Timothy and he's this whole book he's you know telling Timothy this is what you need to do as as being a leader of your church These are some things that you're you can help your people with, that you are preaching to, that you're ministering to. And in chapter four he's talking mostly about just false teaching. people that are coming in trying to disrupt the church, trying to um bring in different ideas, different um things that might take Christians um away from being in the truth and taking him down a different path and and um Paul is exhorting, he's admonishing, he's telling Timothy Watch out. Watch out for these people. And he tells them just some things that he can that he can do to keep them from um from falling from From keep on to keep being a good minister of the people. And also not only that, but also to keep um just Serving God in just his daily life. And one of the things I want to start just focus on is that just that first part, and that's going to be my first point, meditating upon the Word of God, and it says, meditate upon these things. We went to um a good week of camp and we heard some good sermons and one of my faults that I had was I went back and I never I didn't really listen to the sermons. I never went to get a C D, I never went to get um an MPC, I never went to go search and re-listen to those sermons again and much of what I learned and many of the decisions that I made I lost because I did not meditate, I did not take seriously. the preaching that was given to me and we had some good preaching last week. And we have you know technology is very helpful. I know the m Pastor Derek's been talking about the devices and technology is helpful in this area. of preaching. Um they created a wonderful app, Sermon Audio. And thankfully that there are sermons in there that you can listen to about basically anything. All over the Bible you will find sermons preached about it on Sermon Audio. And these sermons that we heard last week, if you made a decision in them, I would encourage you to go over them again this week. Wait a couple more weeks. Listen to it again. A couple more weeks. Listen to it again. Keep it fresh in your mind. Because it's so easy to forget. It's very easy to forget. I forgot four things back. I forgot like four things back. I can't. I I c I forget things very easily. So So it it's and the devil will use that. He will use your forgetfulness to grab you again and set and take you back to the position you were at before you went to camp, before you made the decision. He will take you back. And you will end up in the same place and you're going to end up in a cycle. And that cycle will last for a while if you don't keep what it is fresh in your mind about the decisions that you made. I encourage you also, don't just relisten to them. Write them down, meditate on them, ponder them throughout the day. Um I have a friend in college that taught me um something really good. to do and it's get these sticky notes that was created very good for this purpose. You can stick them anywhere. Um and I have in my devotional book, a sticky note, with decisions that God talked to me about. And I write 'em down. I'll my friend in college, I go walk into his room and um we have this desk in our room and above it's this shelf and his whole shelf is just covered in sticky notes. from verses and passages that God has spoken to him about. And I would encourage you, write down these decisions somewhere where you will see it often. Somewhere where you can review it often. Somewhere where God, when you see it, God will speak to you again and say, Hey, how are you doing in this area of your life? And it will it will help you to Meditate on the decisions that you make, bring it back fresh in your mind so that you you don't fall in that area again. When that temptation comes that you made a decision on when it comes back again. You can go back to a passage, to a verse, to a phrase that the pastor said, and you'll be able to take that and use it to fight against the devil so then the devil doesn't have again that that reign, that, that hold in your life. Not only does Paul say meditate on these things, he says give yourself holy to them. He says, go all in. Don't hold anything back. If there I don't I went to camp and I I made decisions. Important decisions, but there were areas in my life that I held back, and those areas that I held back. The devil used it to grab a hold of them and restrain me from moving forward so then I would not have the victory that I had in my life. And I don't know. You guys made some very good decisions this week. But if there's anything else But there's anything else. Give it all over to God. The devil will use anything to keep you, to restrain you. And if you have made the decisions, if you say, I laid it all out there, don't compromise, like Alex said, I'm gonna steal a point from this. Don't compromise. The compromising will end you at the point where you started. Go all in. Give it all t give it all to God. And you and there's an important part in this in this in this that Paul Paul doesn't mention it here, but Jesus mentions it in ever in other areas in the Bible. You have to do it daily. Go all in. Give it all over to God daily. Jesus said in Luke 9. 23, if any man will come after me, let him deny this deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. It's a daily action. If you're gonna if it's because it's a daily action because it's a daily battle. You're gonna fight those temptations daily. Anderson, you're gonna be fighting those temptations daily at your work. at your job. It's gonna take you daily going in and saying, God, this day is yours and I'm giving it to you and I'm gonna live the way you want me to live it. And God will give you the strength to fight those temptations. Last of all, my last point that I want to just focus on is in this this last part of verse 16. He says, Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt will save thyself and them that hear thee. As I said, your your guys' testimonies is encouragement to me. When people come forward to me, we were talking with Mr. Reggie today, and he was talking to us about some things from his college. That encouraged me to go back when I go back to my college to do the same. You don't know how much of an impact your testimony can be. When God works in your life, it should be something worth saying. If God speaks to you, it should be something this is God, this is our Creator, this is the man who saved us from our sins. We should be wanting to say what He tells us. When He speaks to us, we should be wanting to tell everybody. If m if the president was to talk about us, man, the whole the whole village wouldn't everybody in Humph Valley would know about it if if the president called me. Everybody would know about it. How much more important is God than the president? If God has worked in your life, it's yes, you started good. Telling everybody here in the church, go out and tell somebody out out in the world. Tell them how God worked in your life. They may not understand it, but they'll see that something's happening in your life that they want. And there's people like me who needed that in other places, other Christians If you go to another group, say, hey, uh at Mount Zion Baptist Camp 2021, God worked in my life in this area. It may help them, it may not, but the important thing is that you do your best to tell everybody how God has worked in your life. Because you you never know who you may help. For in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. We there's there's a world out there that needs to be saved. And the decisions we make now, it's gonna help. It's gonna help us be able to reach them more and be able to present them the gospel and to be used by God greatly in doing it. So I encourage you if you if just to just to finish to meditate on what you learned, meditate on the decisions that you made. Reread those reread We read what the notes you took, we listen to the messages, write the decisions you made down. And w and don't give anything back. Don't leave anything back. Give it all to God and then tell others. You don't know who you will impact when you just share them how God has worked in your life.