Today of chapter number six, I'd like to bring a message tonight entitled Go and tell this people. Go and tell this people. As I've learned, uh your um missions month this year is centered around reaching out with an emphasis on going and how important is that that we need to reach out to our community We need to reach out to, you know, just here in Hunt Valley in this area and and then the Baltimore area, as I know that's not too far from here, and and then we need to reach out into the surrounding countries around us and all across the world. But in order to reach out, there has to be some who are willing to go. Some who are willing to take that step and to go for Christ. So tonight out of Isaiah chapter number six, I want to look at these uh things that happened in Isaiah's life leading up to his calling. And this passage has had such an important meaning. in my life since about the age of fourteen. At the age of fourteen I was attending a church and there was an evangelist in by the name of Norm Stevens. I don't know if you any of you have ever heard of Norm Stevens, but he was in that summer And it was a summer meeting, and he was preaching, and one night he opened up to Isaiah chapter six here, and he had read the first nine verses like we're going to do tonight. But when he got down to that ninth verse Where the Bible says, and he said, Go and tell this people. I knew the Lord was really speaking to me that night and saying, Brother Magnar, Josh, that go there is there for you. Josh, that go is important in your life. I want you to be one of the ones who are willing to go for me. I want you to go into full-time ministry in the area of missions. Now, many uh times we hear this passage preached and we focus on verse number eight where those famous verses there and we're going to look at them here in a minute where Isaiah there is talking with the Lord and And God says, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? And Isaiah says, Here am I, send me You know, and that's wonderful. I love those verses But many times I feel like as Christians we kind of stop there. You know, we put in we we kind of like draw the line there between verse 8 and 9. We get to there and we say, oh yes, Lord, that's me. Here am I, send me, I'll go But then we missed out on verse nine. Verse nine there says, And he said, Go and tell this people. You know, just I'm I'm not all that old yet, but I've known many people already in my life, especially being in Bible college and some of these people that I met and were friends with that in Bible college, you know, are around that age or high school or something like that and they say, Oh, I want to do this God has called me to do this, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna go here, God wants me to do this. But then it gets to that time in their life, and they never go. You know, there was that time in their life where they were willing. They said they wanted to go. They said that they were gonna do it. But I mean I'm sure many of you people in here tonight probably know someone You can think of someone right now that said that at one point in their life they were willing. They told God they were going to go. But tonight, where are they? Tonight they're probably not serving God. And as we look at this, I want you to think of your life and think of whatever God may have put on your life. Maybe your 60s, 70s, 80s, maybe you're younger than that in your twenties and thirties, whatever it is, God has something for your life And we have to be so much more willing than to just go. But I want you to think, am I actually doing it? Am I actually going and doing what God has called them to do. So let's look at it here, Isaiah chapter 6. If you're there, I'd love it. We'll look at verses 1 through 9. The Bible says, in the year that King Uzziah died I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphim Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto one another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone. Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts Then flew one of the seraphim unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo This has touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I, send me And he said, Go and tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not. I don't know if you're in the habit of marking things in your Bible, but there in my Bible I have that word go circled. Go and tell the people. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to be here tonight. Lord, I thank you for those who have taken the time to be here. They understand the importance of being here here in your house, worshiping with your people. Father, I thank you for the opportunity for Katie and I to be here. I thank you for bringing us here safely. I pray that we'll have a great weekend here with these people, Lord, that we can be a blessing to them. Father, as we look now into your word. Lord, I pray that you'll speak to hearts tonight. Lord, that you'll touch us. Father, that you'll move in the hearts of the people. Lord, that we'll see some that are willing to go. Father, those that will want to do something for you. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So here in Isaiah chapter 6, I want to look tonight at the things that led in Isaiah's life up to his calling. and up to him going out for God. Because I truly believe that God is still using circumstances like this in our life today to get a hold of us. He uses circumstances like this here in Isaiah, just like he had in my life at the age of fourteen. to call us to his ministry, whatever it is that he has for us. I believe that as Christians we are all called to do something. Now I don't know what that is. That's between you and God. Maybe it is that you feel that God is calling you to the foreign mission field. Maybe you feel that God is calling you just to be a layman in the church here and to be faithful where you are and to help out your pastor and those that are here. Maybe God's calling you to plant a church here in Maryland or Pennsylvania or New Jersey, the surrounding states. I don't know what God has for you. But whatever God has for you tonight, I want you to ask yourself, am I there doing what God has for me? Maybe, maybe there has been that time in your life where you said, God, I will do it. You've given this to me. This is what you want for me to do. I will do it. But maybe tonight you're feeling Like you're in that in-between zone where you said you were going to go and do it, but maybe you haven't actually reached out and done it. Whatever God has called for you. I don't know what situation I haven't even met all of you yet, and none of you I've just met tonight. But whatever God has for you, I pray that you'll be open to hearing from God tonight. But tonight as we look at this, I want to look at Isaiah's calling. And if you're taking notes there, the first point that we I want to see tonight is number one, we need to see the And we find that there in verses one through four. Verses one through four there we see that we need to have the right view of God today. I want to ask you, what is your view of God today? How do you view God? Do you see him like Isaiah here sees him? We see in verse in verse uh one there That I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up. Isaiah looks up and he sees God and he sees him in his rightful place. He sees him high and lifted up. And we're going to look at it here in a minute with the seraphims that are praising God, saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. But how do you see God tonight? What is your view of God? And it's very interesting if you notice it there. This great disruption had just come to Isaiah's life. And many times God uses disruptions in our life to get our eyes back on Him. Maybe your focus on God has gotten off a little bit. Maybe it's not quite where it needs to be tonight. But God many times bring disruptions in our life to get our view back on him. And we see that here in verse number one, if you would look at it with me there. Says just in the first few words, In the year that King Uzziah died. In the year that King Uzziah died. What a disruption that had come to Isaiah's life here, right? Think with me for a minute. If our president was to die, right, what would it be like? What a disruption that would be in our lives, right? We would be talking about it. No doubt we would come to church and we'd probably stand out in the foyer area and we would talk about how you know, our president had just passed away and what's going to happen? Now we've got the vice president in charge. It'd be all over the news. It'd be in the newspaper. It'd be on your Facebook feed, whatever it is, your Instagram, I don't know what it is that you use tonight, but it would be everywhere, right? It would be in front of our faces is what we talk about. We'd go to work and what's the first thing you would talk about Did you hear what happened last night? What a disruption. Well that's what had happened here in Isaiah's life, right? His king had died. The king I uh king Um, I'm sorry, excuse me. In the year King Uzziah died, King Uzziah had just died, right? The king of the land. And it's a great disruption. But what does Isaiah do? And I think this is very, very important. When a disruption comes into your life, where do we turn? What do we turn to? Look with me here in verse number one. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. You see, this great disruption comes. His king dies, and you don't find Isaiah out in the streets talking to people. You don't see him wandering around checking the news articles going, what's gonna happen? happen now. Now the vice president's in charge. You know, what's going to happen? Who's going to do this? Who's going to take care of that? Is the policies going to change? No, what does he do? He looks to God. I don't know what disruption that has come into your life, but where do you look? Is God number one in your life? Listen, God wants to be number one. He wants to have full control of your life. But if your life is off kilter a little bit, maybe this disruption comes and you look to your job. You hide at your job and say, oh, there's something going on at home. Maybe somebody had just passed away or there's this big bill that you gotta take care of that you weren't expecting the medical expense or something like that, whatever this disruption is in our twenty-first century lives that may come into our life, what do we turn to? Do we turn to our savings account Do we turn to our friends for help? Or do we turn to our family to take care of all of our needs? Do we look to all these different things? Do we look to, you know, the entertainment of the world, like sports and these different things to take our mind off of it? Or is God the first person we go to? What is your view of God today? Maybe you say, Brother Magnum, my view of God just it's just not right. Tonight's the night you can get that taken care of. Look up and see the Lord. See him high and lifted up. When the outlook is bleak, try the uplook. When the outlook is bleak, try the uplook. Because ladies and gentlemen, the outlook's bleak. You know, we're just coming on the opposite side now of of COVID 19. And we weren't sure what was gonna happen, but we still don't know all of what's gonna happen. We we wonder every day, do we not? Oh, is is some new mask mandate Or is some new mandate gonna come out that we can't go out? Um your pastor was telling me today about the missionaries that you all just had last week in the Philippines and the crazy things that they were going to. What a what a bleak But here in America we go through many things too, you know, in our twenty-first century life. We have many things that come up into our life that we're not expecting. Many disruptions come into our life. But when the outlook gets bleaked Do we try the uplook? Do we look to God or do we look to many other things? Isaiah looks up and what does he see? He sees the Lord, but he sees him in his rightful place. Verse two there says, Above it stood the seraphim. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. These seraphins, I love these seraphims. If you do some uh studying into the old Hebrew of what the seraphims were, it's like this the research that I found, it's like this fiery serpent, right? And it's got six wings. And this is what Isaiah sees. He looks up and he sees God God sitting on his throne, and he sees him high and lifted up. And then he sees these seraphims that are just flying around the throne room. And they're covering their face and they're covering their feet as they worship God, saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. You know, and Isaiah just gets this view of God and he just he just realizes how great our God is and how wonderful he is. And then all these terrible things are going on in Isaiah's life, right? His king just died. I'm sure many people are asking him questions of what's going to happen. You know, maybe he has some inner thoughts of wondering what's going to happen. But he looks to God and he sees him high and lifted up. And he sees the seraphim just worshiping God. And he starts to get his view of God back where it needs to be. And many times I feel like in our own life, our view gets off of God. It happens in my own life. You know, we get our view off of God. And many times we just need to take some time and to stop and to look up and to see God in the world. Maybe that's you here tonight. You say, you know, my view of God is wrong. I don't see God high and lifted up. I I maybe I'm blaming God for something in my life. I don't know what it is. But Isaiah here, he sees God high and lifted up. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. And he starts to think of how great his God is. Hebrews chapter 13, verse 8 says, Jesus Christ the same yesterday, today, and forever. And Isaiah knows this. And many times we forget. We forget about who God is. You know, we forget that Jesus Christ is the same. We forget that the same God who loved us enough to send his son to die on the cross. Is the same God who we're here worshiping today. You know, when you get that view off of God, maybe you forget who Jesus really is and all that he's done for you. Has Jesus not seen you through every past trial? Why would he not see us through the next one? What's your view of God today? We talked about these seraphims that are worshiping God. In verse 4 we see, and the post of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. You know this amazing experience that Isaiah here is having as he sees the doorposts start to shake and the house fills with smoke and he's looking up to God and he sees him in his rightful place. Number one, tonight, what is your view of God? In the midst of this great disruption in Isaiah's life, he sees the Lord. He sees him high and lifted up. But number two, tonight, we need to see ourselves. And we find that here in verse number 5 through 7. You know, we just talked about the doorposts shaking and the house filling with smoke, and Isaiah looking up to God. And then in verse five the Bible says this, Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone. Because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king The Lord of hosts. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this has touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin is purged. You see, when Isaiah gets the right view of God, when he sees God in his rightful place, he starts to see himself. And he literally stops and said, Woe is me. He's saying, Woe is me, for I am undone. I'm a man of unclean lips, and I dwell amongst the people of unclean lips. You know, when he has that right view of God, he starts to see his own life, and he starts to see the sin in his own life. And is it not true today that when we get that view off of God, you know, it's start it it's so much easier to start to think about sin in a different way. You know, when we're not seeing God as holy, holy, holy as the Lord of hosts. When we don't see God as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, when we get our view off of God, our view of ourselves is wrong. And we don't see But Isaiah here, he has this great disruption in his life, right? And then he gets the right view of God, and next comes his own life. And you can just imagine he's standing there as these doorposts shake and the and the house fills with smoke and Maybe all the different things in his life start to pour through his mind. I can just imagine, I can imagine him just breaking down and thinking, woe is me, for I am un You see, when you get the right view of God, you'll start to get the right view of yourself. You'll start to realize maybe some different things in your life. I can just imagine Isaiah being so convicted. So convicted of seeing how mighty and holy God is, and at how little He is. How little Isaiah is. You know, many times we have a wrong view of God. And then we start to slip in different areas in our life We start to slip in maybe our attendance at church, or we start to slip in, you know, the movies that we watch, or we start to slip in the way that we spend our time, and we don't realize it sometimes. You know, and then you look back and all of a sudden you're twenty steps back from where you were. But you see, when you have that right view of God, you'll start to see the view of your own life. You will never see yourself the way you should until you see God out. you should. You say, Brother Magnar, I struggle with this sin in my life. Well, what's your view of God today? You see, everything begins with God. When your view of God is off, your view of the world is off. Your view of what's right and wrong is off. You know, when your view of God is wrong, everything else just won't fall into line. Maybe you're wondering why why something is going on, or you can't get over whatever thing is going on in your life, and you're wondering what do I do? Start with your view of God. You first have to see yourself. Well, you first have to see God, then you have to see yourself. Isaiah starts confessing, and he says he is a man of unclean lips. He says he dwells amongst the people of unclean lips. And I start thinking about this. Why does he say unclean lips? You know, I believe that here in our holy inspired Word of God that we have that every word is perfect. And I thought lips. Why unclean lips? Well if you would turn with me to Luke chapter number six. Keep your finger here in Isaiah. We're going to come back. We'll be back in a minute. But Luke chapter number six, I want you to see this. Luke chapter number six talking about Isaiah says he is a man of unclean lips and he dwells amongst the people of unclean lips. And I don't think he's just talking about his speech. I don't think he's just talking about what actually comes out of his lips. I think it's deeper than that. Let's look at it here. Luke chapter 6, verse 45. The Bible says, A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good. And an evil man, out of the evil treasure of his heart, bringeth forth that which is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. And Isaiah realized this. You know when he's saying there that he's a man of unclean lips, you can turn back to Isaiah if you want to. As he's saying that he's a man of unclean lips and he dwells amongst the people of unclean lips, he was talking about so much more than just his speech. So much more than just the words that he's talking about his heart. He realized that his heart wasn't right. He realized that he needed to get this inward thing taken care of before he can fix the outward thing. Out of the abundance of the heart, his mouth speaketh. You know, many times we can put on a false facade. You know, we can fake it for only such a period of time, right? But eventually, eventually, what's in here is what's in here We can hide it from the people of the world. For a long time, I'm sure you can hide it from the people sitting next to you. You can hide it from your pastor. You can hide it from the other staff here. First of all, you're not hiding it from God. He sees everything. He knows it all. He already knows what you're struggling with. But second of all, eventually it's gonna come out. And Isaiah realizes this, that is he has a heart problem here that he has to deal with. And he says here in verse number five: Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of the people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king The Lord of hosts. And I love there that realization that Isaiah has. If he caught it there, says, Mine eyes have seen the king. What it just happened in verse 1? In the year that King Uzziah died. Is he seeing Isa uh Uzziah? No, he's seeing God, right? He's seeing the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's seeing the one who created everything. He's seeing the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. And he has this realization of who God is. And he has this realization of the heart problem that he has. And he says, Mine eyes have seen the king. Listen, when the outlook is bleak, try the the uplook. Try it. When something goes wrong, look to God. When something in your life is off, look to God. If you're struggling with some sin in your life, look to God. First, we need to see God. We need to see ourselves. Verse 6 and 7 here, we see the result of Isaiah's confession before the Lord. Isaiah had gotten right with the Lord, and the Lord forgave him. And isn't it great that we serve a God that forgives us every single time? Because listen, we fall many times, but he's always there to catch us. He's always there to pick us back up. He wants you to do what's right. He wants you to live that glorious, victorious Christian life that we can live. But when your view gets off of him, And you start to fall, you can't kick yourself back up. You can't confess. You won't realize the sin in your life until you first see God who He is. You see, it all begins. Isaiah here says, I have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. And then verse six says, Then flew one of the seraphim unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo, this has touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin is purged. No matter how many times we mess up, God will forgive us 1 John 1 9 says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Every single time. 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14 says, If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my faith, And turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sins and heal their land. You see, every single time, our great God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, will forgive you. You just gotta take it to him. Sometimes we just need to spend some time with the Lord. I can just imagine here, Isaiah, he's all alone. There's no if you read through this chapter, there's no one else here in the picture, right? Isaiah is having this alone time with God. There's this great disruption in his life, and he goes and spends time with God. What's your personal life like? What kind of time do we spend with God? You say, Brother Magner, it's missions month. I want to reach out. I want to go. But you first have to get your life straightened out. You first have to have this experience with God where you see God in his rightful place. You have to have God as number one. He wants to be first. He wants to come before everything else And then when you have God number one, you can then get your life straightened out with God. Give it all to Him. Let Him take care of it. Our God is a forgiving God, a loving God. And this is the experience that Isaiah had on this day, this cleansing experience, after he saw God in his rightful place. Once you get the right view of God, you'll be able to have the victory over that sin. So first we need to see God. Secondly, we need to see ourselves. And thirdly, tonight we need to see the need. We need to see the need. Verse 7. Verse 8. Verse 8, the Bible says, Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I, send me. And he said, Go and tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not. You see, Isaiah's conviction led to his confession. And confession led to his cleansing. And now we're going to look at how his cleansing leads to his calling. I'll say it again, Isaiah's conviction led to his confession. His confession led to his cleansing, and his cleansing The Lord needed a servant at this time to minister to the nation of Israel, the nation of Judah and Jerusalem at that time. And the Lord was looking for someone. He says, Whom shall I send? Who will go for us? And Isaiah there is ready. He now has the right view of God. He now has gotten the sin taken care of in his life. And now he's ready. Now he's ready to say, here am I, send me. And God's going to tell him to go. But what I want you to get tonight is the Lord is still looking for that minister. The Lord is looking for those who will go and tell others about Him. The Lord is looking for those who want to reach out, those who want to help those that are in need. Those who want to give the gospel But he can't use you until you first have that experience in your life. He can't use you until your life is right with God. What is your view of God today? What is your view of yourself today? How many of you will answer this call like Isaiah tonight and say, Here am I, send me? But as I had mentioned earlier, the call to Christian service doesn't end there with who is willing. No, the call ends with a point to action. The action there of going. And is that not our emphasis this month of going? Reaching out. Go. Who will go? It's so much more than to just say, here am I, send me Like I had mentioned earlier, I know people. I have friends. I don't speak to them anymore really all that much, but I had friends in Bible college just a few years ago. A few years ago, who had said, I will go. I'll be part of it. I'm here with you, Brother Magnus, studying missions, or I'm studying pastoral, whatever it was that they were taking. And today, you know, I see them on my Facebook and they're not anywhere for God anymore. Because they had missed verse 9. They had missed verse 9. And I love this interaction here between God and Isaiah. And if you notice there in verse 8, hear am I, send me, right? Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then said I, here am I, send me. And if you notice there, there's no arguing there between Isaiah and God, right? How many times do we try to argue I'm guilty of it in my own life. I've tried to argue with God. Let me tell you, it's not going to work. You're either going to listen to what he has or you're going to end up in a way worse spot than you could have ever imagined. But Isaiah here doesn't do that No, he doesn't argue with God. You see, God says, who's going to go? And right away Isaiah says, it's me. I'm going to go. Keep your finger here. Turn with me to Matthew chapter number four. This account always makes me think of this here in Matthew chapter 4. And it's the the story of Jesus calling two of his disciples. Is Jesus here calling two of his disciples in Matthew chapter 4? He's calling here Peter and Andrew, and we see kind of something similar to what happened in Isaiah. There's no arguing here between when Jesus had called them. To them being willing to go and doing what God had for them. Matthew chapter number four, look with me at verse number eighteen. Verse number eighteen, the Bible says, And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother. casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And they straightway left their nets and followed him. You know what that word straightway there means? Immediately. Right away, they went. Jesus said, follow me, I'll make you fishers and men. You know what they did? They dropped their nest and they followed. They don't say, Jesus, it's Thursday afternoon. I still gotta work tomorrow. I can't do it. I still gotta finish up my day. I'll do something for you later. No, they straightway dropped their nets and followed him. You can turn back to Isaiah. But it's the same makes me think of this here in Isaiah, because there's no arguing there between God and Isaiah. No, Isaiah right away, here am I, send me. And then the Lord answers, go and tell this people. Well, then if you follow it up in the rest of the book of Isaiah, Isaiah chapter 7, right there, it starts with Isaiah doing what God had called him to do right away. There is no in-between period. And this is what we miss as Christians. Many times I've seen it. I'll open up to you for a minute here. I did it in my own life. The age of 14, I told you already that God called me. I knew God was calling me to missions, but it took me another three years to do something about it. I said, Lord, here am I, send me. That night I told my pastor, I said, Pastor, I know God's calling me into foreign missions. I don't know where yet, but I know he's calling me into foreign missions. And then for the next few years, you know what I did? I ran from God. I told you what happens when you argue with God. I know that because I tried it. I tried arguing with God. I ran from him. I got in with the wrong crowd for a few years. I had the wrong type of friends. Listen to the wrong music. Watched the bad movies. Said all those terrible words that no Christian should ever say. I tried it. It doesn't work. And I I I I wish that I didn't. But I had. But then I got to verse 9. And I realized I never went. I didn't go. It was time. It was time. I don't want that to happen in your life. I don't want you to be there. I don't want you to be there stuck in between verse 8 and 9. It's not a good place to be I don't want you to be there. Where you said already that you were willing to go. You said that you gave this to God. Said, God, I'm going to do this for you. But not yet. No, they straightway left their nets and followed him. God here tells Isaiah to go and tell this people, right away we see Isaiah doing it. Where are you at in your life today? What situation are you in? What is God calling you to do today? And you say, Brother Magner, I haven't gotten to that part where God told me to do Maybe you're just at that point where you know God is saying, someone has to tell my co-worker, your co-worker about Jesus Christ. Someone has to tell them, and you're at that point where tonight you want to say, Lord, I'm going to be the one to do it. Well, He's going to tell you to go and do it. Are you willing to? Are you going to go? Maybe the Lord is going to call you into the foreign mission field. I don't know what God has for your life. Maybe he's going to call you to plant a church around here. Maybe he's going to call you to start some ministry here at the church that needs to be done. Maybe there's a ministry already that needs some helpers. And God is putting it on your heart to do it. Well, first you have to be willing and tell the Lord you're going to do it. Give it to Him. Tell Him you'll do it. But then you have to go and do it. Reaching out, you have to go. It's right there in the words. Joel chapter 1, verse 11 says, the harvest of the field is perished. You know, we talk about this verse here about how the world around us is perishing. Jesus has said that the fields are white already the harvest. Jesus says that there's there's many things that need to be done, but the laborers are few. Who is going to be a part of the ones that are going to go? Go and tell this people. God isn't just looking for those who want to sit and do nothing. He's not even looking for the ones who will make a scene of it. The ones who will say, Oh, I'm gonna go. Missions month was great this month. Pastor, I want to do this. I want to do that. God called me to do this. It's not enough. It's not enough to just say you'll do it. The call does not end in verse 8. Go and tell this people. We talked about that account in Matthew. Straightway they left their nets. You know, you think about it. These men didn't just say, Jesus comes up to them and says, Follow me and I'll make you fishes of men. Simon, Peter, and Andrew there, they don't say, okay, Lord, we're going to follow you. And then Jesus walks off and they stay there playing with their nets. No, what do they do? They drop their nets and they follow him. Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Will you go? Or are you just waiting on somebody else to do it? Oh, the Magners are here this week. They're gonna go tell Mexico City. That's great. You know, Pastor and and probably a handful of people like to go out on Saturday mornings and they go to visitation and that's great. I don't need to go. Somebody else is going to do it. I don't need to tell my coworker what are they going to think of me. Go and tell this people, who is this people in your life?