Uh you're like, oh no, we're going back to seven. Hey, if you don't get it the first time, we're just starting over, amen. Oh, just kidding. Uh That reminds me of a story that I'm not going to tell you about a country preacher that uh moved to a new town and he began preaching uh and his first Sunday he preached on stealing because he had heard that all these men were loggers and they were stealing logs from another company And uh I'm not gonna tell you the rest of this a long story. He preached on stealing every Sunday for about six weeks and uh and he said, Well, you when you get it, I'll stop preaching on it, you know. But anyways, what I want you to see here in chapter seven just a moment is I was asked this last week a question, it's a good question, uh, about Job, and the question was, how long was Job in this dilemma? How long was it from the time that Job, you know, the first person came and said, Hey, the storm has come and uh or the enemy has come and taken all of your flocks and the storm has come and uh killed all your camels and the you know these things how long we've been weeks now looking at this and I mean is it something that it was many years or just a few weeks And I actually off the top of my head, I said, I really don't know. I said, even after studying Job this long, I don't know that I've come across that. So I'll have to study it a little bit and let you know. So the Bible doesn't really definitively tell us how long this experience was for Job. We do know that it was longer than seven days. Because Job's friends came and sat with him for seven days and held their peace, right, for seven days. And Job's friends very likely had to come from somewhere. could have been a little bit of distance, you know, so maybe you have a day there. Uh and if you think through the process of what transpired here uh in the descriptions of Job sitting on the ash heap and being moved to outside the city from his home and these types of things. You know, you've got a progression of time just Easily at least a couple of weeks. So you you got at least a couple of weeks. So this lasted for at least a couple of weeks, but I want you to see possibly If it's not Job being exaggerating, look at chapter 7 and verse number 3. Job chapter 7 and verse number 3. He says, So I am made to possess months of vanity And wearisome nights are appointed unto me. So Job giving a description here of describing the tumultuous time that he was going through, and he describes it as months. Now, you know when you're hurting, uh oftentimes it feels like forever. Um it feels like it's never gonna end. And so possibly this was just him you know, hyperbole, you know, maybe just exaggerating, talking about the extent of how he feels. Uh but it could have been a few months. Uh some scholars believe it could have been up to a couple of years. And again, ultra dissecting everything and trying to come up with something, but again it's just a matter, it's just subjective. So definitely within a couple of weeks to a measure of months and maybe a little bit longer than that, but that gives you a perspective. Here's the thing I want you to go away with is that The lessons are learned, are learned regardless of the extent of the time that was involved. Also, you know Job lost his children. And all of his servants and all of that. So there is a measure in which Job lived with that for the rest of his life. We understand that that, yes, God blessed him and gave him new children, but you know, that would be like somebody saying, well, I lost one of my kids, but hey, I've got four more. You know, I mean no, another child doesn't replace the one you loved and and lost, right? And so Job lost all of his children, so he carried that with him all of his days and continued to hold on to that. I'm sure he taught his new children that can't that God blessed them with about the lessons he learned. during that time and what God taught him and and all of what he gained from that. So that just answers the question. But uh you can turn now to where we will be tonight, and we're going to be tonight in the chapter 38. And we're gonna go through a couple of chapters this evening. We aren't gonna get six chapters this week, but we're gonna we're gonna get a few. Job is one of those books that's full of contrast, uh the harsh reality of the suffering and pain that life w by its nature uh holds for all who live and endure and go through it, but at the same time we have the truth and the the honest uh look at the fact that God is in control and God is the one that guides and directs our steps and Man has the blessings that we enjoy from God's goodness, as Job did in the beginning chapters and again at the end, but he also endures the pain. that comes through sin and this world. And all of it is given to us in some of the most picturesque language found in the Bible. Sidwell Baxter said, the language, the poetry, the rich imagery, the universal sweeping ideas and illustrations All of these certainly eclipse everything that has preceded it, and probably surpassed all literature, ancient or modern that description given by Sidwell Baxter of the beauty of the poetry that's found in the book of Job. So we want to see tonight as we dig into chapter 38, uh right off the beginning here, as God rebukes Job's presumption. In chapter 38 and verse number one, you can look at it, the Bible says, Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind. So we see here first of all under God rebukes Job's presumption is that God answered Job. You know, Job was looking for an answer for a long time. He was calling on God, he was looking for God everywhere he could. He he finally reaches this point in in the story and the Bible says that God answered Job out of the whirlwind. A whirlwind is a great storm, a hurricane-like storm, uh like a tornado uh that uh type of twisty uh powerful force. Um the same word is used when God took Elijah up into heaven, uh took him up in a whirlwind. And it would make sense with the idea of a tornado because of how it grabs something and lifts, right? So that same word was used there. God speaks to him and communicates to him. through this whirlwind. It must have been quite a sight to uh have been silent and, you know, all that time looking for God to answer and wondering where is God and then all of a sudden this powerful and mighty whirlwind comes and Uh God speaks to them. You know, God can choose to speak to you and I however He chooses. Sometimes He has to speak in a whirlwind to get our attention. Sometimes he may, like he did the prophets, speak to us in a still small voice. Are we listening? God spoke to Moses through a burning bush. God spoke to Balaam through a donkey. I'm not sure that I would be pleased to have that record on on file. If you've read the story and you know uh the story there uh that takes place, but Balaam was so hard-headed he had to be told what to do from a donkey. God spoke to Belshazzar by writing a message on the wall in Daniel chapter 5. So God can choose to speak to us however he wants, but what I want you to understand, beloved, that what we need to get back to and realize uh foundationally, doctrinally, that God has told us that He speaks to us through this. Can I read for you Hebrews chapter 1, verses 1 and 2? He says, God, who at sundry times and diverse manners spake in times past. Unto the fathers and the prophets. So he says, hey, God in times past spake in diverse manners, like all these manners which we just mentioned. There's many different ways in which God communicated with the prophets and the fathers of our faith. But he says in verse number two hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son God has spoken to us by His Son, and if you know the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, that Jesus Christ is the Word of God personified. The book is how God speaks to us today. And I just want to encourage you to realize and remember how important the Word of God is and that this is God's revelation to mankind. This is his message for us. Beloved, we need to We need to stop looking for an experience. We need to stop trying to have some kind of a dream or a vision out there and look for God to do something God has already given us His revealed written word, the word Jesus Christ, this was personified and given to us. He communicated with this is powerful. This is quick. This is sharper than a two-edged sword, but many people will put this down and put more weight on a dream they had than what God said in his book. This is the revealed word of God, and beloved, we need to get back to listening to what God says in this book. We see that God answered Job. Gives him an answer. Then God accuses Job in verse number two. He says, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? Beloved, that's what happens when you give counsel and you don't know what you're talking about. You darken the view of the person looking for wisdom. You know, for instance, if I had some knocking in my car and I went to Galena I mean I went to uh Sophia. I looked down here and saw S Sophia they're ro closely connected, but they look for Sophia and I said, Sophia, could you come out and listen to my car and just tell me Tell me what's going on. Like what's that noise? What what's causing that? And she walked out and she's like, Well, Pastor, you see, you gotta understand that when uh the car runs And there's air in the tires that you gotta be careful that the gas is full because if the battery is not charged, then you're gonna have problems, you know. I mean you're you're like wait a minute I'm worse off than I was when I asked you, you know. Why? Because that's not her field of expertise. That's not where she has the knowledge or wisdom. And so when we are giving advice, sometimes it might be good for us just for us to be like, hey, I don't have any idea. That's not something that I know anything about. And there are people that know and they can help you, but listen, you darken counsel by words without knowledge. And God may very well have been speaking about Elihu, not necessarily Job, but he was communicating to Job. The reason he may have been speaking to Elohu is because in Job 35, verse 34, verse 35 Elihu talking to Job said, Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words are without wisdom. In 35, 16, he said, Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain, he multiplieth his words. without knowledge. And of course God is speaking right here after Elihu's conversation, so he may have been referencing that or alluding to it, but certainly he is speaking to Job About this situation. And what God is saying is that you've opened your mouth, Job, and you've made declarations, but you really don't know what you're talking about. You really don't understand. Now, beloved Job was going through it. Job was under the gun. He was feeling pressure. We all look at it and we understand. He was in the heat of the battle, and Job opened his mouth, and he said some things that weren't necessarily true. He said some things in an accusatory fashion and in a demanding fashion. To God, the creator of the universe. And you know what? What this tells us is you can be right and be living and doing right. And sometimes say some wrong things. Right? I mean sometimes have you ever you ever been there? Been a little mad? Been under the gun? Been been under some pressure at work or home? And then your wife pushes your button and you respond, you know, how you shouldn't do it, right? And so we're saying we've got to be careful about that. Job responds and he says some things and we we read through them, we studied them as we went through this whole whole book here and we hear Job's uh declarations, boy, I wish I was dead, and oh it'd been better if I'd have never been born and oh man where is God when you need him and and you know his i implication that God wasn't there or God didn't know what he was talking through. But beloved God knows all. God did not and does not provide an answer to all of Job's questions, just like God's not going to provide an answer to all of yours and my questions. But he does give him some insight here that we're hopefully this evening going to glean and a truth that we can carry home with us. God makes it abundantly clear who he is. I want you to understand, beloved, what God is going to teach Job tonight is that he is omniscient. He is omnipresent and he is omnipotent. He is a sovereign God. And Job, regardless of what he endured or what he went through, he was never in a place To question the Creator, to accuse the Creator or demand of the Creator What God is telling him is that regardless of how rough the storm, you still need to trust. You need to trust him. Trust that he is God and that he does know and that his will is being done on earth as it is in heaven. Oh, that's easy to say and awful hard to do, but that's the lesson that God was going to teach Job here. God admonishes Job in verse number 3. Listen to this. He says, gird up now thy loins like a man. For I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. God looks down at Job at a time in his life when everything that Job had was lost. When it literally could not get any worse. Not only did he lose it all, but his you guys know his physical being was afflicted. He was in the you look at it and say, there's nothing else that could happen to me. Actually, it would be a benefit if I just died. Listen to this. God looked down from heaven and said, Man up. Man up. I've been listening to you and your friends whine for thirty-eight chapters Beloved, we are way too soft today. And in our mindset, we listen and read, we read Job and we think, oh my goodness, he has every right to complain. Look at what happened to him. Boy, he has every right to be down in the dumps. He has every right to be depressed. He has every right to whine and grumble and accuse God and question. I mean, look what he went through. God looked at him and said, Man up Stand up like a man. I've got some questions for you, and you're going to answer them, Job. We're entirely too soft today, allowing people to wallow around in their misery and their self-pity. Well what what we need to do is uh kick them in the seat of the fans and say, man up. Get over yourself. Stop stop sitting down there and feeling sorry for yourself and sitting in a fity party and and and going through all the woe is me. God looked at Job and his situation and said, Hey, stand ye up like a man. I know that's hard, but that's what God said. And we we are entirely too soft. He didn't say it to him just once, he said it to him twice in chapter 40 and verse number seven. He says the same thing: Gird up thy loins now, like a man, I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. The reason he says it to him twice is there's kind of a dual, uh a one-two punch that God gives him here uh in his discussion. And Job interrupts in the middle of the first one or kind of Job comes to a realization in the middle of it and starts to speak, and then God comes back and says, wait a minute, I'm not quite done, and gives him a little bit more. So we want you to see as we go from verse 4, 38 verse 4, down to 41, verse 34. So the balance of this chapter, all the way through chapter 41, 34, that God is revealing his power to Job and to us. And I'm not sure how much of this we're going to take time to read and go through, but it's really a declaration of God's power in the scope of this world. and kind of allowing Job to get a picture of where he is. So he begins here in chapter 38, in verse number 4, he starts asking about creation. He says here, first thing, I'm on the wrong page. Verse 4, he says, Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding. He's saying, Job, when I built this whole thing that you're living on here, when I put it all together, where were you? Were you around? Do you understand how this cosmos, this earth, this this planet that you have came into existence and how it functions? how it is maintained. And if you read through these chapters, you'll find uh that it progresses kind of along in the pattern of creation. He starts with the creation of the world, the found laying the foundation, and then he kind of walks through, you'll see him go through uh the land animals and and the plant life and the the stars and the heavens and And then he goes on and goes, we're going to see it where he ultimately gets to man and talks about man. And you'll you'll see it here. But he says, Were you here? When the sons of God and the morning stars sprang for joy, that those are the angels of heaven. That the that when God was doing creation, the angels that he had created there, uh they they what was the word I was paraphrasing here? Uh Verse number four after the voice oh I'm the wrong chapter. When verse number seven there, when the morning stars sang together, that morning stars, those are uh the angels that are in heaven. And you can see that all through the Bible. We don't have time to look at it tonight, but in several places through the Bible, the the morning stars are called angels, except for Jesus Christ, who is called the morning star. uh the bright morning star and he is ultimately the star that came and was brighter than any of them. But other than that it's speaking about angels. And then he says That all the sons of God shouted for joy. Those sons of God, again, several times in the scriptures, sons of God are referred to to angels. And he he says in verse number 12, he says, Hey, did you command these things to be so? Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days, and caused the dayspring to know his place? Are you the one that's in control of the day breaking? Is this you, Job? Is that on your job list? He begins down in verse number 16 discussing with him nature over all. He says in verse 16, he says, Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? Or hast thou walked in the search of the depth, in the depth of the ocean? You know, it's amazing. How many of you have ever been snorkeling? It's an amazing thing, Snorklin. I mean you look at the ocean and even if even if you're in a place, you know, like the Caribbean or the Bahamas or whatever where it's beautiful, because of the reflection of the of the sun and the sky You can't really see much. But when you put on those uh goggles and you put your head down in the water, man, there's a whole world down there. There's a whole world that you you just never even realized existed. I don't know if Job had any goggles back then, but God says, Have you searched the depths? And and that's just looking down on the surface. That's not even getting down to the depths. I mean, he's just kind of Saying Job have you seen that? If you look down there, he talks about the underworld in verses 16 through 18. Uh he asked him about his understanding in verse he said verse number 18 hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth declare if thou knowest it all He said, Job, you're ready to question me, God? Do you know the breadth of the earth? Okay, Job, go ahead. Tell me you know it all. I have been there once or twice with my children who who have been ready to answer before I even asked the question. You know, and then you're kind of like, okay, go ahead, tell me. Well, uh, you know, yeah, you see you don't even know what I'm gonna ask. You you need to wait. And and God, I mean you you do you see the tone of what God is doing? You see how he's uh drawing a picture for Job, trying to get him to understand? Who he is and who God is. In verses 19 through 21, he talks about light and darkness. In verses twenty-eight, he describes who's in control of the rain, who's in control of the dew. On the ground. Who makes it do when it's when it's supposed to be moist? Why are some mornings the deuce covered the ground like crazy and other mornings it's not? Who's in control of that? Control over the snow, the hail, the wind, the floods, the thunder, the water. Verses 22 through 30. The constellation of the stars. In verses 31 through 33, he says there, Knowest thou The ordinances of heaven? Canst thou see the dominion thereof in the earth? Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee? Canst thou send lightning They may go and say unto thee, Here am I, Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts, or who hath given understanding to the heart? Who can number the clouds in wisdom? And who can say to the bottles of heaven? When the dust goeth into the hardness of the clods cleave fast. He describes here the heavens I had Gus uh grab me a picture of I sent this to him this afternoon just to put into perspective our our our earth that for us is so large. This earth that we live on. Just to put it in perspective. I don't know if you can see it. You can't see the dot. This is you. This is me. Earth right here In perspective of the other planets and the sun. This world we live on, so small. So tiny. He describes and talks about this for him He says to him, he d describes and talks about uh a constellation of stars in verse number 31. Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pelades? Or loose the bands of Orin. I got you a picture. It's a constellation of stars that's very large, but there are seven stars that are visible with the naked eye in the wintertime only during that winter season. There are seven stars that you can see because they're very bright. The whole constellation is there. And he he describes this and says, Job, do you do you know about that? He says, do you do you have the ability to loose the band that's holding Orin in place? Can you loose the band of Orin? And uh obviously the answer is no. He's continuing to just draw this picture for Job. He talks about clouds and lightning in verses 34 to 38. Then he goes on to the animal kingdom in chapter 38. Verses 39 through 3930, basically the rest of uh chapter 39. Again, we're not going to read all of this because of time, but he talks about lions and ravens. He talks about the Do you know when the mountain goats give birth? Do do you know when the deer uh who who takes care of them? The wild donkeys? The unpredictability of wild oxen, the foolishness of the ostrich, the strength and the beauty of the horses, the provision of the hawks. He goes through all of this and just drawing this picture for Job. And as chapter 40 opens up, We see some comments from Job. Now we're going to come back to these in just a moment because I just want to finish what God is saying. So we're going to kind of skip over this and we'll be back to the opening verses of chapter number 40 in a second. But uh ultimately what God is getting to is the fact that He is sovereign. Look in chapter 40 and verse number 8. Chapter 40 and verse number 8, he says, Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? Wilt thou condemn me that thou mayest be righteous? Hast thou an arm like God, or canst thou thunder with a voice like him Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency, and array thyself with glory and beauty Canst thou abroad the rage of thy wrath and behold every one that is proud and abase him? Job, can you behold everybody that's proud and bring them down like he one day would do to Nebuchadnezzar? He said, Job, can you do that? Can you uh go ahead and adorn yourself in majesty and beauty, Job? Go ahead. He's bringing pretty straightforward with him. He describes here the fact that God is in control of Job, not the other way around In verses 15 through 24, he talks about how God is in control of the behemoth. We may come back and do a study on this, the behemoth and the Leviathan. Which is the balance of this chapter and chapter 41 is all of the Leviathan. Verse number one of Fap chapter 41. He says, Canst thou draw out the Leviathan with a hook? Or his tongue with a cord, which thou let us down. The rest of this chapter, chapter forty one, is talking about the Leviathan, uh, which we believe both those behemoth and the Leviathan are dinosaurs that are no longer in existence today. So I know there's a lot of interest in that uh topic. Um but some people, even some of the commentators I read uh described the Leviathan as a crocodile. Said, oh this is a crocodile. Another one described the behemoth as a hippopotamus. That's what they believed it was a hippopotamus. But uh we believe that it's the dinosaurs that are extinct that are no longer here. And he and he's talking about the power that j that Job would have had to control them. He says, no, I'm in control of those. So ultimately we get to Job chapter 42. And we're going to take the first six verses of Job 42 and the first few verses in Job 40 and look at how Job repents of his pride. You see in these preceding chapters that we just looked at, God Has been giving Job a glimpse of his own wisdom and power. Yes, Job's life, Job's world, everything has been turned upside down. All that thought Job thought he knew about the world changed. His understanding changed. We look at him and we understand. We say, listen, from our perspective, from our perspective, from a world perspective, from a human perspective, we say, man, we understand. I mean, look at what Job was going through. Our heart goes out to him. But from God's perspective, he said man up. He said man up. You see, Job was consumed with thoughts of himself instead of thinking about God. We read chapter 40 and verse number 8. He says, Wilt thou disanol my judgment? You say, will you look at heaven and say what God wants, what God knows, what God thinks doesn't matter? Just so you can declare yourself righteous? All of these arguments that Job was having with his friends, none of them were about the sovereignty or the goodness or the greatness of God or that God was in control and he was submitted to that. It was about his righteousness. About, no, I'm not guilty of sin. You can accuse me, but I did not do this. And God says, wait a minute. You see, Job was more worried about defending his position than he was about defending God's right to do as he wills. God's right to do as he wills. In Romans chapter 9, verse number 20, he says, Nay, but O man, who art thou? That repellest against God, shall the thing formed say unto him that formed it, Why hast thou made me? You see that's putting it into perspective. We look at it and say, man. I can see why God was saying, hey man up. You don't know what I'm doing. You don't understand. You need to trust. You see, beloved, the answer to the all-consuming, overriding question that plagues the heart of man from this time till now. The answer to the question why is God That's it. That's the answer. Ultimately, God God is sovereign. God is the creator and the controller of this entire universe. He says, Job, how can you hope to understand the greater mysteries of your life and what I'm trying to perform and do in the grand scope of an eternity of time? When you don't even know why the sun rose this morning, when you don't understand how gravity works, when you don't understand what's underneath the water, when you have no concepts of the scope or size of the earth or what's going on. Job, there's so much you don't even, you can't even begin to grasp. And you want me to explain to you what I'm doing? The answer is why. You see, I was asked last week A very good question, which has been asked over and over again, but why didn't God just tell Satan no? I mean, just why? Like Satan comes going to and fro, and you know, God says, Has thou considered my servant Job? Look at him. He's a fine, upstanding man, a godly man. You know, that's great. And uh Satan says, well, does he serve thee for not? Look how good you've been to him. If you let me destroy him, Then he won't serve you anymore. The question was: why didn't God just say, No, I'm not going to let you destroy him? God has the power to do that, doesn't he? So we would ask and wonder why wouldn't God just let him do that? I don't have a good answer, but I have this passage that tells us because it's God. And there's some things that we can't understand this side of heaven. Some things we will never understand about what God is doing. In the grand scheme of things, we look back and we think about the lessons that we have learned and how This book has been an encouragement to people for thousands of years and how it has changed people and brought people to Jesus Christ and the the magnitude of the work that's been done. Through this, where Job had to suffer for a few months and endure some pain which we look at as excruciating and beyond acceptable, and we say, Boy, God should have just said no. But who are we? To question God. Who are we to say, God, you don't have a right to do that? Job was a good man. You even said he was a good man. Why would you do that to him? That's when it goes back to trust. Trust him. Because he is God. We see that God Tells Job. Look look in Job chapter forty and verses three. Verses three through five. He says, Then Job answered the Lord. So we've just finished the first dissertation where God goes through all these things about creation and He says, Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth Once I have spoken, but I will not answer, yea, twice, but I will proceed no further. Job says, man. I should have stopped talking. Man, I should have I I I I'm not gonna go any further. Lord, I I I'm sorry He said, I'm vile. Modern translations change that word vile to insignificant. They changed that word to insignificant because they're looking at the context of the passage. And in the scope of what God was talking about, you can understand that ultimately What Job is feeling, his perception of himself in relation to creation and all that God is giving, is we are insignificant. We are just a speck in the magnitude of this universe, in in the scope of time, just the vapor that appears for a little time and vanisheth away. They ch they they I think wrongly changed that word to insignificant. Yes, that is what he was feeling in relation to what God was describing, but What he felt was the weight of his wrong heart towards God. It's not just that, oh God, I feel small. He says, God, I feel vile. I feel wicked. I feel wrong because of how I spoke to you. Because I questioned you, because I demanded of you, and I did not understand what you were doing. We get to the end of God's second dissertation about the behemoth and the Leviathan, and we see how broken Job is. Turn to chapter 42. Just the opening verses here of chapter 42 is we'll get to the conclusion next week, but we see in verses 1 through 6, then Job answered the Lord, and he said, I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understand not things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. Here I beseech thee, and I will speak. I will demand of thee and declare thou unto me. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. Listen to this. But now mine eye seeth thee. Wherefore I abhor myself and repent. in dust and ashes. You see, beloved, he reached the point that every one of us must reach if we're going to truly trust God, and that is that in verse number two, I know that thou canst do everything. That God is in control and he is just. His perspection, his perception of himself changed and his knowledge of God's changed. What a powerful verse there where he says, boy, I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see it thee. What a truth. I think that's where young people need to get to, and we've said it several times in recent days, but young people that grow up in church, they hear and they hear and they hear and they hear about God. But their eyes have yet to see God, to know God. For God to be miraculous to them. This is where Job came to here. He said, man, I understand. I knew you But now I see you. The truth of that. You see, can I tell you something that we've lost today is a proper perspective on life. You see, everything in our society is about promoting numero uno. It's all you're told on i on every hand and every possible way to Climb and whip and beat your way to the top. Find your fullness and fulfillment and possessions and popularity. This is what the world claims. Even the Christians, sadly, have fallen into this trap And beloved, that is why when something happens in our life that's rough, that's hard, that's challenging, instead of trusting, we question. Like Job. I can tell you this lesson was an eye opener for me. Because I have been there many times myself, and not only that, I've encouraged others Beloved, God's in control. He is sovereign. He can do whatever he wants to do. And we are never in a place to question him It's okay to ask him for understanding. It's okay to ask him with a right spirit and a right heart. Can I ask you tonight, have you been guilty of questioning God's wisdom and justice in your path? Has life's hardships or losses caused you to doubt his love or leadership? Friend, God has promised to make you and I complete, not comfortable And in his process of bringing us to a completion Are we resisting that? Are we questioning that? Maybe instead of saying God why, we should say, God, your way is best. Maybe instead of praying to be saved from the storm, we should pray for strength to go through it. This is the God's address to Job. And I know that it comes down to where we're at. And where we know a lot of people are at, because of the hardships of life. In the society we live in. But we need to get back to understanding and knowing who God is. And just resting on his sovereignty that God's in control and he knows. And whatever happens, it's still better than I deserve Because ultimately, as a sinner outside of Jesus Christ, what do I deserve? The toils of this life, no matter how burdensome they are, are nothing compared to an eternity in hell. But because of what God did in sending his son to provide a savior for me, regardless of what I go through in this life, I I have heaven as my home. I'll be reunited with my loved ones for all eternity. Who am I to question God because my car broke down? Or loved one who I prayed for did not live. I know that's hard. We just had somebody in grief share that had a crisis of their faith because they prayed for their father and their father didn't live and they said, Well, I thought God was going to answer my prayer. We need to understand God's sovereign. He does not have to do what we want or what we think he should. God knows. And his way is best. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?