Not going to read them all. I think we'll read the first one here and then skip down to verse number five and through verse number eight, and then we'll begin the thought for this evening. Matthew 10, verse number one. He says And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness, and all manner of disease. Now the name of the twelve apostles are these. He lists for us these twelve men who had given their lives to follow Christ and do what God wanted them to do, to be used of Christ in a very powerful way. Verse number five, he says, these twelve Jesus sent forth and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles and into the city. of the Samaritans, enter ye not, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the leper, raise the dead, cast out devils. Freely ye have received, freely give. This morning in Sunday school we heard about a man named Barnabas, the son of consolation, how God used him To encourage others. What a valuable and important ministry. Can you imagine the fruit that is added to Barnabas's account. You consider Barnabas was not the one that went out and started all the churches. Oh, he just encouraged Paul so Paul could do it. Barnabas wasn't necessarily the name that everybody reads about, but John Mark went and accomplished great things for God. Because there was somebody that encouraged him, and Barnabas was used mightily of God. This morning, Alex said, motivation maybe for the lesson or for his desire for being in the ministry was that he just wanted God to use him. This evening I want to preach to you a message that God can use anyone. Yeah. Obviously. God can use anyone. Anybody can be used of God, and as we heard about uh that ministry that Barnabas had this morning and what God used him to do and we think about these men whom were used mightily under the direction of God to uh Turn the world upside down, these disciples of Christ. We look at our lives and think about God using us I want you to know that it starts with a desire. It starts with a want to. Do you want to be used of God? This is the beginning of it. He had called these twelve disciples. If you recall the the different stories where, you know, he came upon them and where they were in their place of business or where they were in in their uh field of expertise and out fishing or mending their nets or whatever they were doing, he calls to them and says, Hey I'm going to make you fishers of men. I'm going to change your life. You are going to take the things that you were doing and you're going to move your focus to accomplish something completely different. But if you would like to, follow me, and they did follow Christ. The disciples wanted to be with Christ. They wanted to serve Him. They had a desire in their heart. There's something that motivated them to desire or want to be used of Christ. Many years ago now there were two men walking down the banks of a river in Dublin, Ireland. The older of the two made a statement. He said, the world is yet to see what God could do with a single man that was 100% surrendered. To him. The younger of the two, asking this older gentleman, Excuse me? What did you say? This older gentleman repeating with more emphasis and more Further in his voice, he says, the world at large has yet to see what God could do with one man that was 100% surrendered to him. And as you know, there on the banks of that river, D. L. Moody lifted his hands towards heaven and said, By God's grace, I'll be that man. He said, I want to be used of God. Whatever it takes, whatever I gotta give up, whatever I gotta do, I want to be used of God to do something Real and powerful. And as you know, D. L. Moody shook two continents for God. It is said that he preached to over a million people. Before the day of public address systems and amplified sound like we have here in this small room. D. O. Moody would lift his voice up and in his simple English would preach to crowds of 10 to 20,000 people. It is said that he preached on average to 70,000 people a week. They say that he personally led 750,000 people to Christ. One reporter published in the newspaper. That D. Al Moody is responsible for emptying the gates of hell of over a million souls. Because D. L. Booty said, I want to be used. I desire to be used. I want to be used. It's something that's in my heart. It's a passion that I have. I ask you tonight, is there anything in your heart? Is there a longing there? Is there a desire there that you could be used to shake anybody? Maybe not shake two continents for God, but could you be used to shake somebody out of their complacency or shake somebody out of their their carelessness or their their lack of concern for their eternity? Could we be used that way? I spoke with Timothy this last week and he was so excited. He said to me, He says, Dad, did mom tell you that I got to leave somebody to Christ last week? He was so excited, he said, I got to lead somebody to Christ, and I'm not going to tell you all the ramifications of that story and what God did, but what I want you to understand is Timothy for the first time was used by God to change somebody's eternal destiny from a place in hell to a place in heaven. And and Timothy on the phone says, Man It it's amazing. I mean it's it's it's just I just can't believe how great it feels to be used like that He was on fire and he was excited about God using him for the first time in his life to lead somebody to Christ. Do you want it? Or beloved, are you content and satisfied with the status quo? Are you content to just be as every other Christian who walks through life? As though they were aimless. Or do you have a burning desire, a passion in your heart? Are you content to just be a shell of what God would want you to be? Of what God would desire you to be? There was a day in my life, beloved, when I wanted my own way. When I wanted to do my own thing. I didn't have a desire to please God or to serve God. I wanted to go and serve myself and make a lot of money, and that was what I was focusing on. You know my testimony, and God changed the desires of my heart. As a drywall contractor, had people working for me, was making good money. But I can't tell you the number of times in an empty house, nobody there late at night but me working on the job site I just beg God. God, I just want to be used. I just want to be used. I don't know what my abilities are, what my strengths are, what direction you want me to go, but God, I'm not content just to hang drywall. I want you to do something in my life that impacts people for eternity, that makes a difference in tomorrow, that means makes more than just some money here on earth. Lord, would you let me be used by you And I begged God and I begged God and I asked God, what would you want me to do? I didn't know what steps he would take or the direction I would go or where I would ultimately end up But it starts, beloved, with a passion, a desire to be used of God. God wants to use you. But are you ready? Are you ready to be used You think of the woman with the alabaster box. She took that box and broke it and poured it out I wonder, do you think about your life like that? Or do you think about it like the disciples thought about it? What a waste. I'm saying to take your life and pour it out and give it 100% lock, stock, and barrel, to Jesus Christ to do what He wants you to do and to accomplish something for eternity. Giving up all the ambitions for this world. Would you look at it and look at it as pouring something precious out for God? Or would you look at it like the disciples and say, oh what a waste. I could do so much with my time. I could accomplish so much. You know how much money I could make, or you know what I could be doing with my day? But instead I'm wasting it doing this. Some here tonight might be looking at your life and saying, Well, I don't even know if God can really use me Is I've messed up some things. I've damaged some stuff. Want you to know that God specializes in using Broken people. Vance Habner said this. It takes broken soil to produce a crop. It takes broken clouds to give rain. It takes broken grain to give bread, broken bread to give strength, and a broken box to put forth perfume. Beloved, it was Peter's, it was after Peter wept bitterly that he came and performed miraculously. If you're here tonight and you say, Well, I I've misstepped or I've done the wrong thing or I've I've I've wasted this time, I want you to understand God specializes in picking people like you. You and me up in using us in a very special and powerful way. But do you you want to be used? Do you want to be used? Are you ready, beloved, to be poured out? Will you give it all Will you do whatever God desires of you? Where He leads you, He will empower you. He empowered the disciples here. He says, I want you to go. I want you to go heal the sick Why don't you go cast out devils? He even told him to raise the dead God empowered them to do the work that He was calling them to do. Beloved, if you have a desire to be used, all you have to do is just trust God that wherever He takes you, He's going to empower you to do what He wants you to do. do What an amazing truth. Philippians 4 13 still in the Bible. There's still a promise for you and I. Do you believe it. I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. God can use anyone, but it starts with a desire to be used. Do you want to be used? It's sustained with a willing heart. It's are you willing to go and do whatever God asks of you Oh yes, I want to be used, but I I want to be used this way. I only have a desire to do this or to do that. I want to be used, but don't send me to the mission field. Oh, I want to be used, Lord, but I need to be used in between my free hours. I need to be used in this way. Don't say you're willing to go if you're not going now. Don't say you're willing to give if you're not giving today. Are you willing to do or give or accomplish whatever God asks of you? That's what it takes. You know, we call it full surrender. Okay, Lord. By your grace I'll be that man. I'll be that woman. God, I want to be used of you. And he says, okay, here's what I want you to do. Well Lord, that's not what I meant. I mean I'm I I was saying I was thinking more like along these lines. He says to them, What you have received of God freely. Give freely to others. Verse number eight. He says, heal the sick, cleanse the leper, raise the dead, cast out devils. Freely you have received, freely give. What hast thou that thou hast not received? All that we have in our is from God. We should be willing to take anything that God gave us, including in our own life, and say, Lord, it's yours. What do you want me to do? Where do you want me to go? Where do you want me to serve? How do you want me to fulfill your will in my life, Lord, whatever it is? It's it's yours. Because everything I am and have is from you. And therefore it's it, I'm just putting it to your disposal, Lord, whatever you want. I'm not, I don't, I don't only want to be used, but I'm willing to be used however you see fit, Lord. What if God calls you to the mission field? You see, he had a specific place that he told the disciples here to go. He said to these twelve Jesus sent forth and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles and into the city of the Samaritans. Enter ye not, but go rather into the lost sheep of the house of Israel. What if they would have said, Well, those people are mean? I want to go to this neighborhood because this neighborhood is nice. I'm not going to get yelled at over here. I'm not going to get cussed out over here. So I really don't Lord I really don't want to go over there. But see God said here's where you're supposed to go. And I want you to know if you have a willing heart that God will direct you specifically as Exactly what you're supposed to be doing. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. If we allow them to be. Oh, we can take control and and go our own way and and and go off on our own thing, but if we allow him to, he will direct our steps. He'll show you exactly what it is he wants you to do, the specific place he wants you to serve, but are you willing to serve? What if God calls one of you ladies to be the next Fanny Crosby? And say, oh, I would love to write all those songs. But would you be willing to go through what she did to have that relationship with God? No, no, that's not what I meant, Lord. I'm saying what what is God going to ask of you? Okay, here's what I have for you. Anything but that, Lord. Can you be like a Samuel and just say, here am I? Could you be like Abraham and follow Christ? Even though he didn't know where he was going. Okay, Lord. I'm gonna head out. What if he calls on you to suffer persecution? He says here, if you look down in verse number 17 and 18 of chapter 10 there, he says, but beware of men. For they will deliver you up to the council, and they will scourge you in their synagogues. And ye shall be brought before governments and kings for my sake, for testimony against them. the Gentiles. He says, You're gonna you're gonna be persecuted. What if God calls on you to be persecuted? I think of our missionary who is trying to get back into a close country. The possibilities ever present there for persecution. What if God calls you, well that's not a easy place to serve, Lord? I I want to go somewhere easy like the Bahamas. Amen. I'll be a missionary to the Bahamas. Miss Martha said, No, I want to go to Alaska. Where it's cold, or there's some snow. But don't we all have our things we like? You know, uh there was a time in my life when I I really did not want to be by cold weather and I said, God, you know, I'll go anywhere except north Basically, I mean I I really ask God please don't send me North. Northern people are just rude. Amen, Alec. They just tell it like it is. They get they get real blunt. Southern people, they're all friendly. They'll lie right to your face, but they're they're they're friendly about it, amen. So I I no just cold weather. I just don't like cold weather and I don't know that I just I told God I wouldn't, but I I really did not want to be where I was dealing with winters and ice and sleet and salt and all that. But I had to come to the place where I said, God where wherever. Wherever. You know what's amazing is God gives you the desires of your heart. He's placed me here just south of the Mason Dixon line. God's good. Everybody wants the greatness, but they don't want the grind. Must I be carried to skies above on flowery beds of ease while others fought to win the prize and sail through bloody seas? Not only does it take a willing heart and a want to, but beloved, if we're really going to be used of God in a very powerful way. It takes wisdom. It takes some wisdom. We've had conversations recently with several in the church about how critical it is that the Spirit of God is directing us when we're being a witness. Because it's not just our ideas or our thoughts, but God can direct our steps in such a powerful way and give us those divine appointments. And lead our conversation in things that you wouldn't even think to have said, but you said, and that softens their heart. And God can do that. We've got to have wisdom to be used. He says there in verse number sixteen, he says, Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. Be therefore wise as serpents. serpents and harmless as doves. He says you're going out into a rough world. You're gonna need some wisdom to do what I've called you to do. I'm not saying, beloved, that God can't use the simple. There was a lady who was Driving down the middle of the highway, right down the middle of the highway. She was letting it rip. She's going full blast down the middle of the highway and just way above the speed limit. Police officer pulled her over and said, Hey, uh what in the world are you thinking? You're gonna get in a wreck! You can't be driving down the middle of the highway like that Plus you're going way over the speed limit. She's like, well I have a special license that allows me to do that. He says, No, you don't. Nobody has a she says, yes, it's right here. She hands him is li her license and she says, no, this is just a temporary license until your new one comes in the mail. She says, no, it says right down there at the bottom, it says tear along dotted line. God can use the simple. But I'll tell you what, it sure is beneficial when you have somebody with wisdom. And it takes some time of preparation in order for man to have wisdom. We need to be like Solomon, who said to God, Lord, he could ask anything. And he said, Lord, I need wisdom. I need wisdom to know how and what to do. He says, I don't know how to come out or go in. I mean he got real honest with God. I mean most of us are so full of ourselves. I mean can you imagine saying that, Lord, I don't even know how to go out or come in? We would be like, Lord, I already know how to do this and this and this, but might need some help with this. We need wisdom from God. Just vague and asking God for wisdom, for help. You know, God can only use what we put in the box. I want to be used of God greatly in a mighty way. You know, I was talking to Jackson this last week. We were over there working in the house and we were hauling in yet again another toolbox of different tools. And I said it's not just that we love tools, although we do love tools. I said, it's isn't it amazing all the different tools it takes to do a job? I mean you start out and you got demolition tools, you got your big crowbars and your hammers and and and all all this and then you you move on and you got okay now let's break out the plumbing tools. We gotta get the plumbing work done and okay now we're gonna break out the drywall tools. We gotta sew all this up and get all the drywall tools in and get everything finished and and coated and and then oh we've got to break out all the painting tools now we've got to get everything painted and now we've got to break out the trim tools in order to get everything trimmed out and and oh now we've got to break out the carpet tools in order to lay the carpet And now we've got to break out the tile tools in order to lay the tile. All different sets of tools. But I'm saying is how many tools do you have in your toolbox? You say, God I want to be used of you. And he says, Okay, well, I'd really like you to do this. Oh, I don't know how to do that, Lord. Well we need to get. We need to learn. So that God can use us. So that God can pick us up. And take us and use us in the place that he needs us. That takes some preparation. That's what college is about, what these guys are doing, what Katie's just finished up. Melanie's just going off to start and Livia's in the middle of. Andrew's heading out. I was thinking today as he's standing up here singing. Said, man, in another month he's gonna be gone. But it's a preparation time. It's a training time. Getting the tools so we can be used of God You know he is the master craftsman. And beloved God you know there are some craftsmen that can take a rusty old hammer. And do ten times what somebody else could do with the whole toolbox. And that's what we have with God. God will pick us up where we're at and use us in a miraculous way. But man, wouldn't it be better to have some more tools for 'em? To have some more ability, to have some more skill, to say, well uh It I mean I don't think we should have the spirit of just well, this is me, God, like it or lump it. Huh, w how about we get a book and do some reading and say, you know, how can I learn more about God or how can I be more a better witness or what can I do to improve this area of my life? How can I be a better teacher? How can I be a better how can I counsel people better? How can I administrate better or whatever whatever it is in our life. But those skill sets and those tools and this this section here may be largely for these young people. That's why I implore you and encourage you to learn an instrument. Or two. And study hard. Prepare for life. That God can use you in a miraculous way. The work that we do, beloved, regardless of our skill level, regardless of our of our help, it has to be done in and through the power of God. Not in our own strength. Well, we do the work of God in our own strength. We are failing miserably. C. H. Spurgeon in his book, Lectures to My Students. Tells of a dream that Thomas Boston, who was a Puritan preacher, had one night. He was recounting the dream that Thomas Boston recounted. But it so impacted Spurgeon's life, he shared it with his students. Every new crop of students that came in Thomas Boston said this. One day he was walking down the street and came up to a busy corner in his town. He found there on the corner Satan himself standing and preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. He thought, surely this cannot be. Satan standing here and preaching, there must be something I'm misreading. So he said, I approached him and asked of him Are you Satan? He said, yes, indeed I am Satan. And he says, and why would you preach the gospel of Jesus Christ? And he replied, Satan said, I have found the greatest way to damn people to hell. Is to preach the message of God without the power of God Because then men will harden their hearts against it. And Spurgeon said when he first heard that, he was weak in the knees, and he trembled At the responsibility to never preach the message of God without the power of God. Because that's the surest way to turn people away from God. We need God's power. If we're going to be used of God in a mighty way, beloved, it's not just something we do. It's God picking us up and using us in his work. Do you want to be used? Do you have that desire? Are you willing to do whatever? Lord, whatever. And then are you striving to have the wisdom to do it effectively?