The topic for tonight uh is uh the order of things. Um the order of things. You guys know that I like to cook. I enjoy cooking. It's fun. I enjoy making something that turns out good. I don't enjoy so much making stuff that's not good. Done that a few times. That didn't work. But uh, you know, there's recipes. You have to follow the recipe, and there's some, it's really very critical. It makes a difference depending upon the ingredients in which order they're put in. And uh whether you add moisture to it at this point or wait and add moisture to it later, uh, you know, whether that is cold water or hot water, I mean it's it's important. There's an order of things. I uh read a uh recipe card from many, many years ago, and it was for rabbit stew. And the first order of business was catch a rabbit That was literally the the first thing. You can't really have rabbit stew without the rabbit, so you gotta catch a rabbit. It's gotta be done in order. You're not gonna make rabbit stew unless you got some got some rabbits But the Bible has some orders that God has given to us, some set patterns in which life is supposed to progress. How many of you men, I'm sure the ladies have not done this, but I know men, we tend to like to uh you know if all else fails, read the directions, right? Have you tried to put something together And then you found out after you got into like step ten that you skipped step three. You know, when you finally get out the directions and you realize, oh No, I was supposed to put this in way back there and you have to take a bunch of steps back to uh put it in at that point. You've got to kind of Add that to like, oh, I got to back up. Why? Because you didn't read the directions. They have the step-by-step directions. You can follow them. Many of them have pictures now, you know, they're very simple. But uh we're like, ah, we can figure it out. And we start going and then we realize we we missed one of the steps because it really needs to be done in order. Well, the familiar passage of scripture here, 1 Corinthians 14, 40, the Bible says Let all things be done decently and in order. We, of course, think about that in regards to the church, but uh our life should be decent and in order. There should be an order and a pattern of things, and we should have that order and pattern the church. And there are so many areas that this could be applied to Uh so many things that we could look at and think, boy, we're going to get into a mess if we get this out of order. Well there's just a few that I'm going to give you tonight, and tonight's main outline here is not From me. It was shared with me. Brother Balier gave it to me uh a number of years ago. I've had it in my files for uh all this time. You know, so I'm sharing with you some some lessons that somebody else uh came up with, but they were very applicable and and uh I think fitting for tonight. So I just want to share them. First of all, we see God's order in the church. God's order in the church. We just walked through the book of Acts in Acts chapter 2, verses 41 and 42. He says Then they that gladly received the word were baptized, and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, in fellowship, and in the breaking of bread, and in prayers. So we see here God's pattern, God's design. The fact of the matter is, is salvation is supposed to be first. Salvation is the very beginning. That's where the Christian life starts. That's where everything is to progress after that. We see that they receive the word. And we're baptized. So it's salvation and then baptism. A lot of churches today that are out there get that out of order. Because they include baptism as some part of the measure of grace or uh part of the salvation process. And of course, those churches that would try and uh baptize infants. I mean they're just getting infants wet. They're not baptizing them because we know that baptism comes after salvation They've got that out of order, and that's giving people false assurance. It's giving people uh unbiblical uh foundation for their trust and their faith because it's not rooted in the Word of God. We know that God's order is salvation. And then baptism. We know, beloved, that in these verses we see here the progression. They received the word and baptized, and the same day they were added unto them about three thousand souls. There was a a marking, there was an addition, there was a adding to them about 3,000 souls. I would say that there first comes salvation, then baptism, then membership. Membership should proceed. Salvation should lead us as God's people to the first step of obedience, baptism. And after baptism, that should lead us to say, you know what, I want to join and be part of the assembly of God, God's family. They were added to them. I don't know why it is that it seems that people uh don't want to join the church today. Uh the other couple of weeks ago when we got Mary's car I was just pondering this as I was sitting here, because it was actually in December in 2020 that we got the Suburban. And I thought, oh, that's interesting. In December of 2025, we got Mary's car. But you know, I I must have signed 50 documents. I they wanted my work history for the last three jobs that I had. Do you know for me that takes me all the way back to high school. I mean I've only had four jobs in my whole life. And uh one of those I worked for a year and a half for Greg. So I've been in the ministry since nineteen ninety-nine, except for that year and a half that I was working for Greg. You go back before that and I was a drywall contractor all the way through college and had my own business there. And before that I worked for Walmart. That was my first job. That's all that I've ever done. Not much experience, sorry. But uh that I'm like I I'm not giving you I'm not gonna write all that down. I I mean my last job I've been here seventeen years. I think that should be sufficient, you know. That oughta cover it. But you know, I told uh Uh Elena I said, you know what's amazing is not just me, but every single person you have come in here, all the information that they give you, and we can't get anybody at church to even give us an email address To do anything. I said, we've been like pulling our hair out trying to figure out how to get people to just fill out a guest card, like, you know, some kind of information, and it's amazing they won't Do you know that the average person today is a part of 19 loyalty programs? The average person, you probably don't even know how many loyalty programs you're a part of. Every grocery store has them. Every uh auto parts store has 'em, airlines have 'em. You know, you've got all these loyalty programs. You've got your uh cell service and your your credit cards. and uh your airline points and all of these types of things that you're all a part of your gas station points and use these here and you get extra gas or get points off. You have all of those things. And oh you know what? That's wonderful. But it's amazing. People sign up for all of that. And they don't want to give the church any information. They don't want to sign up for anything. Well, don't let them church folks know where I'm at. You know, we don't want them calling us. And uh, you know, uh we obviously try not to be a nuisance, but it it sure would be nice to be able to contact people that have come to visit and send them a letter and and A lot of times guests come and we're like, did anybody get their information? We have no idea. Outside of their name, we know their name because they were here, but we don't know where they're from or how to get a hold of them or anything. Of course, in today's world we probably could use facial recognition and find them uh we could find them because i uh uh privacy is an illusion. There is no privacy today. That is that is long gone Ask Brother Fuchs about that, you know, he'll he'll tell you there's no privacy. Everything's out there, it's all in the ether, you know, uh, and all that information is available. But listen, we need to be willing to join the church, be part of the church. This is God's church and he loved himself and he gave himself for it. There ought to be, you know, see people don't want any accountability. They don't want to put their name down on the roll. They don't want to say, yeah, this is I'm here, sign me up. I'm going to support the church. I'm going to stand with the church. I'm going to Help the church know I'm just gonna come and be on the fringes and I'm gonna get the benefit without making the commitment But that's not the way it should be. We oughta decide that we're gonna join and be a part. You know, just about every New Testament book was written to the members of a local church. Jesus loved and gave himself for the church for the church. Revelation was written to seven local churches, the seven churches. There a pastor has to have qualifications to fulfill the role of a pastor for the church, for the body of Christ. God said that he would judge those that are without that it's not our place to judge those that are without but he said hey I'm gonna judge those that are without the church saying there's a there's a di defining line there's a differentiation there. There's those that are without the church and there's those that are a part of the church. I just want to encourage you for you or for others that might ask of you, like, should we join the church? I would encourage you to tell them yes It's part of putting your name down and saying, I'm going to be a part. And I I'm here and I'm a part of this. I'm going to support it. I'm going to stand with it. And we are believe that it's important. And I hope that you have already joined the church. But encourage others to do the same. We're saved, baptized, and then we join the church. And after that is when service comes. And verse number 42, and they continued steadfastly in the apostles' creed, uh, and the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in the breaking of bread and in prayers. They continued steadfastly in this ministry together, praying for one another, serving one another, studying the word together, membership comes first, and then comes service. Obviously in today's world there's a lot of legal ramifications that impact everything that we do with liability and other things like that as we as a church open ourselves up uh to different things and so we have to be very careful and so membership's a requirement for service in the church here. And uh there may be churches that you don't have to be a member of. You can join in the choir and You know, you can play the instruments. I know some people it's a job. Some churches they just pay the pianists to come in and our our guy that tuned the organ here for years. He he would talk about the churches that he played for, that he they just paid him to play the piano on Sundays, you know, and that's what he that was just I don't understand that. I think we ought to be committed to the church and this is our church and we serve God in and through the church, but membership and then service. Beloved, our labor for the Lord is not in vain. Anything that we do together and for the Lord in the Lord's house is not in vain. It's going to last for eternity We give our time and energy and effort to so many meaningless things. So much of our life is eaten up with things that are going to burn up in the end. And what a privilege it is to just take a little bit of time and just give it to God. And to know that that's time that's going to be invested in eternity. And the place to do that is in the church, through the church, in service for him. Use your skills, your talents, whatever God has given you. God has given us your your talents, and he's told us that was he gave it to you for The edification of the church for the development of the body. You know, we are uh we talked about this the other week, but uh the idea of the picture of the body uh being the church and how we are all members of one body and a living body with all of its members living is in one place. When the hand gets cut off And it's gone, the body suffers. But also the hand dies. The hand is no longer useful. The hand is no longer a part of the body. And we are all together to be serving and laboring and loving one another and the Lord. Let me say that faithfulness is a necessity for service as well. And maybe it's just me and maybe I'm just old fashioned. But I just have a hard time giving somebody a responsibility that's not first faithful to what they're already doing. We need to be faithful, faithful to, at the very least, be here. The very least be in church before you start to carry a responsibility for the next level. Be faithful to whatever ministry that you are a part of, whatever area of service that you're called to. Faithfulness is required. And it's necessary from our standpoint of leadership. I'm just not going to appoint or put anybody in a place of service that's not first faithful. We're going to be again electing a deacon here in another month and a half or so. We get into January and one of the deacons is stepping down and we'll have to put a new one on in their place because that's how our rotation is set up And listen, if we put somebody into that we don't just put men into that position of a deacon in the church just because. We need to look at and consider men that are faithful, that are already serving, that are already active, that are already uh doing the things that they're going to be asked to do. Right. Then there will be no question about whether they are going to be faithful in those duties because they're already faithful. This is just some basic things with regards to the church. If we think about God's order for the Christian, in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, there's a great description about the uh order of things and the the time of things, how God plans things out. He says to everything there's a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted, a time to kill, and a time to heal, a time to break down, and a time to build up, a time to weep, and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to lose, a time to keep, and a time to cast away. A time to rend and a time to sow. A time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate. A time of war and a time of peace. As I read that list, there's so many things in my mind that I wanted to pause numerous times through that just to elaborate on those times, those seasons. Some of us missed the seasons of some of those different areas and things that We really should be a part of things, but it of course begins here with a time to be born. You know, children are born and they should be children. Kids should be doing things that kids do. Young adults should be engaged in things that young adults can do. Right. And adults should be engaged in things that adults do. You see there's a progression of life that's supposed to take place. Putting things in the right order. You know, we don't need kids that are doing adult type things. Right. And we don't need adults that are still doing kid things. We need to grow up. First Corinthians 13, 11 says, When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. There's supposed to be a progression. There's a time for that. And I would encourage you to enjoy the time that you're in. Let kids be kids. Let them enjoy those those years. Let me just say this though, parents. They need to act their age. Whatever their age is, they need to act their age. Don't let your seven year old act like a four-year-old or a three-year-old. When my kids would want to do that, I I would say, hey, do you speak with your big boy voice, or I'm not answering you? Don't let him talk like a baby. Don't let them get all whiny. They aren't two years old anymore. They're seven. They're five. Whatever. They need to act their age. Why? Because one day they're going to be a teenager. One day they're going to be an adult And they need to act their age at that age. They need to start learning to act their age, at whatever age they are. And some kids are naturally more mature and some are naturally more immature. But you need to help them, the ones that are naturally more mature that want to just do all of these things, you need to help them enjoy the age that they're at. Don't let them always be looking towards the future and not embracing where they're at. And those that want to just be immature and to take no responsibility and and pretend that they're still an infant, you need to tell them no, you need to act your age You aren't two years old anymore. Let me encourage, don't let your little girls dress like they're 16. It's shameful what some parents put their six and seven year old girls in dressing up like they're sixteen or seventeen, all decked out in makeup and earrings and they they look like they're in some kind of beauty pageant and they they look Many years beyond where they are because of that makeup. Listen, you're robbing them of their childhood and their innocence. They need to act their age. There's an order of things and right now they're children. They need to be allowed to be children. Kids obviously don't need to be involved in adult relationships. That means no dating. Right. That means no saying I love you to the opposite gender. When you're twelve or sixteen. You're not ready for that. Now remember there's a girl in our neighborhood. Mary, you can close your ears for just a minute. There's a girl in our neighborhood who shall remain unnamed. Growing up and I kinda I had a thing for her. And I was standing in the backyard of the house one day and You know how kids they give each other a hard time and some of the neighborhood boys were giving me a hard time about like, man, Caleb loves so-and-so, Caleb loves so-and-so. And I said it out loud. I said, Caleb loves, and I called her name. What I didn't know is my mom's bedroom window was cracked just a little bit. And she heard it and from in the house she goes, Caleb Batrel. I'm like, uh oh. Uh and at that point, I mean I was probably fourteen or something. But I knew I was in trouble because I knew that's not something that a young man at fourteen years old should be saying to another girl. And listen, I know you teenagers in here, I know that your home hormones are out of control. I know that you have desires. But listen, unless you're ready to get married and you're ready to have kids, you're not ready to date. Because the only reason to date is not just to try it out, not just to have fun, not just to experiment experiment with sex. The only reason to date is to get married and have a family. And you don't know. Well I know they say, well you can just wait, listen, you don't know. You say, well it's not our plan to have kids yet. Yeah, well God's in control of that. You may not be planning to, but you may be like my mother who the doctors all said she could never have kids. It was the pl they they didn't th they couldn't have kids. Apparently there was something physically wrong with her and the doctors always said you'll never be able to have a child. Well, nine months after their honeymoon came the first one. They had six before she was thirty. So they obviously were wrong. God had another plan. What I'm saying is you think, oh well we're really young and we're gonna pursue this relationship and even if you do it all that right and you get married, you don't know kids may come quicker than you were planning. What I'm saying is you need to be ready for that. Yeah. If you want to uh be careful with that or parents if you want to help your young people be careful with that then you need to help control the flow of communication. Communication is how you build a relationship. You know in World War II there were many men and women that fell in love with one another? Sight unseen. There were many soldiers that are out on the battlefield and they started corresponding with somebody back in the States and You know, the the letters initially were just written to be an encouragement to the soldiers and let them know that they were praying for 'em or whatever, and the soldier would write back and they began corresponding and they fell in love with one another, never even seen each other. And nowadays, kids have unfettered access to continual communication with one another. I've heard about people in this church, young people, kids, on the phone at midnight or one o'clock in the morning. That should not be. That should not be. And I'll just say it because some of you probably think it. I was made aware of times that it was one of my kids that had gotten a phone that I did not know about. And they were communicating with one of your kids. In the middle of the night. That should not be. That's not the time for kids to be talking. They're not ready for that level of communication, that level of contact. And young people, your parents are just trying to protect you. You're talking on the phone in the middle of the night. You're stirring up things in you that don't need to be stirred up yet. There's an order to things, there's a time for those things. You know that in the Word of God, the title or even the phase of life that today we call teenager doesn't exist. It was in the nineteenth century that the uh American world consisted of simply children and adults But as I was talking about this morning, American prosperity allowed kids to grow up in a time where they did not have to toil as their parents once did. And parents, because they love their kids, desired for their kids to be able to enjoy their childhood. To not have to toil like they did. They wanted to them to just enjoy life because they knew the burden of adulthood was coming soon enough The average number of years that children spent in school began to grow. Parents We're no longer marrying their children off at the ages of 16 and 17. And before long, this phase of life that is known as teenagers became a reality here. This is really an American concept. Because of the prosperity and because people can not have to toil or labor, they've got all these teen years where they can almost just kind of just have fun. I always tell people that the place I loved and live in the most was El Paso. As I'm older, I think about it, and the reason I loved El Paso so much is because I was old enough to have fun, but not old enough to have any responsibility That's probably why I liked it so much. I mean I could go places and have some freedom and do all this stuff, but I didn't have any responsibility But that's not by that's not what God's design is. American adolescence began to display traits that were previously unknown to former generations. They began to demand their independence and display great defiance. Although the word teenager didn't even come into use until many decades later, the teenage mindset dawned on America in the 1920s. Kids that had yet to bear the weight of any responsibility were demanding the right to take control of their own life. The single greatest factor that led to the emergence of the independent teenager was the advent and proliferation of the automobile. Teens began to enjoy a freedom from parental supervision that had previously been unknown to all previous generations. Kids now could get away from mom and dad. They had an aspect of independence. They had an aspect of their own freedom. They could take the car and go do what they wanted to do. This promoted and pushed this. Let me just say that I believe the impact that the automobile had Which developed that independent, defiant spirit in teenagers has been surpassed many fold by the advent and the proliferation of the cell phone. We are giving kids younger and younger their own phone and we are giving them their own independence. with complete freedom on this on this device that they now are functioning like an adult And yet they're just a kid. They have no concept of what it takes to live. And yet they're in many ways functioning like an adult. They they don't even understand it. And I believe the effects of that are even far more disastrous than that of the automobile. But with the boom of the automobile, old fashioned courtship evolved into what has become modern dating. Earlier times, young boys and girls spent their first encounters around the family dinner table. They would come together and they would have dinner and spend time with mom and dad. They would play games maybe in the living room or in the parlor. If they had some really progressive parents, They might get a moment or two alone on the porch as they say goodbye with their siblings watching out the window and you know all of that. But you see the automobile gave the opportunity for young people to get out from under the watchful eye of loving and concerned parents. And the teenage sexual revolution swept across America. We've got to be careful. That we are not promoting these things. There's a time for that. First marriage and then touching That's God's plan. Touching should not come before marriage. And the Bible says, Can a man take fire in his bosom and not be burned? The obvious answer is no, and That's why young people, those people, the adults that care about you are trying to help you control that, to keep you from making a mess of your life. Don't rush it. Enjoy the stage that you're at. Enjoy the place where you're at. Allow that to be where you are right now. Don't desire and want the things that are for the next stage of life for you. You're not ready for that stage. Somebody asked me one time, how do you know I'm not ready? And I told him, because your mama still gets you out of bed. That's why I know you're not ready. You're not ready to be a man, to lead a family, to support a home, if you can't get out of bed on your own. If you're over ten years old here and your mama still has to get you up to go to school or to go to work, you have a problem. You ought to have an alarm. You ought to be able to get up on your own. You want to be a man, you wanna be a lady and say, I'm in charge of my life. How in charge are you? Do you live by discipline? Do you have uh a pattern, a habit of life? Are you consistent? Listen, God made male and female and he made us for the enjoyment of one another inside the bounds of marriage, etc. It's a marvelous thing. But let it be in the bounds of marriage. You will be far happier if you do. I believe you'll be far suc more successful in your marriage if you do. There's so much about your relationship that comes before the physical aspect. I was talking to somebody just a few weeks ago. And uh I was talking to another pastor seeking advice about somebody that came to me for some some advice. In the situation, there's a couple that were involved. And he the pastor asked me, he said, have they touched? And I said, yes. And he said, well, they will be married. They will get married then. Because they have stirred up in themselves something that's supposed to be after marriage. They've already started that fire. And no, they're no longer thinking with their head. They've removed the all common sense from the relationship. And whether they're supposed to be married or not is irrelevant. They're going to end up getting married because they've already started that pattern. You know, you gotta be careful what you do. You've got to obviously get to know them. You've got to grow in your love and your respect for one another. You've got to be sure that you're ready to sustain an adult relationship, that you're ready to be a parent, then you get engaged. I would encourage a short engagement. Then you get married, and then it's okay to touch. Lastly, and I won't spend much time here because we touched on this this morning, but uh you work and then you spend. You first comes work and then you spend. You know, if you don't work you shouldn't eat And in today's world, you can get anything on credit anywhere. It's mind-boggling what they will give somebody And you got all these places that say, uh, you know, bad credit, no credit, doesn't matter, we'll get you into a new car. You know, you shouldn't be going to any place like that. You earn some money. You tithe. You put some money in savings. Right. You pay your bills and then if you have any money left over you can spend it. We've got that all out of whack today. And we spend all the money we don't even have. And by the way, it doesn't matter how much money you make. You just listen to Dave Ramsey, it's mind-boggling. People making three or four hundred thousand a year and living paycheck to paycheck. They can't even they can't even make ends meet. And he's like, what in the world are you doing? It's not how much money you make, it's the discipline you have. It's how disciplined you have or you are with what God has given you. Let me just say parents we need to be careful because a lot of times our kids are learning how to handle money from us. And if you know that you're not that good at handling money, then start learning. Get some advice. Take some classes. Read a book. You know, just start it's not that hard to learn. I agree with Dave Ramsey. It ought to be taught in school. It ought to be teaching kids how to handle money. But a lot of us are way past that. But you can learn, even it is possible for an old guy to learn some new tricks, or an old lady, we can learn how to handle money. I said lastly, but let me throw this one out. Bible then breakfast. The word of God, the pattern there. Just spending time with God. It needs to be an active part of our lives. Really, the word of God and time with God should come first. Reading the Word of God should be a necessary part of our lives. George Mueller, after reading through the Bible 100 times with increasing delight, He made this statement. He said, I look upon it as a lost day when I have not had a good time over the Word of God. Friends will often say to me, I have so much to do, so many people to see that I cannot find time for Scripture. Perhaps there are not many who have more to do than I. For more than half a century, I have never known a day when I did not have more business than Day. For four years I have had annually over 30,000 letters to respond to. As the pastor of a church, over 1,200 believers, Great has been my care and burden of this. Besides, I have had char I have charge of five immense orphanages And a publishing depot with the printing and the circulation of millions of tracts, books, and Bibles But I have always made it a rule to never begin my day of work until I have first had a good season with God. The blessings that I have received have been truly wonderful. What it is is just like controlling our money, it just has to be a pattern of our life. It has to be a plan. This is what we're going to do. We all know we only have 24 hours in a day, and we all have more to do in a day than we're going to get done. It doesn't matter where you're at, what stage of life you're at, it doesn't matter what projects you have on your list, there's always more to do than you're going to get done Yeah. We always have things that get pushed off to tomorrow or the next day, but where are we going to put the priority? We need to first put the priority on God. Right. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? The order of things. Is your life in order? This could be obviously titled some priorities. Where is your priorities? What is it you're focusing on? There's many other areas that we could have touched on tonight. Many other aspects that we need to look at and think about, put in their proper order. Maybe the Holy Spirit spoke to you about something else that I didn't even mention. As the pianist plays, if God stirred your heart tonight, or you would seek to speak to the Lord, now's the time. Lord, we thank you for tonight and uh the opportunity to be in your house. We thank you, Lord, for your goodness to us and Lord, we know that as you've given us a pattern and an order for things in our life, that that is not to keep us from things that are good. but to protect us from things that will hurt us. I pray, Lord, that we would be willing to function inside the bounds of your guidance and through the leadership of the Holy Spirit, and Lord, we know that inside of that is where we'll have a happy and prosperous life. Lord, would you guide us and may what we do bring honor and glory to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. You're dismissed.