Matthew chapter six verse number twenty-six. We'll be reading a few familiar verses there. As I said, we're going to be looking at uh a series of messages that I'm entitling Money Matters and uh uh years ago and it maybe is still on, I don't know, but there used to be a radio show called Money Matters Uh some of you might have uh heard it or somewhere throughout the country and uh but you know just talking about the different things with regards to money and tonight uh we're dealing with money matters and God's plan for money, God's purpose for money. What is it that God is doing with that? Now uh you know as people we like to talk about money. Except in church. Right? I mean, in ever any other scenario we enjoy talking about money, most of us uh follow the rise and the fall of the stock market or in some measure at least from a distance to look at and see uh where our investments might be Uh I currently have some some stock in Milwaukee since I have Milwaukee tools, you know, and they've been down for months and months. I'm very disappointed in them. But you know, we look at the stock market and say, boy, wonder what what how my investments might be doing or your four hundred one K. We don't mind uh commenting on the low interest rates or evaluating the increases that are gonna be coming. We follow with fascination the lives of the rich and the famous. We like to see uh other people's success and uh just maybe in awe look at what they've been able to accomplish and the multitude of money that they have that allows them to uh live the lifestyle that they live. you know, to buy an island just because they want to, you know, and that kind of thing. You just think, whoa, just I mean, we can't even comprehend it. Um, you know, I mean I mean is it uh I I remember hearing it's in the millions, I I think in the twenty some millions that Trump paid in taxes last year. Uh and that's just in taxes. You know, we we we look at those things and we talk about it and we you know, my kids driving down the road, we like to talk about the car that just drove by and and And how much that car costs and you know who who owns it. There's a couple of people around here that have some really nice Ferraris that you can see on the road occasionally, even coming down Cuba Road. We enjoy looking and talking about these things. Money actually is one of our favorite topics, except in church. Whenever the pastor says uh we're gonna talk about money, people get a little uh concerned. Oh, I'm sure at some point in this study we're gonna deal with the principles of giving. to God, but uh it's more about personal finance. So uh we get into church and for some reason we don't enjoy the topic of money, but We're going to look at many things with regards to money over the next few weeks. We're going to talk about that elusive financial freedom that everybody seeks. I'm looking for financial freedom and what does that actually mean and how could it be attained We're going to look at the financial fallacies, those things that are believed about finances and riches and wealth that are not true. We're going to talk about the importance of choosing to serve God over mammon. We're going to talk about the necessity to avoid debt at all costs. We're going to look at the principle living inside your income. We're going to talk about getting the best buy. We like to get the best buy, don't we? Anybody out for that deal, that that goodbye. We're going to talk about the fact that with choosing a good name is far more important than great riches. We're going to look at the hard taskmaster. of materialism that's driving most people today. We're going to talk about the need to choose character over covetousness. We're going to look at some basic money management principles and we're going to talk about the love of money and the value of money and a little bit about what money cannot buy. Those over the coming weeks will address many of these topics, but tonight as we start out, I felt it fitting to introduce this study with the idea of what is God's plan for money? What does it all boil down to? What does God want for my money? What does God say about it directly? What guiding principles should we have in our life? Look in our text here this evening as our launching off place is Matthew chapter 6, verse number 26. Through verse number 30, we're going to read the text, and then I'll pray, and we will continue with the message here. Matthew chapter 6, verse number 26 through 30. He says, Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap. Nor gather into barns yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? Which of you, by taking thought, could add one cubit unto his stature? And why take he thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon, all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, Shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? What is God's plan for money? Let me pray. Lord, I ask you to give me clarity of thought and liberty to preach. I ask you, God, that you would open the hearts and minds of those that are listening to the message tonight. Lord, not so much to the words that I say, but to what the Holy Spirit would have for each of them. I pray, God, that the message would be driven home in a way that I could never drive it home. I could never adequately illustrate or emphasize enough, but the Holy Spirit can feed each person here and give them what they need, and I pray God that He would do that We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As we consider the matter of God's plan for our money, everyone here has a plan for your money. Whether you have a little or a lot, we kind of set in motion plans for our money. My children at different times at this stage of their lives, they still have to ask me if they want to spend their money. They it's their money. But I'm trying to help them develop uh good rules of practice with regards to their finances, and so I have them ask me and their plan for their money changes One day they may come to me and they say, Dad, this is what I really want. This is what I need. Dad, can I buy this? And I'll say no And then a couple of months later they'll come up and they'll say, Well dad, uh you know I've got that money and and here's the here's what I want to get with that money. Can I get this with the money? And I'll say no. Their plan for their money keeps changing. Why? Because as they get older, as because their interests change a little bit, uh they they change what it is that's so important to them. And you know that. Well, we, no matter how much money you have, no matter how little you have or how much you have, we tend to have a plan for our money. We plan to buy the things that we want. We plan to measure our success by it. We plan to try and find security with it. We want to gain independence. Some just flat out want to get as much of it as they can. The way we handle money is one of the truest indications of our spiritual life. That there is available to us. How we handle money, what we do with our money, is a spiritual indicator of where our heart is. You know the verse. For where your treasure is. What is it? There will your heart be also. They say you can tell very clearly what is important to somebody by looking at their bank statement, their checkbook. and their credit cards. Where are you spending your money? We have a plan for our money, but what is God's plan? We don't like to talk about money so much in church, but you know what? God talked about money a lot. I know we look at church and we say, well, Pastor, you know, church, you really ought to be talking about prayer. You know there's about 500 references in the Word of God to prayer? I agree, we ought to be talking about prayer. You know, Pastor, I mean without faith it is impossible to please God. We ought to be talking about faith, Pastor. You're right. You know there's about five hundred principles or or mentions of the word faith or having or exercising or building faith in the Word of God. But do you know there's over 2,000 references to finances, money, and possessions? Uh in the Word of God. There's an emphasis that God put into the Word of God with regards to finances, I think, because he understood that we as a people would be Driven by them. And they would so greatly impact and influence our lives. Out of the 38 parables given to us in the Gospels, 16 of them deal with money. That's a pretty high percentage. Sixteen of them deal with finances. One out of ten verses in the gospel deal with money. That's a pretty high percentage. I think as I studied this, I thought maybe I'm not touching on the subject of finances enough. this something that so greatly impacts our lives and it's so prevalent in the scriptures, maybe I'm not dealing with it often enough. I could not begin to give you all of what the Bible says about money tonight or even in the few weeks that we have to look at it. But what I want is I want us to start to establish some biblical principle with regards to how we handle our money. Some mindset, a way of functioning, a way of uh dealing with our finances that lines up with the Word of God You see a man with a natural mind uses his human reasoning as his guide. Oh, I can do this, I shouldn't do that, I've got human reasoning as my guide to determine what I should and shouldn't do. But a man with a spiritual mind uses The scripture and the Spirit of God as a guide. The natural man resorts to his own understanding. And has to suffer the results of living by his own understanding instead of by God's way. It's important that we understand God's purpose for money, his wisdom behind those purposes. And as we take the next few weeks and look at this idea, it's not necessarily going to be about how to get more money, but it's going to be about how to keep your money from getting more of you. From controlling you, you controlling your money instead of your money controlling you. A pastor of a church in Romania, when they were under communist oppression. Said this. I have found it to be true that ninety five percent of Christians When faced with persecution, will pass the test. But I have also found it to be true that 95% of Christians, when faced with prosperity, Will fail the test. One who lived under communist oppression said that And I think that it probably holds true that prosperity we begin to forget God So I want to give you a few principles with regards to money and God's plan. First of all, it is God's plan to provide for our future. To provide for our future. He says here, he says, hey. The birds, God takes care of them. The grass of the field, God takes care of that. You know, why wouldn't God take care of you, one of his own? You know, it is God's plan to provide for his own. God loves to provide for his own. And he wants to do that. And he desires to do that, just like any parent would want to provide for their own and to give them the best things. Sometimes we think that maybe he's not watching or maybe he doesn't know because the thing that we want hasn't come yet. But see, he's doing what's best. And sometimes at eleven o'clock at night, my kids may want to eat ice cream, but I may say no. Not because I don't necessarily want them to have ice cream, but because I know that that's not what's going to be best for them at that time. A parent, any any parent looking on for his children is going to try and want to do what's best for them. And that's what God does for us. He provides for us. He provides for our basic needs. Turn to 1 Kings chapter number 17. 1 Kings chapter number 17. We see the story here of Elijah, the Tishbite, a familiar passage of scripture where God provides for the needs of his man. Understand God wants to provide for us, but He has a plan for it. In our day and age, that means finances. I mean in in bygone days it might have been chickens. Might have been something to barter with. It might have been some, but today it's actual finances and God wants to provide for you. He wants to meet your needs. And that means that there needs to be some income. But here, in Elijah's day, it says in verse number one, Elijah the Tishvite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee hence, and turn the eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan And it shall be that thou shalt drink of the brook. And I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. God commanded the re ravens to feed him. He used his supernatural way to meet the needs. of his prophet, of his own. God sent birds to feed him. And then the story goes on and he he tells him, You need to get up. He says, You need to get up. So he went and did according to the word of the Lord, and he went, and he dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan. And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he drank of the brook. And it came to pass after a while that the brook dried up. Because there had been no rain in the land. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Again, God sending him to the place where he would be sustained. God wants to provide for you. God delights in providing and meeting your needs. You know what we want? We want to be self-sufficient. Caleb, let me use you for an illustration. You see, we desire independence. I want you to come and ask me for a dollar. Good. Okay, you got a dollar. Now go sit down. Alright, now I want you to come back. This is the next day. I want you to come and ask me for a dollar. Okay, go sit down. All right, now I want you to come back. It's the next day. You need to come and ask me for a dollar. Maybe you would You see, God said, Pray, give me this day my daily bread God desires that we would come to Him and ask daily for our daily bread, but we desire independence from that. We don't want to come daily. We don't want to look to him. God desires to meet our need. He wants to meet our need. He wants to continue to meet our need, but in his plan, He wants us to acknowledge and realize the fact that it's coming from him. But we desire independence, not that we might have security. We desire independence that we might be out from under authority. That's what children want. They want the independence. You know, as a parent, it doesn't matter how old they get, you can say, listen. When you start paying for your own food and providing you're paying your own light bill and you're paying your own mortgage and you're paying the insurance on the car and putting gas in the car, when you can do all that, then you can make the choice. Right? Right now you're living off of me, bud. You're gonna do what I want. They don't have independence yet, but they want it. And many times that'll be a motivation to get them out and start working a job because they want that independence. To be out from under that authority. And sometimes our job, we go to our job and and and they give us a check, and man, we wish we could just get Free from that. We wish we could just do what we want, but they're just telling us all the time, you gotta be at work. You gotta work this long. No, you can't have off for Thursday night No, you can't have off to go on the the the Baptist history tour. You gotta work even though you want to do that and and and you're not free to just do whatever you want. And so you look at it, you say, Boy, I wish I could have that kind of freedom. Have that financial stability so I could do what I want. But the thing is is we desire that from God as well. Oh, not in our not in our thinking, we wouldn't say that. We wouldn't declare that to be true But that's what we desire, to be free from God. Someone said that we pray, give us this week our check. Give us our check. When we stop recognizing our need for the Lord's provision, we soon begin to lose our love for Him. You see, when we acknowledge the fact that what we have comes from him and we are sustained by him and and you come and and you you say, Hey, can I have a dollar? And I hand it to him. There is that acknowledgement, there's that realization that uh uh, hey, that came from dad. Thank you, Dad. I wouldn't have this if it wasn't for you. You know, I don't know why God had uh uh Elijah move from the brook uh to the widow woman that Zarephath. I don't know why he had him had him do that, but it might have been he wanted him just to uh uh Be obedient. Might be you just wanted him to say to stay see if you be obedient. It might be that he he being there, being fed with the ravens. Day after day, he might have gotten his mind that he had some kind of power over the ravens. And that he could command the ravens to bring him food. And he would stop realizing and acknowledging the fact that God was the one that brought it to him And boy, I can I can look at this, I can get food from the ravens. And so God said, hey, ravens aren't coming anymore. The brook's drying up. You want to live? Get up. And go to Zarephath. Because God is where it comes from. God desires for us to provide, but By us acknowledging Him, it builds our love for Him. John fifth fifteen five says, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. When we get independent of God, we forget that. This develops a spirit of gratefulness. As we pray, give us this day our daily bread. As we come and acknowledge that the provision is coming from Him, we begin to be grateful. Gratefulness is a byproduct of the contentment that we have for what God has given us. Contentment is a product of our controlled expectations. Do you know as your expectations increase, your contentment decreases? And we begin to expect a certain lifestyle. We begin to expect to have a certain level of comfort. We begin to expect to have certain amount of money. We begin to expect to have certain kind of health. We begin to expect to be able to continue in a certain kind of way and our expectations build our uh level there and and we set that bar at that point and when those expectations aren't met then we're discontented. When all of it came from God anyway. All of it, all the way back to the very first thing Having contentment and the spirit of gratefulness, acknowledging where it comes from, will develop the spirit of joy. You'll be able to enjoy each possession as a new unexpected gift from God. Each dollar that comes, each possession that he gives, each need that he that he meets, each each day that the sun is shining, each day that you get to live will be a new and unexpected gift from God Almighty when you're acknowledging where it comes from. But when we live our lives outside of that, we begin to expect it and think that we deserve it and we're owed it. And we're disappointed and discouraged and upset when we don't get it. And sadly, that's where much of the world is today. When we build the expectation to the point that we feel we deserve it and that we have a right to it, we're not acknowledging where it's coming from. God desires to provide for our future. Not only that, God desires to guide our focus. God wants to guide our focus. God told him what his plan for him was, told uh Elijah where to go, said Elijah, go, you need to go here, you need to do this, this is what I want you to do. He was giving him direction in his life. And when God wanted him to go somewhere else, The brook dried up. The brook was no longer sustaining him. And he had to exercise. Some faith and step out and do what God wanted him to do and go where God wanted him to go God will supply and sometimes use the supply or lack of supply as a means of direction for our lives Well, I've got a job, but it's not meeting the needs of my family. Maybe God's leading you. God's saying, hey, your time here is done. You're done at the brook. You need to go to this place. You need to do this. Now you need to be sure that it's the leading of the God that's telling you to take this next step and not just your desire for more possession. But you understand by God leading us this way it builds our faith. You think about Elijah here that he was at the brook and and every day the ravens were coming and man he he's looking at what God's doing and the brooks uh you know he's getting water from the brook and that all dries up. And then God says, okay, I want you to go over here and there's a woman w uh widow woman I'm gonna have feed you. And he didn't know what was going to happen. He didn't know where wa he he just got up and went. But can you imagine when he got there and that he got to see God do the miraculous thing of feeding him and her family day after day, it built his faith. And when you and I follow God's direction in our lives and do what God wants us to do, and maybe that is don't buy that car, maybe that is don't make that investment, maybe that is don't move and go to that new job Maybe God's direction is don't you need to stay right where you are and you say, but right where I am, I can't meet my needs in my family. Right where I am, I can't see how it's going to work. But then you do what God says to do and your faith is strengthened. I can't help but just think about Mo, who gave a testimony in the last One after another, things God did to provide for her in ways that she didn't see or didn't plan for or didn't realize could happen. But God met the need And her, by her own testimony, said, God built my faith. And when you follow God's plan like that, your faith is strengthened. You think about Noah, tells us in Hebrews, by faith, Noah being warned of God of the things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house. By that which he commanded the world and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. By faith Noah built an ark. When we follow God, our faith is strengthened, and you get to see how God provides and how he directs you. You can be sure that if God leads, he'll provide. Wherever God leads, he'll provide. He knows. Hey, he used ravens to provide for his man God can give you a $500 check in the mail. God will provide. He does provide. When we follow him, it establishes who is Lord in our life. When you follow his plan, when you follow direction he gives, it it it builds your faith. But it also establish who establishes who is Lord in your life. Who is Lord in your life? Is the dollar Lord in your life? We follow the dollar or do we follow God? Am I Lord of my life? I'm going to just do what I want to do? Or am I going to follow God and do what God wants me to do? Who is Lord in your life? 1 Timothy 6, verse number 17, he says, Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Hey, there are many people that are trusting in the riches, and they're uncertain. It doesn't matter if you have $200,000 in the bank. You know, you could go in the hospital in a matter of less than a month that $200,000 could be gone. You think your security comes from that the the size of that bank account? You better realize it comes from God. The one who wants to provide for us. And he uses sometimes some finances to give us some direction in our lives to guide our focus. What is it that we're focusing on? What is it we're looking at? He also uses it to promote fellowship. To promote fellowship. He sent uh Elijah here to the woman and They gathered together and then they they were able to fellowship together and and meet each other's needs. And maybe God uh didn't do it for have him go for Elijah at all. Maybe he had him go for the the woman who needed her needs met And that was his child too. And he says, hey, go there because I'm going to use you to meet the needs of this family. Whatever it might be, God. Wants to promote fellowship. In verse number nine, he says, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. You know, this will unite Christians. Jesus came and started the church. He opened up the gospel to the Gentiles. Well, in the early church, there was a real separation between the Gentiles and the Jews. They really didn't do much together. There wasn't a whole lot of social interaction between the Gentile and the Jews. But then when a great famine came into the land, the Jewish people were suffering. And Paul wrote to the churches and says, hey, your Jewish brother and sisters in Christ are suffering. And the Gentile churches. Took up offerings and raised funds to provide for their Jewish brother and sisters. You know, this will unite Like nothing else will when we generously care for one another. This will also multiply our ability as a church to do things for God when we each give as God wants us to. We give and we're planting a seed. We are sowing, and we know that he who soweth sparingly shall reap fossils sparingly. And he that soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully. When we sow, we're planting a seed. And if you're generous, I know God will be generous with you. not only promotes fellowship, but it also gives an opportunity for God to display His faithfulness to us In Malachi chapter 3, verse number 10, he says, Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that my mate might be That there might be meat in mine house, and prove me now therewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open up the windows of heaven and proud a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. God wants to show himself strong, miraculously, in your life, for you, and for those that see you. For those that you're being a testimony to, for those that you've been witnessing to, for those that that know that you're a Christian and you in your life you see what God is doing and how He is meeting your needs. God desires to show himself strong in a supernatural way. He wants to demonstrate his ability to care for you and to provide for you and to give you what you need. And that brings honor and glory to him, and it brings lost people to Jesus. God is powerful, and you can trust him Elijah proposed a test one day on a hill. I've stood on the hill where they believe that this battle took place, this this this contest where he called out You know, last week we were sitting round the fire there with twenty nine of us and twenty eight of us at this uh camp out with the family and I don't know how many of you ever heard this, but you know, if the smoke's blowing towards you, you say Uh depends upon if you're kind or mean, but you say I I love white fluffy rabbits, and if you say that the smoke won't go by you. The smoke will go away from you. That's superstition, right? And uh so the cousins were all saying, I hate white plummy rabbits and and I hate white and they're just saying it and and I says, Maybe you gotta say it louder And then they'll say it and I say, Maybe you gotta jump up and down you know and uh I I the of course it was still going by them, it wasn't making any difference, but the smoke, you know, it just seems like it, you know, it once it starts following you you get up and move over there and then it starts going there and We had a lot of fun with it, but I was joking with them about it because of this contest on Mount Carmel where Elijah says, hey, maybe Baal can't hear you. Maybe you need to call out louder. And they began to call out louder and they began to jump up and down and, you know, the challenge was if God be God, then serve him, and if Baal be God, then serve him. But let's find out who's God and they'll he they called on him to call down fire from heaven and nothing happened. But you know the story about how they drenched The altar with water, and the altar was consumed, and the water was consumed, and the fire was consumed, and the wood was consumed, it was all taken up by the fire that came down from heaven. God is powerful. And in a miraculous way he can and desires to meet your need. He wants to show himself strong that the lost world might see him in his glory. And bring loss to Christ. Psalms chapter 50, verse number 15, he says, And call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. God wants to provide and meet our needs that we might bring glory to Him. So the purpose of money is not to provide security. It's not to establish our independence or to create in us power or influence over others. But it is to bring honor and glory to God as He desires to me to provide for you and I. Does your understanding of the desire of money line up with the scriptures in these areas?