I'm sorry, we saw how he stood back and watched her come up, watched her working in the field, inquired after her. Can I remind you tonight that God is watching? God sees you, and not just from the aspect or the standpoint of, you know, be careful what you do because God sees it all. What I'm saying, beloved, is not only does God know your name, but God knows your need. God knows what you have need of before you even think to ask him for it. God is watching. He sees what's going on in your life. He sees where you're at. He sees the burden you're carrying, the struggle that you're uh battling with in your heart and in your spirit and God is aware of that. God saw Ruth and and uh Boaz there, the the type of Christ, the picture of Christ And can I tell you that God sees us? The psalmist says in Psalms 139, verses 1 through 4, a psalm of David, O Lord, thou hast searched me. and know me. Thou knowest my down sitting and my uprising. Thou understandest my thoughts afar off. Thou compass my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. For there is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. But I'm saying, beloved, is God knows you. God knows me, and He knows what's going on in our life and where we're at. Well, Boaz, that picture of Christ, he reaches out to her. He makes contact with her first. She didn't seek him out. He sought her out And I tell you that Christ sought you and I out. That God always is the one searching. He came to seek and to save that which is lost. He came. And he sought you and I. When we couldn't go to where he was, he came to us. Ruth is the picture of you and I, that poverty-stricken widow who stood in need and didn't have any answer or any expectation of anything from Boaz, and yet she received great blessing from Boaz. And that's what Christ did for all of us. He came to us. He's always seeking us out. And Ruth, in humility, we saw there in verse number 10. He says, Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground and said unto him, Why? Uh remember that in a second here. Why have I found grace in thine eyes that thou shouldest take knowledge of me seeing I'm a stranger? She, like you and I, humbled herself, bowed down, and acknowledged the grace that she was receiving, and beloved, we should humble ourselves before God and realizing we have done nothing to deserve the grace and the goodness that He has bestowed upon us. And then you'll see in the middle of that verse we just read, she says, why Why would you consider me? Why would you even take thought of me? As we know in Psalms 8, verse 4, the psalmist says, What is man that thou art mindful of him? Kind of just, Lord, why would you even think about man at all, let alone me? Well we see in verse number eleven That Boaz gives her an answer. He answers her question. And there's a report of Ruth here. And verse number eleven. And Boaz answered and said unto her, It hath fully been showed me. All that thou hast done unto thy mother-in-law since the death of thine husband, and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother in the land of the nativity. And are come unto a people which thou knowest not heretofore. She says, Why would you even think of me? And he says, wait a minute. Let me tell you, Ruth, that there's been a report on you. There's been somebody that came and shared with me all about what has transpired in your life, how you lost your husband, and how you have committed in faith to follow after God and are here with Naomi, the the story of your life has gone before you. And I tell you that God is blessing you because of it. This report, can I tell you that sometimes people know more about us than we think they do? I think she probably was a little bit shocked that Boaz knew anything about her. Let alone, I mean, her name and her history and that she had lost her husband and kind of what How she promised to follow and and and serve the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I mean, how did he know all of that? Can I tell you there's people that know a lot more about us than we think they do She was a stranger in this land, and yet she already had a reputation. I wonder tonight, what is your reputation? What is the reputation that you have that other people would say about you? I praise the Lord for Ruth here. She had a good reputation And I hope you have a good re reputation, but I wonder, is there a reputation that of somebody that maybe is unreliable? Somebody is inconsistent? Somebody that's lazy, somebody that uh is maybe uh untrustworthy, careless You know, beloved, our reputation is established and built by one decision at a time. Most of the decisions that we make in life are uh so small in nature that we we don't think a lot about it. We think, well it's not really that big of a deal if I don't do that today or if I don't acquire that or if I don't accomplish that or whatever But do you know, beloved, each of those little decisions is what's establishing or building our reputation? I hope and pray that you have a reputation of somebody that's faithful. Like Ruth did. Somebody that can be trusted. Somebody that's consistent. Somebody that's stable. Somebody that's a hard worker Somebody that's honest. Somebody that's trustworthy. I hope that that is the reputation that you have established in your life. Because, beloved, we are each building a reputation. People know about us. The report was given to Boaz about Ruth. The report that she had left her mother and her father. You see, she had left her world behind her. The cross, to put it in our vernacular, was before her. The world behind me She had said, I'm going to be a follower of Christ, I'm going to go, and your God is going to be my God, and that means I'm willing and I'm accepting the loss of everything that was back there. I wonder, beloved, what are we willing to give up for Christ? Hey, Christ said In Matthew 19, 29, and every one that hath forsaken house, or brethren, or sister, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. God's going to bless those that are willing to put him first, to follow him first of all. And I wonder, beloved, maybe it's not family that we have to get up to be, to give up to be a follower of Christ. But what has God asked you to give up? You know, when I was younger, I really enjoyed the world's music I really enjoyed it. I I mean I I I thought, well what's the big deal? You know, here I was, pastor's kid, grew up in the pastor's home and You know, I mean not that I have a problem with what was sung in church or whatever, but for me, I enjoyed the world's music. And I really, that really had a hold on me. And there were many times in my own prayer time, and when I was trying to be a follower of Christ, I would say, Lord, I want to follow you. I want to do what you want. But I'm not giving up this music. You know what? Even if there is nothing wrong with that music, that is the wrong attitude to have with God It doesn't matter whether there is anything right or wrong or whatever, and I do believe there's a lot wrong with it, but I'm saying that is not the issue. The issue was the uh unsubmissive heart that I had before God When I knew in my heart God was saying, You need to give that up and I'm like, Lord, I don't want to. I want to hold on to that. Beloved, if we're going to be a true follower of Christ We have to be like Ruth and say, you know what, I'm willing to let go of the world, I'm willing to let go of the flesh, I'm willing to let go of those things that I enjoy or that I desire because I want to be first and foremost a follower of you. Ruth had that reputation. It went before her. They understood that to be her testimony. Are you willing to leave it all to follow Christ? Go Philippians 3, verse number 8. Paul tells us, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. And do count them but dumb, that I may win Christ. You understand, beloved, if we're going to be a follower of Christ, there's some things we've got to give up. And it doesn't necessarily or it doesn't absolutely have to be something that is right or wrong, is just willing to say, Lord, I'm willing to let that go so that I can follow you. You know, this has been many years ago, and it's nobody here right now, but I was counseling with somebody uh with regards to their marriage. They had been married a very short time And uh he had some girlfriends. Now, when I say that, you're like, that's a problem. Yep, that's a problem. But he didn't want to give them up. He's like, they're just friends. I said, they're girlfriends. He's like, no, no, no. They're just friends. I said, here's the thing. Even if that is completely above board and there's no problem there, your wife has a problem with it. So what's more important to you? These girlfriends or your wife? You've got to learn, you've got to say, you know what, there was a time when that friendship was okay, but now you've got to put up a wall. You've got to put up a barrier. You've got to say, okay, I can't be calling you twice a week, three times a week. I can't be stopping by your house on the way home from work. I'm married now. And I've got to put my wife for here's some things you have to give up. Well, beloved, if we're going to be a follower of Christ, there may be some things we've got to give up so that we can follow him with a whole heart. We see that Boaz goes on and encouraged her and says, listen, you're being rewarded for trusting. You're being rewarded for trusting, being a follower of Christ. Look at verse number 12. We see the reward for trusting here, and the Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of the Lord God of Israel. Under whose wings thou art come to trust. Again, her testimony being declared there He's saying it's known, it's understood that you have come to the place where you fully and completely trust God, and can I tell you that God is blessing you for it? The Lord was rewarding Ruth through Boaz. for her faithfulness, for her consistency. You know, Boyaz comforts her by letting her know, hey Ruth, you did right. You're doing the right thing. You're following God with a with a faithful and a pure heart, and God is rewarding you for it. God is blessing you. Yes, he's using me. I'm providing some things in the field and I'm giving you something to drink and I'm providing you some food and and you know what but ultimately Ruth you understand this is coming from God This is his full reward because you've learned to trust in him. Beloved, the Lord will always recompense your work. As much as we know that our labor is not in vain in the Lord, anything that you do for God, God's going to be sure that you're rewarded for it. Oh, it might not be this side of heaven, but beloved, the most important things in life are not this side of heaven. The most important things are not money or material things. The most important things are things that Cannot be lost like your soul. Salvation. Having saved an eternity in heaven, the joy of the Lord that is your strength that you carry on through life and even after life. Right on into glory. That joy, those things that are of most value to us. The Lord's going to recompense your reward. The reward We see here was a very special thing because she had learned how to trust him. Can I tell you there's a picture here that's very powerful? The idea of her resting under the wings of an Almighty God. This picture is drawn for us all through the pages of Scripture. I didn't write it down in my notes, but I think I I looked it up today. I think the reference toward The wings it was in excess of seventy times in the scriptures. Don't quote me on that because I'm going off the top of my head uh and it was many hours ago that I saw that. But can I just give you a couple of verses about it? There's there's a lot in the scripture about this. But we see that Psalm 17, verse number 8 says, Keep me as the apple of thine eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings. That picture of a mother hen protecting and providing shelter there for Her children, and God being that great shelter for us. Psalms 57, verse 01. Be merciful unto me, O God. Be merciful unto me. For my soul trusteth in thee, yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge until these calamities pass. The refuge, the protection that's provided, the safety that's provided in the in the shelter of his wings. Oh, he talks about the satisfaction that's found there in the shelter of his wings. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God. Therefore, the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. I think of the comfort that a child gets when they scoot up next to their mom and she She puts her arm around him. She comforts the child. It's like all the cares and burdens and heartaches of the world can be wiped away with the embrace of a mother And what God is saying there, He He will comfort you. He will satisfy you. He does provide safety. Psalm 63, verse 19. Number seven, because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wing will I rejoice. the safety and the protection, the idea of being comforted, you know, only in the absence of fear can there be real joy. Because when fear is present, you you you can't be joyful. You can't that that is an overriding uh emotion and and the joy is stolen. It's robbed. But when you're in a place that you feel safe That you feel uh protected, sheltered in his wings, you can truly rejoice. Truly know that God's got it. It's going to be okay. Whatever the challenge, whatever the burden, whatever the heartache, whatever the trial, uh we carry that weight and it's heavy, but when we find the strength to be able to come to the master and find rest in the shelter of his wings, joy can be restored. Because we know he's in control. That's what he's talking about here. And so we see her do something kind of unusual here in verse number 13 He's declaring to her God's goodness and God's blessing because of her faithfulness. And notice that in the midst of that, she requests the favor. She says, then she said, Let me find favor in thy sight, my Lord For that thou hast comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken friendly unto thine handmaid, though I be not like unto one of thy handmaidens. A request was for favor in his sight. Do you know, beloved, we should long for the favor of God? We should long and look for the favor of God. I remember as a young man when I first started working. My older brothers obviously hadn't entered the work force much several years before me. I remember hearing the the comments in church about my older brothers how they were slackers and they were bums and no, I'm just kidding. I just and I thought to myself, really in myself, I thought I was a pretty lazy guy. Because I sure didn't enjoy doing all the work dad made us do. You know, I I thought myself like I'm not sure I'm that hard of a worker But I remember when I first entered the workforce here, I mean in an official way was about thirteen years old where I went to work for a contractor. And I remember in my heart wanting to Make him happy. Like wanting to work hard and do what he needed so that he would be satisfied at the end of the day, and then I would find favor in his sight, you know, after it wasn't booked but a couple three days and I got a first my first raise And I was so excited, I was so thrilled, and then it was some months later that I heard that uh it came back around that they said that, oh, Caleb's a hard worker. And I was so thankful for that. Because that was my ambition. I wonder, do we really want God's favor? Are we willing to work? To please him, so that we can have his favor. Psalms 30, verse number five says For his anger endureth but a moment, in his favor is life. In his favor is life. life is given to us. When we're in the favor of God, when we're enjoying the favor of God, his hand of blessing being poured out upon our lives. Weeping may endure for the night, but joy cometh in the morning when we are in his favor. Joy comes in the morning. Boy, Psalms 119, verse number 58 says, I entreat thy favor with my whole heart. Looking for the favor of God with your whole heart. Is that something that's so important to you that you're willing to really go after it? Say, man, I want the favor of God on my life You know what? That means there's some things that we need to do. If we want we we're not going to have the favor of God living our life the way we want to, without consulting Him or thinking about what it is that he desires or wants for us. If we want God's favor, then there's some things that we gotta do. Proverbs chapter 12, verses 1 through 2 through 4 says, A good man obtaineth favor of the Lord. Are you a good man? Are you a good lady? That's the means through which we can obtain the favor of God. Being a good man. Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck, write them on the table of thine heart, so shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God. So he's saying, listen, you need to hold on to mercy and truth. Don't forsake it. Bind it about your net. Write it on the table of your heart. That's how we have God's favor. And there's more that we could say about that, but the question tonight, beloved, she requested a Boaz who is a picture or a type of Christ. She says, boy, could I find favor with you? Yeah, we ought to long for the favor that she experienced there. But I want you to note one other thing here in verse number 13. She says, Let me find favor in thy sight, my Lord. For that thou hast comforted me, for that thou hast spoken friendly unto thy handmaid. What I'm saying, beloved, is that not only did she request a favor, but she recognized What God had already done. She recognized what Boaz had already done. And for us, I'm saying we need to remember Yes, we ought to go to Him and long for His presence. We ought to look for His favor on our life. And as we come to Him with our current request, Because we have burdens today, amen. We have things today that we need. And when we come to him with our current request, we must always keep in our mind and remember what he's already done. Because he has done so much for us. He has blessed us beyond measure. Amen. God has been good to us. Human nature is to forget all that God has done And all that God has provided in every way in which He was there in our hour of need. Because currently, right now, we have a problem, and we need help with this problem right now And there's nothing wrong. God wants us to come and ask it of him. But in the midst of asking, let us not forget what he's already done. Let us not forget how good he has already been, the comfort that he's already provided. And we see a refreshing that comes to her, a refreshing that is satisfying completely. In verse number 14 And Boath said unto her, At mealtime, come thou hither and eat of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the reapers, and he reached her perched corn, and she did eat. And was sufficed and left. Beloved, we see that she was invited to a feast. He puts her at his own table. And he serves her from his own hand. And beloved, any true believer longs to sit at the table of the Master. You ever known any really good cooks? And you just y you just, you know, maybe it's a favorite restaurant, maybe it's your wife, maybe it was grandma Well my dad's mom, she made the best pies. I mean it was amazing. She made such good pies. But you know, you remember that and you look forward to getting back there. You know, my dad's mom, grandma uh botrell, she used to make these handmade noodles. That she made from scratch. I've never in my life had noodles that good. I mean I just remember them from when I was a kid, like every time we got to go to grandma's house, and she lived in Arkansas and we lived in Wisconsin, so it wasn't it was like every couple years. You know, it's not very often. But we would get some pie and handmade noodles. I remember those noodles were so good. Didn't matter what she put with them, just I'll just eat the noodles, you know, and they were delicious You look forward to that. What I'm saying, beloved, do you enjoy getting at the table of the master Has he fed you from his word recently? Have you looked for what he wants you to get? Beloved, there is a principle of gleaning that we've talked about last week. the idea of us getting into the scripture and gleaning from the pages of scripture. And we're going to see here in just a moment how that God on in his plan he allowed Boaz to say, hey, put out there some handfuls of purpose. Do it on purpose. It's not an accident. I want you to put something there for her, for her to be able to get. Beloved, God has some things at his table that he's put out for you. That he wants you to get, that you've got to spend some time and go and dig and be fed through it. Boy, it's a refreshing that satisfies Note, beloved, that here the master humbled himself. The master came and sat at the servant's table. Not only that, the master served her. Do you see the picture of Christ? He who is in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation And took upon him the form of a servant? He, Christ who came, he became a servant for us. He came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And he served you and I. That picture. I say on the pages of the Old Testament, there's probably not a more powerful type or picture of Christ than Boaz in this story. He serves her. And we see, beloved, that when you come to the table of the master, you are satisfied. Boy, she enjoyed the feast. She enjoyed the fellowship, but she enjoyed the fullness as well. She was filled up. I enjoy eating. That's the problem. I enjoy eating, especially a good meal. I mean a good meal is just s uh it's just It's like one of the highlights of life. When I was younger it was roller coasters. Now the kids go on the roller coasters and I go get some funnel cakes. Amen It's y you enjoy the I'm gonna go taste this. When I was a kid I couldn't have I couldn't afford to buy the funnel cake, so I just go ride the rides. But now I'm like you guys go, I'll watch you, amen. I'm gonna have a funnel cake, I'm gonna have whatever else, I'm gonna try one of these skillet things or whatever It's disappointing when it doesn't taste very good, but I enjoy a good meal. And I I it's just something you that you you're so full and you're you just enjoy that fullness. Beloved, when you get at the table of God he fills you to the point where you're satisfied. You know, there is pleasure in sin for a season, but afterwards your mouth is filled with gravel but afterwards described in the book of Proverbs there. Listen Naomi is a picture of the believer who went to the world to try and be satisfied. And you know what the Bible says about her? That she went out full, but came back. Empty. You guys know this. We've been a couple weeks on this. So she came back empty. That's what happens, beloved, when you go to the world or to the flesh to find satisfaction. You're going to come back empty. And yet Ruth, a picture of the believer who went to the Lord for satisfaction And she went empty. She didn't have anything. She went hoping just to get some scraps from the edge of the field But she came back full. When you sit at the Lord's table, you're satisfied. And we see here, lastly, the resolve to provide for her in verse number 15. And sixteen. And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean, even among the sheaves, and reproach her not And let her fall also some of the handfuls, and sorry, let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and leave them that she may glean them. And rebuke her not. You see, when they would go and the gleaners would be on the field, they they had to stay back a little bit from those that were harvesting, because lest they inadvertently take from, you know, the the those that were running the sickles, that were harvesting the field, they would be cutting everything down and then They would have the harvesters grabbing those. A lot of times it was the women that would be there and they would they would gather the things up and they would tie these bushels together and that was harvested and ready to be picked up However they uh acquired them from there. But the gleaners had to stay back a little bit lest they accidentally pick up from that which was supposed to be gathered and sent in for the harvest But look at what he says. He says, hey, the young men, let her glean even among the sheaves. Let her glean even among the sheaves, right up here where we are. Let her go ahead and be part of the harvest. Let her go ahead and from the ones that we just cut. She can just take and have whatever she wants from right here And you know what? She's probably gonna be a little shy. She's probably gonna be a little bashful and think she shouldn't do that. But you don't don't reproach her if she comes up here to grab that. But you know what? She might not have the the uh uh gumption or That wouldn't be a word he would use, but you might not have the internal fortitude to come up here and actually take from the harvest. So what I want you to do, guys, I want you to take some handfuls of this and drop it right on purpose. And don't pick it up again. You leave it for her. Leave it for her to be able to grab as she comes along. No longer, beloved, was she relegated to just be satisfied with the leftovers, although she would have been But she was invited to take part in the harvest itself. Boy, how her position has changed in just a short time. That's what happens when we come to Jesus. In such a short time, it's truly a rags to riches story. This woman, Ruth Who was just a beggar, gleaning on the edge of the field. And we know the stories, and we know she's on the way to the master's house. Yeah. We see a great contrast here in two worldviews in these 16 verses. In verse number three, we see them describe or mention that she hath upon Boazid. field. Happenstance, the idea that this just happened by accident. Those that would want to rob God of his glory or want to take away from God working in our lives and say, oh, that's just the luck of the draw. That's just the average of numbers. That, you know, I mean a clock's right twice a day, so you're bound to have something good happen. Just happen to be the time when you prayed for it. They they want to deny all that from God. Beloved, we need to be a people of prayer that see God answer undeniable answers for our faith and for the faith of those that follow us. But we understand it's not happenstance, we see in contrast here, handfuls of purpose. That God does it on purpose. purpose. God answers your prayer. God meets the need. God supplies in your hour. Even as we've seen many times on Sunday nights in our testimony time. Just God providing the job. God opening the door for an answer at work. God meeting the need of something which in our mind we almost feel embarrassed about giving a testimony about because it's something small. And yet we stand in awe of an awesome God who does it for us. The blessings of God are on purpose. If God blesses your home, he does so on purpose. If God's going to bless Hunt Valley Baptist Church, he's going to do so on purpose If God's going to bless you as an individual, he does so on purpose. Inside of his perfect plan and perfect will. I wonder if sometimes the reason we don't have what we need is because we've been gleaning in the wrong field. We've been gleaning in the wrong field. Have you strayed from the pastor? Have you left his field? Do we need to return so that we don't miss out on what he has for us? He wants to pour out his blessing on our lives. But you'll see all through the scripture that God has a plan. We see it with Elijah where he said, I want you to get thee there. Want you to go to the brook Cheron. Want you to get thee there, and there I have commanded the ravens to feed. If he wouldn't have gone to the brook, he wouldn't have been fed. You know, we've got to be in the right field. We've got to be in the place that God wants us. And don't stray from that, because that's where the blessings of God are. Let me ask you this, beloved. Do you suppose that as she was gleaning that afternoon You know, the first day she's gleaning and and Boaz's pretty generous guy. I did a bunch of reading on on the requirements of the law and how they're required to give 10% And uh that would have been gone already. They had other things they had to do, they said in excess of twenty percent of his crops would have already been given away And then God was asking of them that they needed to leave the edge of the field, leave the corners for those that were needy. Yet Boaz was obviously generous because what? He understood that it all came from God. You see, it wasn't very long ago that the whole country was in a famine, and nobody had any crops to harvest. And what Boaz understood is that the reason we have crops to harvest is because of God. And God's goodness, and I'm gonna honor God. And he was generous in that. But she was on the edge of the field harvesting. Can you imagine her the first day, like, man, this is great. Look at look at how what I've gotten here But can you imagine her on this day, the second day there, she's harvesting and these handfuls of purpose? I mean she's just like picking it up like crazy. She just look oh man, look at this, look at this. Man, Naomi's not gonna believe what I got today. Well I've got enough for today and tomorrow and for several months. In that harvest gleaned enough for several months for her and Naomi. Let me ask you this. Do you think that she felt like quitting halfway through the day? You think she probably was sitting there like, man, I just can't stand all this stuff being dropped on me like this I can't stand. You see, beloved, I've yet to see a Christian come to me and say, Pastor Caleb, God's blessing me so much, I'm just going to quit. God's blessing me so good. I'm just gonna give up on God. I'm done. I'm throwing in the towel. It's more than I can bear. No. We don't quit. When we're in the right field, and God's blessing is being poured out upon us, and we're experiencing those handfuls of purpose by an Almighty God that's meeting our needs spiritually and providing for us physically. and ministering to us in our own spirit. Beloved, that's not when you feel like quitting. You feel like quitting when you've drifted away and you've gotten to the wrong field and you think, man, this is so boring. This is so hard. Life is such a struggle. There's nothing for me here. I'm just going to give up on God. When it's not God, it's us. That we've gotten into the wrong place. We're gleaning from the wrong thing. And boy, there's a lot of places we go to glean sometimes. We go to the world to glean. We go to the commentators to glean. We go to the the the you know news and social media and you know all kinds of things you're gleaning, but I wonder If we need to get back to the right field, let God give us some handfuls of purpose and let us enjoy that bountiful blessing of a master. who's just longing to lay it on us. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed and ask the pianist to come and play a moment of invitation?