And uh we're going to get back into our study here on the book of Ruth. So turn to Ruth. Joshua judges Ruth. Just four short chapters covers between 10 to 12 years. We know it's 10. It could be as much as 12 years with uh how much time uh lapses right before the events and right after the events, but somewhere around that time frame is covered. We concluded chapter number one last time that I spoke, that we were here together on Thursday evening And so we're going to begin this evening in chapter number two. We'll be looking at the first ten verses together. Uh I will read them as we're going through them one at a time. verse by verse through the topic this evening, but you know and remember that unbelief took Elimelech and his family down a dead end road. Uh that literally a dead end road. Uh the family passed away. Uh you know, dad and the two boys and uh you know beloved rebellion always leads to disappointment and bitterness. You see that evident in Naomi's life, as she says in chapter one, there, I went out full when she was with God, when she was following God, when she was doing what God desired of her, she was full. She went out full, but she came back empty. And she was blaming God. So you see it's not this is gonna be a problem if I take my glasses off too. It's gonna rip it off here. We'll I'm gonna have to tape it on my face, you know. Uh we'll see what happens. It's gonna really mess with my uh flow here. Um You know, my brain is taxed enough just to do this, let alone distractions, amen. So uh the fact of the matter is, is they were running away from God. Uh they were running away from their problems. They thought they could go to a new location and get away from their problems. How many people feel that way? How many people think, well, I could just move if I went to another place, if I just got a new job, if I just went they think that new location is going to provide them a fresh start, a different change, but most of the time is what they find is Their problems followed them. Their problems are still there, and many times they're exasperated by uh by the move. You know how expensive a move is? Uh any any move. I mean you just move across town and it's expensive. You move to another city and it it goes up exponentially. And uh you move a few times and I'll tell you what, you put your family behind financially years. It takes years to recover from those things. And people think, well it's not that big a deal, it's just this small thing, but you don't You don't see all the unanticipated expenses. They just keep coming. Like I wasn't planning to buy a water heater. I wasn't planning to have to make a down payment. I wasn't planning to have to Uh, you know, put this deposit on that. You know, so many things they add up. I just caution you be careful about movement. Um just use some real wisdom in that. Don't think just movement's gonna fix your problems. Many times it'll just exasperate them Which is what happened to them. But we know that as we study chapter one, Naomi comes to herself, just like the prodigal of old, when she hears once again that there's bread in Israel. And so she determines that she's going to return. She decides, I'm going to return. I'm going to go back to where she tells uh Orpha and Ruth, you guys go on home. Well, Orpah rejects this new path. Orfa decides she's not going. She's going to go back home. She doesn't desire to go to Israel and rejects the God of Israel and goes back to worship the gods that she uh grew up with, that she serves and knew. But Ruth request to return with Naomi. We see that request in 1 verse number 16. And Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee. For whither thou goest, I will go, and whither thou lodgest I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. She request to go. She determined that this is what she wanted She made the decision to follow God. And you never go wrong making a decision to follow God. You'll never be disappointed if you make a decision to follow God. I can tell you there's many, many times in your life, especially the older you get, you can look back and there's regrets that you have for things that you didn't do you knew you should have and things you did that you knew you shouldn't have, but there's ne never been regret for having done what was right. Never carrying regret for having followed the Lord in any capacity. So I would implore you, please follow God. Having arrived in this new country, having arrived in this place, I can imagine Ruth inquiring of Naomi, like, what are we going to do now? I mean, what's gonna happen? She she's it's all new to her, so she doesn't really understand and she's thinking, oh no, this is gonna be bad. I mean, how are we gonna eat? And I can hear uh Naomi explaining to her, well, we've come at a good time because it's harvest time. And uh you know what? God has made provision. For the poor and the destitute. God has set up in plan and I can imagine Ruth like what? What what is that Yeah, no, really, God set in a plan where the people that harvest that have have means, they harvest their fields, and they have to uh leave a little bit. for those that need it. And I can imagine Ruth thinking, man, that's amazing in contrast to where she came from and the the people that she knew in in her society, probably a stark contrast there. But she's like, man, your God has made a way for you to be provided for. And I can I can see her describing what some have called God's Social Security Program, God's means of uh providing for those in need. That's found in Leviticus. You don't turn there, but I'm just going to read you verses nine and ten. And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy fields, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest. And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard. Thou shalt leave them for the poor and the stranger. I am the Lord your God. So Luth Sorry, Ruth learned, put those two words together, you get loose. Ruth learned that she could go and glean from the fields. of the needy uh that was there for the needy. Yep, just go. Just pick it up. You could just go and glean it. And I imagine her being shocked that that was available to her. But we see here as chapter two opens up, there's a little brief little introduction here to Boaz. We're introduced to Boaz in verse number one. And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband. A mighty man of wealth of the family of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz. So we're introduced here to this kinsman. There's several things that we learn about this kinsman. You know, this kinsman was somebody that was a kin, a relative, uh uh, you know, extended family. Uh and you have the law of the kinsman found in Leviticus chapter number 25. The law that the related rel those relatives, the extended family, had the means or capacity to redeem or to buy back things that were lost. Maybe somebody in the family got in a bad way and and they they were in great trouble and they they had to go and uh sell off a piece of land and they would lose that land But land was very precious and important for the family, especially in the Bible time. It was inheritance given to them by God. And God wanted to keep that in the family And so the option was for a relative to be able to buy that back. And they could redeem it In Leviticus chapter twenty-five, verses twenty-five and twenty-six says if thy brother be waxen poor and hast sold away some of his possessions And if any of his kin come to redeem it, then shall he redeem that which his brother sold. And if the man have none to redeem it, and himself be able to redeem it. So he the option was there for the family to be able to go and to redeem that even if the individual himself was not able to. So there's several things about a kinsman redeemer that are necessary. Obviously, first of all, you had to be kin. You had to be related, you had to be a relative, and it tells us that Naomi had a kinsman of her husband, a kinsman that was available, that was a relative that could buy back or redeem that which was lost. You know, Christ became kin kin for you and I. He became, he, even though he was God, he became man. He was equal with God, but he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Why? That he might provide salvation for us, so that he might redeem us. To be our kinsman redeemer, he had to come and be tempted in all points like we are, yet without sin. He had to come and live a sinless life and be that redeeming sacrifice He was kin for us in Hebrews 2. 14. He says, For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, so we're partakers, we're all flesh and blood. You cut yourself, you bleed. We're flesh and blood, he says, and he also himself likewise took part of the same. that through death he might destroy him that had power of death. He became man and put on this old flesh became our kin so that he could redeem us. A kinsman redeemer had to be willing. He had to be willing. In this story here, you know, it's not something that they were forced to do. They had the option to do it. And they could, if they had the means, they could willingly go and do it. In our story here, Ruth had another kin that was even closer. It went by the proximity to, you know, the extension of the family, and the closest redeemer had the first option And if they didn't want to, the second could. And Boaz understood that and he told uh Ruth in chapter 3 in verse number 12, if you want to see it. He says, and now it is true that I am thy near kinsman, however, there is a kinsman nearer than I. He said, There's one a little bit closer than me. So as much as I'm interested in this, as much as I desire to do this, we must first offer it to him and see if there he do he wants to do it. But then you see down in verse chapter 4 and verse number 6 And the kingsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar my own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot So we learn another aspect here of the Kingsman Redeemer is not only does he have to be willing, but he has to be able. Here, this individual had something that was hindering him from being able to redeem her. And so he says, oh, I can't do it, but you can do it. So you go ahead. So not only do they have to be kin, not only do they have to be willing, but they have to be able. Well, Boaz was able. His name has come to mean in him his strength. Or ability. In him is strength. He was able. We see the description of his ability there in verse number one. He says, A mighty man of wealth of the family of Elimlech. He was a mighty man, a mighty man of wealth. You don't think of putting those two things together, mighty And wealth. You would say great wealth or magnitude of wealth or something else. Oh, I wonder if I could put this like on my lapel or something. We're just going to leave it hanging there. Does it sound okay? We'll just leave it hanging there. Oh no. Stick it through my tie. We're gonna m easily All right. Through my sides. Alright. It was just sticking in my sh we'll see. Alright. There we go. Is it gonna work? Alright. No, it's not gonna work. Take my tie off. Alright. So we see that uh Boaz had strength. His his name has come to mean in him is strength. And we know that Boaz is a type of Christ. We're going to see that more deeply as we go through this story here. But Boaz, that idea of that word wealth there, comes from a root word that means more than just wealth. It means a word closely tied to it is valor. So mighty man of valor. And I think you could put there really capacity A mighty man of capacity. He had the means. He had the capacity. He had the strength, the wherewithal in order to do this. That's the descriptive characteristic that we get about him, his wealth, his capacity, his strength. He had this wealth. Well, can I tell you that God is able as well? In 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse number 9, it says, For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, Yet for his sake, yet for your sakes, he became poor. He was rich. Can I tell you he owns the cattle on a thousand hills? Amen. And and he owns the hills that the cattles are walking on And uh I know we've always said that and we said, well, it'd be nice if he would find a way to get me one or two of them. Amen. Well, Josh has one you can buy. Uh so He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. Listen, he was great in grace. Look at Ruth chapter two and verse number four. He says, And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and he said unto the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered him, and Am I 24? That is not the word the verse that I'm looking for. He answered thee, Lord bless thee. And Boaz said unto his servants, this is not it. Maybe I went a little too far. All right, let's verse number two. And Ruth the Moabite said unto Naomi, let me now go to the field and clean ears of corn after him. So she went and was looking for somebody that had some grace, that had some ability, and would show her some favor, show her some grace. Now down a little bit further, we're going to see that, like, let's look at verse number 10. Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground and said unto him, Why hast I found grace in thine eyes? that thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger. She experienced this grace, this unmerited favor. That she just didn't realize she realized she didn't deserve. Beloved, we get grace from God. Unmerited favor, something that we do not deserve, but God, our kinsman redeemer, redeems us. And then he is great in his supply. In verse number fourteen, two fourteen we see he has the ability. And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime, come thou hither and eat of the bread and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the reapers, and he reached a parched corn, and she did eat, and was suffaced and left. He her needs were met. My God shall supply all your needs According to his riches and glory. God, that great Redeemer, He has the ability, He is great in every means and capacity. So we're introduced here to the kingdom of the Redeemer in verse number one. Then we see in verse number two the initiative root of Ruth. And Ruth the Moabiter said unto Naomi, let me now go to the field, and glean ears of corn, after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter. So Naomi had heard about God's Social Security program. Naomi had heard about God's provision for the poor. Communicating that to Ruth. Ruth had heard about it all. And so Ruth said, Hey, I want to go. I want to go glean. Let me go do it. Listen, it starts with her desire. Nothing has ever been accomplished worthwhile that did not first begin with a desire. It starts with a desire in the heart. How bad do you want it? The desire is there. You've got to and and sometimes the desire is not even yours. Sometimes it might be a boss that has a desire to get it done The boss is going to tell you this is what we're going to do today. And so your motivation is that you get a paycheck, right? But he had a he he had the desire. Sometimes uh Eli and Lucas Dad's the one with the desire, right? Or mom, and it's not really your desire. That's not what you would be doing today. Uh, but they're like, this is what you're gonna do today, and so it's their desire. But what I'm saying is it begins with a desire in the heart to go do something and she had a desire to go and take advantage of this program that God had set up where they could get something What I'm saying is she didn't just sit on her tail, she didn't just mope around and be bitter and complain about the situation. She said, Listen, we need food. God has a means of giving it to me. Can I go do that? She was desirous to do it. There was something in her heart that drove this passion to go, even though it was going to be hard. Even though it was going to be hot, even though very likely she was going to be criticized and people were going to complain, you know, she was a stranger in the land, but she said, I want to go do it. And in the midst of her desire, we also hear her heart of submission. Notice she did not declare what she was going to do. She did not demand what she was going to do. She said, let me go. She had a heart of submission. She functioned inside of submission to Naomi. Listen, God blesses a heart of submission. Whether you're fifteen or fifty, God blesses a heart of submission You get to a certain age. I mean, Timothy just walked out, but Eli's the next one in that in that stage of life where you're Getting to you're you're a man and you're you're establishing your own life in your own way. But you know what? Even at your age, God blesses a heart of submission. Well you don't just declare to mom and dad, this is what I'm gonna do. Oh, I'm gonna do this on uh you know no, hey, what do you think about this? Would this be alright? God blesses that. And your parents understand that. They they know that you're an individual, that you're a man now, that you are Growing into your own and establishing your own patterns for life. Uh but listen, God blesses that. Even at my stage, at my age in communication with my father, it's It's a communication of submission. He's still dad. He's still the head. He's still the boss. I asked the visitors, I said, how does this work? You guys are all you know, traveling together and like who's in charge? I mean who's the who's the boss? You know, and they're like, Well dad's the head of the family, so officially he's the boss. But we all have kind of our niches Like like dad is in charge of music and uh Mark's in charge of evangelism or preaching ministry, that kind of stuff, and and Ron Jr. is I don't know if they go by Jr. or not, but Ron he he he does the counseling stuff. And so um you know that's we have kind of our own niches, but we do serve and work together and I say, well you got a system. That's awesome. But listen, uh we ought to live and function in the heart of submission. You know, I think one of the reasons maybe God blesses that is because it can only exist in a heart of humility. Because somebody that's not humble will not be submitted Whether that's in the workplace. You know, Tim and I are getting our license right now for motorcycles, so pray for us. that we don't get killed. But anyways, we were do we were going through the training and you have to have glasses on. in order to ride a motor you have to have eye safety. Well I have a visor, but when the visor's down, you can't hear the instructor talk. But if you're on the bike, you have to have the visor down. And he the instructor said, pull up here, stop, turn your bikes off. I want to talk to you a minute So we pulled up, we stopped, turned the bikes off, and I lifted my visor because he's going to talk. The bikes aren't running. The second the assistant comes up to me and says, when you're on the bike, you've got to have that visor down. And oh I wanted to say so bad. I had it down until just a second ago when we stopped and turned the bike off, and then I lifted it so I could hear But I squashed all of that and I looked at him and said, yes, sir. It's just the harder submission. They're the boss. They're the ones that they're telling us what to do. I'm not there to teach, I'm there to learn. Maybe save my life if I peed what they say. It's just a harder submission, and God honors that If we are willing to do it. We see her heart of submission here. She didn't just say, Oh, I'm going to do this. She was willing to. We see her, this heart is continued in several other aspects. We see her submitted to the servants over the reapers. Look at verse number seven. In verse number 7, and she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and hath continued even from the morning. So she asked, but back up at verse number six, you see who she's talking to. And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, Now he's talking to Boaz and he's explaining this is the Moabitist damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country, and she said, so we see That even the servants that over the reapers, we see her heart of submissive. She said, hey, can I can I reap right here? Is it okay if I come in and reap with the other reapers? She was submitted in that We see her submitted to Boaz in verse number 10, where she humbly bows before him and says, Why do you even think of me? a stranger. There's nothing special about me. We see that heart of submission and submission is rewarded by God. Then we see the involvement of God in verse number three. The involvement of God. She went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz, who was in the kindred of Elimedite. So we see this term here, this idea that she went and she gleaned in the field after the reapers and her hap. That word hap more likely today said happenstance. I think kind of facetiously like, kinda just that she happened to somehow out of all the fields that she could have gone to Out of all the landowners that were available to her, I wonder how many fields that she walked by where she was trying to work up the gumption. to go in and say, can I glean here? Can I can I do this? Maybe there was nobody out in the first couple of fields. Maybe there was nobody there. Uh, you know, that there's been times in my life where I've seen God direct my steps in a very definitive way There's been times where I went by to see a church member, to visit with them, and I pull up in front of the house and God says, you better not. This is I've driven all the way to their house and God says now's not the time. That happened to me twice. On the third time I went to see that that individual, uh I went and knocked on the door and they opened the door and they looked we had a conversation. At that point they were upset at me. And they they literally said, I I cannot believe that you're here today. They said, if you would have come two days ago, we would be having a completely different conversation. Conversation. I realized yesterday in my own devotions and time with God that I was wrong. Two days earlier, had I tried to have that conversation, we could not have done so We could not have have found that common ground. Why? Because God was still working on us both. God was still preparing us. And in my mind, I'm like, oh, I gotta go solve this right now. I gotta go get this done. And I drove out there, but I drove away. And what I wonder how many fields she drove walked by before she paused and went into this field. And the Bible says she happened upon Boaz's field. What I'm saying is that this is the direct divine appointment. This is the direction of God, his involvement in her life. Long before Ruth knew God, long before Ruth uh even knew anything about him, God knew Ruth's name. God knew what events were going to transpire in her life, and what I'm saying is God was bringing them to the place where she would end up in the field with her kinsman Redeemer. If we draw that out in application, God is the Redeemer for all lost men, and God is working in the lives of men to bring them to a point Where they will meet up with their kinsman Redeemer. Where they will meet up with the one that wants to save their soul and forgive them of sin. And God is orchestrating, God is working, God is directing events in their life and using situations that they go through to bring them to the place where they will meet their kinsman redeemer. Listen, God is at work. And God, we need to let go of the idea of chance and luck. These shouldn't be in our terminology as Christians. We know that the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he delighteth in his way. God is directing the steps, and we see him here. magnificently bringing her of all the places she could go, she ended up in the field that God wanted her in where she would meet her kinsman Redeemer. It's amazing. Can I tell you that God has a plan for you too? And God is working in the situations in your life. I think we would do well to maybe stop looking so much at the circumstances. And try and look for God. Try and see God. What is God doing here Where is God directing here? What is God accomplishing in this? And ask him to help us to see his hand because he is working. We see the inquiry of Boaz in verses four through seven. And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem and said unto the reapers, The Lord be with you. And they answered him: The Lord bless thee. Then said Boaz unto his servant that was over the reapers, whom's damsel is this? And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It is a Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab. And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves. So she came and hath continued even from the morning until now. We see he showed interest in this damsel. He said, Whose damsel is that? I don't recognize her. I can't tell what family she's from. Who is it? God has interest in you. He knows where you're at, but he has that personal level of interest in you. He has not only personal interest in you, but he's got personal knowledge of you. Ruth recognized, beloved, that even in the midst of her loneliness, even in the midst of her being in a strange place, that the God of Israel, which she had chosen to be her God, Was directing her steps. He loved her. He was leading her. You know, God is concerned even about the details It's neat sometimes to hear the testimonies of people on Sunday night where God did something in their life. And sometimes we feel like, oh, this is not that big. It's not that It's not life-changing or earth-shattering, but God directed our steps. God provided and met a need. God answered a prayer. And uh each of those things, listen, God's concerned about the details Not a sparrow falls from the sky that he doesn't know it. Not a hair falls from your head that he doesn't know it. You know, it's it's mind-boggling when we consider the fact that our our the power of our satellites and and the ability to see out into space All they've done is continue to learn how much they don't know about space. And the magnitude of the number of stars keeps growing by numbers that we can't even comprehend. The Bible tells us God named them all. Now you can pay some money and have one named after you, but when you get to heaven, you're going to find out what his real name is. I wouldn't bother paying that. Just pick one and name it yourself. Nobody knows anyway. Yeah. God named them all. I mean we can't even comprehend uh the knowledge of God and his ability to To know and understand. And in the vastness of it all, God is concerned about you and about the details of your life. We see that the servant here also describes her industry. We know she had that desire to go glean. But she didn't just go stand there on the side of the field and wait for somebody to bring her some some food. You see, beloved, God's charity program was never designed to be something without effort. We see a principle here. God's design was that if a man doesn't work, he shall not eat. God provided for them a way that they could get something But they had to get out of bed. They had to leave the house and had to go to the field and get it themselves. And we've got it a little bit mixed up today that charity has to be 100% free That charity just has to be given and given and given and the person receiving it is nothing. No. God's design is that they get up and they work for it. We have people call the church all the time that would like help. You know, sometimes I will ask for a very basic thing If it's later in the week, I will tell them, you know what, why don't you come to church on Sunday? And after church, one of the men of the church will take you out. Buy you some groceries and fill your car with gas, so it won't cost you any gas to get here, and and we'll take care of you. You know, in eleven and a half years there's only been one person that bothered to even just show up for church. That's all that I was asking of them. That's all they that's no, they just wanted a handout. But see, God's design is that they would actually do something for it. That maintains self-esteem. Yeah. That you're working and earning. There was a time that p it when people wouldn't take a handout. And nowadays everybody lives for the handout. Not everybody. say everybody, but there's a large there's a mentality, there's a mindset that seems, you know, obviously propagated and promoted by our welfare programs and things like that where everybody can just, you know, live off the government. Not right now, it's shut down. But hey, God requires that able-body men and women In our story here, get out into the field and pick it up themselves. That they go work. So we need to r we need to remember that, God's pattern there. And and realize it's not being unkind. It's not not having charity to say, hey, you need some money or you need some food? Okay, listen, why don't you come and and rake my yard? And and then I'll feed you supper and give you some cash. You know, that's charity. But if they're not willing to do that, then I I can't help you. We see the investment of Boaz in verses 8 through 10. Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearst thou not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field, neither go from hence, but abide here fast by my maidens. Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou thereafter them Have not I charged the young men that they should not touch thee? And when thou art athirst, go unto the vessels and drink of that which the young men have drawn Then she fell on her face and bowed herself to the ground and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes? That thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I'm a stranger. We see Boaz here investing in her. He supplies for her needs. His concern is real, and his counsel to her is good, and his supply is thorough. It's all that she needs. He supplies her food and he supplies her a means of existence and takes care of her as she gets thirsty and even provides protection for her. And beloved, our Redeemer, our Savior, provides all we need. Maybe not for some of the wants. Maybe not for some of the things that we look at and say, boy, I really need that. But do we really need it? We we don't need most of what we think we need. Brother Joe was just telling me today they're moving. There's a there's a million dollar uh farm that just for fun him and Kim went to look at, you know. He says, so we're moving if somebody gives us a million dollars Yeah, no, I mean that's that's fun to just look at, but I mean it's not a need, right? Th there's things that we desire sometimes and I love it that God tells us, hey He'll give you the desires of your heart. And there's there's many things that God will bless you with and give you that desire. And I think Sometimes he changes the desire to be the right thing so that you desire the right thing. That's that's a blessing as well to see God do that for us. But we see his investment, he supplies for her, even though she was a stranger. And yes, according to the law, she could glean there. But she was She realized there according to the law, that's what they were supposed to do, but there was probably some fields where those stingy guys, they they pretty much got it all. I mean, they would have had to been You know, looking through everything to try and find a little bit. And yet here this generous landowner left plenty for those that had need. Her humility allowed her to see that she didn't deserve it. And she was completely overwhelmed by the outpouring of the goodness of both. As. And by application, beloved, I wonder how often are we overwhelmed by the outpouring of the goodness of God. The goodness of God in our lives. He blesses us beyond measure. Our lives are are I wonder if we just have come to the place where we expect it. We feel like we deserve it now? Or if we could have that heart like Ruth did here, that heart of just being overwhelmed. by the goodness of God, acknowledging her true state, realizing she didn't deserve this kindness. She didn't deserve this grace that was extended to her in the field that day, being a Moabite, and she was surprised to receive it. She probably expected some prejudice going into that field. Thought people would be looking at her or saying, why are you here? Thought she might have had to been fending just to get a little bit, and yet she experienced such love, such compassion. concern and the outpouring of grace upon her that she was overwhelmed by it. How long has it been since you've been overwhelmed by the grace of God? We need to remember to not live as the ungrateful Christians maybe have a pattern the old flesh would like to be. But throw ourselves at the feet of the Master and say, as she did there, hey, why have I found grace in thine eyes? That thou shouldest take knowledge of me. A sinner. God supplying for us, investing in us in such a miraculous way. All we have and all we are is because of Him. Our kinsman redeemer. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.