Amen. Grab your Bibles this morning, turn to Matthew chapter 28. Matthew chapter 28. Familiar passage of scripture here. We are Uh this is Missions Conference Week. Our heart and mind is uh lifted up on the fields that are white under harvest. We're looking out on the world and hopefully getting a vision for those that are lost and undone, those that do not have Jesus Christ. And our goal and desire is to uh get a glimpse of the need and hopefully as Jesus said that uh mine eye affecteth my heart. Our goal is that our heart would be touched with the need of the world for the gospel of Jesus Christ. He's not willing that any should perish, but that All should come to repentance. And Jesus gives to us in Matthew 28, verses 18, 19, and 20 what has been called the Great Commission. It is God's command for us. He's left us here on earth for a purpose, for a reason. He says, And Jesus came and he spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things, whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. This command is given to us. Beloved, Jesus didn't save you so that just so that you would have a comforter He didn't save us just so that we would have a Holy Spirit to guide us in this Christian life. He saved us for a purpose for a reason, and that is that we might be part of his army of men, his soldiers for the cross of Jesus Christ here on earth to get the gospel message to the rest of the world We have uh displayed, as Pastor Gus was talking about, all of the flags from the countries through which our missionaries are serving and where they are representing us out on that field. We personally can't go to those to every one of those locations. So how am I supposed to go into all the world? Well I I can't personally be here and serve at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and go to Africa. But what I can do is I can be here and I can serve here and through God's blessing on my life I'm able to give so that somebody can go in my place. and they go as a representative for me and they go and be a witness and a service for me. And the Bible says that when they minister there on the field, whether that's in Israel or in the Philippines or in Mexico or uh in Cambodia, uh wherever they happen to be serving, that Bible says that that is fruit added to your account. When they witness and they reach the lost for Jesus Christ there, those who sacrificed to give so that they can go, God's fruit added to your account That is mean they're going in your stead. They're helping you fulfill the great commission that God has left for all of us. Now, when I was in uh college Some of you might not realize, but I actually have a degree in secondary education. And uh in college I studied and and one of the classes I had to take was materials and methods And it was an entire uh semester basically on materials and methods that you might use to try and help the kids learn. to do something. How do you get a child to understand? uh different concepts and how do you help them learn those so that it becomes a part of their mind and you have different methods and different tools you can use to try and guide people along. Ki all the kids are some are are very visual learners. Some of them are very much like book learners. Some of them have different capacities and so how do you help each kid where they're at? And so an entire semester really teaching on the different tools and methods and means by which you can help a child learn. And as I pondered that and thought of that some years ago, I thought about the work of the Lord and God's command to you and I to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Again, can I tell you that God has some methods that he has chosen to use, some means by which he gets the gospel to the world. And I want to take a couple of minutes, in light of this being Missions Conference, we kind of kick off our hearts and minds towards this idea of missions and what we're doing here as we're coming into this focus on the world. next Sunday, the culmination of our missions conference. Now I would encourage you, don't miss it. If all you do is get a brief introduction this morning and next Sunday you're going to get to meet the missionaries and that that's the extent of it. You're going to miss a lot of it. I'd encourage you, plan to come. Be here Wednesday night. Be here Thursday night. Be here Friday night. You know, come and participate in the ladies. uh fellowship and the men's uh soul winning on Saturday. Be a part of those things and you'll you know you get out of something what you put in it. And I'd encourage you to come and I know the Lord will bless you for it. But We want to talk this morning just for a few minutes on the means and methods in which God uses to get the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. Would you pray with me and ask God to lead us through this time? Lord, we love you. Thank you for this morning's service, and I pray God that you would guide us through it, that you would take the thoughts that have been prepared, this message from your word, Lord, and apply it to our hearts. May we see uh in a very practical way the methods through which you've chosen to uh get the gospel to the world and may me we may we each determine to be a part of it and we'll thank you in Jesus' name amen I want you to see first of all this morning that it is God's plan, it is God's desire that he would use men To get the gospel to the world. God uses manpower. That is God's plan. God said he could have had the rocks cry out But he desired that men would do it. God has a whole army and a host of angels that he could have used, but God's plan and his infinite wisdom is he thought that, you know, basically if somebody had experienced the saving grace of Jesus Christ and their eternal destiny was changed from an eternity in hell to an eternity in heaven. You know, beloved, the angels cannot explain or describe or even understand the grace of God because they have not experienced the forgiveness of God And and God is saying those that have experienced that, they probably are going to have a heart and they're going to understand what it means to be forgiven and they would have a burden to carry that message so that other people would be forgiven as well. That is what Jesus wants to do. And the Bible tells us in Matthew 9. 37, he says, Then saith he unto the disciples, the harvest trulyest is plunt plentious, but the laborers. are few. The fact of the matter is that God desires to use men, but he tells us to pray that He that there would be more laborers because There's a need for more people to surrender to go and to serve the Lord on the mission field. To serve the Lord. And you know, beloved, mission starts right here at home. Mission starts right here in our neighborhoods. Mission starts right here in our homes. We need to go with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he says, Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers. God calls us to pray that He would send laborers to the lost and dying world that have not the knowledge of Jesus Christ if they might know. Are you praying for that? You know, one of the things that happens when we begin to pray that God would send laborers if we're earnestly and and consistently praying for that, the fact is, is maybe God is going to call you. Maybe God is going to burden you to go to that neighbor that you've been thinking about. Maybe God's going to burden you to witness to that co-worker whom seems like God's opened up the opportunity or the door a couple times and you haven't seized it yet. If you get down on your knees, you're praying, Lord, would you send somebody to him? God's going to say, what about you? How about you do that? And I'm looking for the day when God chooses to send more laborers from Hunt Valley Baptist Church to the field. We were thrilled some years ago to have uh Samuel Kim as part of our church and uh you know he was here and uh ultimately decided to go out from another church, but part of our church, you know, serving on the mission field. And we're thrilled this year to have um Justin Broadbeck who is part of our church that has surrendered to go to Canada to serve as a missionary and he's gonna be here for our missions conference. But somebody from our church that God has called and burdened their heart and they surrendered and are willing to go and to do what God wants them to do. That's exciting, folks. That's huge. That's a blessing from God that there's men and women that yield to the call of God that He puts on their lives. Are you praying for the harvest? That God would give us a harvest and He would send forth laborers? Beloved, God's looking for some men to go. He's looking for some women to be ready and willing to go. Ezekiel 22, verse number 30 says, I sought for a man among them. I sought for a man, somebody that could stand in the head, somebody that could make up the gap. And I wonder if right now there is on the mission field a a lost soul who's who's begging God, Lord, would you send somebody to my home? Would you send somebody here to this village in Africa, to this this small group of people in Papua New Guinea or this this town here in Thailand or in Taiwan or in in the Philippines or in you know where wherever there's somebody praying and asking for God to send a laborer. And God's calling a Christian from a church pew somewhere here in the States and they're not listening God wants to answer the prayer of this person out in the foreign field and he reaches down into a service and he burdens the heart of an individual and says, What about you? Could you go for me? Could you reach this person? Could you start a church in this foreign land? And I wonder, are we listening? God wants to use manpower to do the work of God. God needs converted men to do this work These are men that already know beyond a shadow of a doubt that their sins are forgiven. They've experienced that grace of God in their life. And who better to tell the story of the love of Jesus than somebody that's experienced it? I mean, i i i if you have not known the grace of God, how could you tell others about it? How could you adequately explain what it means to be forgiven if you've yet to be forgiven? He needs converted men, but not only that, it takes a consecrated man. It takes a man or a lady who has decided to, you know what, this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue and they've got their eyes on heaven and they're looking for that and they're not looking to build more uh houses here on earth, they're not looking to acquire more possessions here on earth, but they're looking towards heaven. And they've set their life on purpose to fulfill the will of God. They've consecrated, which means they set apart, they said, Lord, whatever you want to do with me. You know it also takes a compassionate man. A compassionate man. And some having compassion making a difference. Well you've got to have compassion on the lost to go. You gotta have compassion to decide that, you know what, it's not about me or what I feel or how what I think, but there's people that need this. And your heart is broken for them over the fact that they're lost and on their way to hell. Oh, I know our compassion gets moved when we see uh a town and it seems like more and more we're seeing these natural disasters just just last week the tornadoes that tore through uh some different parts of the country and completely destroyed, you know, people's homes and people injured and loss of life and we we see those things and our heart goes out in compassion for them and say, Man, what a what a tragic thing that they have lost this but beloved, do we have a vision of the fact that Many of them are lost and on their way to hell. They don't know Jesus as their Savior, and if they die in their sin, they're going to spend an eternity in a place of hell. That, more than anything, should move us To say something needs to be done. Something's got to be done for this world. Somehow we've got to get them the message of the gospel. And beloved, that takes courageous men. It takes courageous men to go and carry the message. Not not I mean every level you start with just going across the street to your neighbor We could make light of that. We could talk about how simple that is. You know, sometimes the hardest people to witness to are the people closest to you. Sometimes it takes more courage to talk to your own mom and dad, or your own brother or sister, or your aunt, or your uncle, your grandma, or grandma. Than to a complete stranger. But it takes courage But when we have a heart and we see the reality of the fact that they need Jesus and that compassion compels us to say, I've got I I I love them, I've got to tell them the truth about Jesus. And how they can know their sins are forgiven and they're on their way to heaven. This, beloved, is what Missions Conference is about. This week we have men coming, women coming who Have a clear testimony of salvation. They know that they're on their way to heaven. They've experienced the life-saving grace of Jesus Christ. And then they've decided to set their life apart. They've consecrated themselves. They've given themselves and they've got compassion that moves them. They've surrendered to go to the foreign field to serve the Lord in some capacity. Let me encourage you this week to come and introduce yourself to them. Get to know them a little bit. Let what God is doing in their heart rub off on you. Let their experiences and and what God is doing through them make an impact on your life. In seven days it's all going to be over. And some will say, well, what was that about? Like what was the big deal? But there'll be some here, your heart will be changed in the next seven days. God could call somebody from this congregation in the next seven days to surrender and go to a foreign country carrying the message of the gospel. What a glorious thing. These men and women have signed up, they put their name down on the dotted line, they've got the courage to go. And we need to support them. We need to encourage them and help them. And that's what Missions Conference is about. God uses manpower. He chooses to use men to meet the need, to get the gospel out But you know, God also at times will meet the need by providing the materials. By providing the materials. Throughout the pages of Scripture, you'll see often God providing materials when uh there was a need, when his work needed to move forward. When God needed something to accomplish his work, he often would provide the materials. When he wanted to build the tabernacle so his people would have a place to meet with them, God provided the materials. In Exodus chapter twelve, and verses thirty-five and thirty-six, the Bible says, And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses, and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver and jewelry. uh and gold and remnants. And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them such things as they required, and they spoiled the Egyptians. That passage of scriptures there is talking about when the children of Israel were slaves in Egypt and they were gonna finally the Egyptians were gonna let them go. And they were losing all of their slave labor, but through the events that took place, through the plagues. You see, God is working his plan. And many people don't see in the turmoil of it and the heart and the hardship of it, they they're not really sure. What's going on and why is this taking place like this? But ultimately what happens is God is planning for them to build a tabernacle and they're gonna need a lot of things in order to do that And God had prepared the heart of the Egyptians through this thing that finally they were like, okay, you guys can go, just get out of here. And they're like, Oh, can we have some silver and gold? Yeah, sure, have it, just take it. And they're like, Well what about some remnant? Can we have some of this? Can we have some supplies and the Egyptians were like, just take whatever you want. Just take it and go. Just get it and get out of here. They had reached a place and God provided for the needs of the tabernacle in a miraculous way At that point and God sometimes will provide the materials that are needed to do his work. It takes materials, beloved. We just this morning Ken was talking about boy, I want to Thank the church for this program uh and for the material that uh I was able to go through and to learn and get deeper understanding of Scripture through this program of discipleship. You know it takes material to do that. To have a discipleship program, you you have to have materials to do it. When God wanted the walls built in Jerusalem After they had been destroyed, he called a man, Nehemiah. So a man surrendered to go and do the job. But you know what? He needed some materials to build the wall. Yeah, the wall needed to be done. That's the work that God called him to, but he was willing to go do it, but at the same time, he needed some materials to do it. Well, you remember the story how God provided the materials through a heathen king. Nehemiah chapter 2 and verse 7 and 8. He says, Moreover, I said unto the king. So he just asked to leave. He said, listen, I know I'm your cup bearer and I I wanna leave. I wanna go back home and I wanna just I wanna go back and rebuild the walls of the city. And so the king's like, okay, I'll find somebody to take your place. You can go. And then he turns to the king and says, Um, moreover, I said unto the king, if it please the king Let letters be given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me over till I come unto Judah. And A letter unto Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace where it pertaineth to the house, and for the walls of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the king granted me according to the good hand of my God upon me. He looked at the king, he says, Well Doesn't hurt to ask. Turns around, asks the king, by the way, since I'm leaving, would you mind giving me a letter that would tell everybody I run into to help me get there? You know, all the gu all the governors and leaders on the other side of the river that you know that you want me to get to Judah and they're supposed to help me get there and he says, Oh, all right. Oh, and one more thing. Could you give me all the supplies that I need to to build the wall and the house that I'm gonna live in? You know, could you do that? And the king's like, well Yeah, I can do that. But notice what he says the reason is. It's not just the king was a nice guy. It's not just because the king really liked Nehemiah. No, it's because he saw that the hand of God was on him. And he said, Boy, I want to be a part of this. God had touched his heart. You know, beloved, the the heart of the king is in the hand of God. And God can move a king, even a pagan king, to provide for his work. He he he gives the materials. It takes in in today's world, you know, it takes a building. To to start a church, to have a place to meet. With the building comes the you gotta have a parking lot And and you gotta have power and you gotta have you know the the the the necessary things to keep it functioning. Have restrooms and water and electricity and just just the things and and God in a miraculous way can come on the scene and meet those needs. It takes a lot of different materials to move the work of God forward. Where the songwriter said, My Father is rich in houses and lands. He holds the wealth of the world in his hands, of rubies and diamonds, of silver and gold, his coffers are full, his riches untold. My God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. And the hills they run on. And God sometimes will choose to meet the need by providing materials. in miraculous ways to his men who surrender to go. One of the exciting things about our missionaries is seeing how God oftentimes will miraculously meet the need. We've just taken on Don Whitaker to church plant in Chicago. And he did not share, I I was I tried to encourage him a little bit to kind of give you guys a picture of what God's doing. But God's hand is on him. And in light of that, God has seen fit to provide for him in so many miraculous ways. He has they haven't even started yet and God provided them a church building to meet in. God provided them a hundred thousand John and Romans. A hundred thousand John and Romans a year for the next foreseeable years. I don't know how many years that's going to continue, but God provided. You know that's about twenty thousand dollars? But somebody said, you know what, we'll provide the John and Romans for you to go and get the gospel to Chicago. We want to see this done. And they're providing the materials so that they can get the gospel in Chicago. God provided housing for him to live in. In Chicago, in an expensive area, where rent for a one-bedroom little little place, much like here, is going to be $2,500 God provided them a house to live in that has plenty of space, all utilities included, for $1,000 a month. Just one thing after the next where he just he he he often is sitting back in amazement. God provided them the chairs Brand new chairs. Almost $20,000 worth of chairs that they got to order. Somebody said you need chairs. Order what you need and send me the bill. They haven't even started the church yet. They haven't even got down there really yet. He's still kind of traveling and God has continued to meet the needs, giving them the materials. God has laid it on the heart of seven churches to go the first seven weeks. There's going to be groups of people there passing out those hundred thousand dollars or those hundred thousand John of Romans. He says, I'm calling them the seven churches of Chicago Minor. That's okay. Amen. You know. But God provided the the manpower to get the John and Romans out That's the work of the Lord being multiplied, and as a church we have part in that because we're giving to help that happen Yeah, God does miraculous things. He might put you in contact with the right person at the right time to meet the need. I remember when we were building, doing the renovation here That got God brought to the church an individual we we had to knock the center wall out over here and We had to support everything above it, built some temporary wells. We knocked the center wall out and we had to put in some steel uh beams and uh some steel posts and some steel beams. And of course that all according to county code had to be certified and welded by welded by a certified welder. God brought to the church just like a month before we were doing that project. A certified welder that works on the bridges down in down in the city. And he came to church and he found out we needed that and he's like, Oh yeah, I know exactly what you need. I'll order the steel. Uh you just drive down and pick it up at the Inner Harbor. It'll be there for you. It'll be ready. You get it and bring it back and then I'll bring the tools and the equipment and we'll get it installed. God brought him here just for that, just at that right time when we needed an individual that had the connections. I remember when we were had to plant uh a thousand and fifty trees out on the other property. But a thousand trees we need to plant. Now that was supposed to cost like twenty-five thousand dollars. We got it done for five thousand. Because God put us in charge in connection with a man who had his own nursery. And he said, Well, I'll I will buy the seedlings and I'll plant the seedlings this year and I'll take care of 'em. A thousand and fifty trees. Yeah, I'll take care of them. I'll water 'em, I'll nurture 'em, I'll get 'em into saplings. When they're when they're saplings and they're ready to plant, I'll bring 'em down and you guys can get 'em planted. For five thousand dollars. God provided. And we could go on and on and on that God provides the materials, but you know what, beloved? Those are exciting things, but maybe you have some materials that God wants to use for his work. Maybe you got a car that God wants you to use to pick up somebody and bring them to church. Maybe you got some equipment that uh could be used to further the work of Christ somewhere. There's there there's just something maybe God has you or professed you in some way that uh you could say, okay Lord, this is yours. It's all yours. So however you want to use it, Lord, it's for you and for your honor and glory. To get the work done, God uses materials. But you know, sometimes the reality is is it takes money. And sometimes God chooses to meet the need by just providing the money to be able to do the work. In Ezra chapter 6 and verse number 8, when God was sending Ezra back to rebuild the temple. God provided the money through the king's treasury. Ezra 6 8. He says, Moreover, I make a decree when ye shall do the elders of the Jews for the building of this house of God. That of the king's goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto these men, that they be not hindered. He said, of the king's tribute, of the king's goods, we're gonna give you the money you need to go get this done. And sometimes God, in a miraculous way, chooses to provide the money that's needed. I can think about in our building here numerous times where God did miraculous things. For instance, we have a very nice parking lot When we came here, that parking lot was in terrible shape. Big huge potholes, all whole thing was all alligator cracked up and na nasty looking. It was gonna cost forty-five thousand dollars to put in a parking lot. Somebody had a burden for the need and they said, You know what? We'll give the money for that. It's not going to cost the church a dime. We were in the middle of buying this building, we were in the middle of making this transition. We could no way we could have done that parking lot, but Somebody somebody touched uh God touched somebody's heart and they said, I I will take care of that. Don't worry about it. That's not going to cost the church anything. I I'll call a company and we'll get it done. I remember we're in the middle of of doing all this renovation and we were working night and day. I mean uh literally twenty hours a day. I I slept here on pews for about six weeks Uh I slept in the church except going home maybe a night or two a week to shower and change. It was it was six weeks of intense work And uh we were we were doing all this work and uh we had a church call us up and they said, you know what, we don't really have any skilled labor in our church, but we have money. Now that's an unusual situation for a church, isn't it? Like a lot of times it's the other way. But but they said we have money and they said, Do you have a need for something that you're not going to have time to do? But if you had the money, you would do it. And we said, well, it's a big job, but the tile work in the hallways and the bathrooms That's gonna be a lot of money and we could do it, but in the time frame we have, I don't know if we're gonna be able to get it done. And they said call somebody, tell them to do it, and we'll pay for it. It was twenty-five thousand dollars that God just provided. They just said, you know what? Just we w we want we see what God's doing there and we're excited about it. We want to get behind you. So w what can we help you with? And we said, well that would help. And they said, just get it done and we'll pay for it. Twenty-five thousand dollars that God provided over and over again God chooses to provide what's needed and that might be through manpower, it might be through materials, but sometimes it's just money. Do you know that It just takes money. The greater the work, the greater the fiscal responsibility. Sometimes God may call you personally. As a man to do the work. Sometimes you may have some material that God would burn your heart and say, you know what? I could use this for the church. I could use this to further the work of Christ. I could help a missionary with this. We've had people in our church before take their car and give it to a missionary. Here you go. Just want to help you. Just taking the material that was needed. There was a need there and they met it. Sometimes God might burden your heart to do something for worldwide missions. Do you know it's an amazing thing that our church has given almost $1. 7 million to missions? That's amazing for this size church. 1. 7 million. That's because God's people decided this is important. And we want to be part of it. And if everybody just does, let me encourage you just to be praying this week. Lord, what would you want me to do? I want to be a part of this. Not Lord, what do I have to do? Lord, how how cheap can I get by? We just pray, Lord, you know, beloved, we give fifteen to twenty bucks a month to have Amazon Prime. You give twenty to thirty bucks a month to have Netflix. And you give twenty bucks a month to drink Starbucks coffee. And you and you give fifty bucks a month to drink Mountain Dew. You we we have, you know, I wonder how much are you giving to sustain your habit? Whatever habit it is, I don't know what it is. Or what about your hobbies? Yeah. What you enjoy? You know, there's been many times in my own mission giving that I looked at a habit or I looked at a hobby that I had and I said, you know, if I just took the money I'm giving to that and gave it to God, boy the gospel could get around the world better. I'm just gonna give this up. And I'm gonna give this to God. But God's a debtor to no man. You know what usually happens? I'm able to give that to God, and I still didn't give up Mountain Dew. I still didn't give up whatever whatever habit I had, whatever uh uh you know hobby or thing that I enjoy doing that Somehow I was able by God's blessing to still do that as well. That's what I'm saying. God will bless you for you just doing what God wants. Now I have this little piece of paper here. We Next week and throughout missions conference, these are going to be out where we ask you to pray about what God wants you to do for for worldwide missions. Because it takes money. To get these missionaries to the field. As a church, we've been blessed to be able to give almost 1. 7 million. Not qu we're not quite there. We'll pass over 1. 7 this year for sure. But uh it's just everybody praying and saying, What do you want me to do? You want to get a dip a dollar a week? And listen, this is one hundred percent between you and God. Nobody's gonna ask you. Nobody is gonna really know whether you give anything or not. But you'll know and God'll know. And this is between you and God. Say God, what do you want me to do for worldwide missions? And you just mark it down here. And the only reason that you're marking it down is so we know. That okay, we have ten thousand dollars that we can send to our missionaries. Or we have like we've been really close to around a hundred thousand the last few years, we've got a hundred thousand dollars and it allows us to establish a budget And to kind of project a plan. Okay, if we've got this much coming in, then we can do it. But you know, really it's more about God's people getting with God and saying, What can I do? How can I help? What would my part be? And you know, it's so much more rewarding to give to something that's eternal. To invest in eternity than to just invest in our in our hobbies or our habits. God chooses in miraculous ways to provide the money. You know, uh Pastor Whitaker, he already has $150,000 that was given to him for their first building. They haven't even started meeting yet. But this money was given so that when they find a building that they can buy or purchase, they have $150,000 that's already been given. Somebody said, Boy, we want to meet that need This is given because of the generosity of God's people, and God has done that from the b from the book of Acts until today. In the book of Acts in verse 34 and 35, he says Neither was there any among them that lacked, for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them. And brought their price of things that were sold, and laid them down at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made among every man according as he hath need. God had blessed his people and they said, well, you know what? I've got this and I don't need it. I'm gonna sell that and I'm gonna give that to the work of God. God's work is met. The need is met by the generosity of God's people. And for 22 years now. Hunt Valley Baptist Church has been able to support missionaries and our missions program has continued to grow and we've been able to take on more missionaries, Lord willing, here In the next week or two, we'll be able to take on some more missionaries that are here representing and presenting their works. And we'll be able to send them out. But only through the generous gifts of God's people. And you just do what God wants you to do in this thing. The Bible tells us, beloved, to remember that where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Do you have a heart for the world, for the lost that need Jesus? And how invested are we in helping get the gospel to them? This is something that anybody can do at some level. All of my children have given to missions all of their life. From the time they were babies and they didn't even know they were doing it Until they were even very, very young. We prayed with them and said, Would you pray and ask God what what you should do for missions You know they've taken their birthday money and given it to see lost people saved. They've taken money that they got for graduation or that were given to them or that they earned mowing. Sometimes. There's been Alicia's not here this morning. There's been times where Alicia needed a job. And her only concern was that she would have enough money to meet her missions giving. I need some work so that I can give what I said I was going to give to missions. You know, God has blessed that over and over and over again and has met her need and then some. The testimonies that could be given in this room of how God had blessed his people for their love for him and their willingness to just do what he asked them to do. Uh it's im it's hard for people to talk about giving. It's hard you know, we don't none of us are uh wanting to, oh look at what I'm doing, you know, see what I did. That's that's not what it's about This week there may be opportunity and somebody may give testimonies, but what it's about is about look what God did. And I got to be a privilege to be a part of it. And by their testimony, they're just saying God's better than no one. And it's a blessing for us just to be able to participate. So I don't know, this week maybe God will call you to go to the mission field, to surrender, to this is what God wants for my life. Maybe God will choose to burden your heart about some material and some capacity or some way to meet the need for a missionary or To help with the work of the Lord here in the Hunt Valley. Or maybe he'll burden your heart and say, you know what, this is what you can do to give to worldwide missions over the next year. And you know, if we are just obedient to God, God blesses. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? There's a world out there that's dying without Christ. And we've been given the great commission to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Missions Conference is about bringing in these men and women who've already yielded to go. Beloved, God sent his son. He gave us his spirit and he calls us as his soldiers to go. And we have many ways that we can do that. I pray we would just be sensitive to the Lord and yield to him