Well, take your Bible, if you would, and I want you to find Matthew 28 and Acts chapter 1. How many of you have ever participated or seen a sword drill, a Bible sword drill? Okay, well you're going to experience one tonight. We're going to look at a lot of scripture, a number of scripture, for the purpose of Understanding what God's plan for missions, accomplishing missions is So Matthew chapter 28 is our launching spot. Then we'll go to Acts chapter 1, and then we'll look at a number of more scriptures. In Matthew 28, a very, very familiar passage. But a good place to start. Notice in verse 19. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even Unto the end of the world, amen. Notice something with me there. It's very clear what God is saying. He is saying for us to go. And he'll define that in just a moment. Who is it that he is speaking to? Well, he has called his eleven remaining disciples. Judas has hung himself. And the eleven have gathered on the mount, and they know that Jesus is soon going to lead them. He's been telling them that. But he wants to make this very, very important statement to them, and we call it the Great Commission. Let me out the out at the outset of this message say this. He in this moment is talking to eleven men, but he is not talking to them as individuals. If the Great Commission were given to just these 11 individuals, then what are we doing I mean, it's over. When they passed off and their lives were over, it was over. He commissioned them. No, no, no. They represent the church, the local church. And he is giving the Great Commission to the local church. Now what does he say for them to do? He says, I want you to go and I want you to teach all nations. I'd love to have four hours to unpack this, but it's not a theology class, it's a church service. But understand this, that that word teach, mafetu, has this thought, go make disciples. Go teach and preach the gospel so that men are confronted with the truth of their sin and have the opportunity for the Holy Spirit to work in their heart and bring repentance and faith and see them saved. He's saying go soul winning all across the globe and win people through the gospel. And then he says, after you have made converts, after you've made disciples, I want you to baptize them. Let me say just a word about baptism since we're Baptist tonight. Baptism is no throwaway truth. It is an essential doctrine And what the Lord is saying is when a man repents and comes to Jesus Christ, it is an incredible transformation of his life. It's a change in direction of his life. And Jesus says, I want to mark that moment with a public profession of what just happened I want him to claim that before people that I have trusted Christ as my Savior. Now listen, I want you to get a hold of this. In our day-to-day, we might be a little bit embarrassed to get up in front of people and get baptized, but it doesn't really cost us anything other than a public moment and we're shy. But I want you to truly tell you that's not true all across the world, nor is it true in the past. When these people made the decision to get baptized, they were most likely going to lose all connection with their family. They might very well lose their businesses, lose their homes, and in some cases, I'm sure Brother Gary can give testimony to this. in many places across this globe and people that he's reaching, they may lose their life. So please understand this is no simple thing I want you to make disciples, and then I want those disciples to publicly profess that they have trusted me as their Savior. And then I love what he says third He says, I want you to teach them to observe all the things whatsoever I have commanded you. Now, I've been saved for a long time. Can I confess the truth to you? I'm not there yet. I'm still growing. I'm still learning. You know one of the things I most fear in my life? That I ever come to the place in my life where I think I've done enough, learned enough, read enough, prayed enough, served enough. Not one day. I tell people they say, preacher, you know the Bible. What else have you got to learn? Well, I've never been seventy-three with a seventy-three year old wife. I need to learn how to be Nancy's husband at this stage in our life. I've never had my son as my pastor. I've got to learn how to figure out how to obey my spiritual authority when he's my little boy I've got to learn how to face the trials that come into our lives now that we are older and now that everything has changed. I'm just saying This is a living book. And every day I go to this book, you know what? I learned something new for where I am in this life. And we will never come to the place Where we have learned it all and understand it all, every day is a learning experience. Now, the Lord says, I want you, and you understand that you're still growing, you're still learning, I want you to teach those disciples And teach those who got baptized all the things that I've taught you and teach them that they are to ever be learning. My personal opinion is that this command, to teach them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you, demands a local church. I think we ought to be church planting missionaries. Because I think it takes a church to teach a group of people in a community how to live for the Lord and set the example for them. And so the Lord says, here's my commission to you. I want you to go to every nation I want you to make disciples. I want you to baptize them, and I want you to spend your life and their life teaching them together as a family, a church family, how to observe all the things I've commanded you. Now, can I add another component to that? Turn over to Acts chapter 1 and verse 8. And in Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, God complicates this thing. Notice what he says, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Both. Underline that word both if you underline your Bible because it is the essential word of this verse. What both means is at the same time. I want you to be making disciples. I want you to be baptizing disciples. I want you to be teaching disciples Both at the same time in Jerusalem. And by the way, I want you to be doing that in Judea And at the same time, I want you to be doing that in Samaria. And as if that weren't hard enough, hey, let's just add, I want you to be doing that at the same time in the uttermost part of the earth Now, I want to ask you a question. I'm a pretty wide guy, but I can only occupy one space at one time. How? How do we get this done? Can I ask you this? Did God just give us a command that it is impossible for us to obey? Did God just give us a commission that there's no way that we can achieve? And I say to you, no, he did not. And I want you to understand that for the remainder of this lesson, I just want to reveal to you that God gave us a difficult task. But he gave us a plan to accomplish it. Here's what I want to reveal tonight. We live in a generation, even religiously. where everything has to be new. Everybody rejects what is old and it has to be new. Can I just go on record as saying this? I am so thankful that I go to a church, I used to pastor a church, and I am in a church tonight that is interested in being a 21st century church like the one in the first century. We don't need an updated plan. We need God's plan. And God gave us a plan that will work in the first, second, third, tenth, twenty-first century. Let's expose it. It comes down to the understanding of one Greek word. Now here I go again on Greek word. Now just bear with me. Okay? I want you to understand one Greek word. It is the Greek word. We would pronounce it propimpo. If we were to spell it in English, we would spell it P-R-O-P-E-M-P-O. If you take the fact that you know that word and $10, you can buy a small coffee at Starbucks, all right? Propimpo. But it is an essential word. It is translated in the New Testament in this way, Mr. Strong says. Brought, B-R-O-U-G-H-T. It's translated being brought. Bring forth, accompanied, supported, conducted Mr. Fair, who has a dictionary much like Mr. Strong's, says it means literally to outfit for a journey. So let me get this down to my level. When we see the word propimpo, it means this, to bring this something over to this place. And whatever we need to get this something over to that place, we provide It's used three times, or in three different ways, used nine times in the New Testament, the word is, but it's used in three different ways, and I want you to say with me, it is used, number one, in the sense of Finances. Money. It takes finances to get this thing over to this place. Number two, it takes prayer. It takes prayer to bring this thing over to this place. Number three, it takes encouragement once we get this thing over to that place for it to stay there. Now stay with me. Turn with me first of all to Acts chapter 15 and let's see what in the world we're talking about. Amen? Acts chapter 15. Notice with me verses 1, 2, and 3. And certain men which came down from Judea. taught the brethren and said, except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should go up to Jerusalem. unto the apostles and elders about this question. And notice verse 3, and being brought, that's our word propimpo, Being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenix and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles, and they caused great joy unto all the brethren. All right, let's unpack that. Paul and Barnabas and the church at Antioch are having a tremendous effort in evangelism and Antioch, and they are seeing Gentiles saved left and right. It is a great, great time. Well, anytime God is stirring something up and doing something good, you can count on it. The Satan will be interested in seeing if he can't resist and stop that. So here they come. They come down from Jerusalem. They hear about these Gentiles getting saved. So here they come, the Judaizers, they come down and they say, now, hey, listen, we appreciate what Paul has said to you. And uh boy, he's a great preacher, isn't he? But but listen, that's not enough. Oh, we're glad we knew Jesus. He was a marvelous teacher, but you need to add some law to that. that to really be saved. That's not true. And if you ever wanted to stir Paul and Barnabas up, you start adding lies to the truth of the gospel. And buddy, they got stirred up. They come back to the church at Antioch and they say, these Judaizers are telling people that it's not just by salvation, by faith and through the grace of God, they're telling people you've got to add law. And the church comes together in Antioch and they say, we have got to get this settled. Paul, Barnabas, one or two others We can't all go up to Jerusalem, but I want you to go, or they want you to go. We want you to talk to James and talk to Peter and Talk to John, talk to all of them up there, and come to conclusion. It is only by grace through faith. Okay So we're asking you, we can't all go, but we're going to, we're going to make you our deputies. Oh, I wonder if that's where we get that word deputation from. We're going to make you our deputies. We're going to send you up to the church, and because you're going at our request, and because you're going. Because we need to understand we are going to bring you up there. That's bad English, but good preaching. We're going to provide for you what is necessary because we need to know it's our question, but we're going to send you to get the answer for us, and then you bring it back here. What a beautiful picture that is. Listen, I'm glad that God has called the Wassins to Alaska. I'm glad that God has called the Tessans to the Philippines. But I want you to understand, God has put a burden on their lives to be in that place preaching the gospel. But church, it's your job. It's your responsibility. I go back to what I said at the beginning. Remember, he's not talking to 11 individuals. He's putting that commission on the church. And we as a local Bible-believing church, we are commissioned to reach the world, both in our hometown, but also in our Judea at the same time. in our Samaria at the same time and to the uttermost part of the earth at the same time. How do we do that? Well, God calls men and women to go to those places And they come here and we deputize them to go there for us. And since it's our responsibility and we deputize them, it's only fair that we brought them over there. That we provide what is necessary for them to get there. I don't know. For the Apostle Paul and Barnabas. Maybe Paul's sandals were worn out and some cobbler in the church came and gave Paul a brand new pair of sandals and said, this will get you to Jerusalem back. Maybe Barnabas had a hole in his cloak and some dear lady said, hey, I've prepared this new cloak for you. Maybe they gave them script and coin. So that if they had to stay in an inn, but whatever was necessary to get them up there and to get them back, the church provided. And I want to tell you, God is still on that plan today. Let me reveal it to you. Turn over with me to the book of Romans and go to Romans chapter 15 for just a moment. Romans chapter 15. Notice this. I get excited when I see this, folks, so I may get loud. Verse 22. This is the Apostle Paul speaking to the believers at Rome. For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you. But now having no more place in these parts and having a great desire these many years to come unto you. Now notice verse 24, whensoever I take my journey into Spain. I will come to you, for I trust to see you in my journey. All right, get this, and to be brought propimpo. to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I may be somewhat filled with your company. Let me explain it. Here's the Apostle Paul. He is ministering in an area. He's about wrapped up his ministry where he is And he believes God has put on his heart to go to Spain. And where he is in Spain, in between those two places, lies Rome. He's always wanted to go to Rome. And he wants to go to Rome because there's a church there and believers there. And he writes them a letter and says, listen, I'm going to come And I'm going to stop and see you because I want to preach to you. I want to teach you, but I also want to learn from you. I want to have fellowship with you. But He then says this. I don't want to be hidden in my motive. I want you to understand that not only do I want to teach you and learn from you, I want to ask you to bring me to Spain. You know what he's doing? Are you ready for this? He's asking for money. You're not allowed to say that in a Baptist church. You know what I love about the Missions Conference? Every dime that comes in for missions doesn't stay here. Doesn't pay one's salary, doesn't buy a songbook. It doesn't pay an electric bill. It goes to reach the world for Jesus Christ. Make no mistake. We've got to take care of the home base. That's what the tithe does. God's always had a place that he wanted the tithe to be given. Even Abraham before the well the tithe is just the law. Really go tell Abraham that because he lived hundreds of years before the law, but he knew he should take his tithe to Melchizedek Read the Bible. Moses codified that tithe in the law, and they were to take it up to the tabernacle. And then when the temple replaced the tabernacle, they were to take it to the temple. When the temple was destroyed, they were to take it to their synagogue, move up into the New Testament. And I fully and firmly believe from my heart the Bible teaches that the tithe is still to be given and it's to be brought to the local church. And then we have the wonderful promise and truth that we can give benevolently to missions, and we can literally send missionaries across the globe to win the world. And the Apostle Paul says. I need you to support me. I don't know about you, but can I just be honest with you? I am super excited That tonight the Wassons are here. I think the Guurmys are looking for support. I think the Tassans are already supported. I think, I'm sorry, Emily? Bethany. I wasn't even close. Bethany is looking for support. Did you know what they're doing? Something biblical. The Apostle Paul set the example. I'm coming to your church and I'm going to ask you, help me Because Spain needs to hear the gospel. Nobody's there preaching the gospel. God's laid it on my heart, but you are responsible to reach Spain. Will you deputize me and send me and help me Bring me over to Spain. What we're doing in this conference is not some new innovation of man. It's New Testament. I could show you three more examples. I'm not going to for the sake of time. I could show you where the Apostle Paul not only asks for support for himself, but for Timothy as well. You know, I've never met a rich missionary. I mean, maybe there's one out there, I don't know, but I've never met any of them You know the hardest thing in the world? Now listen to me. Just get this. You know one of the hardest things in the world? Put your hand out and ask for help. Every one of us in this room, we we we want to take care of ourselves. We don't want to have to ask for help. But when God calls you to a mission field and God says you use the New Testament example. You swallow your pride and you say, I want to serve my God. He's called me to this place and church, he sent me to you. And just like the Apostle Paul asked the church at Rome, I'm asking you, will you bring me there? Will you propimpo me to that place? We have in our mind that somehow the Apostle Paul was by vocational all of his ministry, not so. He was by vocational when he had to be, but by far he the the most of his ministry he was supported by churches like Philippi and Thessalonica and Berea. They sent once and again to his care. He was supported. Now, I'm going to hurry on. I wish I could say to you that a dollar bill won the world. A dollar bill won't win the world. Us giving will not win the souls of lost Muslims or the souls of Philip Philip Philippians, Filipinos. We'll not win Alaskans who are in that dark, dark place. No, no, no. The dollar will get the missionary there. It will sustain him while he's there. But you know what? Only prayer opens blinded eyes And I want you to see something. I want you to turn with me back to the book of Acts. Go with me to Acts chapter 21. Acts chapter 21. Now you start listening fast because I'm going to talk fast. Look at verse 1. And it came to pass that after we were gotten from them and had launched, we came with a straight course unto Kus. And the day following unto Rhodes and from thence unto Patara, and finding a ship sailing over unto Phoenicia, we went aboard and set forth. Now, when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand and sailed into Syria and landed at Tyre, for there the ship was to unlaid her burden. And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days, who said to Paul through the Spirit that he should not go up to Jerusalem. And when he had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way, and they all brought us, there's Popimpo, They all brought us on our way with wives and children until we were out of the city and we kneeled down on the shore and prayed. Boy, let me unpack this quick. In these days, when you traveled by boat, you didn't book a cabin on Carnival or Princess. What you did is you found a commercial ship that had cargo that was going basically where you wanted to go And if there was enough room and you had enough money, you could buy a place on the deck, and if you were very fortunate on the second deck to get out of the weather. And you went where they went. You went there with them until they got where you wanted to get off, and they would unload cargo and load cargo and eventually get to where you're going. Where we read here tonight is they stopped at Tyre. That's not where Paul was going, but they had to unload. They were going to be a day or so, and so it was Paul's habit. He got off the boat. And while they're loading and unloading, he went and found some believers. Preached to them, prayed with them, helped them. By the way, there was a good man there who said, Paul, don't go to Jerusalem. That's where he was going. Because Paul, I've seen something. I understand something. Paul, there is incredible danger in Jerusalem. Don't go, Paul. Don't go. Paul's mind was made up. Danger didn't scare him. He was going to Jerusalem And so when he could not be convinced not to go, and when the captain called for him, the boat is leaving, I want you to notice the tickets already bought. He doesn't need another ticket. He doesn't need more funding. But those people know he needs something. And when it's time to go, they go with him. And when they get down to that seashore. I want you to know they do what is absolutely essential. They kneel with him and they pray for him. Paul, we're not sure we'll ever see your face again. We're not sure you're going to survive this journey. We're not sure you're going to survive Jerusalem. Paul, we know you're heading into danger, and we are going to pray with you. Understand this Americans, we often think that our responsibility as missions is dropping offerings in the offering plate, and that's part of it. But I want to tell you, no dollar bill ever saved a soul. No, the blinded eyes need to be opened, and they're only opened when we plead with the Holy Spirit and We ask God to do a work through those whom we send, a work of protecting them, a work of providing for them. Prayer and missions are inseparable. When these missionaries say on their presentation and say from this pulpit, hey, we need your support. What we're pleading with you to pray for us, they're not just saying it. I see these kids going off into dark countries. I see them taking their babies into places where there are no urgent cares, there are no pharmacies, and the people that they're going to minister to them, to them, they hate them. They hate the message we bring. They actually hate us for being who we are. And I want to tell you, if we think Our job is over when we put some dollars in the offering plate. That just gets them there. We gotta pray for them. And every church ought to have an active and meaningful ministry of praying for those whom they have sent to that place. One last one and I'm done. Just drop back a chapter to Acts chapter 20, verse 33. And Paul is on the same journey. He's actually at the beginning of this journey, but I want you to see something. Verse 33. I have coveted no man's silver, gold, or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities and to them that were with me. I've showed you all things. How the so laboring he ought to support the weak and to remember the words of our Lord Jesus. How he said, it is more blessed to give than to receive. And that's the truth. And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. Now stay with me. The ticket has been bought. He's ready to go to the ship. He doesn't need anything else to get there. He and they pray together. The prayer has been accomplished. Now notice verse 37. And they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him. There's our word propimpo. They accompanied him under the ship. Can I tell you what my mind's eye sees? This little church of people, they love Paul. They've tried too to convince him not to go, but he's going. Tickets been bought, prayers have been made. Paul's heading for the ship. And I just see the elder of this church in this is the book of Edwards. This is this is my mind's eye. I I see that elder saying, We're going with you, Paul. We're gonna we're gonna walk down there with you. With you. They walk down to that seashore, they walk down to the dock, and and Paul thinks, okay, they've walked me down. Now they're gonna they're going back to their homes and their businesses, and I just see the elders saying, No, we're gonna stay here. They see Paul get on that boat and they see the the lines cast off and they see that little boat bobbing in those calm waters of the harbor and Then it the sail is put up and and they start going out beyond the barrier, and then they're on the open Mediterranean and and and Paul is still there at the rail because those people are still there, they're still standing there Quiet the kids. We're going to stay here. And I watch that boat just bob over the horizon. And it's not till it's out of sight that the elder says, All right, let's go now. You say, preacher, what's your thought here? Here's my thought. Paul, we never may see your face again, but you will never be out Of our hearts. And the only way we can express that to you, we don't have text, we don't have emails. I don't even know how to post a letter to you, Paul, but I want you to know this. That as you see us standing here watching you, I want you to know you are in our hearts. And we will not forget you. I've been a pastor for 37 years and now on the road for six and a youth pastor before that, and I've had a passion for missions. I believe it as close as we can get to the heart of God. I've been on the board of an o of a large missions organization. I've been the president of the trustees. I'm now currently the treasurer. You know what breaks my heart? When I see missionaries who come home from the field. You know one of the greatest reasons young families come home from the field? The sense of isolation. The fear. Does anybody know we're here? Does anybody care that we're here? Does anybody care about what we're going through, what we're experiencing? I look at the cards. I look at the information we have. I'm married to a grandma's grandma. I mean, grandmaldom is her thing. And there has never been one of her grandchildren that did not know they were loved on their birthday and loved at Christmas and loved at this and had grandma teach them how to make cookies, and I'm all for that. Don't you think that little wife on that field, when he's out in the bush, and it's little Billy's second or third birthday? And grandma can't be there. And it costs 200 bucks to send a cake mix. I'm exaggerating there, but Don't you think it would make a big difference if somebody from Hunt Valley had her email and sent her a note and said, hey, I know it's Billy's third birthday He was so cute when he was here. He spilled grape juice all over the carpet in the Oh, we just loved him for that Don't you think some old boy that just had two people leave his church over there after he'd poured his life in to him and he just never felt like it was ever going to fail. Don't you think it would be helpful if some men just out of the blue texted him or emailed him and said, hey. God is so, we're so excited about what God is doing through you. We live in the most tech-savvy generation that has ever lived. It costs us nothing to communicate to a missionary. We can email all day long, all night long, we can text them, we can talk to them halfway around the globe. And I'm just telling you, it's not enough to give them money. It's necessary. And the end of the work is not praying for them and asking God to do something. I'm telling you that we must also, propimpo, in this sense, support them emotionally. Encourage them. Be present with them. They are part of our team. We deputize them to go in our place. Preacher, we expect for them to communicate with us. You better send a monthly letter. Oh, at the least you better send a quarterly letter. If you don't report, we won't support. And we won't take two seconds to drop an email. Folks, I'm done. I hate to be done, but I'm done. God said, go reach the world. Make disciples, baptize them, teach them. Hey, I want you to do that at Hunt Valley, but at the same time, I want you to do that in Maryland. And I want you to have a burden for all of your nation, the United States, and by the way, to the uttermost parts of the earth at the same time. How do you do it? We're going to have missionaries at our conference through the year. We're going to support those people to go in our place to do our job. We're going to deputize them. We're also going to pray for them. Because we understand ourselves a dollar bill does not open blind eyes. And then we're going to remember that they are part of our family. And we're going to call them. We're going to email them. We're going to text them. We're going to know their names and their kids' names. We're going to have it around our table at our devotional time and remember this family. We're going to pray over the things they ask us to pray for because they're ours. Hey, their fruit's going to abound to our account. Don't you think we ought to be praying for their account? God help us. Folks, that's God's plan. And we place so much emphasis on the giving and we must. But I'm telling you, we're not done when we give. We must pray and have a consistent prayer life for them, and we must support them emotionally. Would you pray with me?