Alright, we're going to go gonna go to the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20 this morning. Let me get over to my spot in my notes. We're getting back into our series on rightly dividing the word. This is our tenth lesson in the series. I'm surprised it was already that far along, but we took the first nine lessons and kind of built on top of one another to look at this idea of taking the Bible and putting things into its proper understanding and proper context, dividing it properly. so that we can understand what God's talking about in certain passages. And we looked at a lot of ideas. We won't go review those. We have them online. If you uh would like to see uh what those are so far, we have the notes available online as well But that kind of finished the cumulative study, and we're going to go a little bit more topically in our study now. We took a few weeks off to look at the idea of being more than conquerors, talk about the idea of overcoming offense. uh last week and overcoming neglect the week before, or two weeks before, we had Pastor King in here as well. So getting back into our study today. And I told you last week I'm very excited about today's lesson. I have been waiting nine years to teach this lesson So in 2013 I put a note on my phone of sermon ideas. And at least top of the list right now, there might have been some things before that, but if after I preach them, I take them off the list. So top of the list right now from 2013 is God's library. So we're gonna we're gonna look at this idea of God's library today. In July. So in 2013 I put it on my list. In July of 2016, I started studying the topic. On December 29th, 2021, I sent out a devotional that dealt with this a little bit, and today we're going to be able to get into the actual study of this idea of looking at God's library in the Bible. What books does God have on his shelves? God says he has some books, and we're going to look at what those books are today. The devotional that we had in December on December 29, 2021 came out of Revelation 20, verse number 12. We're going to read that because it references a couple of God's books here. Then we'll open with a word of prayer and get into our study this morning. So Revelation 20, verse number 12, the Bible says, And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to to their works. Let's open the word of prayer. Lord, we love you. We thank you for the day and the time we have to gather. Thank you for those who are here to study your word. Together, I pray we'll be challenged with This thought, Lord, be encouraged. Help our understanding of your word to Lord be clear as we read the Bible and make application to our lives, Lord. Pray you bless this study and ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So how many of you love books? We have book people here. I know we have a couple. I know, yes, some love books. I I love books. We just made an announcement on cell phones. Books are way better. uh than cell phones. They're they're they are good uh good things. I like I like books. Um this is and I'd encourage you when it comes to digital things like I had a I had a digital reader when I was in college and it got stolen Uh somebody in the library grabbed or not the library, somebody in the airport grabbed it out of my bag and there went my library, just gone. I would it I'd like to see somebody try to grab my library and run off with it from down in my office Uh they can't you can't do that. Um they got some got some uh got some books down there. Uh I love books. I have well over a thousand books uh just in my office downstairs and the conference room because they don't all fit in my office And uh that's not even counting the hundreds of books that I have at my home. There's there's just something about having a book and having the tangible book that you're holding, and that's why I encourage people, just kind of a side note. We have these great tools with our phone. I kind of make them poke at them a little bit, but it is a great tool. And I have a Bible app on my phone and I use it all the time. But I don't use it very often. I occasionally will, but don't use it very often for my devotions. I like to have a physical book, the Bible in my hands. And there's just something valuable. There's a pi personal connection that you're making to the Word of God as you read it. So I'd encourage you to uh read your Bible and use the Bible when you do it. It's also why I continue to y to hold a hymn book when we're singing the songs. Just the physical physical book. There's there's some value there and I I enjoy having that connection. You know, whenever I visit another another church, another preacher's office, the first thing I do when I get into their office is I go look at their bookshelves Go see w what are they reading? What what do they have on their shelves? Do they have anything that I have? Uh do they have something that I might be interested in and getting? I have a list on my phones of books that I want, and that's from going to other preachers' libraries and seeing something and I'm going to take a picture of that. That's going to go in a book that I'd like to get someday. You get these uh you get these the idea of looking at books. You can tell a lot about a person based on what they read. There was a book published in the 1800s. I'm going to read a little section out of that book. It discussed the topic of books. It was a book called The Royal Path of Life. And it was written in the eighteen eighties, and it it talked about the idea of books and how important uh they are, and it had this to say No man has a right to bring up his children without surrounding them with books. It is a wrong to his family. He cheats them. Children learn to read by being in the presence of books. The love of knowledge comes with reading and grows upon it And the love of knowledge in a young mind is almost a warrant against the inferior excitement of passions and vices A little library, growing larger every year, is an honorable part of a young man's history. It is a man's duty to have books. A library is not a luxury, but one of the necessities of life It is not like a dead city of stones yearly crumbling and needing repair, but like a spiritual tree. There it stands and yields its precious fruit from year to year and from age to age The influence of books upon a young man is remarkable. They make the man. You can judge a man more truly by the books and papers which he reads than by the company which he keeps For his associates are often in a manner imposed upon him, but his reading is the result of choice. And a man who chooses to read a certain class of books and papers unconsciously becomes more colored in their views more rude in their opinions, and the mind becomes fettered to their views. A good book is the most appropriate The voice that speaks the thoughts may change or grow still forever, but the heart Kindly and sure word may grey grow cold and forgetful, but the page that mirrors is changeless, faithful, and immortal. The book that records the incarnation of divine love is God's best gift to man. Thought and generous sympathy are the best gifts of friend to friend. Every family ought to be well supplied with a choice supply of books for reading This may be seen from the consequence of its neglect, and abuse on the one hand, and from its value and importance on the other. Parents should furnish their children with the necessary means, opportunities, and direction of a Christian education. Give them proper books Without books, says the quaint Bartholion, God is silent, justice is dormant, science is at a stand, philosophy is lame, letters are dumb, and all things involved in simmer and darkness Bring them up in the habit of properly reading and studying these books. A reading people will become a thinking people, and a thinking people must become a great people. Every book you furnish your child, and which it which it reads with reflection, is like the cast of a weaver's shuttle, adding another thread to the indestructible web of existence. It will be worth more to him than all your hoarded gold and silver. You know, books are very powerful things. Books are very valuable things. So as I think about this idea of books and having a love for books and the value and what you can tell about somebody based on their books I'm stirred by this idea of the fact that God has a few books. And let's take a peek this morning into God's library and see what books God has on his shelf. Now, before we begin, you might be curious on how this fits into our study of brightly dividing the word. There's a passage we'll be looking at in a few minutes that's used by some to teach that you can lose your salvation Uh this passage comes from this idea comes from failing to rightly divide what books are being talked about in the discussion of the passage. So we'll look at that and see how it applies to the study of rightly dividing the word. What are these books? What are the books that God has in his library? Well, number one, the first book that God has in his library is the Bible. Psalm 119, verse 89, Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. God's word is settled in heaven. God has on his bookshelf a Bible It's not a probably a leather-bound wide margin King James uh Bible that he has there in in heaven, but he has a has a Bible in heaven. It is forever settled. Uh in heaven it's not changing. There's no new versions coming out of it. Uh there's no new additions. There's no reprints. God's word is settled. And God's word is established. And when it comes to, I made a joke about his his not being a leather-bound wide margin King James, but for the English-speaking people, God's word is settled for us in the King James Bible. And we have it. We have access to God's word. What God has given to man is settled in heaven. Have you ever had a book that you got, you read it, and just enjoyed it so much that you wanted to share it with somebody else, but you didn't want to give away your copy? So you y you bought them their own copy. I think you would enjoy this. I remember when I was in college I got a book on preaching. A very good book on preaching. I've given it away a couple times and I have uh recommended it to a lot of young men. A good book on preaching. I got it and I read it. And I had it all marked and highlighted as just really good book and I wanted to be able to give uh give it away to some others. Well my my grandparents got me the same book. And so now I had two copies So great, I have one to give away, right? But I had a problem. They got me an autograph copy of the book. And I had an autograph copy of the book, and I had the book that had all my notes and highlighting and Martin so What do I so I gave away the one with all my highlighting and so I can highlight the new one too. But I gave that one away because hey I enjoyed this so much I think I think you would enjoy it too. Or there's another book I got when I was in college uh on children's ministry and it's called How Do I Get These Kids to Listen. Great book uh for working with young people. I had I used to keep that on my eBay notifications list. If this book pops up, let me know. I've bought and given away probably 10 copies. This was a help to me. I think you would enjoy it as well. As we look at the first book in God's library, the Bible, God loves it so much. He says he exalted his word above his name in the in the book of Psalms. He loves it so much, he gave us our own copy. That God had this in his library and said, you know, this is so good, I need to give it to mankind. And when you have one of these on your shelf, you have the same book that God has on his shelf, in his library. I mentioned going to other preachers' libraries and you look through and you say Wow, I have that book too. There's a connection there because you enjoy something that I enjoy. And God's given us his word because he loves it so much, he said, I want them to enjoy it too. God shared part of his library with us. Kind of a funny story about that. I was in a friend's room again in college one time and I was looking, I said, hey, I have this same book that you have. He said, yeah, I got that from so-and-so when they left I said, well I loaned it to so and so before they left. I pulled it off and my name was inside. I said, well I'm gonna take this one I'm gonna take this one back to my room um if you don't mind But no, when when we can look on our shelf and we can see the Word of God sitting there, we share a book that's in God's library. Something that he loved so much he said, I want them to have it too. You know, if God likes his word so much that he gives it away, I think he wants us to love it too and to give it away. If you've ever done that, said, man, I really enjoyed this book, you buy it, you give it to somebody else. This meant a lot to me. I think this would mean something, you enjoy it. And you come back to him later and say, hey, did you get a chance to read that book yet? No. No, I didn't I didn't really sound interesting to me. No, I no, I gave it away. I actually don't know where it is. I put it somewhere in how would you feel about something that meant so much to you shared with somebody else? This is what God did with his word. It meant so much to God that he gave it to us and hey, did you get a chance to read the that yet? We have the Word of God, the book that He shared with us that's in His library. I have one of the same books on my shelf that God has in His. So we look at books that are in God's library. The first book that we see is the Bible. The Bible's in God's library. Second book that we're going to look at this morning, but we're going to kind of go through these quickly because I do have nine of them. We'll take the most time probably with this one because this is where some of the confusion comes in understanding the Word of God. The second book is the Lamb's Book of Life. The Lamb's Book of Life. What is the Lamb's Book of Life? It is the register of all who are saved. The book where God writes down your name when you get saved. The songs that we sing, there's a new name written down in heaven. That's a reference to the Lamb's Book of Life. The Lamb's Book of the Life. It's the most referenced book in the Bible outside of the Bible. And when you look up the word book in the Bible, it shows up about 180 something times, and probably about 160 of those it talks about in the Bible when it's talking about the books. There's some other books that it just referenced that were were human books, and then there's the books that are in God's library. Most often it's talking about the Word of God, but the second most mentioned book in God's library is the Lamb's Book of Life. Now this is important because it's not always called the Lamb's Book of Life. And this is where it can be confusing when you fail to rightly divide between these books. Sometimes it's only, often actually, it's only referenced as the book of life. It's called the Lamb's Book of Life. It's also called the Book of Life. The reason this is confusing is because there's another book called the Book of Life that's in God's library as well. So how do we how do we rightly divide it? How do we tell? Well we look at the context. We look at what's talking about and what book is being described and then we can understand what book uh God is God is talking about in that passage. It is different. The book of life is different than the land's book of life And the context of the passage determines which book you're talking about. Turn with me to Psalm 69. Psalm 69. We'll see these two books referenced in this verse. Psalm 69. Psalm sixty nine, verse number twenty eight. Says there, let them be blotted out of the book of the living and not be written with the righteous. Let them be blotted out of the book of the living and not be written with the righteous. You see, it's kind of referring in this verse to these two books. There's this book of the living, the book where the people that are alive, that would be the book of life. And then don't write their name with the righteous. Those that are those that are saved. They go into the book book of the righteous, the Lamb's Book of Life. So we see these two books referenced here. Book of the Living, all those who are alive the Book of Life or the Book of the Righteous, which would be a reference to the book where our names are recorded when when we are saved, the Land's Book of Life, those who are right with God. We see that the Land's Book of Life is referenced always in relation to those who have been saved. Luke 10, verse 20 says, Notwithstanding in this rejoice not that the spirits be subject unto you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven. The Christ told disciples, hey, you have reason to rejoice, not because of this power that you have or these abilities or or what you get to see God do through you. You have reason to rejoice because your names are written down in heaven. So somewhere in heaven there's a record of your name. at your salvation. And we find from other places in the Word of God that God writes those down in the Lamb's Book of Life. We see this in Revelation twenty-one, verse twenty-seven, as well. And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth. This is talking about the New Jerusalem. Abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. Those who go into the New Jerusalem, those are the ones whose names have been written into the book of life, those are those who have been saved. So we see again the reference there. The Lamb's Book of Life only refers to those that are saved. As we look at this in the Bible, this book, we see that there are several places that it's referenced only as the book of life, but from the context you can tell it's talking about those that are saved are recorded in this book. In Philippians 4 verse number 3 it's referenced there, I entreat thee also, a true yoke fellow, to help those women which labored with me in the gospel and clement also, and with other my fellow laborers whose name are names are in the book of life. So Paul says, when I was there, I was working with these people. They were my fellow laborers. They worked together with me in the ministry of the gospel. All those people, their names are written in the book of life. Those people who are saved, their names are in the book of life. And that would be a reference to the lambs. Book of Life. Revelation chapter 17 mentions this as well, verse number 8. The beast that thou sawest was and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit and go into perdition. And they that dwell on earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was and is not and yet is. So we have here Book of life. So who is it talking about? Those who worship the beast are not written in the book of life. Those who are unsaved are not in the book of life. That would be a reference to the Lamb's Book of Life, because those that were worshiping the beast were alive, they would be in the book of the living, but they're not their names are not in the book of life, which would be the Lamb's Book of Life. This is further defined for us. in Revelation 13, verse 8. And that and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb. slain from the foundation of the world. So same same wording, talking about the book of life of the lamb or the lamb's book of life, and that's what is being referred to in those two passages. We see it referenced in our verse we started with as well, Revelation twenty, verse twelve, and I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. When we say, well, how do we know that book of life is talking about the land's book of life, you go down a couple of verses. Verse number fifteen says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. So if your name was not in the book of life, you went into the lake of fire. So contextually we understand that that reference to the book of life is talking about the Land's book of life, those that are saved. And we're taking time to go through this because This is where we're going to get into these problem passages that people think you lose your salvation. We've got to understand by the context, are we talking about the Lamb's Book of Life? Or are we talking about the book of life or the book of the living as Psalms refers to it? So this brings us to the next book, which is the Book of Life. The Book of Life is the record of all who are living, the book of the living. It might be referring to, we don't have a lot of detail about some of these books, but it could refer to all who have lived But from the context we see in Psalms and other places, it seems to be the book of those who are currently living. Psalm 2069, again, we looked at that verse. Let them be blotted out of the book of the living and not written with the righteous. So there's some confusion relating to the book of life, specifically when the Bible refers to someone being blotted out of it or having their part taken out of the book of life. This is where people get into wrongly dividing the word and saying, well, look, this is where you can lose your salvation because of these references. Revelation 3, verse 5 is one such example. He that overcometh the same shall be clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. So he says there's a reference, this is this person, this this man who overcometh. Him will I not blot out of the book of life. I'm not going to take his name out of the book of life. So there's a reference to a book here and a fact that names can be taken out of it. So we gotta say, well, contextually what's being talked about here? If you just say this is the Lamb's book of life, for sure this is the Lamb's book of life, well then this verse says that names can be taken out of it, so somebody could lose their salvation. But from the context of Scripture, can someone lose their salvation? No. No. We understand no, someone cannot lose their salvation. So this reference to the book of life can't be talking about the land's book of life because a name can be taken out of it. And if you're saved, your name is written down and nothing can take you out of God's book. Nothing can take you out of God's hand. We know that from John chapter 10, the verses on eternal security. Your name is your name is written down in heaven and it's settled and God put it there and nobody can take it away. You can't take it away. Once you're saved, you're always saved. We know that from So we know if a name can be taken out of this book, it's not talking about the Lamb's Book of Life, because the Lamb's book of life is those that are saved. So you see how understanding context helps us define what's going on. So what does it mean to have your name blotted out of the book of life? Now this isn't abundantly clear. We don't have a lot of descriptions of it. It says that it can happened, but I think Psalm 69 kind of gives us the hint. He's praying about in this Psalm 69, he's praying about his enemies and said, let them be blotted out of the book of the living. Alright? If there's a book of people that are alive and God takes your name out, God might have just taken you out, is one one interpretation of what that might mean, is that God takes you out of the out of the living. That's one interpretation of what could be referring to. That's what it seems like is talked about in Psalm 69, so the blotting out of the book of the living. That's one passage. It's not as as as uh tricky as the next one that people often get hung up about, and that's in Revelation 22, 19. And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book. So we see here this isn't somebody's name being blotted out of the book. There is the book of life referenced, and so we know from the Bible it could be referring to the book of living, it could be referring to the land's book of life. But it says their part is taken out of it. Taking away from the words of this prophecy. If they're messing with God's word. God takes away their part from the book of life. So what what are the interpretations here? Well often people will say, see, lose your salvation because God's taking away your put part out of the book. But we know from the Bible you can't lose your salvation. So that's not what this verse is saying So what are the patients? There's really two that are consistent with Scripture and our understanding here. One would be that this is a reference to just the book of life. and God's taking your name out of the book of life. There's another book that we're going to look at in a minute called the Book of Works, and that's the record of man's sin. And God can take your name out of the book of life, put it in the record of of of your sin, and that takes away somebody's opportunity for salvation. That could be a reference here. There's another idea because it's not saying the name's taken out, it says their parts taken out. And say this is a neat picture that could possibly be understood here from this verse the Land's Book of Life, there there's there's room there for everything. There's a spot in there for every name. Everybody can be saved. Whosoever will shall come. And there's a spot for their name and by by this sin somebody could be taking away their spot. Saying, well, you you your name could have gone here, but now you've now you've sent away your day of grace. uh something along those lines that it could be there's a spot for you and you don't get that spot anymore. Not that you were saved and you lost it, but you had the opportunity to be saved and you s and you sent away that opportunity as you start messing with the Word of God. So those are two interpretations that that seem to fit the context of this passage as referring to either the Book of Life or the Land's Book of Life, but not somebody losing their salvation. That's not what's being talked about in this verse. It's interesting when you go to a modern version, modern versions we don't have time to get into the whole topic of the diversion debate here, but you understand that the King James Bible is translated out of the Texus Receptus, the received text, the majority text of the Greek translations. Then we had two guys came along, Westcott and Hort. They got some corrupted translations. They put them together and they changed the Word of God. Isn't it interesting that when they change the Word of God, they change the verse that talks about the punishments for those that change the Word of God? They take this verse and say, and if you go to a new translation, it says, their part shall be taken out of the tree of life. Not out of the book of life. They're parts taken out of the tree of life, meaning you mess with God's word, there's some trees in heaven you can't eat that fruit from. If you go to a new translation. Not that you've lost your lost your opportunity to be saved, not that you no longer uh that you um no longer have the opportunity for salvation at home home in heaven when you start changing God's word and corrupting God's word They corrupted it to say, well, that's not going to be so bad. We just don't get to be in the tree of life. So there's a change there that takes place when they when they change the change the Bible. So God has a pretty severe warning when it comes to messing with his word. We understand that very clearly, but it's not talking about somebody losing their salvation. So that would be the book of life. Then the third book we see when it comes to the judgment, we look in the verse of Romans or Revelation 20, verse 12, the books were open and men were judged out of the books. There is a book of works that is described in that passage as well. I'll read the verse again. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. There are there's a book In heaven that God has that records the works of men, and it is their works that they are judged by here at the Great White Throne judgment So he opens up the books, and these are the books of works. Here's what you did. Here's your sin. And here is why you stand guilty before God. He opens up the Lamb's Book of Life and says your name's Not here. And over here, your name is here. And it's got all these things listed that you've done. So when people stand before God and say, God, you I was a good person. Not not by what I've got written here. This is the this is the book of works. This is the description of man's works that they have done, that they are judged by. They stand in judgment against um against God because of their sin, and that's recorded. God has a record. Uh God has a record of it. How special is that for us though when he takes our sin and he casts them into the depths of the sea? He puts them into the wilderness of forgetfulness that we see that God when I got saved, my my pages got ripped out My name got moved over here into the other book, the Book of Atlanta's book of life, and I don't have to answer for the things that were written over here because they're done away with God got rid of those things for me. But the unsaved will stand at the great white throne judgment. They will be condemned by their own testimony of their sins against them because they're recorded in God's book of works. There's nobody's going to be able to say, Hey, I was a good person, because God's going to say, here's the book. Here's your page, here's your chapter of what was done. Jeremiah 2, verse 22 references this as well. For though thou be washed with nitre, and take thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord. Your iniquity is marked before me. You you clean yourself up as much as you want, your iniquity has been marked down. God knows God knows about your sin. Daniel chapter 7 verse number 10 references these books as well. A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him. Thousands thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him The judgment was set and the books were opened. So the books are open, the books are there. And you're going to stand before God one day and he's going to have a book and it's going to be you as a Christian standing at the Lamb's Book of Life and it's welcome to heaven. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Or one day you stand before God and he's going to say, Your name's not here. Let me look over here. Oh yeah, here's your name. And here's all that you've done. Don't tell me you were a good person. Don't tell me you went to church. I have written down your iniquities marked before me and your judge out of those books. That is the book of works. The unbeliever, the book of works shouts guilty, but for the believer, the land's book of life shouts that we are pardoned. So these are the books that God uses in judgment. Revelation 20:12. He references the books. He's got the Word of God that lays out God's standard. He's got the Lamb's Book of Life, that your name's either there or it's not. And he's got the books of works that describe the iniquity of the unsaved. So these are the books that God opens in judgment. There are a couple of other books referenced in the Bible not specific to judgment. We'll go through these fairly quickly, but kind of again we're just peeking into God's library. What does God have there? There's some exciting news For those that are saved, in the first couple books, there's some some scary news for those that are unsaved, but guess what? There's still good news because your name could get moved. You've got a spot, you've got a part in the Lamb's Book of Life, and your name can go there if you turn to Christ for salvation. We have the Lamb's Book of Life, the Book of Life, the Book of Word. Had it in the library is I've called it the Book of Israel. There's a book we we took a lot of time in our rightly dividing series to talk about the relationship God had with Israel and the covenants that God made with him. And God references a book that is specific to the nation of Israel We're not getting a lot of detail about it, but it is described for us. In Exodus 32, Moses was praying to God, and he mentions blotting his name out of the book which thou hast written. Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin and made them gods of gold, yet now if thou wilt forgive their sin, if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written And the Lord said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book. Therefore now go and lead the people unto the place which of which I have spoken unto thee. Behold, my angel shall go before thee, nevertheless in the day when I visit thee I will visit their sin upon them. This passage doesn't line up with the other books that we've already looked at, and the the blotting your name out in God's book he's written and Well, what him that sins out what's what's being referenced here. We see a couple more references to a book that is specific to the nation of Israel, starting in Daniel chapter 12. Daniel twelve, one and two says, And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people, there shall be a time of trouble Such as never was since there was a nation, even unto that same time, at that time thy people shall be delivered, ever on written in the book. And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. Now Daniel's prophecy here in Revelation 12 is talking about the Jewish nation as they go into the Great Tribulation. We know from our other studies that the Great Tribulation is the time when God deals with the nation of Israel and brings them back to himself. And so this is the time of Jacob's trouble being referenced here. And that the end of that period it says that there's going to be a deliverance of those in Israel whose names were written in the book and some would awake from the dust. This is a reference to the resurrection. of the Old Testament saints at the end of the tribulation period. And you have the book written there specifically related to the nation of Israel and God's plan for them, the covenants that God has made with them. It's at this point that there seems to be a specific book that relates to the children of Israel that have been, that are, and that will be saved. In Isaiah 4, verse 3, we see this as well as well. It shall come to pass that he that is left in Zion And he that remaineth in Jerusalem shall be called holy, even every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem. It seems a point specifically nation of Israel there's a book, God's writing, keeping a record of the nation of Israel specifically related to his promises with him. But that's all we know about that book from the Bi from the Bible. Not a very long back cover to read what's inside, but there's a there's a book that God has on a shelf. Because God keeps his promises He's made promises to the nation of Israel and he's going to keep those. Probably one of my favorite books that I found in the Bible that are on God's bookshelf, obviously loving the Word of God and the Land's Book of Life, and we have that there, but there's one I've called the Book of Babies. The book of babies in Psalm 139. Why don't you go there with me? We're in Psalms, Psalm 139. Verses 14 through 16. We're very familiar with this first verse. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hidden from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lower parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance Yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. Verse number 16, let me explain this verse. Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect. I wasn't completed, but God saw me. God saw me. God saw me, my humanity, my personhood, that I'm a human being, that a baby is a human being, even when it's not completed. That's the word unperfect, being yet unperfect, not being completed. Even before a baby looks like a baby, and that happens very quickly that a baby looks like a baby. But even before that, God sees it, God notes it, God sees you, even when I was He sees my substance even being unperfect, not completed is the word there. And so where does life begin? Life begins at conception And there is a book. Now this could be a reference to the book of the living when a baby is made alive at salvation, but there's there's more description given here than just that their name's written down as a record of their of their living It's describing here that God records him in his book, even before his body was developed, recorded him as living at conception When you are conceived, when a baby is conceived, God pulls down his book of babies, opens it up to a new page, and starts writing. It says in the verse here that In all in thy book all my members were written. All your members, God starts writing now. Well when he's going to have a nose that's this big. He's going to have eyes that are this color. His ears are going to be this size. He's going to be this tall. He's going to have this type of all his members were written. Your DNA. God wrote it down in his book. What you're going to be, what you're going to look like, how you're all your members, God wrote them down. He pulled down his book. Um and he and he wrote about it. You know, of the nine books we're told about in the Bible, every one of them, it or of the nine books we're told about, there's one that's dedicated to the lives of babies. at the moment of conception. Just think about that. God says, here's here's my shelf. I'll let you see what's on it. There's nine books here. One of them is about babies. And one of them is about how their life begins at conception. And one of them is about how I've written down their members and what they're going to be like and how they're going to be formed and how they're going to grow and develop. It just shows you how important children are to God. Think about this, that when Jesus said, suffer the little children to come unto me, and those kids came up and probably he picked them up and sat on his lap that he probably remembers. when he pulled the book down for that child and opened up to a new page and wrote Yeah his hair did come out that color. Hey he he did get this tall. Hey he does does have this this strength and he does have uh this personality Just the love that God has for children. Amazing thing. Every child is important enough to God for him to record their members. I can't imagine the joy that that book brings to God every time he pulls it down. But I also cannot imagine the sorrow that it brings as well because humanity has decided that those little lives aren't precious. Man thinks he knows better than God concerning when life begins. God wants every child to come to him, every child is important enough for him to record their members, but mankind has decided that children are only valuable if they're wanted by their mother. So what a what a terrible thing that man has done and and just the sorrow it would bring to the the heart of God because because when that child was conceived, he he opened it up and he planned out their life and and what they would look like and how they would grow and how and man cut it off And man killed the child. A doctor did, with the help of a mom, kill the child that God wrote down in his book. What a terrible thing that man has done, and what sorrow that must bring to the heart of God. Got it. Book of babies. And you were in it. Uh and when you were in it, he he he put down your members. You notice the verse, we're fearfully and wonderfully made. Every member you have was picked out for you by God. Even if you'd rather it be a little bit different. That you would uh you would you'd rather well God picked that one out for you Uh I used to used to make a joke as a teenager, obviously you have problems with your skin a and acne as a teenager and my mom would say, Hey did you did you pick your face? And I'd say if I could have picked a face, you'd think I'd have picked this one. Um and so that was a a joke that I had, but but no, whatever your members are God wrote them down the moment you were conceived in his book and planned what you were going to look like. And you understand you're fearfully and wonderfully made. What a wonderful book God has on his shelves. The book I'll call it the Book of Babies. Another book that God has, this is another special book for us as Christians. This is called the Book of Remembrance. Malachi chapter 3. You don't have time to we don't have time to go there, but I'll read it for you. It says, Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels, and I will spare spare them as a man that spareth his own son that serveth him There's a book that God has called the Book of Remembrance, where he's in the last day. He said, I'm gonna I'm I I'm taking note of this person, I'm putting it in my book of remembrance, and and in the last day that I'm gonna when I make up my jewels, I'm going to remember them. What does it take to get into this book? It says there are those that fear God and that think upon his name. You know, God records that in his book of remembrance. God remembers us when we remember him. You may think that the things that you do for God go unnoticed, but when you do something for God, when you remember God, he's got a book and he takes a note and said, I'm going to remember that. I'm going to remember what that person did. I'm going to remember that that uh what what they did for the Lord. He wrote them down in a book. This is a book of remembrance. Another word for remembrance is memories. This is a book of memories. If you've ever gone over to a previous generation, you go to someone, my parents or or older, they have photo albums, right? And you go over and you pull them out and you start to look at, here's what they were like, and here's here's the highlights of my child's life, and this was their first step and their first tooth and their first first time they went and played softball and this is their first all these memories, right? God has a book of memories. Hey, let me show you about when they vacuumed the floor after church was over. Let me show you about the time they they passed out a gospel track Let me show you about, hey, did you see this? This is when they when they serve the Lord. This is when they gave their heart to me and said, I'd be willing to do anything with my life. God's got a book of memories. A book of memories of those who He's going to reward. There's a book of memories, a special book. Here's another special book. There's a book I'll call the Book of Trials. Psalm 58, verse, or sorry, 56, verse number 8. Thou tellest my wanderings. Put thou my tears into thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? Put thou my tears in thy bottle. Are they not in thy book? You know, God notices our good times And he pulls out his book of remembrance and he writes those down and said, Look at how good they were doing. But there's times where things aren't going so good for us. When we when we have trials, when when things aren't going our way, and the psalmist here says, You've taken note of my wanderings You you've you've you've seen my tears and and my trials and you held on to those and you know what you wrote 'em in your book. You were in a book, you remembered the hard times that I went through. Just the same way we may feel like nobody notices when we do something good. Sometimes when we're struggling we feel like somebody nobody notices. Nobody knows what I'm going through. Nobody knows the burden that I'm carrying. When you're carrying a bird and God's got a book and he wrote it down. And he's got your page bookmarked with your tears that he's collected. And he keeps them in his book. He knows when your heart is hurting. He knows when when things are going wrong. He's he takes note of it And it means so much to him that he puts it in a book so he doesn't forget the trials that you've gone through. So he has this here, a book of trials that God describes for us. When no one knows what you're going through, God does. Book of trials, remembrance, book of babies. We saw the books that were judged out of. The final book described for us in the Bible is in God's library. Call it the book of the end. Revelation chapter five talks about the book, and no man was found who was worthy to open it. I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I went I of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof. And I beheld, and lo in the midst of the throne, and of the four beasts, in the midst of the elders, stood a lamb, as it had been slain, having seven horns and uh seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent forth into all the earth And he came and he took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. When you take from the book the four beasts and the twenty four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, every one of them uh having every one of them harps and golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of the saints. And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by the blood, uh by thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue, and people and nation. and has made us unto our God, kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. This is a book that's open, and as the book is opened, each of these seals broken, God's plan of judgment comes out on mankind and on the earth for man's sin. We we don't know what's in the book, but we know what happens as the book book is opened, that we see God's final judgment um come come out on earth. And it's a special book because it's a book that only Jesus is worthy to open. But this uh this is the last book that we that I was able to find uh in the Bible, just taking a peek at God's library. What what special books are there? Uh I really enjoyed as I studied this just to see, you know, God had a book he loved so much he wanted me to have my own copy. Um, the the word of God that that God took down on his shelf and said, you know what? Derek needs one of these. And and made sure, and and if you know your history of your Bible, what it took and how many lives it took for us to have this book What a special book we have, the things God's library shares with us. So we saw the books related to God's judgment, and then just a few special books, book of remembrance that God notices when I do something for him, and a book of trials that God sees. Book of babies, these are other ones. I hope you enjoyed this study with us this morning. Not a lot of challenging aspects from today, no like here's what I need to do, but hopefully a better understanding of the Word of God and just enjoyment and encourage you If you didn't raise your hand when when you said uh when I said who loves books, uh get a good book. Here's one to start with. Uh I know you're already reading it too. Um but it's a good book. Uh books are books are a lot of fun and uh God's blessed us to be able to have these And what a blessing to know that that God's a reader too. Uh and He has these books on His shelf. Let's go ahead and close the word