Amen. Well, we have a special treat tonight. Brother Justin has been serving as an intern for the few weeks of the summer that he had left after his missions trip And uh he's been a blessing. He has really uh he has labored well. Uh his mom tried to warn me about him before he started, you know, she tried to give me a heads up, but uh he's done really well Uh he is a hard worker and I've been very pleased with his initiative and willingness to do whatever needs done. Uh and so we want to as it as you know an opportunity for him as an intern here, we w we also try and develop them not just on their skills of the the things they might be doing with their hands or their abilities with ministry in setting up for BBS or stuff like that. Hopefully they learn some of those things as well. But also ministering to people. And so we've given him some opportunities to teach the young people, to teach the teens, and uh that has gone well. And then we want to give him an opportunity to to speak in church. He's kind of changed his focus, uh desire uh from science uh to serving the Lord. Um and God has done that in his heart over the last uh I guess a year from his talking to me about it. And uh so he's praying and seeking what God wants him to do, but I appreciate his heart. And uh we're going to enjoy uh hearing him this evening. I am praying about what to do next uh as far as on Thursday night. I've been looking at another book of the Bible to study. I feel like I need to do something in the Old Testament and uh but I don't want to be crossing over or muddying the waters with the Old Testament survey we're doing in Sunday school. And so right now I'm leaning towards Job. Um And uh tackling the book of Job, uh verse by verse, going through that. There's forty two chapters, so I have no idea how long it's gonna take us to get through it. Uh but uh you know, I thought, well that would be that Job is essentially written during you know, the beginning Genesis period there. Uh and so, you know, that we've already passed and and it doesn't cross over history with anything else. It doesn't, because it kind of happens and so That's something we could we could look at maybe. But praying about that, we'll have a few weeks here in between. We'll be doing some other things and then we'll probably get in be getting into a book study again as we maybe get into next month. Justin, thank you for your service, for serving the Lord and being a help here at the church. Uh he's done really well. Why don't you come and share tonight what the Lord's laid upon your heart for us this evening? And uh you uh just Bring the word of God and let the Lord the Lord takes the work. The Lord does it, not us. Amen. Okay. Can everybody hear me? Okay. I told Pastor before that every time I've been able to preach or speak I've always used the pulpit mic and I've never used one of these lap lapel mics, so it's It's a learning curve. So I have to be honest with everybody. Last night when I was preparing, when I was thinking about preaching tonight, I was not nervous in the slightest and I realize now that that was foolish of me because now I'm nervous out of my mind. So Just bear with me, pray for me. I definitely need it. So if you'll turn with me in the Word of God to Psalm 78. Now this is not where I will find our passage tonight, but I would just like to point a few things out to you by way of introduction to kind of introduce some ideas to give us an idea of where we will begin as we look at Isaiah. I'm truly thankful for the opportunity tonight to bring forth the Word of God and It's not something I take lightly. It's something I've been preparing for, and I pray that it'll be a blessing to you tonight. I pray that we'll be expecting God to do something great. to the message tonight that only he can do and only he can receive the honor and glory for. Amen. So if you'll look with me in Psalm seventy-eight. For sake of time I won't read every verse. I would love to just to shed light, but seeming that it's seventy-two verses, I won't read every verse, but If you'll look with me, starting in verse 9, and here in Psalm 78, we kind of find a summary of the wilderness wanderings. We see an overview and an account of the children of Israel as they were led by God out of the hands of the Egyptians as they were led through the wilderness as he provided for them. And so if you'll Look with me starting in uh actually if you'll start with in verse 12. Word of God says, Marvelous things did he in the sight of their fathers in the land in the land of Egypt. in the field of Zoan. He divided the sea and caused them to pass through, and he made the waters to stand as in heat. So the first thing that we come to in this account is God as he delivered them from Egypt And again, this is just an account of all the things that God had done. So we will just look briefly through the verses to see these different accounts, the different miracles that God had performed the ways that he had provided for them. So 12 and 13 we see that God's miracles and delivering them from Egypt. Then if you look in verses 14 through 16, In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. He claved the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths. He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers. So after we see God delivering the children of Israel from the hands of the Egyptians, We see now that as they are in the wilderness, the Israelites are receiving provision from the Lord. We see here that he gave them water to drink miraculously out of a rock. We also see his provision as we look to verse 19. It says, yea they spake against God. They said, could God furnish a table in the wilderness. And what a foolish question from the the people of Israel. Going to verse twenty. Behold, he smote the rock that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed. Can he give bread also? Can he provide flesh for his people? Therefore the Lord heard this and was wroth. So a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel. Because they believed not in God and trusted not in his salvation Though he had commanded the clouds from above and opened the doors of heaven. So here we see that he led them to the wilderness. Again he provided for them. He met each and every one of their needs. And even in despite of his provision, even his, or even though he was providing each step of the way for them, we see again that question in verse 19 saying, can God furnish a table? in the wilderness. So even though God had provided, even though he had proved himself to them in a great way, we still see the doubt, and we still see them turning away from God and questioning his power. Go down to verse 43. Verse number 43 says how he had wrought his signs in Egypt and his wonders in the field of Zoam. and had turned their rivers into blood and their floods that they could not drink. He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them, and frogs which destroyed them. He gave also their increase unto the caterpillar, and their labor unto thy loc unto the locusts. He destroyed their vines with haul hail, and their sycamore trees with frost. He gave up their cattle also to the hail and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation and trouble, by sending evil angels among them He made a way to his anger, he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence, and smote all the firstborn in Egypt. the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham, but made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. And he led them on safely, so that they feared not, but the sea o overwhelmed their enemies. So here that we see That he is giving them safety in the wilderness and how he had miraculously delivered them out of the hands of the Egyptians using these different plagues, and how he had, you know, plagued the Egyptians But he had spared his people, how he had given his people deliverance, how he had kept them safely. And lastly look in verse fifty-four. We'll read the verse fifty-five. And we'll see that God supplied the land of habitation for them. It says, and he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain which his right hand had purchased. He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them as inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell So after all that God had done, after he had delivered them through the wilderness, after he had provided for them, we then see that he is bringing them to a place of habitation. And the reason he was doing this was that they could be his people, so that they could dwell with him. But we see that they turned against him. If you'll look just to a couple verses, we'll see how the people disregarded God and provoked him to anger. So go back to verse 17. It says, and they sinned yet more against him by provoking the Most High in the wilderness. So we as we recall, as as they were being provided for, the people began to murmur. They began to bec um complain against the against God even despite his provision. And so they begin to lead the Lord to anger against them. If you look in verse fifty six Says, yet they tempted and provoked the Most High God, and kept not his testimonies, but turned back and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers. They were turned aside like a deceitful bow. So we see that phrase twice that they tempted the Lord and they provoked the Lord to anger because of their disobedience, because of their hard hearts, despite his provision. So that gives us kind of an overview of the people of Israel and the state that they're in. Now, if you'll turn with me to your mini Bible, to Isaiah. And this is where we'll find our text tonight. And so Isaiah is actually my favorite book of the Bible. It's my favorite character found in the Bible. And God has taught me many things through the book of Isaiah, and I hope to share a few of those things with you tonight. So as we come to Isaiah, we'll start in verse or chapter 1, and we'll just kind of work our way through the book. So as we come to the first few chapters of Isaiah, we find the people and their need for a prophet. So we've already kind of begun to see their need for a prophet after they strayed away from God. There then needs some b needs to be somebody to be raised up to bring them back to God. So as we look in chapter one, we see kind of an overview is God bringing the rebellious heart of the people to light. He's announcing his judgment on them and he's calling them to repentance. So if you look in verse number four of chapter one, Says, Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters. They have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger. They are gone away backward Why should ye be stricken any more? Ye will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. From the sole of the foot even unto the head, there is no soundness in it. But wounds and bru bruises and putrefying sores, they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate as overthrown by strangers. So we f we see first in these first couple of verses that again the people had turned away unto iniquity. They had turned away from God. We see in verse number six, if you'll notice, we see the phrase that there was no soundness in the body. You know, as they were being led through the wilderness, as they were being led out of captivity to the promised land They found a soundness in God, didn't they? They found structure. You know, God provided each and every one of their needs, and they didn't have to worry, you know, for their own needs. They were um supplied directly by the hand of God. But we see as they were turning away from God, as they revolted away from Him, they lost that structure. You notice in verse number five it says, why should you be stricken anymore? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick and the whole heart faint. So we see those two phrases of more and more. And let me tell you tonight that if you are not moving forward for God, then you are moving backwards. There is no middle ground where you can just be comfortable or you can just take, you know, a little bit of a relaxing time. No, if you are not moving forward for God, if you're not doing great things for Him, then you will not only be doing nothing at all, but you will be straying further and further away from Him. And that is where the people find themselves here So even despite their turning away, despite their sin and iniquity, we find in chapters 2 through 5 that God is offering a strong word of hope. So even though the people had turned their backs on God, even though they had sinned greatly, God still desired for them to be his people. He still desired to bring them back to himself. So if you look in verse 16 through 19, and here we see a request, we see a plea that God is making for his people to come back to himself. It says, Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes, cease to do evil. Learn to do well, seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow. Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land. And aren't you thankful tonight for the grace of God that is able to overcome any sins Let me remind you that there is no distance that you can fall away from God, that his mercy is not able to recover you from. He is always able to save you. He is always able to bring you back to himself. And so we find that God had a desire for judgment, for repentance. He says in verse 18, essentially, let us bring our defeat to an end. He says, Come, let us reason together. And so as the children of Israel and God had started their relationship, they started together. But then as they revolted, they turned away from him, they began to stray. And what God was saying was, let us come back together. But he was not saying that I am going to compromise and come to where you are. He was saying, no, you need to come back to where I am. And God never compromises on his laws. You know, God's laws are always firm, they're always sure, and we are always the ones that need to come back to God. It is never God that needs to come to where we are And so God was offering that hope. He was offering for them to come back to Him. And let me also bring something to your realization that one cond one condition to be able to reason with the Lord is sin. And that's something that binds all of us, isn't it? That's our common factor that we all have. And let me tell you tonight that if you have sin, if you have a sinful nature which is all of us, myself included then we have a need to reason with the Lord. If you'll turn to chapter five, we'll notice again God's desire for judgment and for repentance. So here we see a parable that Isaiah is giving to us on behalf of God about God and his vineyard, the children of Israel. So if you'll start in verse 1 and we'll read down to verse number 7. Starting in verse 1, it says, Now will I sing to my beloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My well-beloved hath a vineyard and a very fruitful hill. And he fenced it and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest fine. and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a wine press therein, and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Isra of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge I pray you betwixt me and my vineyard. What what could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done in it? Wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes. And now go to, I will tell thee what I will do to my vineyard. I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up and break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down. And I will lay it waste, it shall not be pruned, nor digged, but there shall come up briars and thorns. I will also command the clouds that there rain no rain upon it For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant, and he looked for judgment, but behold oppression. For righteousness, but behold a cry. So in these first few verses we see that the children of Israel were being prepared, that we see them likened to a vineyard of the Lord's. And we see that they were prepared in a very special way by God for a very special purpose. You know, God had done all that he could do in his power to prepare them to bring forth fruit for him. And he didn't just want them to bring forth fruit, he wanted them to bring forth good fruit. And we know that we can only bring forth fruit that is good as we are abiding in Christ. A type of wild grape is called a muscadine. And I had never heard of it before, but I did some research And this type of grape is again a grape that grows in the wild. And it's a type of grape that is very specific and needs a lot of care and attention for it to be good. So if it is carefully cared for, if it is properly taken care of, and if it is harvested at the right time, then it is a grape that is very sweet. It is very tender and juicy, and it is a good grape But it if it's harvested at the wrong time, if there's any conditions that aren't met for it to or aren't met for it to to be good, then it won't be good. It'll be sour, it'll bring a bitter taste to the mouth And so we see that the fruit that the children of Israel brought forth were like those Muscadines, where they were supposed to be good, where even though God had done all that he could do. For it to be good fruit, they spoiled it. And because of their sin, because of their um turning away from God, that the the grapes became bad, and they brought a bad taste to the Lord's mouth. And so we see in verse number seven the impression and the sorrow as a result of their sin. It says, For the vineyard of the Lord is of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant. And he looked for judgment, but behold oppression, for righteousness, but behold a cry. And again we see that the Lord was um willing that they should be judged, that they should be righteously judged, that they should receive righteousness and that they should you know return back to him, but because of their sin, because they continually turned away from him, instead they received oppression and crying. So we've taken note of the need for a prophet that these people had, and now I'd like to point to your attention the um the calling of the prophet, the call of Isaiah. So if you'll just look one chapter over in chapter number six, and we'll read from verses one down to verse eight. And the year that King Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Above it stood the seraphims, each one had six wings, with twain he covered his face. With twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. And the post of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I'm a I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips For mine eyes have seen the king, the Lord of hosts. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had done which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and whom will I go for whom will go for us Then said I, here am I, send me. So in this passage, in this set of verses, we see a few requirements of those who are to be called by God. And in specific we see in the calling of Isaiah. So the first thing that we come to in this passage is to be called by God, you must have a correct view of God. We see in verse 1 that Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. And this reflects God's authority and his supreme power over all creation. God has the name of Adonai, which means Lord or Master. And again This reflects his ultimate sovereignty, his power over his creation. In verse number three, we see the cherubim saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. And God has the title of the Holy One of Israel. We know understand that God is thrice holy, which emphasizes the perfectness and the completeness of his holiness. In verse number 3 as well, it says, the whole earth is full of his glory. God has the name of El-Haqqad, which means the God of glory. And this reflects the utter weight and the importance of his glory, the presence of it. In verse number four, we see that the posts of the door were moved. And so that the temple being moved reflects the intense power of God and how it was working, as Isaiah stood in his presence So Isaiah had to have a correct view of God, but he also had to have a correct view of himself. And we see that as we shift into verse number five. It says in verse 5, Then said I, Woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king. the Lord of hosts. So we see that as Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, his first thoughts were how unclean he was in the presence of God, how unworthy he was to serve God. And let me tell you that the true mark of somebody who has truly been in the presence of God is humility. You know, if you see someone's life and you see that they are humble that they are giving God the honor and the glory. They have truly been in his presence. So Isaiah had to have a correct view of himself. And as we go down to verse 6-7, we see the preparation and consecration of Isaiah for his ministry. And we know that as God came to Isaiah, that Isaiah was not ready for the ministry of God. He was still unclean. He was still full of iniquity. He even says that he was just like the people that he was called to minister to. He his lips were still full of iniquity. And so we see that he is prepared as the angel brings the hot coals to his lips to cleanse him of his iniquity, to be able to bring forth the message of God. So Isaiah was consecrated. He was set apart as his iniquity was taken away. And so Isaiah was cleansed by a hot coal. And I can imagine that a hot coal is not very pleasant, you know, a hot coal being bringing being brought to your lips. And that is a good reminder to us that the preparation that God puts us through is not always pleasant, is it? Sometimes He brings us through the trying fire so that we could become closer to him so that we can know him in a more perfect way, so that we can be prepared fully for whatever it is that he has for us to do. The next thing that we notice in verse 8 is Isaiah's spirit of readiness. And to read it again, it says Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And whom will go for us? Then said I, Here am I, send me. So we see that God was calling Isaiah to his ministry, but we find that before God had even called him, that Isaiah was ready You know, God didn't even have to give him any specifics. He didn't have to say exactly what Isaiah was to do, but we find in verse 8 that, you know, as soon as God gives the request to him, he says, Here am I, send me. You know, it is not a question about who has been called by God, because we've all been called by God. It is a question of how we will respond to his call Oswald Chambers said in his book, My Utmost for His Highest, whether I hear God's call or not depends on the condition of my ears, and exactly what I hear depends upon my spiritual attitude. You know, we know that God has called everybody, and it is up to us to answer his call. In Matthew 24, 14, it says, For many are called, but few are chosen. So all that are are God's children have been called by His name. They have been called into His ministry to do His work. But not all respond to that call. Matthew 4. 19 it says, Follow me and I will make you fishers of men. So again we see that simple plea from the Lord. Just simply follow him in simple obedience, and he will make you a fisher of men. So again we see that It is not up to God's call. It is not a question of whether or not God has called us. It is a question of whether we will answer. And Isaiah in this passage surely was ready to answer the call of the Lord. So we saw his spirit of readiness and preparedness and willingness to do the will of God, and we also see that he had a correct view of the Savior to come. If you'll turn a few chapters over to Isaiah chapter 11. And we'll read verses 1 through 5. And in these verses we kind of see Isaiah describing the lineage of Christ and the work that he would do. He is foretelling of Christ's coming. Verse 1 says, And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a branch shall grow out of his roots. And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might. the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord, and shall make him of quick understanding and the fear of the Lord, and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears. But with the righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth, and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reigns. Turn with me to Isaiah 53. And we will continue to see that this view of Jesus Christ that Isaiah had. Now, this is my favorite chapter in all the Bible This chapter perfectly describes why Christ came to this earth. It describes his ministry and all that he accomplished through his death, burial, and resurrection. And so I would love to read all the verses, but for sake of time, I'd just like to draw you to one phrase that we find in verse 8. So Isaiah 53 in verse 8. Says he was taken from prison and from judgment, and who shall declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of the living, for the transgression of my people was he stricken. So we notice that phrase seated in the middle of the verse, who shall declare his generation? And when Isaiah heard this question being asked by God, he answered it personally. He said, Lord, you're asking who will declare the generation of Jesus Christ? And he said, I will declare the generation of Jesus Christ. And that should be our response as well as we see Jesus Christ As we look to him, we should say, you know, I will hear my Lord send me. I will respond to your call. I will declare the generation of Jesus Christ. We see in verse sorry chapter 52 and verse 13, we see Jesus Christ being exalted. It says, So again we see that Isaiah is looking at Christ as he ought to be, as he is worthy, as he is exalted. So Isaiah prophesied of a worthy Savior and was driven by the thought of him. Isaiah knew that God would extend his salvation to all peoples through the Messiah that was to come. If you'll turn with me to Revelation five, we'll look at nine through thirteen. We'll see how the the lamb that was slain was worthy, that the the savior that was to come, that Isaiah prophesied about was worthy to take away our sins. Revelation 5, starting in verse 19, says, And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof. For thou wast slain, and hast redeem redeemed us to God by thy blood, out of every kindred and tongue, and people and nation, and hast made us unto our God kings and priests And we shall reign on the earth. And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand time ten thousand. and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the lamb that was slain, to receive power and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing And every creature which is in heaven and on the earth and under the s under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne So we see in this passage that again the Lamb that Isaiah was prophesying about, the Savior, the Messiah that was to come, that he had to have a right view of. was worthy to take away the sins of the people that was able to um redeem them. And so what was able to drive Isaiah forward in his ministry, just the simple thought of his Savior and what he would do for him. There's this a a hymn that I'm Um I really enjoy called I Gave My Life for Thee, and it was written by Francis Ridley Havergale. And if you look into the origin story of how it was written, Francis Ridley Havergale came into a a painting And it was a painting of Jesus as he was being tried before Pilate, as the angry mob was yelling at him as they were yelling for him to be crucified. And there was a simple phrase underneath the painting. And it said, I have done this for you. What have you done for me? And this is what drove Isaiah forward in his ministry. As we will see later, that it was a very difficult ministry. It was not an easy ministry, but he was driven forward by what Christ would do for him. And in the very same way, in our ministries, we are not to be driven by our own desires, by our own what we desire. It is to be driven only because of what Christ has done for us. and what we need to do for him in return. There was a group of people in Germany called the Moravians, and they were a community of people that started as John Huss moved um to Germany, to the land of Count Zinzendorf, and I've actually been blessed to visit um this town to be able to see where they resided. But this community, there was a great revival that sparked, and there was a great missions movement that swept as a result of these people. You may have heard of the a hundred year prayer meeting that they held that they held. And obviously it wasn't the same people praying for a hundred years, but there was always somebody around the clock praying continually for a hundred years and many Souls were saved. There was a great revival that was um became out of that. And so the first two missionaries to come out of that movement, the first two Moravian missionaries, were two men. And they were just simply tradesmen. And they were by two men by the name of David Nishman and Johann Leonard Dober. And so they became the first two missionaries to go out of the Moravian community. And so the the the call that they had to missions was after they had heard of African slaves that were being held on the island of St. Thomas. And so they heard of these slaves that were being held there, and they came to a realization that, you know, there was no hope for these slaves, that their slave drivers would not tell them about Christ. And so if nobody else would tell them about Christ, then they would have to be the ones to go and tell them. And so the only way to get on the island was if they sold themselves to slavery. And so they purpose in their heart to do exactly that. They set out and they sold themselves into bondage, into slavery, for the purpose of telling these people about Jesus Christ. So as they boarded the boat, as their family, as their friends, all they had ever known was waving goodbye to them as they were waving the white flag. The two missionaries were heard in saying, May the lamb that was slain receive the reward of his suffering. You see, as the the world may see that, they would say, Why in the world would these two people do that? You know, why would they give up everything they had ever known to go to St. Thomas to tell these slaves about Jesus Christ? You know, these slaves aren't worth anything. You know, they're not worth it to give up all of that to go and tell them. But these two people were driven so that the lamb that was slain could receive the reward of his suffering. If you'll turn back with me to Isaiah, And we'll continue in chapter number six. And we'll look at verses nine through thirteen. And so we begin to see God's ministry that he was to perform through Isaiah. So chapter number six, starting in verse nine. It says, And he said, Go and tell this people, hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see ye indeed, but perceive not. Make the heart of this people fat, and make their eyes heavy, ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert and be healed Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate. And the Lord have removed men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land, but yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return. and shall be eaten as a teal tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them. When they cast their leaves, so the holy seed shall be the substance So again we can we see the beginning of Isaiah's ministry and the ministry that God had called him to. And we see very clearly in verses 9 through 10 that Isaiah is not called to a ministry of great success But instead he is called to a ministry of failure. You know, even before he actually began his ministry, God told him, the people are not going to listen. The people are not going to hear and come back to me. As you were desiring for them to do. If you'll turn to Matthew 13 quickly We see in these couple verses that this disbelief that Isaiah saw in his ministry, the disbelief of the people, even extended to the time of Jesus Christ. In Matthew 13 Starting in verse thirteen and verse fourteen, says, Therefore speak I to them in parables, because they seeing see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see. and shall not perceive. So here we see Jesus Christ is saying that the prophecy of Isaiah was fulfilled even in his day, even in his time, that as Jesus taught the people, even as Jesus was um desiring for the people to come to him, The people, as Isaiah said, did not come to him. So Isaiah was called to a ministry of failure. So God wanted his people to turn back to him. would not because of their hard heart. And even despite that, God still called Isaiah. And so God used Isaiah as a human instrument a human display of his mercy. Even though God knows our heart, even God knows our desires and what we will do, but even despite that, he will still expand extend his mercy and his grace to us. And so in this way Isaiah was a pioneer. And a pioneer is somebody who takes nothing and expects God to do something with that nothing. And let me tell you, all of us tonight have nothing, myself included. You know we have no sufficiency of ourselves. We have nothing to be desired. But as we take that nothing that we've been given, as we yield it to the Lord, as we give it back to Him. it is only then that he is able to do a great work through us. And that is exactly what Isaiah did as he went through his ministry. He took, you know, his iniquities that he had and he yielded himself to God and God used him in a great way. While serving the Lord, Isaiah had to fight against the battle of apathy as he was being a pioneer, as he was yielding himself to the Lord. And apathy is simply a spirit of not caring. You know, you must think of the temptation he had to just throw into throw in the towel to say, you know, it's not worth it. You know, I'm I'm ministering to these people, they're not seeing any converts, I'm not seeing people saved. You know, nobody is heeding my message And so he had to fight this um this spirit of giving up of laziness and apathy as he continued in his ministry for the Lord. And so as we look at these things, we're faced with the idea of a man versus God-centered ministry. You know, we we all have that decision that we have to make as we serve the Lord, as we go through our lives. whether we are going to serve God or whether we are going to serve ourselves or serve man. So Isaiah had to realize that in order to fulfill the ministry that God had called him to do, he m had to shift his focus from himself. And he had to fully shift his focus onto the Lord. There's a quote by a Canadian missionary that went to China named Jonathan Goforth. And he said, In all things, seek to know God's will, and when known, obey at any cost. You see, Isaiah was seeking to know God's will. He was seeking to know exactly what it was that God was going to have him to do in his ministry. And once he knew it, he had a desire to obey it, no matter what the costs were, no matter what sacrifices he had to make. And in our ministries for Christ, we are to do the same thing. We are to count the costs as God has told us to do in His Word, but we are to sacrifice what we need to in order to do what God has called us to do. So Isaiah, as he was looking to Christ, as he was serving him, he was not interested in the byproducts of God. Isaiah just wanted to serve God for who he was. And in our Christian lives, so oftentimes we can get caught up in the byproducts of God. You know, we can say, Well, God gives me peace, so I'm going to serve God. We say, God gives me blessing. So I'm going to serve God. You know, God may give me, bless me financially, so I'm going to serve God for that reason. But my challenge to you tonight is how about instead of serving God for the byproducts? for the things that God brings. How about we serve God for who he is? How about we look to his face and we serve him for who he is You know, we understand that God is always looking down on us. He is always has his eye of protection looking over us. And so oftentimes when he looks down at us, he sees us distracted. He sees us looking to either ourselves or the things of this world, the things that do not matter. He sees us looking to our own insufficiency, our own sins. You know, he sees us distracted. But how sweet would it be for God to look down on us tonight and instead of seeing us distracted as we always are, what if he saw us? looking into his dear face and seeking him for who he was with a desire to please him and to honor him. If you'll turn with me to Philippians chapter one And I can't think of a better example of these things than the Apostle Paul. So if you'll turn to Philippians 1, we'll see the spirit that Paul had in his ministry. Philippians 1, verse number 20, and verse 21. According to my earned expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but with that with all boldness as always. So now also Christ shall be magnified in my body body, whether it be by life or by death. For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. So we see Paul saying that it's not about him. You know, Paul did so many great things for the Lord and he had to come to a realization to be able to do those things. that it was not his sufficiency, that even though he was, you know, of the stock of Israel, that he had so many things going for him in life, that it was not by his sufficiency that he was able to serve the Lord, but it was only by the sufficiency of the God that had sent him. If you'll turn a few books over to Galatians. Galatians chapter 2, and this is a verse that we all know. Galatians 2, verse 20. Says, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me. and gave himself for me. So aga again we see um Paul had an understanding that his life and his ministry were not his own, but they were Christ's. And To be able to bear forth cruci uh but to be able to bear forth fruit for Christ, he had to abide in Christ. So turning back to Isaiah. Again, we realize that Isaiah was not focused on the result of min of his ministry. He was focused on the reason of his ministry. You know, in today's society, in today's version of Christianity, if we saw a preacher or a church that was um that matched the description of Isaiah's ministry, we'd look at them like they were crazy, wouldn't we? You know, if we saw them preaching faithfully week after week, seeing nobody saved, seeing nobody coming to their church, we would say that they were crazy, that they were you know, doing something over and over and respecting or expecting a different outcome, which is a g the definition of craziness. So we would, you know, look at them as a failure. We would look at them who's as somebody who is going forth And doing something that was crazy. But the only reason Isaiah was able to go forth in his ministry was because he was focused not on the result of his ministry, but he was focused on serving Jesus Christ, on serving the God who had sent him. If you'll turn to Isaiah 65 And here we begin to see some of the results of Isaiah's ministry. We saw already that God had revealed to Isaiah that nobody would be converted because of his preaching, that nobody would listen to him, but we see it coming to fru fruition here in Isaiah sixty five. Starting in verse one says I am sought of them that seeked, that asked not for me. I am found of them that sought me not. I said, Behold me, behold me unto a nation that was not called by my name. I spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, which walked in a way that was not good after their own thoughts, a people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face. that sacrificeth in gardens and burneth incense upon altars of brick, which remain among the graves and lodge in the monuments which eat swine's flesh, and broth of abominable things, is in their vessels, which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day. If you'll turn to Hosea chapter ten So I can find it. Give me a second. I'm sorry, I should have had this marked beforehand. There we go. There's Hosea. Okay, so Hosea chapter ten, and we'll just look at verse one. We see a description of Israel here. It says, Israel is an empty vine. He bringeth forth fruit unto himself. According to the multiple multitude of his fruit, he hath increased the altars. According to the goodness of his land they have they have made goodly images. So we f we see here that Israel was not a completely empty vine. As we talked about before, as Israel was to bring forth good fruit, they brought forth bad fruit. And it wasn't that they brought forth no fruit at all, it was that they brought forth bad fruit and they didn't bring forth good fruit as God had intended them to do. And then we'll see Isaiah's supply if we'll turn back to Isaiah. Chapter Forty One Isaiah Supplied for His Ministry It says, Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. So we see a great promise here from God that as God can or as Isra as Isaiah continued his ministry as he served the Lord that he would not be on his own. He would not have to go on his own strength, but that God would supply all of his need. So Isaiah was only able to serve as God was with him, as God met his needs, as he gave him his daily strength that he needed Um I turn to Isaiah twelve, turn back to Isaiah twelve. And we'll see Isaiah's spirit that he had as he served God. So Isaiah chapter 12, we'll look at verses 1 through 6. It says, And in that day thou shalt say, O Lord, I will praise thee. Though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thou comfortest me. Behold, God is my salvation, I will trust and be not afraid. For the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song. He also has become my salvation. Therefore with joy that shall he draw water out of the wells of salvation. And in that day shall ye say, Praise the Lord, call upon his name, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name is exalted. Sing unto the Lord, for he hath done excellent things. This is known in all the earth. Cry out and shout, Thou inhabitant of Zion, for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee See, sometimes in our Christian life we have a desire to be a picture frame. And what I mean by that is, you know, when we think of others looking at us, we have a desire for them to see ourselves. We we have a desire for them to see, you know, even if we may be serving God, even if we may be in his ministry, we still have a desire for them to see us And we have a desire for them to see what we do. You know, after we do something, we think in our head, you know, I hope that they'll give me recognition for that. I hope they'll give me glory for that. But instead of being a picture frame, we are to be a window, just allowing others to see as they look at us our dear Savior. So instead of seeing us as we serve the Lord, others ought to see the Christ that we are serving. And that's what we see as Isaiah served the Lord, that in this passage he is shifting all the glory, he is shifting all the praise to the one who is worthy of the glory, to the Lord who had done all the wondrous works in Israel, who had proved himself to Israel. And so we've looked at Isaiah's ministry, we've looked at his life, and then we look at Isaiah's end. And so we don't find it in the Word of God, but According to historical accounts, we find that as Isaiah came to the end of his life, he came to a quite painful ending. And so the king of or the king Manasseh had him put into a hollow log, and he was sawed in half. And so that is the end that God's um prophet saw. And so we may c you know bring in the question, well why would God bring Isaiah, who had served him so faithfully, who had you know ministered to the people as God had commanded him, you know, why would God bring Isaiah to this end. Well, his ways are higher than our ways, and his thoughts than our thoughts. And you know, sometimes God does things, sometimes God brings us to an end or to persecution. So that he can receive the honor, so that he can receive the glory. I would like to end tonight by reading my favorite hymn. And it's a hymn by the name of Above the Voices of the World Around Me. And I think it really, you know, kind of brings a conclusion to all these things. And it's a good reminder to us. So if you'll listen to the words, it's to the message that it brings. It says, Above the voices of the world around me, my hopes and dreams, my cares and loves and fears, the long-awaited call of Christ has found me. The voice of Jesus echoes in my ear I gave my life to break the cords that bind you. I rose from death to set your spirit free. Turn from your sins and put the past behind you. Take up your cross and come and follow me. What can I offer him who calls me to him? Only the wastes of sin and self and shame, a mind confused, a heart that never knew him, a tongue unskilled at naming Jesus' name Yet at your call, and hungry for your blessing, drawn by that cross which moves the heart of stone, Now, Lord I come, my tale of sin confessing, And in repentance turn to you alone Lord, I believe, help now my unbelieving. I come in faith because your promise stands, your word of pardon and of peace receiving, all that I am, I place into your hands Let me become what you shall choose to make me, freed from the guilt and the burden of my sins. Jesus is mine who never shall forsake me, and in his love my newborn life begins. So, my desire for you tonight is as we have looked at the ministry of Isaiah, as we've looked at all the things that he had done, let us let it be a reminder to us that as we serve the Lord. We are not to look to ourselves. We are not to look to the things around us. We are not to become discouraged as we do the things that God has called us to do, but instead we are to keep our eyes. Fixated on Jesus Christ. We are to remember the reason for our ministries, and we are not to become weary in well-doing as we serve Him. Let us pray together.