Just oh I'm gonna do the bare minimum. I'm only gonna do exactly what I have to do and nothing more. And I want you to know that is not the spirit of a Christian. The Bible says very clearly, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. Do it with thy might. And as Christians, we need to be going above and beyond in every area of our life. We we've got to let go of this mindset and this attitude and this spirit of, oh, halfway is okay. Just getting the job barely done is fine. It's it's all right if mom and dad says, hey, I want you to take out the trash and So you get the trash and take it outside the door and set it down right there. Well I did what they said to do. The trash is outside. But you didn't take it and put it in the trash cans where the where you know it's supposed to go or in our kitchen. We have three trash cans in the kitchen. Because we got so much trash. I I don't know why we have three cans. But we have three cans. And mom and mom might say, Hey, Caleb, I want you to take the trash, uh empty the trash can Well mom only said one. Empty the trash can, right? There's one can so empty one, you know, and and Caleb would never do this. He would always check and see if the others need it, I'm sure But the the the mindset and attitude typically of people today is just doing what they have to do. No, no, no, I don't want to go above and beyond. I don't wanna Do extra. I don't want to go the extra mile, but that is the spirit that we should have as believers. The normal pattern, the normal status and heartbeat of a Christian ought to be to give it their all. Right. To do their best job. If one is required, do one and a half or even two. The spirit we need today. As Christians, we are to be living for God, honoring God, and pleasing God in all that we do. Colossians 3. 23 says, And whatsoever ye do, do heartily as unto the Lord. So what we're doing, whether it's at work or or you know in the in the job, place or whether it's at home with our family, our mom and dad, or our husband or wife, or grandma or grandpa, or anybody else We're supposed to be doing that as unto the Lord. You know, some people look and they say, well, the job doesn't deserve it. My relative doesn't deserve it. That's not what the Bible says. The Bible says you do it as unto the Lord. And we would alleviate a lot of the problems that people are having today if we did live our lives this way. We need to go above and beyond in several areas of our life. We're going to look at this text here, and I want you to see that we need to go above and beyond, first of all, in the faith that we have. We need to have compelling faith, and we need to go above and beyond in our faith. We see in verse number four that he says, Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which ye have to all the saints. The faith that he had. It had been noised abroad, it had been broadcasted, it is something that people recognized and saw. Beloved, our faith in Jesus Christ is a bedrock of our faith of our relationship, of our Christianity. For by grace are you saved through faith That is the the faith in God and what Jesus Christ did. Our Christianity was founded upon our faith in Jesus Christ, and we need to go above and beyond in the faith that we exercise in a daily life, many people are perfectly content to trust God for saving faith, but not content to live with surviving faith. Faith that's put into practice day in and day out. Faith that's put to test. Faith that displays itself in the workplace when you're called upon to be honest. instead of doing what's convenient, to be honest, instead of taking what you might could have got away with, to work hard when that's when you know that's what's expected to you. That's having faith in action. That's going above and beyond when you know you could get away with it, but instead you do what's right. That's what faith is It's through faith that we grow. It's through faith that we live. It's through faith that we overcome the world. How do you know if you have surviving faith, if you have that kind of faith that takes you and carries you through the days? Well, you can check because how obedient are you to God? We touched on this in Sunday school that quite literally faith is really just obedience to God It's just trusting God, just knowing that what God has said, okay, I'm going to have faith, I'm going to trust it, I'm going to obey, I'm going to do what God said I'm not sure how it's going to work out. It doesn't make a lot of sense to me. It doesn't seem practically like that's a good idea. But the Bible says this. God says this, so I'm going to do it. God said it and that settles it for you. That's what faith is. Faith says to quit being involved in a particular sin. And faith says, okay. God tells you that you shouldn't be hanging around that person, that person's a bad influence on you, and you faith says, okay. I'm going to trust God. I'm not sure what I'm going to do with my time and energies, and I'm going to miss this relationship or this friendship. I'm going to miss the interaction that I've had there. I know that God will fill the void with what should be there because He's telling me to remove that from my life. Faith says, okay. God says to discipline your children. If you listen to anything on the internet or in news today, they're going to tell you not to do that. They're gonna tell you to reason with your child, to talk to your child. Well, could you just open your eyes, please? Look at society. Look at these children that were talked to. Look at these children that are that are taking guns to school and shooting their classmates. Right. Somebody reasoned with them. They were never told no. They were never disciplined. They were never taught to be in subjection to the authority that's over them. The Bible tells you how to do it. Faith says, okay, God, in my mind, I think like if I discipline them, my child's gonna hate me. But that's not the truth. The truth is the exact opposite. I don't remember who it was. It was not too long ago. One of the young people that has gathered right down here sat here, not from this church, but they've attended and came here. They sat with Mary and I and they told us I wish my mom and dad would tell me no. I wish my mom and dad could date I think they said it to our children. They said it to our children because my children were complaining about how strict their parents are. I know that's hard to believe. Hey, they're kids like anybody else's kids. I didn't like it much when I was a kid either. But now it's my turn to get even, amen. No, no, no. That's what my kids think, guy. That's why I had kids, right? Just so I get my turn. Well, your day's coming. But they they looked and they said uh she said to them, I just wish I had parents that cared enough to tell me no. That cared enough to put boundaries up, to say, no you're not going to do that, yes you can do this, yes you are going to be in church, no you're not going to go with that friend. She said, My parents literally don't care what I do. Faith just obeys. God says, give, and you say, I can't afford it. But faith says, okay. That's what faith is. Obedience is faith in action. Our faith is going to magnify our love for one another, our love for God. That's clear. He says that since we have heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you've had of all the saints. I want you to know that our faith is rooted in or settled in a confident hope. He says in verse number 5, for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven. You know, beloved, the hope that we have is is a confident hope. It's not a pie in the sky kind of hope, uh a kind of I hope, you know, kind of wishing that this might happen someday. Like I'm hoping I'll find a million dollars someday. You know, that's one of my my recurring dreams. I wake up and think I found it. Hasn't happened yet. It's been having that since I was about fifteen years old. Finding a million dollars somewhere. I have come up with so many different ways to find a million dollars and it still hasn't happened. That's a pie in the sky hope. But the hope we have in God is not that. It's a confident hope that's assured and rested in the promises of God. We need to go above and beyond in our faith. That means we need to go above and beyond in our obedience to God. Don't be content just to do the bare minimum, to just get by. To just, oh well, this is what I know God expects, so I'm gonna I'm gonna squeak in right here by the you know skin of my teeth. It was one of the things Brother Taylor mentioned this morning. Just gonna squeak by. No, let's go above and beyond what's expected. Let's go above and beyond in our changed life. In verse number six, he says, which is come unto you as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit. as it doth also in you. Since the day that ye heard of it and knew the grace of God in truth As ye also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ. And he goes on, but here it's a changed life. You see, a changed life is going to be a fruitful life. Faith in God results in a changed life. A changed life results in a fruitful life. You're going to start to have fruit. I think this morning in the other Sunday school class they talked about the fruit of the Spirit. They dealt with that a little bit, that fruit that's supposed to be evident in the Christians' life, that, yeah, we've got some things we need to get rid of, but that is supposed to be replaced with or or supposed to uh are are there is supposed to be some positive side of that there's some things that are supposed to be growing in our life too the fruit of the spirit would you go above and beyond in that It's the same grace of God that saved you that now works to sanctify you. He says, since the day that you heard it and knew the grace of God in truth, since the day that that grace of God, the truth of that grace, was settled in your heart and mind. That day when your life was changed and that fruit began to be evident. In a changed life. Has God given you a changed life? Paul example of a man whose life was changed here, he talks about Epaphras He says, also you've learned of a paper, dear fellow servant, a fellow servant, a companion, somebody else that was serving God, who wasn't content to just get by, who wasn't content to just sit on the sidelines. Far too many Christians that are willing to just come in and just sit instead of getting involved. I mentioned it this morning in the service that every Christian ought to have a place of service. Every Christian ought to be doing something for God. Finding a place to impact other lives for the Lord Jesus Christ That was what a pastorist did. He said, Oh, I want to get involved. I want to be part of it. You know, Lee talked about Bo and his excitement uh And he texts me and calls me and and asks about questions about the Bible and and he he's got a desire, you know, he he just got saved and he's like, I want to get baptized. And then he got You know, then he he texts me and says, Hey, I want to go out with you and and talk to people about Jesus. And and is is it okay? You think it'd be alright if I fasted this weekend for my brothers and sisters? And you know, I gotta call him up and tell them, hey, wait, Bo, wait Don't you know you're not supposed to be that excited about the things of God? Don't you know that you're supposed to be, you know, going through stages of growth and you're supposed to maybe after you've been saved for five or ten years, then you start talking about fasting. And you can work towards that. Or someday down the road, don't you know you're not supposed to be excited about witnessing No, he's on fire for God. He wants to reach people. He's excited about what he's learning. God brought forth change in his life, and he's ready and wanting to go above and beyond. Paper was a servant to those in the church. He was a soul winner to the lost. He says he was a faithful minister of Christ. A minister of Christ carrying the message of Christ to a lost world is not your average Christian. He wanted to be involved. You know, we gotta go above and beyond if we want to really make a difference. You know, I don't know how many of you had a teacher when you were growing up that especially impacted your life. There are there are some. But those particular teachers that you remember that went above and beyond in their interest in you in their effort in a classroom, in their desire to share the truth with you, whatever it was they made that extra impact in your life. You know, as a teacher in the Sunday school here, if you want to make that extra impact, you've got to go above and beyond. You can't just be an average every day, you know, oh, we're just filling the class, we're just covering the hour. We just we got a 930 to 1015, we got to do something, so we're in here doing something. That'll come through. Or you can go above and beyond and have a plan. Have a purpose for that, have a goal and a direction of where you're starting and where you're going and ultimately what you're hoping the kids get out of it. Reaching those kids, contacting them when you're outside the class, sending them birthday cards. ministering to them, just finding ways to impact their lives. You know if we want the bus route to go, to grow? It's gonna take more than a phone call or a text on Saturday. It's going to take more than just a uh catching, you know, oh I I went out for my thirty minutes this week. If we want the bus route to grow, it's gonna take some effort. We're coming into the season that it's gonna be nice out and the opportunity to really get out and and reach some new people to bring in some young people. But it's not going to happen just because we think, oh that would be nice. Boy, it'd be great to have a bus full of kids. Boy, next Sunday that's going to happen. No, it's not It's only going to happen if there's some bus workers that are willing to go above and beyond. That are willing to invest some extra time and say, you know what, we're going to stay out an extra hour this week. We're gonna knock an extra for the next four weeks, we're gonna knock an extra hundred doors every week. Or we're gonna do we've got to have some kind of a goal, an ambition. We're gonna we're gonna go above and beyond and see something happen here In our in our ch go above and beyond in our changed life, go above and beyond in our committed walk. We see in verse number ten, he says that ye might walk worthy. of the Lord, unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work. There is a completed list here of things that are a result of a committed walk All the way down through verse number 12, the list just it's just like wham, wham, wham, wham, wham, just one after the other, a list of things. But it starts with that you might walk worthy of the Lord. And just that phrase in itself, it it just captivates me It just grabs my heart because, oh, to walk worthy of God. He who bore my sin on the tree I mean can any of us really walk worthy of that? But it ought to be our desire. We ought to want to. We ought to you ought to desire to be and to walk as worthy as we can. For our Lord. For walking worthy of God, that committed walk reveals itself. We're fruitful in every good work. We're increased in the knowledge of God. We're patient and long-suffering. Where gratitude is abounding, giving of thanks. We're pleasing the Lord. We're increasing in knowledge. We have strength. You continue or don't quit. You experience great joy. These are things that come from a committed walk. According to his power. He's working in us to both to will and to do his good pleasure. But you know we have to let him. You know the best dentist in Baltimore can't fix your cavity unless you're willing to go get in a chair. He's got the skills, he's got the ability, he's got the power, but you've got to be willing to go and sit in the chair What I'm saying is God has the power and the ability to bring these things forth in our life and for us to have a walk that goes above and beyond, but we've got to be willing to get with God. We've got to be willing to let God's power work through us. My motivation for you tonight, or my desire, is that we would just be a people that would go above and beyond. That we wouldn't be content with this worldly philosophy or mindset of halfway is okay. The good enough for government work mentality. Hey, and I've said that jokingly many times. This is good enough for government work, or what's the other one? Can't see it for miles. You know, this is good enough. It's going to be fine. And there is a place and a time where things are good enough and you're not going to be able to get it. But our spirit, our heart as believers ought to be, we're going to do the best job we can do. We're going to give it 110%. We're going to push. We're going to we're just in each and every task, whatever it is, we're going to give it our all. John Wesley traveled 250,000 miles on horseback. He averaged 20 miles a day for over 40 years. He preached over 4,000 messages. He wrote 400 books. He knew 10 languages. And at 83, he was extremely annoyed because he could not write for more than 15 hours a day. And you got people today talking about how they're they're trying to get the government to demand that an eight-hour workday is too long. He was 83. He was frustrated and annoyed because he could not write for more than 15 hours a day without hurting his eyes. At 86, he was ashamed because he could no longer preach more than twice a day. He complained in his diary. that it was in he had an increasing tendency to lie in bed until five thirty in the morning. I think there's a difference between that mentality and the mentality we have today. I'm not going to try and articulate and define what going above and beyond means for you specifically. But I hope that as a Christian, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. Do it with thy might. Do it as unto the Lord.