Well, turn your Bibles to the book of Psalms this evening, to the book of Psalms. Psalms chapter 81 is where we will be for our text tonight. Psalms 81. The title of the message this evening is Going All In for God. Going All In for God Really making that decision, making that choice, deciding in your heart that you're going to go all in for God. And all I believe every Christian has got to come to the place where they make that decision But uh it's something that's made more than once. You don't just make that at one time. I think that's you you gotta reach that point and you say, Okay, I'm gonna go all in for God. This is this is real This is this is powerful, this is what God wants, I'm gonna do it. And you and you make that choice and you head that direction, but you've got to recommit to that idea. And uh continue, I think each and every day when we wake up, we decide what we're gonna do. We decide whether we're gonna go all in for God or whether we're gonna go in for self I want you to look at this text in Psalms 81, where we're going to read beginning in verse number 8, down through verse number 16. He says, Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee, O Israel. If thou wilt hearken unto me, there shall no strange God be in thee, neither shalt thou worship any strange God For I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. But my people would not hearken unto my voice, and Israel would none of me. So I gave them up unto their own heart's lust. And they walked in their own counsel. Oh, that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways. I should soon have subdued their enemies and turned their hands against their adversaries. The haters of the Lord should have submitted themselves unto him, but their time should have endured forever. He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat, and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee This thought here I heard this week about a young man who was given every possible benefit of life. A young man who was trained and raised correctly in a good home. He went and graduated from a Bible college. He currently is single and living alone, but a young man. He's had every amount of training and preparation for the Christian life that is possible. And I'm not saying this man didn't at some time see an inconsistency in his parents. Who hasn't? We're all just human. I'm not saying this young man hasn't endured some hardship or some trial or test hasn't come into his life and which he he had an extra burden or or not, but I was so disheartened this week when I heard that this young man was no longer in church. I can't help but ponder and think about that because the fact of the matter is, is he's just about a year and a half out of Bible college. And my daughter's just a year from finishing Bible college. My next son coming right after that. Timothy's just about to head off to Bible college. But do you understand, beloved, because they've been trained and raised up in church, and because they've been taught right from the time that they were a child, and because they went to Bible college, doesn't mean that they personally are going to make the decision to follow God. And I was burdened about this because in my heart and in my prayer time I'm saying, Lord, what do I need to do to prepare my children so that they'll make the right choice So that when they get up in the morning of a day and they've got to decide what am I going to do today, they'll make the choice to do what God wants them to do. You see, each and every day we all make choices. Many of those choices are mundane and and in many respects almost meaningless. We get up and we get dressed and you may decide what you're gonna eat for breakfast, and unless you're on some kind of a diet really doesn't matter too much what you have for breakfast. I mean you can you can eat a granola bar or a crispy cream, you know, whatever, whichever you like It's not really going to make that big a difference, but there are decisions that we make on a day-to-day basis which do impact our life overall. They are decisions in which provide direction for our life. And what I want you to understand is each and every decision, no matter how small or little, begins a pattern, it begins a habit, it begins a direction for our life that ultimately points us to the place that we're going to be, the church that we're going to go to, or if we're going to be in church at all, the place we're going to work. The place we're going to live, these choices that we make are vitally important. And I hope, beloved, that you're making the choices that you're making in your life in light of the Word of God and His wisdom. That's how we're supposed to make our choices. You see in our text here There is the dilemma that comes up, and that is the idea, the point that there's two ways to go. God came to his people and asked of them and instructed them. He pleaded with them. He says, Oh, my people. And I will testify unto thee, O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me, you hear the pleading voice of God. He says, hearken unto me. Hearken unto me. He's calling. What a privilege we have that the God of heaven would speak to me. That the God of heaven would speak to you. The creator of the universe wants to talk to you. Can I remind you tonight that that's the way it's been from the beginning of time until today? You remember back in the Garden of Eden when man had sinned against God, man had rebelled against his will, and then went and hid. It wasn't man that was seeking God, it was God that came and said, Adam, where art thou? And you could walk through the pages of Scripture, and over and over and over again, when man rejected God, God came looking for man. Because man wants to have a relationship with his creation. And I mean God wants to have a creation. God wants to have a relationship with his creation. That's what I was trying to say. Creation man. That's what God wants to. He wants to have a relationship with you. I praise God for the times when I've been away from him and I heard that still small voice calling me, softly and tenderly, calling me, come home, come home. What a privilege to have a God who seeks after us who doesn't just say, Okay, you're done. He gives us second and third and fourth and fifth chances, and he pleads with us. He was pleading. He was calling for the children of Israel to hearken to his voice. God speaks to us in Hebrews chapter 1 verses 1 through 3. He says, God, who is at sundry times in diverse manners Spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets. God spake to his people through the prophets in the Old Testament. Verse 2 says, And he hath these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he hath made the worlds. What a privilege that we get that God speaks to us directly. You don't have that there's only one mediator between God and man, and that's the man Christ Jesus. You don't have to go to a prophet or a priest. You don't have to go somebody to hear from God what you should do. We've got the privilege to come to God and to hear him speak to us personally. It would do us well to heed his voice, Christian. For the voice of God speaks spirit and life It gives spirit and life. John 6. 63 says, It is the spirit that quickeneth. The flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life. The words that God speaks to us, the words that God guides and directs us, He is giving you exactly what you need to live life. To have life and to have life not just here and now, but to have life here and now abundantly, abundantly above what you and I could ask or think, if we would but hear his voice when he calls to us. He's speaking to you and I. He's pleading with you and I. Pleading with you. Are you listening? Do you hear him call? Just because God is pleading with you doesn't mean that you're listening. We've all been in the store and we've seen one parent or another pleading with some uh out-of-control child. We're not doing that right now. The kid's doing it anyway. No, no, we're we gotta go home. We're leaving. No, we gotta put that back. And the kid's just completely ignoring them. Sometimes we're like that With our Lord, God, who's pleading with us, calling to us. He says to hearken, to hearken. That word hearken means to give undivided attention. That word hearken is it goes way beyond just to hear. It means to turn and listen. It means to give focused attention to, to hearken. Well, we wish our kids would hearken. That they would hear our voice and not just like, oh, well I heard you were talking, but I didn't hear what you said. There's a difference. To hearken, to give our undivided attention. This kind of a person is described in James 1, verses 22 through 25. He says, But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man, beholdeth his natural face in a glass, for he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was But whosoever looketh unto the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. And you want to be blessed? Be a doer of the word. Not just a hearer. Not just a passive listener and oh yeah, that that's a good. Yeah, that's I I think that that's true. I I would agree with that, but then still go your own way. Still do your own thing You know, I wish I could think of the illustrations, but so many times you you're dealing with a young person and it's so applicable because you're you're giving them instruction about something and you're saying that's not the way you want to do that But they know better. And you're telling them like, well, listen, if if you do it that way, it's gonna break. Or it's gonna get in a knot. Or it's gonna whatever whatever it is, you know, and and they're like, well, I've done this before Okay. They do it. What happens? Come on now And God's saying d be a doer of the word, not just a hearer, but a doer. Hearken is to give attention to, is to respond And sadly, many people sit in our churches today and they hear the word many, many times, and they may even agree with the word, but then they stand up and they walk out and they do nothing with it Sometimes, week after week after week, they do that. It's mind-boggling. But the fact of the matter is, not only is the dilemma before us, but we have to make a decision. We have to make a decision. This is what God's people were confronted with here, and they had to make a decision. He says, There shall no strange God be in thee. Neither shalt thou worship any strange God, but my people would not hearken unto me, unto my voice, and Israel would none of me. You know, you've got to make a choice. And the truth of the matter is, is good preaching, any any good preaching is designed, preaching is supposed to bring you to a point of decision. It's supposed to be, okay, what do I do with this? Now there's sometimes there's instruction, sometimes there's teaching, and teaching is just giving you the the facts and and and the the historical context and there's some teaching and some background sometimes, but we move into preaching, we move from teaching to preaching when we say, okay, now what are you going to do with it? You've got to decide, okay, I'm going to surrender or I'm not going to surrender. I'm going to obey or I'm not going to obey. I'm going to give or I'm not going I'm going to say yes or I'm going to say no Preaching brings us to a point of decision where we've got to decide what does God want or what do I want. This is where God's people were. They were at the point of decision. He said, Would you hearken to me? Would you do what I've asked of you? Would you respond to me, the one who delivered you out of the bondage of Egypt? Beloved, too many walk out of the doors of our churches thinking that they didn't make a decision You see, they were confronted with the preaching, and the preaching said yes or no. The preaching said surrender or not. The preaching said give or don't give. And they think, well, I'm just not going to do anything with that. And they think they didn't make a decision But do you understand, beloved, that when you reject God, what God said, then you did make a decision. You chose to go your own way. You chose to make yourself God in your life. And to dethrone the God of heaven. Anytime you say, well, I'm just not going to do anything with that, I'm just going to ignore it. I'm just going to leave that alone right now. That is a choice. And you've chosen To put God down and put yourself up. Do we see here that They followed their own lust instead of the Lord. He says in verse number 12, So I gave them up unto their own heart's lust. And they walked in their own councils. I venture to say, beloved, if we could find one of the Israelites and Pause and talk to them for just a moment, that they would have ready on their lips an abundant measure of excuses That they would have right there. I don't think they would even pause. I think they would tell you exactly why they chose not to do what God wanted and to do what they wanted. And those excuses, although plentiful, although in their own minds, what does he say there? He says, and they walked in their own counsel. Although in their own minds the excuse was good. The fact of the matter is, going back to the beginning here when we're talking about the choices we make. When we make a choice day by day, when you get up in the morning and you choose to just get on about your day and not give any thought to God. You're making a choice about what the highest priority of your life is. You're making a choice day in and day out when you commit to whatever the highest priority of your life is. And beloved, today this message is a call back to let's refocus that priority where it's supposed to be, to what's important. The decision was made when they bowed their heads to another God besides the God of heaven, when they bowed their heads to covetousness, when they bowed their heads to their own idols To their own self-desires. Beloved, when we set up anything in our life in the place that God should be, that is an idol. And we will not make the right decisions that we should make when anything else sits on that throne. When anything but God sits on that throne. We will not make the right decisions. Our decision-making compass is out of skew. It's not lined up right. It's miscalibrated because God's not on the throne. When God's on the throne, it's calibrated correctly, and the decision can be made. I have a uh digital measuring tool. That has to be zeroed out. You put it down and you zero it out so that when you measure and it measures to A ridiculously tiny minute uh measurement. Um it's very, very precise. But only if it's been zeroed out. If you just take it from wherever it was, it could have a it could be an inch off and you wouldn't know. You see, when God's not on the throne, we think everything's okay. We feel like, yeah, this is good. But really what we're doing is following after our own lust. Notice what happens to them when they make their own decisions. You see, they believed and followed and went after false gods. It's mind-boggling when you think that somebody would look to a statue instead of Jehovah. It's just mind-boggling. Now there are some in the world who don't know. They they're seeking and looking for God, and they've they've never had opportunity to hear about God. But To have somebody that had a relationship with God, that knew God, that would give that up and follow after, start worshiping a piece of wood? Wow. You look at it and say, how can that possibly happen? You know what, beloved, it starts very small. But if God doesn't get us back on track, it ends very big. I think about this young man. He's not out in wicked sin. He's not out living in sin, living it up, living hogwile, just just I mean he's he's really a pretty good kid. He's still a good young man. You see, he's made some decisions recently. It's keeping him out of church. And though you look at that and say, well, that's kind of small. But it starts small. And it's gonna take 'em down a road. Sin when it is finished, bring it forth. It's a passage on The heart breaks for them. I'm burdened about the next generation coming up in our church. But you know what? It starts with the people in this room. Not the kids that are downstairs. The decisions that we make day in and day out. When you have something else on the throne of your life, you'll hear the truth, you'll know it to be truth, but you'll decide to ignore the truth. I can't tell you how many times I've burned myself. When I knew something was hot and I touched it anyway. And then you're you're so mad at yourself. You're like, oh, I knew that was hot. Why did I touch that? Why did I stick my hand down there and grab that? That was so dumb. You're just sitting there thinking, that was the dumbest like I knew that was hot, just an absent-minded whatever. At least I didn't answer the iron. Young lady in our high school, when I was growing up, she answered the iron. She's ironing clothes and the phone rang and she said hello She literally had a iron mark and four four little circles on her jaw from she stuck the iron on her face. That's absent-minded. She was definitely thinking about something else. She of course burned her hair right here and everything. Terrible. You know, you know what's right, and you do it anyways. You ignore it. You ignore the truth. That's what happens when we set something else up on the throne where God is supposed to be. Beloved, God's previous deliverances and previous display of power in your life doesn't matter. You see here in this text, he says to him, I am the Lord thy God which brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. He says, I delivered you out of Egypt. I provided for you when you were in the wilderness. I protected you from your enemies I did all this for you, and if you would but right now just open your mouth, I would fill it in such an abundant way, you wouldn't be able to contain the blessings I would pour out on your life And yet all of God's past performance is ignored because we are in pursuit of our own idols. God has blessed us so much. He saved our souls and many times has restored our homes. And I've seen families put back together. I've seen people giving up addictions. They the power of God, they've gotten victory in their life in many areas, but then after they're in church a little while and they've they've been here, they kind of start start to think, oh, I can live this life without him now They start missing church. Start skipping God's house. Start leaving off their devotions and their walk with God. Stop being a witness. They know what's right, but they choose to neglect it. God had promised them tremendous blessing, but that wasn't enough. Or what God was supplying wasn't sufficient. Instead, they went after and looked for satisfaction in this world And men do this every day. Can I describe for you the damage? We see here, begin reading or following along with me in verse number eleven. He says, But my people would not hearken to my voice. And Israel would nut of me, so I gave them up to their own lust, and they walked in their own council. Oh, that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways. I should have soon subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries. The haters of the Lord should have submitted themselves unto him, but their time should have endured forever He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat, and with honey out of the rock, should I have satisfied thee. You see, beloved, they gave up all that God wanted for them in pursuit of their own desire. And men do this all the time. And I'm thankful today that 1 John 1 9 is in the Bible. And I praise God that, you know, if we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness and we can come back to him. But beloved, if we pursue our own way too long If we pursue our own lust, God says, okay, you you fight against God long enough and you go long enough your own direction like he did with the children of Israel here. He says, uh he let them. He gave he said, okay, you can do what you can have what you want. But you're going to lose what you had. And beloved, first John 1. 9, any one of us can come back to God. And I've I I've behoove and beg of you to don't wait, come back before it's too late. But do you know what 1 John 1. 9 can't do? It can't give you back the years you lost. First John 1 9 can't take away the damage that was done to your testimony. 1 John 1. 9, can't remove the scars that you will bear in your body. Emotional scars, moral scars, sometimes physical scars, from pursuing things of this world when you knew better The damage is already done. God promised him great blessing, but it wasn't enough. Moses, Moses tried to lead by example. Moses told them in Hebrews, we see in Hebrews 11, 24-27, by faith Moses When he was come to use, refused to be called the sons of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer the affliction with God, with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasure to sin for receiving. But instead the children of Israel and many in our churches today they choose pleasure of sin for a season and think, well, I can always just confess it and get right. A lot easier just to ask for forgiveness. By God's grace He will forgive you, but you're gonna bear some scars. You will have to endure the pain. Sometimes there's suffering that goes along with that that you carry the rest of your life. You know, beloved, God has never made anybody do his will. We see him here pleading with his people. He pleads with us. But with all of God's power, he checks it at your will. He checks himself. He could make us. But he pleased with you and he says, this is what I want you to do. Do you want to do that? Do you want to do that? I hope so. He wants it to come from our heart, from our desire. The hedge of protection is moved removed. He describes there how he would protect his people in those verses. When we go our own way, the hedge of protection is moved, removed. The devourer is allowed in. You know what's amazing. I've been in the ministry now since nineteen ninety-nine And uh it's amazing how many people after the fact After the damage has been done, we'll stand back and say, I don't understand why this happened. I'm a Christian. Yeah, you're a Christian, but you've been living for self. You've neglected and forgot about God. You left him back there a long time ago. It's very evident in the decisions that you've made, the choices that you've made for your life, that you've been living for self, that you've been going after your own lust. And now you're reaping that. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And the exciting thing about that verse, beloved, is not the fact that you're going to reap for what you do wrong. The exciting thing about that verse is that you get to reap for what you do right. When you do what God wants you to do, you will reap those bountiful blessings that God wants to bestow upon your life. I would like you to see, as we bring this to a close, I would like you to see the heart of God. Look at verse number thirteen. We see the heart of God here when his people rejected him. Did God stand up in heaven with a club? Did God stand there ready to just destroy his people? No, you hear the heart of God when he says, Oh, that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways. He says, oh, if they would have just hearkened, if they would have just listened, if they would have just responded, if they would have just heard my cry. And then he lists all what he would have done for them, how he would have provided for them, how he would have protected them, how he would have prospered them. He's there. That that that those verses that honey out of the rock they would have been satisfied with. A satisfaction that you don't get in this world, friend. It's the pleading heart of our God. He says, Would you just hear my cry? And turn ye at my reproof. Yes. He has a message for us. Beloved, every day we make a choice. And those choices reflect our heart. What is it? Are we all in for God? Are you going to wake up tomorrow morning and say, okay, I'm all in for God? You know as well as I do that you gotta keep making that decision. I wish we could just make it once. Say okay, Lord? I settled it right now. I'm all in for you. And it would be done. Boy, that would be awesome. We just made that decision and it happened. And there's never any turning back. No more drifting, no more wandering away from home. That would be awesome. But we know we we're prone to wander. And so we've got to continually decide, I think day by day, Lord, I'm all in for you today. Today I want I want to be all in for you. I want to be spirit-led. I want to be a surrendered Christian for at least these 24 hours. I'm going to submit to you and do my best to honor you during this day. Beloved, when you do that day by day, you don't have to worry about two or three years from now or ten years from now. You just day by day say, God, help me to honor you today. Today. I want to be all that you want me to be. I want to hear your I want to hear your voice and respond to it