So, um, take your Bibles and go to Genesis. Um th I am also excited this morning that I forgot that I have some Zambian friends here And that was that was that was cool to see that. Uh let's see where I want you to go. I got it all written down except this part. Let me find this really quick. Hold on. I g I can I can find it Um have everything written down except that starting verse. But it's all right. I can find. Go to Genesis chapter 17. Yeah, Genesis chapter seventeen, and we'll start there. Um what I want to share with you this morning, you know, Pastor said that your um your uh um theme is uh in February is is family. Family. And um, you know, f family is more than just maybe a mom and dad and kids, you know. Zambia's got an incredible family co culture. It it goes deep. You know, you you'll meet somebody and they'll say, That's my mom, and I'm like, Well that's the fourth time you told me that was You have four mothers, you know. Um you know, anybody in their family, whether uh I mean they'll they'll call an uncle a brother, you know, um because family is important You know, for us, not only do we have our immediate family, um, but we we've kind of got something that Zambia has, but it's the family of God, then I've actually got brothers and sisters all over the place. I mean I've I've got I've got brothers and sisters in other countries that if I saw them they they would treat me like I was their family And and that's just an amazing benefit of being in the family of God. So when we talk about health, when we're talking about family, I want to just think about your immediate family, but then think about the the bigger family that you're involved in because church is made up of individuals which make up of family units and then come to form another family unit. You know, not only do we need health and strength and vitality in our in our family units at home. But then we bring that and we plug it into the puzzle here. So if the puzzle pieces are sick and not operating properly, when you put them together you're still gonna have a uh an organism that's not working right. You know? Because it it takes it takes first on a personal level, then you're plugged into your immediate family. So if you're not if you're not where you need to be personally and you're plugged into a family at home That's going to be off-kelter. And then if you take that unit and you plug it into a local church, that's going to be off-kelter. You know? Uh and then then you take that and you put it in a society, that's going to be off-kelter. And and we s we see that today um in in America, you know, we're definitely um not balanced properly. You know, there's problems everywhere. And what I want to show you this morning is that uh a lot of times it boils down to decisions that you make. And every day you make decisions. Sometimes you don't always think about the ramifications of that decision decision. You know, um uh a a lot of things that we probably should pray about, we don't. A lot of things that we We think about um we're we're great at justifying what we want and what we think is important, you know, or or what's needful at that moment. Instead of actually looking and saying, okay, let's take a minute and let's look down the line of the chain of events that this may cost, because I'm telling you a little a little decision um several years down the road looks a lot different when When you're back here and you're looking at that going, Wow, if I would have done that different, this would have been different. So with that said, let me ask you a question. Um, why do you think the mother Muslims hate the Jews. And it it's not, it's not a I mean it's a s it's a deep rooted thing. It didn't just happen yesterday. It's it's thousands of years old Why do they hate them so much? It it's not just simply just a difference in religion. You know the Muslims They claim Ishmael. They believe that when Abraham went on the mountain, it wasn't Isaac that was on that altar. It was Ishmael. And when they go to Mecca, there's this big, huge circle, you know, you go in a grocery store, you throw the quarter in it, and it goes like this and down. They have that very same thing in Mecca. And when they of course it was much larger, but when they go there, they they they millions of them will take little stones or throw it in that thing. It goes around like this. Do you know why they do that? Well they believe on that mountain When um Ishmael was there and he was going to sacrifice it, God stopped it. The devil showed up. Ishmael and Abraham picked up sacri stones and chase the devil away on the mountain. That's why they do that in Mecca. Okay? Because because they believe Ishmah was Abraham's chosen son. And then now you have the Jews who do, and you realize that they are related. Okay, even even through genetics, they're related. Okay? Um the other saw, the the Jews, the they all claim Abraham. It the Muslims claim Abraham and the Jews claim Abraham. Abraham. It's the sunword gets a little iffy. Okay? And the Muslims claim Ishmael Ironically, they both have it wrong when it comes to the Messiah. Amen. Um, you know, they're they're they're both dead wrong on that one. Well, one day they'll see. But I want you to go through as we do this today and open your mind about why they hate each other. Now here's something that helps me. I'm not a theologian, not even close. Okay? Um pastor was saying, you know, he would he could be more happy. You know what I wish I had? I wish I had his voice. Because when I call people they say, Hi Mrs. Barnhouse, and I'm like I'm I'm done fighting it. I just go along with it anymore, you know. I mean he's got this he's got this good manly voice. I got this squeaky I sound like a seven-year-old lady with smokers cough, you know Um but um but something that I I've learned that helps me, when you read your Bible, just don't go over it. Stop and ask questions Something looks odd, ask yourself why. If something happens, an event happens, just don't read it. Take a chair, put it in the story. Sit down and ask yourself how would it feel, how would I be impacted if I was literally there in one of these characters at that moment? Because what it'll do is it'll help you understand Understand the storyline. When you understand the storyline and you step back, it's very clear to see what happened. But you have to ask yourself some questions. Like I always like, why? Okay? Why? You know the story in the Bible where Jesus puts his finger in a guy's ear, I say why Okay? Why would you do that? Alright? Um he he held the guy's tongue. Wha why would you do that? You know, um how That that's another good question to say, you know, how that happened. Because it it it it helps you it helps you see the backstory, and the backstory is important because you can't write everything in this book I mean even the Lord said that it'd be too big, you know. But it's important to stop and think about that's what we're gonna do this morning. Father, thank you. I pray as the go through this this morning you'd help us to um to just uh get a better understand of of what happened and um and how it affected people. We love you. Thank you and help us to think about the decisions we make. We ask this in your precious name. Amen. Amen. So, you know, Abraham and Sarah, God had already given him a covenant. He already said he was going to be a mighty nation. And um that that they were gonna have a child. And some time went on and that didn't happen. And then you know how that um his wife went to Abraham Abraham and said, you know, you know, I'm getting old, you're getting old, why don't you take my handmate Hagar, go into her and have Now understand for us that thing's extremely odd in our culture. Um in that particular culture wasn't wasn't as an odd of a thing And you know, so so so that part a at least it was in their thinking, but regardless of that, God had already said that He was going to give them a child Okay, they didn't have to jump in and and and and push or help God. May I tell you something? God doesn't need help. Alright? You know, um it's hard for us to wait, but God doesn't need help. Alright? And our our natural thing is, well let's see if I can fix it. You know, God doesn't need you to fix it What he needs us to do is realize he's God and we just need to trust him. And that's huge. I mean that sounds cliche, but that's huge. It's to say we just need to trust him And and and not push and and not need the answers today? Well, she didn't do that. So Abraham went into Hagar and Hagar immediately became pregnant And if you read that that particular part of that story, here's what as soon as she became pregnant, Hagar's demeanor changed. She went from being this cast-off handmaid to now she's carrying Abraham's child. Abraham is obviously going to be fond of her. Hey, you know, can I can I hold that for you? Hey, don't carry that. Because she's carrying his child. Immediately, Sarah wasn't happy with that. Immediately. You know, um you know at that moment she said, hey, this is on me. I mean immediately after it she realized that that she should not have done that, but it was it was it was already happening. Okay, um now she's gonna have this baby and and she and she had the baby and and the baby grew and and and you you know that immediately She wanted uh to send them away, and Hagar went away sad, and then the angel came to her and said, and this is really, really, really cool. Ishmael did not go bad Because God did not love Ishmael. In fact, I'm going to show you a verse here in the Bible that says actually God was with the child. Okay, that's not where Ishmael went rogue. It wasn't because God, because you know why? It wasn't Ishmael's fault. Do you know why God said to Hagar that he was going to bless that child to make them a great nation? Wasn't the kid's fault Ishmael was an innocent bystander in this whole thing. Wasn't his fault. He did not make the wrong decision His mom and dad made the wrong decision. He didn't make the wrong decision. And so God said, your son's going to be a mighty nation. But he did say that his Han was going to be against his brother. Now, was that God just saying, hey, listen, you know, you have no way to change this? No. It's because he's sovereign and he knows what's going to happen. As a result of a bad decision. He's saying, I'm going to bless them. You're going to be a mighty nation, but your hand's going to be against your brother because he knows what's about ready to happen down the road. Okay, so with that, I want you to go to Genesis chapter 17. Okay, and verse 15. I gave you a little bit of the storyline here. Abraham at the beginning of uh verse 1 here is 90 years old And go to verse 15. And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarah, thy wife, thou shalt not call her Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name, and I will bless her and give thee a son of her. Yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations, kings of people. Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed and said, In his heart shall a child be born Unto him that's a hundred years old, um, and shall Sarah that is nineteen years old bear. Now, uh you know that's kind of funny because at at this time Abraham is, I mean, um Isaac's about 13 years old? Okay? Well, he had a child thirteen years ago. And it was in his eighties. So that you know, um, you know, God can God can do whatever God wants, okay? Verse 18. And Abraham said unto God, Oh that Ishmael might live before thee. See here he's saying, I have a son. God why can't you just use him? The problem is it wasn't God's plan. Plan. It's not that God had anything against Ishmael. It's not that Ishmael was cursed by God. It just wasn't his plan. And may I tell you something? Um brother, I I don't know when to end and I don't see a clock. Just don't let me go over, okay? If I get close, wave at me. Um y you know, here's something God's will and God's grace. Which one's better? Yeah. Because you wouldn't need his grace if you followed his will. Because grace is unmerited favor. It's something we don't deserve. If we just simply did what he told us to do, you wouldn't Need that. And God's will was Ishmael never be born. That was his will They they were not supposed to have that child. God's grace, he still let them have Isaac. That's God's grace. God's will. So it's not like Ishmael himself. himself was cursed. It's not his fault. Okay? Irregardless, you can't take a bad decision and And then go to God and say, God, okay, well now that wasn't maybe what we should have done, but but can you just fix that and use it anyway? No, because it wasn't his will. His will was that Isaac be born. So here Abraham's asking, you know, why why can't you just use Ishmael here? Look down in verse 20. And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee. Behold, I have. So Abraham is going to God and saying, God, this is my son. Okay? Alright. And I love my son. Can't you use my son? And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee. Behold, I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and will multiply him exceedingly. Now here's something pretty cool Twelve princes shall he beget. Now, does that ring a bell? Well, where does that ring a bell? The number twelve? Yeah. Isn't it kind of weird? Do you think that's accidental? No. God doesn't do random. Okay. Why why why did he say, and twelve princes shall you beget? Because Abraham, God loved Abraham, God was going to do something very similar to Ishmael. We don't know how the story would have ended had Ishmael Embraced God like God embraced Ishmael. Here he said, I heard thee And because of you, this is what I'm going I'm going to bless the child. And he's going to have twelve princes in his family. So it wasn't that God was cursing you Israel. Okay? Alright, now go on down. It says, but my covenant, his promise, will I establish with Isaac, which Pharaoh shall bear unto thee At this set time in the next year. And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham. Now, I want you to go down to verse 24. And Abraham was 90 years old and nine when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. And Ishmael His son was 13 years old. The reason why this is important is: can you imagine how excited Abraham was when he had a son? Alright? He's had this son for 13 years Thirteen years it's just been him and Ishmael. Alright? They did things together. He's thinking on at this time, he's thinking on everything he has is going to be Ishmael's They enjoy each other's company. They have a good relationship like any father and son would have. Now, now there was turmoil between mom and stepmom But between son and dad, they were close. Can you imagine Abraham taking them out and showing them how to take care of the sheep and saying, son, one day this is all going to be yours And at night, at the end of a long day, when he's six and seven years old, this little boy climbs up on Abraham's lap and sits there and listens to his father telling stories about God There is a relationship here that's 13 years old, where there's emotions and attachments Okay? And he looked up to his father, and his father loved him. He's 13 years old. Okay? Now, the reason why that's important, I want you to go Um, from there to um chapter twenty one See, okay, go to chapter 21. And the Lord visited Sarah as he had said, whoa, God actually does what he says. Alright, and the Lord visited Sarah as he as he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken, for Sarah conceived And bear Abraham a son in his old age at the time of which God had spoken to him. And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bear to him Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son, Isaac, being eight days old as God had commanded him. And Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac was born unto him. And Sarah said God hath made me to laugh so that all that here will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham that Sarah should have children? Now look down at verse eight. And the child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast of The same day that Isaac was weaned, and Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had borne unto Abraham, mocking. Seeing a thirteen year old kid. Alright? We've had children, I mean I've got older a 25 year old all the way down to a seven-year-old. You know, um, whenever you bring a new child in the family, you're you're always gonna have a little bit of jealousy going on. That's all this was. But when when Sarah saw that she thought that there's no way I want my son What's here? Because technically, because Ishmael is born first, according to that culture, he gets everything. And she She said, no way. You need to get rid of him. And here's the problem. Abraham's already attached You can't just go get rid of something like that. Now, she never bonded with Ishmael. She, no indication ever that there was any relationship with her and that young man. And on that day she said, I don't want my son growing up with him. Do you know for for thirteen years there's not really been peace in the home because of a bad decision. And may I tell you something? Let's say we buy a car Car is a little bit of a stretch financially. And to do so, you say, well, to your wife, well, maybe you're just gonna have to get a job a little bit Just work a couple days a week. Not counting in the fact that now she's going to be a couple days more stressed than she already is. So then when she comes home, she's not going to be quite as patient with the kids as she would have been at first because she had to sit in that traffic out there all day And then dinner gets shoved on the table a little faster. Dad comes home, and because that's not working the way it should, he's a little bit more aggravated But all it was was we just bought a car. Little decisions. When you look at them, where you move, who you allow to be friends, the area you You move, what you buy, what you watch, what you listen to, how you're influenced. church you go to, whether or not you go to church, at what level you're plugged into that church. There's hundreds and thousands of decisions made in our life That end up affecting us, our attitudes, the people around us, their attitudes You know, the pressure we put on them. I mean one for me is that when when I'm in ministry, I I only know how to do one gear. That's put it in high gear and go. You know, which is great, except I sometimes I forget. That maybe it's not always healthy for me to come home and tell my wife that there's 30 people coming over for dinner on Friday? Because my wife's not wired like me. And that's not her fault. That's not a sin, that she doesn't get up and go in in fifth gear all day. And that sometimes my great idea May end up causing a little bit more friction and a little bit turmoil. And then that night, which should be a quiet and happy home, she's aggravated because I just invited 30 people over And then the kids don't get exactly what they need. Do you see what I'm saying? Now now I'm exposing myself. I'm sure you could do the same if you go back and you analyze decisions that we make. How we make them, they do impact. So here She doesn't want this kid around. The problem is this is Abraham's son. Okay? So once you go to the beginning of this in verse in ten, it says Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman. Now look at the word she's using. Cast out this bondwoman. You mean my son's mother Okay? We see bondwoman. That's Ishmael's mom. Okay? Alright, wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son. Doesn't even use the kid's name. Okay? I mean this is getting nasty. Alright? Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son, for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son even with Isaac. Now she's aggravated. She wants so you got uh a mess here. She wants Hagar gone, that's gonna be a mess. She wants the son gone, that's gonna even be a greater mess And here's a problem. And the thing was, look at this wording, very. Do you think God uses words accidentally in the Bible? That this thing was very grievous. That's a strong word. Very grievous in Abraham's sight. Why? Because of the sun. So when you just read that and go on to the next verse, you don't see the fact that maybe maybe that night he walked out in the middle of the field and sat down in his Cry. And say, God, I don't know what to do. I love that kid. See, if all you do is read that and go to the next verse You don't feel the emotion of what it just says there. He was very grieved. He didn't eat dinner that night. He didn't want to talk to anybody. He just needed to go be by himself. That's what this is doing to him because he loved his son. Now, now look what happens next. Okay? And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight, because loud, you say him, listen. You may not understand this, but it's going to be okay. Alright? She's let not Uh be very greasy in its sight because of Ladd and because of thy bond woman and all that Sarah had said unto thee, hearken unto her voice, for in Isaac shall thy sea be called. He's saying, Listen, I didn't choose this This is not what I wanted to happen. If you remember, I told you you were going to have a son, and you didn't listen, and now we got That's a mess. But remember, I didn't do that. You did that. And I can't take that part away. Okay? And it's gonna be a little painful. And you're I'm sorry about that. But this is why you need to think about decisions you make because if I'm God and you're going to trust me, then you just gotta do that. Okay, and he didn't, and now now you got a disaster. And he's saying the problem is why he can't stay is because then he would be heir to all you have. And the problem is before this world was even formed I had another plan. That plan can't be changed. Because through this I'm going to bring in your Savior, and it has to happen this way. And I can't change that. So um so if you keep reading down here, it goes on to say, and Abraham rose up early in the morning and took bread in a bottle of water. Now I was reading that last night thinking, well at least give them her give her her your your credit card. I mean gave her bread and bottle of water. Okay? Because everything that was there was Isaac's. Now, he's 13 years old. Now he's 14. 13 when he's circumcised. Years gone by, he's 14 Somewhere along the line, he had to know what was happening. So picture this, Abraham's out here He's got the water, he's got the bread. He him and Hagar are talking. It gets a little intense. He says, Ishmael, let me talk to your mom for a little bit. stand over there. He stands over there a ways away. He can't really hear, but all of a sudden he sees his mom start to cry and start to get aggravated. Abraham's crying people are raising their voices. He doesn't know what's going on, but he's watching that. He's 13 years old. You're not hiding this from a 13 year old kid. Can you Can you see the moment that Abraham walks up to Ishmael and says, Mom, why are you crying? Dad, why is why is all my stuff in a bag? What's going on? And Abraham has to look at his son and says, You have to leave today. You think Ishmael says, Oh, okay. See you later, Dad. What would a 14-year-old kid did? Grab his dad's coat and say, please, why are you doing this? I don't want to leave. This is my home. Why are you doing this to me? Don't you don't you care about my mom? What are we going to eat? And Abraham literally pushed his own kid down the driveway. Now, you know what happened snacks, and this is the part that I was guilty of. It says they were in the desert, they ran out of water. And if you read it, it says that Hagar put the child under the bush. And because I was guilty of just reading and not thinking, I I always assumed it was a baby. Because of the wording there. You wouldn't think about laying a 14-year-old child under a tree, but that's what it was Alright? He wasn't wasn't he wasn't a baby. If he was a baby, the reason why uh thinking about a baby, you remove the emotions. A baby's not going to remember this A baby's not gonna remember the divorce, he's not gonna remember the problems that are going on in the home, he's not gonna remember those things when they're three and two, but he's 14 years old with feelings. And a memory. And anger and pain and sadness. You get to that point, and it's just a baby. Okay. No, he didn't know what was going on. He'll be all right. No. He knew what was going on, and he lived every bit of it. So now you're getting to understand a little bit of why Why? They don't like the Jews. Do you think they made it through the desert? Do you think Ishmael thought very kindly of Isaac Do you think he liked his his stepmother? Mm-mm. Do you think he said, when I grow up Or when I have a family, when when I have well you ever said he said, I'm going to show him Do you think that ever happened? Well, of course it did because he's a 14-year-old kid that just got incredibly hurt. Okay, so um Fast forward a little bit. Isaac goes off, he gets married, he has kids, he has two kids, Jacob and Esau. And you got turmoil. Okay, remember that whole story? And then Esau, two brothers. Oh, I gotta put it Okay. Esau, um, I'll just have to tell you, you have to I d don't don't uh turn it because we don't have time, but in Genesis chapter twenty verse nine, Esau leaves his home, he's upset, he gets married. You know who he He marries? Ishmael's daughter. What would he have in common with Ishmael? He leaves his home, he's mad. Who's he mad at? His family Who doesn't he like? Isaac's son. He shows up at Uncle Ishmael's door, knocks on his door, and they spend up the whole night talking about it. Ishmael already doesn't like this family. Now Esau don't like that family. Esau marries Ishmael's brother. Ish Esau was the father of the Edomites. Do you know there are no Edomites left? In the world? God destroyed them. Because when the children of Israel left Egypt and they were trying to cut through, the Edomites wouldn't let them cut through their property. And God wiped out every last one of them because of that. Why do they feel that way? Because Esau passed on his anger to his children. Esau found refuge with Ishmael because they had something in common. They both got hurt. Okay? Now are you following the line a little bit of why they don't like each other? Do you know who showed up for Abraham's funeral? Ishmael. Ishmael Yeah he didn't go to Sarah's funeral. But if you read it in the Bible, Ishmael and Isaac buried their brother. Why would Ishmael show up? Because he loved his father. So it wasn't necessarily a thing where Ishma Ishmael just wanted to be a rebel. And Ishmael has to deal with his decisions and what he did with his life when he gets to heaven. But now do you understand How come one little decision can cause an awful lot of pain? And there's a hatred for his brother that goes on today, and we're Where did that hatred come from? Two Christians that most pastors would have loved to have in their church that made a wrong decision. Oftentimes we like to blame blame all our problems on the devil and rock music and you know all this kind of stuff. When you know what to be honest with you, Pastor, we probably own All this happened because they got ahead of God and didn't Trust him. They didn't go out and get drunk and do cocaine or anything like that. They simply just took God out of the equation and said, We're going to handle this ourselves. Instead of really praying over decisions, and this is this is what ended up happening. A little thirteen year old boy didn't get didn't get over that hurt. You know, so as being part of that family We want to have strong churches, we have to have strong families, which make strong individuals. And it all starts with good decisions. Amen