Turn your Bibles to the book of Philippians tonight. We are now at the conclusion. of our verse-by-verse study, kind of a walk through this book of Philippians that we've done. It has turned into twenty-eight messages that have uh I would say, you know, at points uh touch the hymn of heaven with the uh the the doctrine and theology that's there in from the apostle Paul but At the same time, we have that practical aspect uh which I tend to lean towards and gravitate towards and I think people get uh a tremendous blessing out of the practical side Uh this heartbeat of this book, you know, is joy and praise and thanking God uh for his goodness and Paul's gratitude to this church for their expression of love towards him. Ms. Lois told has told me time and again how much she has enjoyed this study. She told me this last Sunday that she was very disappointed or sad that this was going to be the end. I'm like, well Miss Lois, the book ends. What am I supposed to do? Uh this is the last few verses and and she's like it's been such a good study. I've so much enjoyed uh you know hearing it and being challenged by it And it's been a joy for me, but I hope that more than just an enjoyment, I hope that it has been a spiritual challenge to us as we've walked through this book and we've learned. uh principles and things to put into practice for our lives. Just verse by verse, even just this chapter, chapter number four, which tonight we're just going to be looking at the last three verses But even just in this chapter we saw first the the grit of the Christian in uh verses one through three where we see the Apostle Paul tells us to stand fast and we of course as God's people need to stand up and And just stand fast, and although there might be hard times, there is good times, and we just need to be faithful through the heart and see God bless in the glorious ways that He does. And then we saw the gentleness of the Christian in in verses four through seven. And the idea there where you you see he says, Let your moderation be known unto all men. And that idea of moderation literally has the aspect of the gentleness. of a Christian, the the spirit that we're supposed to have as Christians. And it's something that people should know about us. We should be known as that type of person, having that Christian spirit about us. And then we saw the genius of the Christian in verses 8 and 9, that familiar passage of scripture where we commit and take control of our mind to think on these things. And uh I'll tell you what, you're battling in the Christian life, control your mind and you'll win. The genius of it is is the wisdom that's given to us in those few verses about being victorious as a Christian. when we purpose in our heart to think on these things. Then we saw the glee of the Christian in verses 10 through 13, familiar verses again on that idea of if you want to have real joy as a Christian, learn how to be content. It's not, it's never is and never has been about how much stuff you have. It's about how content you are with what God's given you. And if we you just learn to be content, you know, then you y you learn how to be abound or or how to abase. Either way. And you're content and you're happy and you have the joy of the Lord and and things are looking up no matter what Amen. Because God's still in control. I was talking to Brother Johnson this afternoon and saying, Hey, it's going to be a great weekend. We're going to have a good time. I appreciate you coming. And he goes, Oh, we're going to have a good time. And I said, Amen And I'm looking at uh and uh he says we're with God's people. We're with God's people. Anytime we're with God's people it's time to have a good time. It's time to praise and worship and enjoy fellowship with one another And uh, you know, that's the joy of the Lord, being content with whatever God has brought in your life, and that's where you want to have that real joy. learn that contentment. And then we saw the giving Christians in verses 14 through 20 where Paul it talks to the Christians and and tells them thank you, thank you so much for your generosity, how you time and again have met our needs. And we have uh Brother Bill and his wife here, uh that they've traveled in evangelism for many, many years and of course the Johnsons, missionaries on the foreign field for many years. And time and time again God had to use God's people to meet their needs. And and God does that. And I I can't even really equate to it what it would mean to somebody out on the mission field when they're praying and seeking God and needing something met. Where Paul was, where he was here and he's in prison and going through it, but he's content and saying, Lord, whatever you have for me, I'm I'm happy and I'm okay. But then God brings this need and and what a joy that brings to the heart uh of a missionary on the field or sir somebody serving God and seeing that need met and It's not just the fact that the needs met, but it's the love and the expression of love of God's people that is shown when they send something to meet the need. And God blesses them for it. The giving Christian, I mean it's amazing. They wanted to partner, participate in the gospel going forward, and it's profitable for us, and it's pleasing to God when we give. when we give. And we praise God for that. This book comes to a close with these few verses tonight, as we would expect any letter written to a church to close. He does it with a hearty goodbye. So this evening's lesson, our last lesson in this book is going to be the goodbye to the Christians. The goodbye. He says goodbye here. Look in Philippians chapter 4. Follow along as I read, verses 20 to 23. He says, now unto God and our Father, be glory forever and ever. Amen. Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. All the saints salute you. Chiefly they that are of Cedar's household. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Amen. To the Philippian people, this letter written, this expression of gr of gratitude for their love for Paul. We see, first of all, this continued spirit that Paul has that it's never been about him. All of it, the letter, all of these things has never been about him. And I think that's one of the things that we've got messed up today in our society is uh it's just it it it's about us. It's about what we're going to get out of it. How is it going to benefit me? How much do I enjoy it? But Paul tells us there in verse number 20, really, what it's about is the glory of the Lord. He says, now unto God and our Father be glory forever and ever. It's about the glory of God. And Paul's ministry and all that he did was about the glory of God. And his letter of instruction, his letter of gratitude, his expression of thanks, all of this was not, hey listen, look what I'm going through Hey, hey, look at me, look at what I've accomplished for God, or or as we'll see in a minute here, the witness that he was. I mean he's he was able to lead some people to Christ and and it it wasn't about that. He said it's all glory to God I recall in recent weeks somebody came to church here and they were just visiting. They had been here a couple of times and uh somebody in the foyer was talking to them and The the person said something to them and you know in in some measure of a compliment or something like that and they said, Hey, glory to God And uh this visitor who is not in church much uh was talking to somebody else and said, why? Why do pe why do you guys say that all the time, like glory of God or or praise God? Like what does God have to do with it I mean he's he's he's not he doesn't church is not his thing. He's not from church. He's not even saved yet. He doesn't know the Lord is Savior. For him, it's so foreign. The idea of expressing gratitude and praise to God, even for what man would look at as their natural ability. We understand, of course, that even our natural ability comes from God. I mean all all of it, ever any skill that we have is a gift from God. And we understand that and we say, Man, you know, tomorrow morning that skill could be gone I I wouldn't, you know, something could happen and I I wouldn't be able to walk tomorrow. It's all a gift from God, and so any opportunity we have, we give praise and honor and glory to God. And and Paul did that here He always was pointing people to God. And brethren, we need to do the same. You know, it's uh comfortable to talk about anything except God out in the public. But what uh what opportunity is that when in uh you know somebody says, well, how are you doing today? And you say, well, this is the day the Lord has made. I will rejoice and be glad in it. Or, hey, it's a great day, man. Didn't God give us beautiful weather today? And they look at you like you are nuts. Like, what? God, what are you talking about? They they say what did God have to do with it? Well God created this whole thing and and God is the one that's keeping it all in order and we give honor and praise to him and it points people to God And takes the focus off of us, which is where this world likes to put it. Likes to put it on us. We like to put the focus on us and what we can do as individuals and It's about my enjoyment, my position, my prosperity, my happiness. But we need to get to the place where really it's about Him. And we strive to bring honor and glory to Him. He must increase, and I must decrease. Amen. I hope that we have that spirit that Paul had here where we see it's about the glory of God. Then we see his greeting here to them He says, salute every saint. Verse 20 and 21, 22 there. He says, hey, every saint in Christ Jesus. Paul certainly is aware of the fact. That his time here on earth could be short. I mean, he's in prison, after all. He doesn't know if he's going to be released or he's going to be killed. He he's not sure what the outcome is going to be. But he bids them a farewell. And you know, when you know your time's short, what you're saying has a lot more weight. You consider and think about it. And maybe these Christians read this with a whole new level of appreciation for Paul as well. But he selects he salutes all the saints that are in Christ Jesus. You know, in order to be a saint, you don't have to perform a miracle. as some people would like to uh you know uh award you a sainthood uh you know if you can perform a miracle. Sometime in your life you have to perform a miracle and and several other things you have to do. I don't remember what they are. Galena, what do you have to do? to be a saint. I don't know. But you know, to be a saint, you gotta be in Christ. That's all you got to do to be a saint is to be in Christ, but Paul delineates or puts a demarcation line between those that are in Christ and those that aren't in Christ. There is a difference there, and he is greeting those that are in Christ. He is fellowshipping with them because they're in Christ. We know, of course, that because we're in Christ, we have new life. New life in Christ, abundant and free, what glorious shine and what joys are mine, what wondrous blessings I see. My past with its sin and searching and strife, forever gone, there's a bright new dawn, for in Christ I have found. New life. That's what Paul's talking about. He says we greet those that are in Christ. Those that know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, he puts a value on that relationship and recognizes it. Today's world is very popular to disregard that delineation. It's very popular, and especially in our world where you can jump on YouTube or you can uh you know listen to or watch just about any speaker from anywhere in the world at any time. It it's amazing how Put together, I mean you you have people sharing the platform, people that profess to know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, and they would say I'm in Christ. And they were they would share the platform with somebody that professes spirituality but denies the virgin birth. Denies the shed blood of Christ, denies the fact that Christ is the propitiation for our sin. Um d those that don't pray to God, they pray to Mary. And they they stand there together as if they're all the same. But you have somebody who's not in Christ by their own profession, and somebody that is. The Bible still teaches ecclesiastical separation. And our goal obviously should be in desire to win them to Christ, to bring them to Christ But what is their motivation to come to Christ if we stand on the platform and we say, I mean, they'll even stand with people that profess spirituality, and the spirituality is some form of Eastern mysticism That's how they seek God. And and well everybody serves God in their own way. Not according to the Bible. And we've got to be careful that we recognize that that delineation, that there is a difference. Just because somebody says uh something spiritual or or leans towards uh that inner peace. Are they in Christ Jesus? That's the difference between heaven and hell. That is the demarcation line. And Paul acknowledges it here, even in his farewell and his greeting to them. There may be a lot that are spiritual, but are they in Christ? Paul's common bond with those were those with them were those that were believers. The Bible says in Jeremiah 10, verse number 2, thus saith the Lord, learn not the way of the heathen. In Colossians 2. 8, he says, Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. You see, there's there's other philosophies out there. There's other beliefs out there. And we've got to be careful that we don't just say, oh, everything's fine. If I mean if you're in math class and and one Teacher over here says, hey, two plus two can be five. That's fine. You know, that's okay. And then the other teacher over here is saying, no, no, two plus two is four. It's always been four. It's always gonna be four. You can't just make it five. That doesn't work. So one or the other has to be right, right? There has to be somebody that's wrong. And In today's lovey dovey, everybody hold hands and stand around and sing kumbaya is is just Somebody's gotta be wrong. Okay, either either they know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior or they don't. And that's the line And we need to recognize it and there's a purpose, there's a reason we try and bring them to the saving knowledge of Christ. But if we look at them and say, hey, we love you and everybody's equal and we're all the same and we're all headed the same direction, he looks at his life and says, Hey. I'm fine. But what he believes doesn't line up with the scriptures. He salutes them, all the brethren. He talks about those that are there even in the house where he's a prisoner. And I can't help but think about the impact that Paul had where he was at. He was able to witness and reach people even though he was in prison. He was ministering and serving where he was at. I praise God for that. Paul just did the work of the ministry no matter what the circumstances were in his life. I'm concerned today at how little it takes to get us to stop. And and to to I'm not just talking about quit altogether. I'm not saying that you're gonna quit and get out of church. I'm just talking about how easily we say, oh yeah, no I can't be there. Um oh no I can't do that this week. I mean I I well I had a flat tire. Oh I can't I can't do it because I'm sick. Oh, I can't do it because my kids are sick. Oh, I can't do it because the water heater overflowed. Oh, I can't do it because the roof's leaking. Oh, I can't do it because, listen, all those are valid excuses. Are they not? I didn't mention anything that wasn't somebody would look at and say, yeah, I mean you can't do that, you're sick. But why is there an excuse every week? Why is there an excuse continually? You know what? If you're looking for an excuse, you're gonna find one. Always. It doesn't matter. There's always gonna be something in life that's not convenient To serve God, to do what God wants, to whether we're talking about being in choir or we're talking about going out on John and Romans distribution, like, oh, I was going to do that, but something always comes up on Saturday. I know It does for me too. I gotta preach on Sunday. I got that's hanging over my head The whole time I'm out hanging John and Romans in my mind I'm thinking about Sunday's message and and what direction the Lord wants me to go and and and thinking over and musing upon those things and I'm like I gotta get back to the office. What I'm saying is you want an excuse and you know it. It doesn't matter what it is, you'll find an excuse. And you know what? Every excuse you've ever offered has been a good one. And if anybody challenges your excuse, certainly you aren't going to be happy with that. Well this is a good excuse. It's never going to get easier, friend. It's always going to be hard. There's always going to be things that that come up. And sometimes they do come up. But if you live your life making excuses and you find yourself missing ministries and missing responsibilities and not being able to go serve God because different things listen only one life will soon be passed and only what's done for Christ will last Many things that we're investing our time in are are temporal. They're all going to pass away. I mean, the car that you're investing time and energy in is is gonna end up broken down in a junkyard somewhere. But anything you do for Christ lasts for an eternity. And Paul was serving Christ where he was at, in pre-salment prison? That's okay. Hey, Taylor, you got a minute? I'll tell you about somebody I know. Yeah, his name's Jesus. You know what he did to me? Let me tell you my story. I was riding a donkey and going down the road one day and I saw the light. Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He is the light of the world. And he changed my life. And he was a witness wherever he was at. You know we're always going to be in a hurry. Well and I'm as guilty as anybody in here because I am project driven. I am goal-oriented. But sometimes we need to pause to say, can I give you something Can I can I tell you about the Lord? You got just a minute? And in your mind you're thinking, I don't have a minute. Why am I doing this? I need to get home. There's somebody waiting But we need to impact people where we're at, or we're missing the opportunities that God brings our way. Every excuse is a valid one, but we've got to stop giving excuses and just start making a difference. That's what Paul did where he was at. He said, these these saints, these saints that have come to Christ here in my prison, they're saying hello to you. And they're thankful. We see, lastly, that it's the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's in verse number 23, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. This letter that Paul wrote to them, it began with grace, and it ends with grace. In verse chapter 1, verse number 2, he says, Grace be unto you and peace from our God, our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, the Christian life begins with grace. For by grace are you saved through faith, and then not of yourselves. It is the gift of God. The Christian life begins with grace, and you know what? It's gonna end with grace. It's the grace of God working in your life that allows you to live above our circumstances. Where Paul here in prison, he could say, listen, I can endure this because of the grace of God. He said, I remember back there where I had a thorn in the flesh? And I beg God to take it away, but God came to me and He taught me a valuable lesson. He taught me that my grace is sufficient for thee. And I've learned that, that God's grace is sufficient. And so Christians, I want to tell you about that grace. And as I began the letter and exhorted you to experience the grace of God, here again I'm closing the letter and I'm saying my prayer for you is that you will have the grace of God abundant and full in your life. It's through the application of grace that we learn to go through any type of persecution, any trial, any test. For we learn that God's grace is sufficient and it will sustain us So Paul bids his dear friends one last fond farewell, and he sets for them an example until the very end of one that we Was content and committed to Christ. I hope to be able to do the same I heard this last week, very sad, that somebody else I knew serving God in the ministry has come under some allegations. Had to step down from the ministry. Beloved, Satan's real. And he's trying to destroy every Christian that he can. We've got to stay on track with God. And I hope to, as Paul did, finish my course. I hope to be able to get all the way to the end and say, well, I've done what you commanded me to do. I'll tell you what, it it scares me to death. Just the reproach on the name of Christ. Where the world rejoices in it, don't they? They see any question that they could point at and say, see, look at him, see I hope that nobody here That Satan doesn't do that to any one of us. I hope we're able to stay true to the end, as Paul did. None of us are hey, let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall. So none of us have arrived. None of us have beyond that place. None of us said, oh, uh, I'm good. No, we've got to keep that focus right. Keep experiencing the grace of God and let it carry us through. As Paul said goodbye to them, he said, as we're part in our ways, let's give praise to God. Let's show love to the brethren. And let's pray for God's grace to be powerful and real in our lives