Losing track. We have seven children. But we stopped back by at a Christmas time. I can't even remember why, uh whether it was a health need we've flown back in for or what. I think it was a health need. Um but anyway we we stopped by at Christmas time. It was a blessing to see you then. Um we've been here just uh a couple times over the last few years. Um And what's a blessing is that we're in the area a lot uh more frequently than anywhere else in the country because my folks live over in Joffa. And so anyway, we're just grateful to be with you. Grateful for your support. And I just want to say that at the outset. Thank you so much for supporting our ministry, our family. uh there in Colombia. Um we're gonna try to share some more details uh tonight on some of the things that God's done um and then you'll see the video in the next hour about uh some of the things that God's done there in Colombia. But just to give you a little brief uh synopsis were church planning missionaries two hours north of the Ecuadorian border there in Southwest Colombia in the state of or the department of Nariño It's the section of Colombia in our state that grows more cocaine than anywhere else in all of the country. We don't necessarily need to be known by that, but that just gives you an idea of where we're at. But we're up in the coffee area. We're not so much in the cocaine area. We're more up in the coffee area at the altitude that we live at. And um and so anyway, we're involved in what's called simultaneous church planting. You could just see a little bit more of that in the video. And the idea is multiple churches at the same time at different uh stages of uh the church plant And there's nothing that I love more than seeing a brand new church started. It's really exciting to be there in the first the first days of that and to see people get saved, see people start walking with the Lord. begin to work with them in discipleship and then be able to see something new started, a new church, a lighthouse in their community. And so that's what we're doing. God gave us that that bug in our heart when we were college students. My wife and I, uh we had uh one of our professors approach us and ask us to help start a church in North Carolina, and so that became our sending church. Um and so we're just grateful now that we get to replicate that and do that in Colombia. So anyway, that gives you just an idea of what we're doing. My wife Amanda is somewhere with one of our seven kids, I imagine Um or maybe she's just taking a quiet time, I don't know. But uh anyway, hopefully hopefully not that. But if you take your Bibles this morning Um I was just trying to think about what what should I what what should I speak about in the Sunday school hour? And um you know, uh missionaries are guilty of preaching the same thing in more than one church, kind of like an evangelist does. I don't know if Uh if you have evangelists come through once in a while, but sometimes the missionary will preach the same thing in multiple places. But I don't want to ever get into the rut where I just always say the same thing wherever I go. Because every church is different and every church's needs are different and every group of people they're different. And so um last night as I was thinking and and praying uh about what to do, the Lord began to work in my heart. And so I would like to talk to you this morning about gospel teamwork. Gospel teamwork. Philippians chapter 4 In verse three, we're going to look at a verse here. It says, I entreat thee also, true yoke fellow. Now this we don't exactly do that nowadays. Greet somebody and and and you know I didn't come in this morning and say to your pastor, Good morning, yoke fellow, how are you doing? That wouldn't sound right, uh right? Um the idea of a yoke, uh we we understand that concept in Scripture. Jesus said my yoke is easy, my burden is light The idea of a yoke is to bring and harness two animals or more, depending on the yoke, but at least two animals together You can have a single yoke and only have one animal, but usually it's to put two animals together to be able to pull. And so the idea that Paul's saying here is, look, you guys were polling with me This person, I entreat thee, true Yoke fellow, help those women which labored with me in the gospel. And as you think of that verse, that's incredible. You think about this time period in Scripture There's a time period in the world when uh really women were looked down upon uh by some and and maybe not not uh honored, but but in the Bible you always find women honored in a special way. And Paul here just saying, look, these women had helped him in the gospel with Clement also and with other my fellow laborers whose names are in the book of life. And as we come back and we report about what God's done, we're excited. And you'll get to see some of the pictures of the churches, three churches planted in just four years and we my my my wife and I sometimes we look at each other and we say, man, how is all how are all these things happening? And as we think about it, we realize, you know, it's not just us. It's not just one family, it's not just one missionary. We begin to look at the people that God's brought our way and who've helped out, other Christians. Another missionary that God brought along at one point. Um and and we begin to see how God began to put the pieces of the puzzle together And then I begin to look at churches here in the States as we come and we report and we we realize, you know what, that's the same everywhere. There's an army of helpers. There's an army of co-laborers who are working together in the gospel so that the gospel can go forward. You know, as I come in, I look at this this this property and this building, it it just blows my mind. I got lost trying to just go find my wife this morning. I went down in the basement. I think it was the first basement. Your pastor said there's more than one basement And and I would hate to make my way down to this the second or third basement or however many you have. I don't think I'd ever get back up here. But you think about just a building like this, this didn't just happen by accident An army of people, a group of people, began to get involved. There was a day when you guys broke ground for the first time. That had been an exciting day. This this year we got to build a church building in Columbia. Uh this this year, the beginning of this year, January. We rented a property. Uh and and I know in America you'd love to rent a property for as cheap as they rent down there. But we rented a property, it got a great price on it. They wouldn't sell it to us, so we we got permission to build on it. We got a five year lease. And and we begin to break ground. You know that was exciting to clear the land, to to get it ready, to to begin to bring the gravel in and and and begin to set up the post and the walls and the roof and everything. That's exciting, but guess what? One person can't do it, right? And that's true in so many areas of life. One person can't do it. And you think about the apostle Paul. You know, sometimes we get this mentality, wow, look at all that Paul did. And and you read through the book of the Acts and you read at Paul and Paul and Paul, but you know you begin to look at the names around Paul's name and you find out there's a whole group of names around. around the Apostle Paul. And let me just mention a couple of them. You have uh Silas, Timothy, Luke, Mark, Apollos, even demons. who later on is mentioned in Scripture for him leaving and departing the work, but at one time served alongside the Apostle Paul. So as I think about this concept this morning, gospel teamwork, I think about the expression in our day. How many of you heard the expression teamwork is Dreamwork. Oh wow. We all know that, right? Teamwork is dreamwork. And yet they say that the number one reason that missionaries leave the field is because they can't get along with a coworker. Is that crazy or what? One of the number one reasons missionaries leave is because they were involved in a team and it didn't go well. It went south. Something happened. Somebody didn't like working with somebody. They couldn't work it out and so somebody leaves the field. You know, gospel teamwork is dream work, but there's some things that have to happen in order to work in a team. One, you have to not worry about who gets the glory, right? You have to worry about it it doesn't matter who gets the credit, it doesn't matter. It's not for our glory, it's for God's glory, it's for him. We have to realize who we're serving, right? We're in the yoke for the Lord. We're put together for the Lord, right? Alright, well I need to move a little bit beyond just the introduction. We kind of get the idea of teamwork, right? But I want to want to just mention some things. How is it that we team and we work with the missionary? Have you ever thought about that? You support missionaries, right? I guess let's put it this way. As you think about missions, what are things that missionaries need? And this is Sunday school, so you're allowed to talk, right? You guys allowed to talk in Sunday school here? Okay. Alright. When you think about uh uh missions, what do missionaries need? Just yes. Funding. Funding, okay. What else? I heard prayer, I heard encouragement, I heard something else I don't support, okay. Everything I love that answer. Alright. So he just preached our whole message. We could just pack it up and just go, right? Everything we need. That's right. Everything that any Christian needs, the missionary needs, right? And and and I'm just rapid I'm gonna try to rapid fire some of this stuff because I I have thirteen points and your pastor said we get done uh not tomorrow, but today sometime. So anyway, but but you think about prayer. What are some things that you can pray about your missionary for? Favor. What do you say? Favor. Favor. Okay, I love it. Um Paul talked about praying for an open door, right? Um okay, so Uh he prayed that this door would be opened unto them. Okay, so favor. You know, missionaries they go and they witness, but you know what? It's not just like they can witness to every single person and see a response. So they need favor. They need favor in front of government officials Yeah, one of the number one needs a missionary have uh right now are visas worldwide. Missionaries can't get into their country, especially post-COVID, right? You can't get into your country or you're delayed or whatever. We became illegals. That was something that happened in the last four years. We were in Colombia and we applied for a visa for my uh for my wife and I, but we didn't realize that we had to do the entire process for every one of our kids within 30 days or we all lost our visas. And so we were gonna, you know, hey, when you have five kids, six kids, you do it one at a time, right? You're talking about several hundred dollars each process So we were going to will it away one a month, you know, we're gonna do one a month, and then eventually by hopefully by Christmas we'll get it all done. And uh we went to apply for my son and it got kicked back, it got rejected. What's going on here And we found out that we were all living in Colombia illegally, we had to get out within two weeks. And so that was one of the times that we came here. What else? So favor? Prayer. We'll talk about prayer. You're praying for your missionaries, right? There's a ton of missionaries on that wall back there. How many missionaries you all support? Thirty-four missionaries. Praise the Lord for those thirty-four missionaries. Uh I heard the story about a missionary speak many years ago from Africa and he And he he left the field, and he left the field thinking that he was a failure. They failure. They had worked for year after year after year, had seen very little fruit. And came back to the United States thinking that all was in vain. And he walked into a church of the United States. It was one of the churches that has supported him And he kind of got there late and he arrived right as the service was beginning and he made his way to a corner in the back and he just sat there through the prayer meeting service, I believe it was on a Wednesday night. And as he listened to the preaching, he was encouraged by it, he was blessed by it. And then as he began to get the missionary prayer letters out and began to talk about the missionaries and pray for them, he listened for him and his family's name. And as he listened for him and his family name, they mentioned missionary after missionary, and then he realized that nobody had mentioned their name. Now again, it doesn't i it's not like this is not a self-serving message. But he began to think to himself, you know what, I wonder if the reason that we didn't see the fruit on the field was because people forgot us. I wonder if if maybe the reason that we had failures because we were forgotten. You know what? The church holds the ropes, right? The church is involved and not just financially, the church is involved. You have an investment in your missionaries, whoever they are. I saw some names back there, some people I know, some people I went to college with The Duartes. I know the Duartes from Ambassador. I remember the first time Jed showed up at college. And uh I mean that guy loves soccer. And now it's exciting to see him down in in in Brazil serving the Lord as a missionary pilot down there and what they're doing in the jungles there. Um the searchers. The Sherters, uh uh Mrs. Mrs. Shircher grew up in a family. I was best friends with her brothers in college at Pensacola. We used to sit together at six o'clock every day. We would eat breakfast together I only got up to eat breakfast then because I wanted to eat with them. Great people. You know what? You guys are an intricate part of their ministries. So boldness. You can pray for boldness. You can pray for witnessing opportunities. You can pray for safety. Amanda could tell you what the feelings in our heart were our the end of our first year. We got to October there, 2021. Uh we hadn't been there long on the field at all. And we had the Colombians, uh, our friends come to us and they said this. They said, keep an eye on your kids right now. Because right now they're kidnapping kids. And and just in a matter of a few days there had been eight kidnapped right in our our town where we lived in. And they said, you you just gotta watch your kids. You don't want to get let them get out of sight. You gotta make sure they're close by We had that happen again this last year when they were kidnapping kids, one of the towns that we have Bible clubs in. We had them even try to kidnap a couple of kids from the Bible club. But a few days after they had kidnapped the kids and they didn't know where they were, somebody told us they found the bodies of the kids in the cemetery. They had all the organs cut out and they disposed of the bodies in the cemetery. You know what? You could pray for safety for your I mean, that's those are just Colombians. They're not even foreigners. Pray for safety. Pray for a sense of safety, you know. Um there's this there's this need not just to be safe, but to feel safe We got broken into and robbed at December there uh in in Columbia this last December. And you know what? For for a quite a while the kids didn't even want to go sleep in their rooms. They wanted to sleep in our room. Now I don't mind having our kids in our room, but you know, it'd be nice to have the sense of safety to where they wouldn't worry about where they are in the house. And so you can pray about that. Okay, let's move on past prayer. Because we understand the prayer, right? I think that we all get that. I want to mention just a few other things. You know what? As you think about your missionaries and you think about this prayer, think about and pray for their adaption. I was going to move past prayer, but I just thought about this. But then also try to find ways to encourage them. Send an email, maybe. How are you doing? You know, missionaries, and this is another point down the way, but missionaries rarely hear from their churches. I think there's three churches. I think it's actually just two, but occasionally there's a third church that will. But there's only two churches that we hear from You'll go a year, two years, uh or more, and never hear from from churches. You know what? If I didn't send a prayer letter out for two or three years I think your pastor would I think I mean I think we wouldn't be here today, right? Um and I'm not saying that churches have to send prayer letters to their to their missionaries. I heard of a missionary in Mexico. He's a second or third generation. Actually, uh Don would know his family. And I guess I ought to be careful. But uh anyway, he he was with me there in Colombia and he he he had uh had a pastor contact him. about a prayer letter. And I don't know why he did this. I don't think this is a good idea. But he told the pastor, he said, Yeah, I would like a prayer letter too. Don't do that, right? Don't do that as a missionary. Don't do that. But he's like, I want to know what's going on. You know what? A missionary that first goes to the field is in an incredibly dangerous time the first year, especially, because culture shock hits him You know what? Um for our kids the entire world turned brown in one day. And and the entire language changed in one day. One day we're in America? We get on an airplane, it's all exciting. They've never been on an airplane at all in their life. Our oldest how old was Timothy when we first flew down? Was he six? Or he m six or seven. Anyway, I think he was seven. He just turned seven. So seven. Okay, so our oldest was seven. Our youngest was what two? At the time? Okay, and so imagine if you will, one day you're in church after church after church. Every week you're in different church, right? And you're talking to people, you're meeting new people, and then one day it just seems like another travel day, right? You get on an airplane, that's all exciting, and you land, and everybody's speaking another language. And then you go through that and you go to your house, and guess what? It looks different than any other house you've seen. And all the houses everywhere look different. They're you know run-down-looking brick buildings, right? And then all of a sudden, now you realize you don't understand anybody. That's what a missionary goes through the first few months Um I I counted up last night. We've moved fourteen times in the last seven years or eight years. The last eight years we've moved fourteen times. Um, you know, that affects kids. So as you think about adaption, let me just read you this poem. I I I love this. There was once a man from the land of yellow. Everything around him was yellow, the trees, the houses, even the food. And so was he. One day God whispered to his heart, Go to the land of blue, tell them about me. So he packed up his life and he left. When he arrived in the land of blue, but when he arrived in the land of blue, everything was different. He looked different, he sounded different, he felt out of place. Still, he stayed Not to fit in, but to teach the to reach the people for Jesus. So he began to change. He learned their ways, he spoke their language, he walked their streets and sat at their tables, but something strange happened. He was no longer fully yellow and never truly blue. And that's something the missionaries never fully like the people they minister to. Because they're American. They just they can't sound like him. He was never truly blue. He had become something else, something in between. Green. This is the missionary secret. Missionaries become green and there's no going back. They no longer have a clear home. They carry two cultures in one heart, always missing someone somewhere. Pray for the green ones, those who go to a place Who gave up a place called home so others could find their home in Christ. So anyway, that's what I'm trying to say this morning is this. So forgive me for just coming in here guns ablazing and let's talk real fast What I'm trying to say is this, remember your missionaries have all the same needs that you do. Right. All of them. They're no better people than anyone in any church anywhere in America. They're normal Christians just like you with all the same struggles, with all the same burdens, with all the same problems. You know what? I yell at my kids too. And I need to get right with the Lord and ask the Lord to help me and give me patience And some of the things that frustrate a missionary dad as they as they go through all of the changes and struggles and problems with their with their kids, uh it hits me once in a while, you know what? Stop, wait a second They're in a lot of pressure too. They're facing a lot of changes too. And so as we as we come back to churches, one of the things I just want to say this morning is just remember you're part of this teamwork with your missionary So if I can share just a few things with you that might open your mind to what it's like to be a missionary so you'll understand why they're weird, why they roll up in a huge bus, because it was cheap. Why they do dumb things sometimes. Just remember, th th this is gonna help us understand missionaries and and be able to be a better uh team member with them. And I'm not saying you guys aren't a great team member, you guys are awesome team members. So, okay. Alright, let's look at some uh some passages in Acts. So prayer. I forget what I gave as the second point up there, because I was trying not to give them all my 14 points here. Um but anyway, uh think about think about teaming with missionaries and think about the Bible. Because it just it blows my mind now as I read the scriptures and I look at Paul and I say, Wow. Look at how they teamed with him and the things they did. Go with me to Acts 18, 24 through 28. I'm going to go ahead and start reading as you turn there. A certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, whom when Aquila and Priscilla, and they're our first example here her had heard, they took him and expounded to him the way of God more perfectly. When he was disposed to pass in Nicaea, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him, whom when he was come helped them much, which had believed through grace. Okay? I want to focus in on just that that phrase. When he left, it says in verse, I forget what verse it is, the brethren wrote, What is this? This is something so small you can read over it and just forget it. This is just a good word. This is just Christians, Aquila and Priscilla writing about this young man. Hey, receive this guy, accept this guy, help this guy, help him in his ministry. Um and you know sometimes that's all it is. It's just a a a letter of recommendation, a good word, a way to be an encouragement, a help to a brother or a missionary or somebody going by. You know, we can we can do that. Um So let me I uh it just reminded me in Arizona we broke down coming across the desert and we broke down next to Arizona City. Didn't know anybody in Arizona City And I and I got a phone call not long after, because I first thing you do when you break down, what do you do? You call mom and dad and say, Pray for us. We're broken down here at the d in Arizona. It's like 118 degrees. And then I get a phone call from a pastor I didn't know who was in Arizona City, who somebody had heard about our situation and called the pastor and the pastor helped us. He he helped us be able to get a tire for a trailer and whatnot. What was that? Just a good word. A pastor who doesn't know us and now all of a sudden is helping. Why? Because another pastor took an interest in a missionary who's broken down in the desert and just made a phone call. You know, um, one of the reasons deputation takes so long is the missionaries don't know any pastors. And so then they try to call pastors they don't know and who don't know them. You know, you you might some down the road, you might take on a missionary and he's starting out on deputation. You know, you don't have to call all the pastors in the area, but you might be like, hey, I got a cousin, and they go to this church. Give the missionary that name. What is that? That's a good word. And it may be a way to help get them through the field quicker. Acts nineteen twenty-nine. Acts nineteen twenty-nine says this the whole city was filled with confusion, having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel. Have you ever thought about missionary travels? Yet. Sometimes you'll hear this, you're like, oh, so you guys are on vacation Oh yeah. Yeah right. Vacation, yeah. We went six thousand miles last month and I'm just telling you no matter which way you cut it with seven kids in a bus. For 6,000 miles in 30 days, that is not vacation. We have bunk beds in the back. We ripped out the seats and we're doing our best and But I'm just telling you, that's not vacation. Vacation is where you go rest, right? You're like, no, when I go on vacation, I've got to come back and rest, right? Okay. But a missionary's travels, it says their companions in travel. Why were they with him? Just to travel with them. Um, I've heard of this with missionaries and and and maybe someday I don't know, have you sent a missionary out from this church? No, not yet. Not yet, okay? Pray for that. Pray for the young people that come that you can one day send one out. But when you send one of those out, you know one of the things you could do? Hey, you're going through the field for the first time? Do you mind if I travel with you just to help watch your kids while you handle all the suitcases? We we flew into Columbia with eighteen suitcases. Was it eighteen or twenty-one? It was twenty-one suitcases Fourteen of them were filled with Bibles. That's my fault. And and then the other ones, the other seven, were were our our family's possessions. You know what? Just if we would have had somebody along to help keep the kids while we manhandled 21 suitcases would have been a blessing, right? You know, your missionary is going for the first time. That might be a way that you can help them out. You know when they come back from the field, they still bring suitcases. Because they're coming back for a furlough or whatever, right? Uh what about saying, hey, you know what, I'm not the pastor, but can I meet you at the airport and and just help you with your luggage? I know of a missionary who had to rent two vehicles because they had their their luggage and nobody meeted met them at the airport. They're coming back for furler. Nobody met them at the airport. They had to rent two vehicles just to get home. And you know what missionaries do that all the time. Um a companion in travel, helping along in that way Uh we had a couple when we were appointed to our mission board who who rented a house and went all the way down to Florida to be there to help us out with our kids while we were going through the the doctrinal review and all the various reviews. Is this okay to do all this? Is this making sense? You all bored? You all like ready to go to sleep or okay. I think I have about about five or six minutes, something like that As we think about other areas that you can partner with and whatnot, Acts 16, 14, and 15 comes to mind. A certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple, of the city of Thyra, Tyre, which worshiped God, heard us, whose heart the Lord opened, and she attend that she attended to the things which were spoken of Paul, and when she was baptized in her household, she besought us Saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide there, and she constrained us. Later on at the end of the chapter, you find Paul going to her house and meeting the brethren, which tells me the church was meeting at her house They met with Paul at her house. But you know what? Lodging is a big deal for missionaries. Um I'm gonna just this you guys, I heard you have a uh a um prophet's chamber. And you guys offer that to us. Thank you so much. You know there's so many churches that they don't have anything like that. A missionary, what do they do? They they're they're going to be at a church on Sunday, but And they're going to be in the missions department maybe Saturday night and Sunday night. But let me just ask you this question. What do they do Monday night and Tuesday night and Wednesday night and Thursday night and Friday night? Have you ever thought about that? You know, uh what we try to do, because we don't want to be a burden to churches, but we go Saturday night and Sunday night. We usually stay in our bus, occasionally we'll stay in a prophet's chamber. But we try to get out of Dodge on Monday. Why? Because we're not going to be a bum to the church. Right? You don't want to be a bum to the church and just hang around forever, right? You don't want to just eat up all their electricity. You just don't want to take all their water, right? But you know what? The missionary has to disappear somewhere until the next Sunday when they're at another church, right? So, you know, this is this is not, again, this is not about us. This is about a missionary someday that you send out of this church. Think about ways that that how are they going to be lost? Where are you going to stay? When you go to the field, where are you going to stay until you find a place to live? How are you going to work that out? You know, uh you think about uh renting on the field. Most missionaries have to pay a year rent in advance. to rent their church building, to rent their house. Those are all areas that are just related to lodging What about their chairs for their church, their sound system? And again, we don't have any of those needs. All of those have been met by God's grace. But as you see your missionaries and you look at their needs, those are some areas we can think about. Okay, I'm just going to give you two more. And we'll have to be done. Romans 16, 6. Please go there with me. Romans 16. 6. It's a small tiny little mention in the scriptures. You're gonna leave here and you're gonna be like, yeah man, those missionaries are like the neatest people in the world, aren't they? It just says this greet Mary. Who bestowed much labor on us. Who's talking? The Apostle Paul. One tiny little verse. You just read past it and you just go on, and it's not It's not like, you know, John 3, 16 or Romans 10, 9, and 10, and we don't even think anything of it. But think about what's packed in that little verse. The Apostle Paul traveling all around the world. If you add all his years of ministry together and you think about how much time he was actually on the field, Sometime in the sometime a around thirteen years that he was actually on the mission field. His first missionary journey only lasts between one and two years. And you think about it, somewhere along the way he met Mary and she bestowed much labor on us. So I begin to ask myself, what kind of labor did she do? Now the Bible doesn't say. But I imagine it only makes sense that this lady, the kind of labor she was bestowing on him and his missionary team, because it's not just him, on us, plural, was things like food. Right? Cooking a meal. I don't know what kind of laundry the Apostle Paul had, but I know missionaries a lot of times have laundry in the back of their vehicle. Where do you do your laundry if you're in a church every week? You don't have a house that you're living in, so you throw it in a bag in the back and it begins to smell like the kids do, right? And and occasionally you'll have somebody at church be like, oh if you have any laundry, there's a there's a washing machine downstairs. You know, go ahead and use it. But but you're trying to figure out where to go. You know, you maybe find a laundromat along the way. But imagine Mary was, you know, hey, can I can I help you with some clothes? Can I can I help you with some food? And she bestowed much labor to the point where she got it mentioned in Scripture because of what she did. There's so many ways you can help. And I just want to throw this plug in there. It's not just your missionary It's your church. It's your pastor. It's your pastor's family. How can we serve our pastor and our pastor's family? How can we make his burden lighter You know, he's got burdens on him. We have a brother and sister in Christ that are going through a situation. This applies to any Christian anytime. You think about missionaries and just the physical needs like food. You know, most missionaries they're rushing to make it to the to the service. Sometimes they miss the meal before church because they just have to get there. They come into church and their kids are screaming and crying and we begin to judge. Like why are they like that? Did they eat? We had a missionary show up in our church in Columbia there and I think I scared his wife a little bit. Because they they're a Colombian missionary going to another to an Indian tribe in Colombia there and we invited them to come to our church. And I'm a missionary, so I know kind of some of the things you go through, right? And so she was sitting there on the second row of church and and uh and she got there and they had three little kids. You know, that's the way it is with missionaries, right? They always have a bazillion kids. Is that the way it is with missionaries? You know they got like seven, eight and ten kids and you're like, good grief, man. You talk about living by faith, boy you are doing it. Right? She had three kids and they're crying and all that and and I just said, Hey, have you guys eaten? No, we hadn't eaten. So what I I went down to the center of town. We started church late. Why? We got chicken. We brought it back to the church. We fed the kids. Here's some chicken. Why? Because they haven't even eaten yet before they got to church. You know what, um that happens all the time. I think about a missionary family that came to our church growing up. Six kids and they drove somewhere to another church here in Maryland and they presented their ministry and they came back. They got up in about ten, eleven o'clock at night And we asked them, have you eaten? No. And come to find out, they had gone to the church, they had presented, and when they left, there th there was no love offering given. Not that that matters. There was no love offering given. and they didn't have any way to stop and get food for the kids on the way home. Then we began to talk to them about other places they were going and come to find out they always had peanut butter and jelly in the car to just be able to ha have something to eat. That was something that they would do And so anyway, I think the Lord's telling me something 'cause they want my notes. Okay. All right. Come with me to Second Timothy, and we'll end with this one here. 2 Timothy. Remember, Paul was in a prison toward the end of his life. What did he say to Timothy? Bring what? For those theological scholars. Bring what? Bring parchments, books. Bring what else? A cloak. You know that was a small need, but here you have a missionary basically saying, Look, I need I just need a coat. Um but we come to the end of Paul's life, Second Timothy four eleven. Man, I'm I don't know, Pastor, if it it's just really quiet in here. Maybe this is not what maybe this is not a good thing to preach on a Second Timothy four eleven, that just it just hits me in in a different way than it did when I was growing up as a pastor's kid. Paul says this only, and that's a big only. Only Luke is with me. Paul's reaching the end of his ministry. He served the Lord for years. He's planted many churches. And he's got one person left. Take Mark and bring him with thee, for he's profitable to me for the ministry. Okay, there's a lot packed in that verse. First of all, what was Luke? A doctor. Okay? Why do you think Luke was with Paul? Well he was helping out. You know he helped out a lot. Why would you think Paul might need a doctor with him? Have you ever thought about that? Yeah, I mean it seems like every other town. He gets beat up, stoned, thrown in jail. I mean can you I imagine the uh I imagine the doctor Luke had an awful lot of work with the Apostle Paul all of his ministry, right? You know, we don't see any messages that that Luke preached. I know we have two books that he wrote. I I understand that, but we don't have messages that he preached. We don't ever see him standing up and discipling and preaching to people But you know one of the things we find about him? He was a faithful helper. He was a faithful team member. And he did the things that God had enabled him to do to be part of the team. And one of the things I just want to point out as we close in this is not the medical needs that he surely would have been able to be a help in, but it's this. Only Luke is with me. What is that? Presence. Their presence. You know what? Missionaries come and they go. They're there for one weekend and they go to the next place, and you might not see them again for four years, five years, ten years. Whatever it might be. You might never see them again. But you know what? Just being present when you can is a huge deal. Luke was just with them. Can I say that? That's huge in your church You know what? It's not so much when we're present that it's noticeable, right? Pastor, when the church all the churches right there, it's not like you notice every single person more than likely, like okay, they're there. When is it most noticeable? When they're not there. Right? It's the Sunday that you realize where's so and so? They're not here. And you miss them, right? The apostle Paul says, look, only Luke is with me. Everybody else is left. You know what? Your pastor, your church, your fellow Christian, they need you. They need your presence. They need your love. They need your care. They need your word of encouragement. And when you're not there, that's when it that's when it hurts the most, right? You know what? Maybe it's just maybe it's just one of your missionary families out there that you read their prayer letter and you see they're going through a hard time. Maybe it's just sending them a note saying, hey, we're praying for that need. You know what, that's probably going to be the only note they get. That might they might get one email, maybe. And it's like they just wrote to you of the greatest burden of their heart that they weren't even sure they were going to put in a prayer letter But when they get that email, when they get that note, when they get that phone call, that text, you know what? That might be the thing that puts wind in their sails, and they realize, you know what, there's somebody that's present there with me in the ministry. in the team. So anyway, I need to close. Heavenly Father, thanks for this time in Jesus' name. Amen.