Graduate rushed outside, having completed his college degree, he stood on the porch and he shouted, I've made it! I have my A B Grandmother sitting on the bench looked up at him and said, Well young man, sit down here and I'll teach you the rest of the alphabet. Just because we have uh achieved a level of uh graduation or a level of education, I think we all understand that uh that is not the end That uh there is more and and we're gonna continue. You might have the alphabet done, but there are a few other things that we have yet to learn. In Ecclesiastes chapter number three, a familiar passage of scripture this evening talking about the times of life, the seasons of life, and the things that God has planned for us. We see in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verse 1. Follow along as I read down to verse number 8. He says, to everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted, a time to kill, and a time to heal, a time to break down, and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance, a time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing. Amen Only my kids got that. I'm just joking. But uh time number six, a time to get uh and a time to lose, a time to keep, and a time to cast away, a time to render, and a time To so a time to keep silence and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time to war and a time of peace. We see here in this passage of Scripture that the Lord, our God, has given to us the idea that He has a plan. that he has established uh a set time and there's times for different things in our life. There are different stages in life. There are different times for different things. These things come and they go. They uh God has established them for us. We come from the place that we're born and we progress through life to ultimately one day, unless the Lord comes back. We know that we will pass away. Life, beloved, is an ever-changing and an ever-advancing proposition. There are different seasons to each and every Person's life, and in each season there is that season has and contains its own joys and its own sadness. It contains its own challenges and its own blessings. We just need to learn how to live and to enjoy the season that we're in. The time that God has us, there are in the auditorium this evening people uh in really just about every different season of life. I think you maybe the youngest of kids in the nursery and such, but Beyond that, we have all the way from those that are would be in like middle school, uh, high school graduates, college, college graduates. Young married couples, those with just the youngest of kids, those all the way that their kids are grown and out of the home and retired and I won't tell you who, but some just about ready to call it quits. Amen. No, just kidding. We we every stage of life was represented, and we know that in each stage we have its own challenges and blessings. This evening here we're gathered to rejoice with those that have successfully completed one stage, some more successfully than others. But they've each completed that stage. You know They've received their diplomas. They've officially what you say is uh graduated. They graduated. That word graduate in verb form means to earn a degree or diploma. From a school, college, or university. In a noun form, it means to move from one level to the next to advance by degree or to improve, to graduate Life is a constant graduation. That's what life is. Not just necessarily in the stages of school which are marked and measured by segments of time in an accomplished course of study. But there are continual stages, advancements, steps of life that we take where we move from one level to the next, where we grow. Some of those changes. Are hard. Some of those changes are sweet. Sometimes they're fun. Sometimes they're difficult. But through life we continue to move forward. Psalms 90, verse 9 tells us that our life is as a tale that is told. A tale that is told. A progression of steps. You know, I uh heard the college students, I was able to go down to graduation and I heard my own kids talking to other kids and yes, it's an exciting time. We're going to graduate and officially we're done and hallelujah, we're finished with classes. Amen, Andrew. Done with classes. But at the same time they were all crying. What are you crying about? Well, I'm leaving all my friends and I'm leaving all, you know, the dorm life and and and the all of this. I'm gonna miss all of this and and and There's a level of sadness because why? You're progressing to the next stage of life. Maybe there's some apprehension. So Johnny is here and She got to be uh homeschooled for the last little bit and enjoyed uh studying on her own and and and hear in hearing of Christian education and As she goes off to college, there might be some some apprehension, some, oh man, I'm going to be in these college classes. Shamar was telling me that uh uh workouts on the college level were a whole new level. He walked into church today. I says, Man, you have lost some weight, sir. You you have uh and he's like, Man, they're running me like crazy, you know. He said the workouts they got me doing is a whole new thing, college level I could tell you when I went to college, I went with fear and trembling. I thought I was gonna fail every class. I I said, I'm here, but there's no way I'm making it I mean I was just just just thought no way. And I I entered with fear and trembling and gave it a hundred and ten percent because I I just felt like boy I'm in trouble. I'm way out of my league here. Each stage of life might have some apprehensions. I know new parents. They're at the hospital. They may feel ready, but when the doctor hands them that baby That new baby, there's a stage of life that you just weren't ready for. You're like, oh my goodness, wow, this is a new life, and we're gonna care for her and train her and raise her and and and teach her and we're responsible It's our job to love and care and raise her a whole new level of responsibility We should purpose tonight that we will ever be pressing on and moving forward, that we'll never stop graduating. A college class was graduating on a hot, humid day, and as the graduates walked across the platform, the president of the college he brightly uh looked into their eyes and handed them the diploma and he said loudly, Congratulations And then more quietly he said, keep moving. Um It was a hot, humid day, and what he was trying to do was get the college students to let's Let's get this done. It's hot out here. We got a lot of people to get across this stage. Keep moving. He was really trying just to keep the line moving across the stage, but you know that's really good advice for life Keep moving. After every achievement, after every stage of growth, after each graduation, after each job or promotion, after retirement, the best advice is keep moving. one older gentleman, I think it might have even been Brother Jim uh Peters who who You know, he he was around and working and here he was approaching ninety and and uh was still active and and I said, Man, how do you stay so young and spry? How do you keep And he said, just keep moving. He said the the alternative you're not interested in. So you just if you want to keep living, you've got to keep moving. So we ought to keep we ought to keep moving. And you know, beloved, the Christian life is much the same way. It is God's plan that we should continue to grow and to go for God. We are to continue to graduate. We should never reach a place where we think finally, okay, I'm here. I have arrived, I have achieved a level of spirituality that is significant, and I'm satisfied. No, we should continue to move forward. Just as we know, the high school graduate, each level of graduation, although it is a conclusion, at the same time it's just a beginning. A high school graduate is just embarking upon college. The college graduate is just embarking upon life in the workforce. The young married person just embarking upon their life together in each stage. It's a conclusion of a previous stage, but the beginning of a new one. I won't be long this evening, but I have three areas where I see as Christians we should continue to graduate. First of all, we should graduate. in our love and concern and consumption of the scriptures. We should graduate in We see that in the scripture very clearly in 1 Peter 2 verse number 2. He says that the newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that they may grow thereby. You see, a baby desires the sincere milk of the Word. A new Christian, somebody just starting out, begins to read the Word of God and You know, I would never encourage a brand new Christian to begin reading there in the beginning of the Old Testament. You know, real quickly, even if they start in Genesis, which the first few chapters are pretty interesting, but you know, real quickly they're going to be getting into Leviticus. That's a little harder. It won't be long and they're going to reach the Chronicles and they're going to say, boy, this isn't very interesting. And they're going to want to quit. That may be not necessarily what they need. They as they start out with the sincere milk of the word, I would encourage them to maybe read the gospels Maybe graduate and begin to read a little bit of the epistles. Let's read the letters that Paul wrote to the churches and Soak some of that up and maybe do a little bit of Bible study there and slowly work your way into it. When you begin, a new Christian, he might begin just reading a few verses a day. He might begin just reading a a chapter a day. But as you grow, we should take on or begin to study a little more of the Bible. At some point, we're to stop being babes in Christ and we're to start taking on the meat of the word You see, it's the babe that desires the sincere milk, but there's a there's a level of graduation that the Bible talks about where in Hebrews 5. 13 he says, For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. You see, babes don't like the meat of the word. They bristle at straightforward preaching. They resist the peas and the carrots, as it were. They don't like that that stuff maybe that is real good for you. They're a babe in Christ. That might be a little too much, a little too heavy for them. But as we mature as Christians, we should become skillful in the Word. Now let me ask you, Pastor Derrick's not here anymore. I think I can ask this question. I think it's relatively safe that I get a pretty consistent answer from the auditorium today. Would you say that Pastor Derrick is skillful with the word? I would agree that he's skillful with the word I miss having him down the hall where when I'm studying something, I can just say, hey, have you studied this out? What do you do you know somebody that wrote something on this? I need to get some better understanding of this. It was a blessing to have him write down the hall Well let me ask you, you may have been saved one year, ten years, fifteen, I don't I don't know. But let me ask you, you you you you acknowledge and say, yeah, Pastor Derek is skillful with the word, amen. But let me ask you, are you Skillful with the word? You say, well, that's not what you were asking, Bather. We're not talking about me tonight. We're talking about Pastor Derek. Yeah, but see, at some point we're supposed to graduate. At some point we're supposed to grow. At some point we're supposed to stop being babes. We're supposed to graduate to meet. At some point we're supposed to graduate to the point where we as Christians become skillful with the word, maybe to various varying degrees. I know Pastor Derek was gifted with a with an extremely good memory and and he has that ability that kind of adds and helps him with that, but that doesn't give us an excuse to not try to not strive to be skillful with the word. As we graduate and grow, we should become skillful with the word of God. On occasion, we've had babes in Christ, maybe, came to visit the church, some guests, and the the meat of the word rubbed them the wrong way. Uh I remember Jackie, um Abe's wife now, the very first Sunday she came to church I wasn't even ten minutes into the Sunday morning message and she got up and walked out. And uh later I found out that she was not a happy camper. She did not like what I had to say that Sunday morning. But you know what we continued to uh love her, continued to be a friend to her. Ultimately she got saved and trusted Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior, and she continued to grow in the Lord. Now, Abe and Jackie are very faithful servants of the Lord of the church down there in Colorado. They're serving in the ministry. They're going out witnessing. They're reaching lost people for the Christ. And Jackie has written back here to Mary several times and said, thank you. For Hunt Valley Baptist Church, thank you for preaching the word. Thank you for what I learned at our church. Abe and Jackie Boltz say this is still their church This is their home church and they they they miss being here. But sometimes, you know, the babes in Christ, maybe the meat's a little too much, but we should start to grow and graduate. Amen? We also see that we should graduate in our service. Beloved, God has something for each and every one of us to do. In 1 Corinthians 15, 58, he says, Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. And I love it. I love it to know that what we do for God is not in vain. There's so much we do in this life that's empty and useless and vain, but anything we do for Jesus is not in vain. Any of it. And beloved, we're to be serving God. Can I ask you tonight, are you doing what God wants you to do for him? Are you doing that? Are you serving in the way and as much as God would have you serve? I'm just saying to search your heart before God and say, God, am I doing what you would have me to do? Am I fulfilling your desire for my life? Life brings changes. We don't necessarily, from the first time that we volunteer at church, continue to do the same thing all the way through. Now, some people for many years We'll continue to do. Miss Martha, teach in Sunday school for many, many years. How many years have you been teaching Sunday school? Well, all total. Thirty-five years teaching Sunday school. Praise God. Faithfully, continuing to do that. Sometimes you know you might come in and volunteer and we say, Hey, we need a greeter, and you might be a greeter You might not always be a greeter. You might say, hey, you know what, the Lord uh I'm happy to do whatever, and Don might come to you and say, you know what, we need We need an usher. Would you be willing to fulfill that role? And you say, sure, I could do that, but who's gonna stand here at the door and greet people? And uh we say, Well, Shamar, you look like a fine upstanding young man, respectable You got a smile on your face. Would you would you stand at the door and greet people? And Shamar says, well yeah, I I can do that. And so he steps into that position and and starts to fulfill that role and serve God that way and you You might start out singing in choir and in your serving and singing in choir and then uh you're up here and you're singing and somebody says, Man, they sound pretty good. Uh hey, could you join the ladies group Or could you join the guys group and you get involved in other areas of ministry? You might not do the exact same thing, but we ought to continue to be doing something. As you grow in the Lord, taking that next step. Maybe there's changes. Maybe life stages sometimes are different. What you could do when you were younger, your body doesn't allow you to do when you're older You guys know the Normans are here tonight, and they certainly don't want me saying anything about them, but they're servants here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and gladly served, but they have right now a change in their life. That made that that made all that they were doing uh impossible for them right now. And that that's understandable. So what I'm saying is sometimes life brings about changes, but Are you still doing what you can do for God and what God would want you to do? It's not necessarily a bad thing if you've stepped into the next role that God has for you, but if you step back and you've stopped doing anything for God, then maybe God's trying to get your attention tonight. Beloved God called us and saved us to serve, not to sit Every believer ought to find a place to serve God. You know, let me encourage you as a family, serve God together. I grew up in a home where we as a family served God together. We did it together. Can I say I was always happy about it? No. But we did it together. My kids grew up in a home where we served God together. We just did it as family. We never used family as an excuse not to serve God. Or you say, we're just going to do it together as a family. And and let's put God first as a family. Can I say the kids were always happy about it? No. I can tell you they've asked me. Why are we the last ones here? Why do we have to clean this up? We weren't the only ones here. Because we get the privilege of serving God's people. That's what we get to do. And as they get older, they they like it. Right, Alicia? Amen. We we we're called to serve and and so just graduating in our service, you know Doing what God wants us to do, stepping up to the plate, fulfilling the role that God would call us to. We graduate also in our sacrifice. Hebrews 10, verse number 12 tells us, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down on the right hand of God. We know the Lord Jesus Christ paid and gave the ultimate sacrifice for us. And as Christians, as we learn and become more even more aware of what it is that Christ did for us to purchase our salvation, The ability that we have to sacrifice should grow. It should literally be less and less of a sacrifice the older we get. You know, my mom and dad could call me and ask for just about anything, and for me it wouldn't be that much of a sacrifice. If it's within my ability to do, I just want to do it because I know what they've done for me. I won't always have the privilege to be able to do for them. My dad turned 77 in April. His dad died at 58 and his mom died at 63. And he's 77. And still pretty healthy, doing well. I praise God. But you know, I also realize that it could be at any time that we're going to be saying goodbye. And so I want to seize the opportunity and do what I can for him. Beloved, as we grow in our love for the Lord. God's call upon us to sacrifice should be less and less of a sacrifice and just a privilege. Just a privilege. You know, a babe in Christ. It's a big thing for them just to come to church on Sunday morning once a month. Like you mean you want to go every Sunday to church? You mean every Sunday to church? Yeah, every Sunday. And they say, wow, that's a big commitment. And you start growing in the Lord and as you grow in the Lord you say, man, uh what you know, somebody, Brother Hunt, corners you and says, Hey, why don't you come to Sunday school? You know, sun you want me to come to Sunday school too? I'm already coming to Sunday morning every Sun I've been here every Sunday morning. You want me to come to Sunday school? And then you grow in the Lord, you come to Sunday school You grow in the Lord and and y you begin to come and be here at Sunday night and maybe y you participate and come on Thursday nights and you grow in the Lord and and before long that that's not really a sacrifice. It's just part of life. You're just serving God and desirous to spend as much time with Him as you can. You've graduated. You've grown When you first got saved, the idea of helping others was wonderful, but it was a sacrifice. As we heard by testimony here tonight. The people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church love to serve others. We praise God for that. You know, as you grow in the Lord, you reach the place. Like Paul reached in Philippians 2. 17, he says, yea, if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith. I joy and rejoice. He says, hey, if I could serve you, if I could be offered as a sacrifice and service for you, then I joy. I rejoice because it's my privilege to just serve you. You graduate and you grow once it was a burden, once it was a challenge, but then it becomes a privilege to serve others. You know when you first got saved? When you first started coming to church, it was a sacrifice just to put a dollar in the plate. Say, oh, here you go. I can't believe I just gave a dollar of my own free will Not gonna get anything for it and I just put a dollar in the plate. I mean I could have well you pretty much can't buy anything for a dollar anymore but but I mean even the dollar store is not a dollar, but you know you you you start out and you say you whatever it might be, maybe it's five dollars and you put it in there and you're kind of surprised at yourself and you think, wow Boy, I I sacrificed and I gave. And then you happen to be in church one service and the pastor is talking about tithing and giving ten percent of everything? Ten percent? Oh my goodness. And Then it gets really bad because then he starts talking about gross versus net and you're like, oh, he has lost his ever-loving mind. That guy is Crazy. There's no way I'm going to do that. But you grow in the Lord and you think, well, okay. And you by faith step out and you start to sacrifice and you start to give, and over time you grow and you think, man I don't know how it's happening, but I seem to be better off now than I was when I before I started giving. I don't know how this is working out, but God is blessing and God is multiplying. I got a raise at work and God's causing the car to keep on running and whatever it might be, God. I'm just amazed at what God's doing as you put him first in your finances and you grow in the Lord and then you're being faithful to church and march rolls around and we have missions conference And you're like, what? What what do you mean? Give something to missionaries? I'm already tithing I'm already given to I mean oh my goodness I I think it's right. All churches do is talk about money. It must be the case. This is ridiculous You think, how could I possibly do that? But you begin to grow and you say, you know what, I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna give a little bit and see what happens, and God just grows you You graduate, you take the next step, you go on for God, and somehow, somehow God does it. And He multiplies your faith. You know, when you first started out, even the most basic thing was such an exercise of faith. You know, you couldn't even understand how people talk about casting all your care upon him for he careth for you. And to to be careful for nothing but everything by prayer and supplication. Let your request be made known unto God. And you think, how can you just pray and and And get peace. How can you pray and feel like it's okay? I don't even understand that, but as you grow in the Lord and as you graduate and you You start to exercise your faith and you begin to see God come through. And as you fulfill just being obedient to Him, God over and over again answers and meets your need and blesses your home. And then you come to the place where you got a great burden on your heart, and you just get down on your knees and you talk to the Lord in the quiet of your own closet, and God just gives you that peace. He just says it's going to be okay. You've grown. You've graduated to that next level. You've come to the place where you just are able to cast your care upon Him And let it go and know that God has it and He's in control. What a joy to reach that place. Beloved as Christians, we're to continue to grow. You know, I saw this last week a uh a YouTube short short. I didn't watch it, I just saw the title of it. But it was uh a With the AI revolution, um they have a robot that completed a 5,000 piece White puzzle. All white. Um, that's pretty impressive. I wouldn't want to do a 5,000 piece puzzle of any kind, let alone a white one. Um but just being able to analyze the shapes and put them where, but you know how you complete a 5,000 piece puzzle One piece at a time. And you know, the Christian life is not that hard. Now it's a struggle. I I don't want to oversimplify it, but I want you to understand All you're really responsible for right now is the next piece. We just got to put the next piece in We just gotta graduate to the next level. We just gotta take that next step for God. We just gotta do what God is asking of us right now We don't have to worry about what his expectation may be three or four years from now. But right now, what does God want? James is here for the summer. His first day here, I said, what's your plan? What's your vision? What do you believe God wants you to do? He said, well, someday I think the Lord would have me start a church. But right now he knows he's supposed to be here for the next 10 weeks at Hunt Valley Baptist Church serving Getting some experience, seeing the ministry here at this place. All we have to do is know what God wants us to do today. Just do that next step. Don't let Satan overwhelm you with the full You'll never be the super Christian. You'll never be all that pastor's talking about. You're never going to make that. Don't worry about all of that. That's not what God's asking for you right now He's saying, can you put the next piece in? Could you just put that piece in? And if we do that, we glorify him, and we're taking that step. We're graduating One step at a time