Let's do it. Well grab your Bibles if you would tonight and turn to John chapter number twelve. John chapter number twelve. We've been studying and looking at the idea of grief. I believe tonight's going to be the last night. There's a lot, lot more that I could give you, but if you want more, you'll have to take the course on that. But Just going to close it out tonight, kind of dealing with grief and finding help at the feet of Jesus. Finding help at the feet of Jesus. You know, grief is the result of that strong sorrow that grips the heart of one who's experienced loss. Grief is always disruptive But sometimes it can be debilitating, especially when it's not handled biblically, when it's not taken care of biblically. There are many ideas out in the world about how to handle grief But one must understand and know the source of that instruction or that idea that's presented You know, they gotta know where the foundational truths are coming from. They're they're helping or they're giving some ideas about how to handle this grief, but what is their source? What is their motivation? What is the foundation of those truths You see, there are many counterfeit methods out there that are rooted in an evolutionary worldview. An evolutionary worldview of death and loss. If we're going to handle Greek biblically, we've got to have a biblical worldview concerning death and loss. If one believes that he came from a tadpole. And when death arrives that he's just gonna be down in the ground and it's all over, it's lights out and that's the end Well, their view of death and loss is going to be drastically different and going to be handled differently than somebody that believes that we're fearfully and wonderfully made in the image of God, that God has a plan for our lives. And that every living soul is going to die and spend an eternity somewhere. An eternity either in heaven or an eternity in a place called hell. You know, it amazes me how so many of the world that would want to deny Christ and do everything they can to say that God doesn't exist and You discuss it with them and it's all about evolution, but when it comes time to bury a loved one, they stand around the funeral home and they all talk about how they're in a better place and how they they want to adopt Christian philosophy. They want to adhere to biblical principles and describe how their loved ones in a better place and they may call it paradise or they may call it heaven or they may call it something else but they've spent their life denying God. They don't know any more about God than a dog knows about cats and they want to describe and hold to those truths. They'll stand there and and and solace themselves with the thought that, well, he was a good man and, you know, he's in a better place. He Well the Bible tells us they're going to stand before Almighty God and He's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. The fact of the matter is, is that kind of an individual may try and find hope somewhere, but they are without hope. That's why it is so important that we pass out gospel tracts, that we present the truth, that we carry the hope that we have in us to a lost and dying world. Because why? Because we believe that everybody's going to spend an eternity somewhere. They only have two options. They're going to spend an eternity in heaven or hell. Purgatory is not in the Bible. They've got heaven or hell, and they that the difference is what they've done with Jesus Christ. You know, I just listened to this afternoon a a uh uh just Quick little clip, um a little three minute video of a pastor preaching and and I think it was an Easter presentation, but he was talking about the fact that, you know, uh we have got to view We've got to be careful to remember the cross of Christ and that it's all Him and not us. If we aren't careful, we will quickly, even though we believe in salvation by grace and faith in Him alone, we will reach the point where we practice salvation by works. Because when somebody comes to you and they say, Why are you going to heaven? And this pastor said, If you answer, if your answer, the first thing in your answer is first person, if you say, I Anything, you've missed the boat. I did this, or I prayed, or I I did I anything, and you've missed the boat. It's because of he. What he did. And he talked about the cross and Christ on the cross and the thief there that believed on Jesus Christ and and Jesus said, Today you're going to be with me in paradise. And he joked about saying, you know, uh he could see him get to heaven, get to the gate, and there, you know, as the most jokes go and and say, uh, why why should we let you in heaven? And that thief that was just a minute ago on the cross, he'd be standing there like, um, I don't know. He says, well well wait wait, let me ask you, do you understand the doctrine of justification? What No, no, no, wait. Do you understand the authority of the scriptures and the truth of the Word of God? Huh? They would start digging into his past, trying to find out why he's allowed, and they would look at him and say, Why should we allow you in heaven? And he's like, The guy on that cross told me I could come. That's all there is to it. The one hanging there on the cross said it was okay, he accepted me, and he is the answer. He is the one, and we've got to carry that truth to the world so that when they are facing the grief of loss that comes because of what we hang on to in this life, and we hang on to life so strongly, but when they face that, they'll have hope. They'll have hope. Hope that comes only through knowing Jesus Christ. This world uses psychology, psychotherapy, and pharmaceuticals to try and help people with grief and loss. And sadly, many of these worldly philosophies even abide in the hearts of Christians and in the churches that we attend. We have bought into the idea that only the certified professionals Are able to help. Sigmund Freud and B. F. Skinner were instrumental in promoting and handing unimaginable power to anyone with a state credential. Even in our minds we look at it and say, oh, he's state certified. He must really be something. He must really know. Do you know a good way to get certification? Faye, there you go. Yeah. Well what I was gonna say is it seems to me like the more you deny God The more certifications you can earn. The more you try and adopt and hold to worldly philosophies. The philosophies of men. That is y you you end up getting more and more and more and more certifications. You just try and take a stand on biblical truth and point people to Christ and say God is the answer and see what state organization is going to get behind you. Oh yeah, we're going to certify this guy Yet many times those are the people that we point to to give answers Many uh are instrumental. Many that are instrumental in the promotion of self-help. Have aligned themselves with humanism. And this teaches the humanistic philosophy is that we are all little gods And that all the help we need is found inside of ourselves. Even charismatic preachers today like Joel Olstein promote this kind of thinking The idea that it's all in you. You just need to say the right words and believe believe in yourself and and just just stand up and say, I am blessed. I am prosperous. I will succeed. Because I can, I can, that idea of it's all in us. And so many have bought into this. Timothy Hawkins In his book on grief, very aptly summarizes the effect of these worldly methods on page fifty-two. He says the very first thing that Adam and Eve did after eating the fruit and having their eyes opened was attempt to cover their sin by their own means. They sewed fig leaves together and made aprons. And the Councile will very quickly turn to A substance made of man to cover their problems. And more so, the secular experts Will more readily give a man-made covering to maintain their role as expert gods and keep people from seeing the truth of turning to the one and true God. Where true help can come. That's what we need. We need the true help. And where do we find that? At the feet At the feet of Jesus. We need to be careful not to be uh buying into and taking the counsel of this world. Isaiah 30, verses 1 through 3 says, Woe to the rebellious children, saith the Lord, that take counsel, but not of me. And that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin, that walk to go down into Egypt, And have not asked at my mouth to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt. Wow. Seeking help from government, seeking help from other places, trusting in the shadow of Egypt. Instead of seeking help from God. Where do we find help? We find it at the feet of Jesus. In our text this evening, chapter 12 of the book of John, verses 1 through 4, he says, Then Jesus Six days before the Passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. There they made him a supper, and Martha served. But Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. Then took Mary, a pound of ointment, of Spikner, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor. This Mary found here once again at the feet of Jesus. You remember the first time we see her in the scriptures We know that Martha was there, and Martha was cumbered about with much serving. But Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus Then we find her, this Mary, we find her once again at the feet of Jesus, but we find her in the grips of the sorrow of grief. In chapter number 11, where she comes to Jesus and she falls at his feet and she says, If thou hast been here, my brother had not died. She falls at the feet of Jesus again. Now she was sorrowful, but she came to the right place to get some help. She came to the feet of Jesus. In the pain of loss, her mind's eye was blinded to the sun. But she went to the right place and found comfort. Sadly, today we've become very good at fulfilling our duty, but we've forgotten about devotion. You find help at the feet of Jesus, from a heart that's devoted to Him. A. W. Tozer in The Paths, the Power said: To escape the error of salvation by works, we have fallen into the opposite of error, of salvation without obedience. In our eagerness to get rid of the legalistic doctrine of works, we have thrown out the baby with the bath and gotten rid of obedience. as well. You see, beloved, duty is important. But duty keeps you busy. Devotion keeps you blessed We need a balance of those in our life. A balance of fulfilling and keeping duty. That is part of the Christian life. You don't want to throw that out. But at the same time, we cannot neglect devotion. And sadly, I think, especially in churches like ours, we have become very good at fulfilling duty We do our duty. But how often do we neglect devotion? I want you to see several things as we look at this idea of finding help at the feet of Jesus. We see this meal that has been prepared. The time has been invested and put in. And we see the place where they were at, first of all. The Bible tells us that they were at Bethany six days before the Passover feast. Jesus, of course, being hated by the Pharisees and hunted by the Pharisees. And John chapter 11, verses 55 through 57, he says, And the Jews' Passover was nigh and at hand. And many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the Passover to purify themselves. Then sought they for Jesus and spake among themselves as they stood in the temple. What think ye That he will not come to the feast. Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment that if any man knew where he was, he should show it that they might take him. They had sent out a decree and said, if anybody knows where this man named Jesus is, if he shows his face here at the feast, you've got to let us know. We're going to come and get him. There was some apprehension, I'm sure, by some who were maybe following Jesus from afar and thought, well, I'm not going to get too close to him right now. The authorities are after him. They met in the house of Simon, the leper. Simon obviously loved Jesus and wasn't worried about being too close to him. Wasn't worried about the ramifications or the or the implications that might arise because he was with Jesus. He opened his home to him. I've had the privilege of being there in Bethany. at the home that they believe was the home of Simon the leper, the place where Jesus would have ate. I don't know that anybody really knows. They c they can they could deduce, you know, and try and But to me it's not as important that this is the place as I know it happened. It's recorded for us in Scripture. You know, everybody was asked to turn Jesus over to the Jews. But those that loved him didn't mind being with him either way. Simon, who had been healed of leprosy by Jesus, would do anything for him. It didn't matter. You know, beloved, if we could just remember that we'd been healed That we've been healed. Of something far greater, far more impossible, and far more important than leprosy. We've been healed of the sin that was in our blood. Everybody would do anything for him, except there was somebody at that dinner who didn't feel that way. There was somebody who was maybe looking for an opportunity to play this his direction. You remember his name? Yeah, Tudas. So let's see here secondly the people. The people. Look down again in the text, chapter number twelve, verses four through eight. He says, Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot. Simon's son, which should betray him. Why was not this ointment sold for 300 pence and given to the poor? This he said, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, and he had the bag, and bare what was put therein. Then said Jesus, Let her alone, against the day of my burying, hath she kept this. For the poor always ye have with you, but me ye have not always. The people that were present here at this meal. You know, we're gonna have around thirty-few people at our house tomorrow night. We don't know exactly how many people were here. Uh I think it's verse number nine says there was a few people that kinda were at a distance or watching from a distance or I'm not sure how that all worked out, but we know that there was at least 17 people there at this meal. We know that there was Jesus and there was Simon and there was the 12 apostles. And there was Mary and Martha and Lazarus. We know that for sure. There may have been some others there, you know, I don't know, but These three that were mentioned last year, they they these three really have come to typify a level of Christian activity. They've come to be a picture or stand as a representation of these things. You see Lazarus, first of all, there it says about him that he was at the table. He was at the table. He was fellowshipping With the believers. He was fellowshipping with Christ. You know, beloved, it can do a grieving heart a world of good just to get around other Christians. Just to get around people that believe in the risen Savior, that have hope within them, and the joy and the love that they have can encourage and help you in your hour of need. And just fellowshipping with God's people. And I know sometimes somebody that's going through a level of grief, they don't feel like fellowshipping They they want to get alone, they want to be alone, and and there may be a time for that where they need to just be by themselves, but they also need to be around people. We're meant to be social people, and getting around people can be a help to us. The joy that's shared, the hope that's shared, the love of Christ that's shared. Then we see Martha. Martha was one whose heart was about serving. She was fulfilling duty, getting that done, getting it accomplished. We've stated already, we need a balance of duty and devotion. Marthy was a Martha was one that was gonna get it done. She's a lady after my own heart. Just say I'm very project driven. I'm I'm like, let's get her done. You know, we've got something to do. Let's accomplish it. Uh let's let's do it, you know. There's this it's about accomplishing these things and and that's you know kind of the way I am, and I know that that I have a a weakness or an area that I need to focus on, and that is the devotion Because I the the duty part, again, as I've said, I'm preaching to myself tonight, but the duty part, I'm there. I'm gonna get it done. We're gonna make it happen one way or the other. This was the heart of Martha Would take any and every opportunity to serve her Savior. You know, we shouldn't take light the opportunity to serve God. Jesus Himself came to minister to others. We shouldn't take light the opportunity to serve the children of God. Any area of ministry we can fulfill should be a privilege and an honor for us to serve others Can be a healing bomb for one who's going through the pain of loss. A lot of times people going through loss, they start, they get too inward-focused. And it can do them a world of good to begin to have a little bit of the heart of Martha where they serve, do something for somebody else. Get your eyes off of your own pain. Yes, we all understand. We know that you are in pain. We know that you're hurting. But there's other people hurting. Maybe you can help carry somebody else's burden, and somebody would help carry yours. And in so doing, that grief is lifted. They're given strength. You know, Martha learned how to serve with the right heart. We know that she decided to choose the best part You know, the first time we found her, we find her serving cumbered about, her heart cumbered about, weighted down with all of the responsibility, with all of the duty of it all. But you see here we find her serving a much larger group. And she doesn't come to Jesus with any question about who else isn't doing what and why aren't they helping and all this. No. See here we find Find her serving out of a heart of gratitude. For Lazarus has been raised from the dead. And going about the service, but with a heart of gratitude. Doing it from that spirit, from that kind of heart. Beloved, there's a big difference in serving because of love. And serving to earn love. There's a big difference. Serving because of love, because the love of Christ constraineth me The love of Christ, and I do this because I'm loved. And because He's done so much for me, and gratitude motivates me to, and serving because I feel I need to earn God's love. There's a big difference. Martha learned how to do duty from a heart of gratitude. But then we see Mary sitting at the feet of of Jesus. Her heart was devotion. She was sensitive to the Savior's turmoil. You know the story. You know Christ was here at this time just before he was going to go to the cross. He knew what was coming. He knew what burden he was carrying. Maybe she saw his pain. Maybe she felt the pressure that was on him And she thought to herself, what can I do? What can I do to help my Savior? What can I do for Jesus? And she looked around and thought, well, I have this box appointment. I have this box of precious ointment. She took what had been meant for her, maybe something that she had saved for years and years. Something she had had for a long time, something of great value. Maybe it was provided to her. Sacrifices of others, parents, aunts. uncles, brothers, sisters, I don't know, but you look at that, it was something that was for her. Maybe she had no way of replacing it. Maybe once it was gone, it was gone, and and the chances of ever replacing that are pretty slim. But you know she took it and she poured it out on Jesus. An action provoked by love. An action that was a demonstration of love. An action that showed her devotion. Her devotion to her Lord. I wonder What do we have in our life that maybe we look at and it's precious to us and we say, I would give God everything but that? I would pour out everything else but this right here. Or I would give it all up except what is it that's most precious to us? That maybe God is saying, would you pour that out for me? Would your heart of devotion allow you to pour that for me? Beloved, God the Father gave what was most precious to him for you and I. His son was poured out for you and for me. You know, Judas was there and he complained about the wastefulness of it. But Jesus clapped and said she did what was right. She showed her devotion. She showed her love. And he described and explained the fact that you have with me with you right now me and I won't be here. You won't always have the opportunity to honor me this way. But you can do it now. And as I thought about that, I wonder, one of the greatest times as Christians that we have to show honor and glory to God is when we're in the grips of grief. That opportunity is going to be short-lived. That window of displaying and showing the hope that is in us is just a short window. But what a powerful time. People that would never ever darken the door of the church might come to a funeral might come to say goodbye to somebody that you love to support you and in that window you've got a little window opportunity to show honor and glory to God To show the hope that's in you. That time to present Christ. That time to honor his name Are we going to do it? Will you sit at the feet of Jesus and find healing? Or will you look to this world's sources? And flounder and sit in pain like so many do. Lastly this evening and briefly we see the pride. Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon, son, which should betray him, why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? You know, the worldly or the world, they've got a lot of ideas. They've got a lot of philosophies about what can be or should be done. They're full of ideas They're attracted to it because the air is the idea of lifting themselves up, of boasting themselves. The idea of lifting themselves up by their own bootstraps. They like the idea of I accomplished this, I did it, and the world is attracted to those ideas of self-help and of Of finding hope in those things because it's something that you did, that you have the power, you can do it, instead of coming and relying on the heart of Jesus. And saying, I need him. I need him every hour. And finding that hope from him. Swallowing the pride It's not about us. It's not about making it happen. I did it. I'm successful. It's about he did it. He has done it We need to fall at the feet of Jesus. This world has lots of answers, but any of them that are apart from the Lord? are woefully inadequate at best and blasphemous at worse because they remove the true hope. True help, beloved, is found at the feet of Jesus.