So uh here let's just by way of review uh looking at last week the study of grief uh basic introduction we talked about last week first of all the definition of grief uh just Just describe the fact that grief can be uh as different as there are people that experience it. Everybody's situation is different and how uh not not only their own personality but their their stage of life and the situation that ended up taking their loved one. scenario is exactly the same. And so a hard definition is hard to come by, uh, but a few couple of ways to look at it to help us ultimately get to in line with the biblical understanding of it. One is that bereavement is the the feeling one has from experiencing loss. That idea bereavement is what comes from experiencing loss and you begin to feel that. And then grief is the state of suffering because of bereavement. Grief responded to unbiblically will always lead to despair. And you find many people today in the grips of grief and uh they're in a state of despair because they have not responded to it biblically. Grief is a powerful and disruptive emotion. And we discussed that last week, how disruptive uh anything can be in our life, even a small problem, let alone grief and how it grabs a hold of people. And uh we did discuss that grief is a biblical uh and acceptable emotion, understanding that grief uh Christ knew and had grief. And uh Job experienced grief and there are many other Bible characters we can look at, but then we talked about the division of grief last week and uh gave you the word abnation there, uh, although that's not a word we use much, uh. So that literally means denial. Yeah, it's denial, so abdication or denial. Um and then a anger and then apathy uh and then acceptance. So those are the four that I broke it down into. If you look or do a study on grief, you're going to see five, seven, nine, eleven different stages of grief depending upon how they determined to break it up but ultimately uh I labeled this divisions of grief because it's not necessarily stages, it's not steps that you work your way through and try and get through this, you know, four step program and you're good. You've handled grief. y y it's it's an emotion that takes over and sometimes you're going to be angry and then you'll start starting to accept and you'll be much better and then you're you before you know it you're going to be back in denial. So uh it's just kind of a a an ebb and flow Somebody described grief like like the waves of an ocean. That uh you you you get into the ocean, that first wave hits you, and and you think, okay, I'm okay. And then bam, another wave hits you. And some of the waves are small and they're not too bad. You know, you can take those and you kind of just kind of let them float float past you, you know, and then others, they just they just cover you. And that's sometimes how grief is, that people are just, you know, encapsulated by it and and taken over by it. And so in our effort to try and help people, uh, we need to understand what it is that they're dealing with. Um Then uh we talked about the diagnostics of grief and and just talked to some about just getting it in our mind wrapped around it and that grief is normal. Uh it's something that's a normal emotion that that people feel and endure. uh that a Christian's grief is bound by hope. We have a grief that's bound by hope. It's not we d we don't live and and endure as those that don't have hope. And we know that, 1 Thessalonians 4. 13. Then only when we are aware of our weakness can we know God's strength. being aware of our weakness can we know God's strength. So that's last week's lesson basically and uh a quick brief review but uh brief and introduction. I wanted to try and get some of this to you in print so that you you could have it as you're dealing with or helping other people, uh looking at grief or in walking through that with some people. people so just giving you that. Uh now we want to get tonight to the second uh lesson here and that is grief, uh intricate struggle. Uh just the ideas of grief where they come and go and it's it's it's It's really bad and then it's not so bad and you feel like you're getting victory and then you're you're not getting victory and it's something that uh some people say you never ever get over and other people say you should be able to get over it and and it's it's just It's such a a dynamic thing in different people's lives because of the varied circumstances in which people endure loss And so trying to get a grip on that. Psalms one Psalms 31, verse 9 and 10 says, Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble. Mine eye is consumed with grief. Yea, my soul and my belly. Every part of him was being overtaken by grief. His eye was consumed with it. His soul, his belly, every part. He felt this weight of this grief. He says, For my life is spent with grief. And my years with sighing, my strength faileth because my iniquity, my bones are consumed. This grief living with it and enduring it. Many people today are are in that grip of grief. Uh and they're going to find themselves in a place where it's hard to do even the most basic of things. It's it's amazing. The simplest things, but when you have, as I was describing last week, grief brain, when you have uh you know something that captivates your heart and mind so much uh even the basic things tend to get lost. Um you think about when you get a bill that's unexcep un unexpected. You know, you may be at work, but in your mind you're like, man, where did that bill come from? And what is that bill for? And now how am I going to pay that bill? And how much does that take of your mind power? Because that one thing came into your life And then all of a sudden you you're when you look at it from the standpoint of dealing with grief and how much that is going to take somebody's mind and and just take over and disrupt their life. It's literally like losing an arm, a part of you that's no longer there. It was a lifetime of living with that uh as part of your life And now it's not l not there. And so adjusting to a new normal or finding a way to live without that can be quite a process, both physical and emotional battle that you're going through. The emotional battle uh that takes place can be very demanding. Sometimes the emotional struggle is far greater than a day of physical labor. You almost would rather be out doing some physical labor, but the emotional struggle and battle that you're dealing with wears you out. And uh you'll find people that are in the grips of grief that are very wore out. They're tired all the time. And they wonder why they're tired, because they say, well, I haven't really done anything. I don't know why I'm so tired. So you can encourage them and help them understand that, listen The weight of grief, the struggle, there's a there's an emotional battle, there's a struggle that's taking place inside, and that wears you out. And it's okay if you need some rest. You know, get s get some rest and don't don't let them feel bad for for getting a little you know, they'll let's say, Well, I feel lazy 'cause I'm I'm just sleeping all the time and And there there there obviously at some point needs to be a balance, but especially initially they've got to be able to get some rest. And we're gonna talk more about that in a little bit. But that emotional battle can be very, very weighing on a person. In Psalm 6, verse number 6, he says, I'm weary with my groaning. He says, I'm weary. It's worn me out. And as I'm giving you these scriptures, you might write them down if they're not already in the notes because they're scriptures that you can use when dealing with or talking to somebody. The psalmist said, hey, it's it's warned me out. All the night make I my bed to swim. I uh water my couch with my tears. Mine eye is consumed because of grief. It waxeth old because of all mine enemies, just carrying that grief. There's a time of great adjustment that has to take place, and that emotional battle leaves us physically and emotionally drained and leads to destructive habits many, many times And so we want to talk uh first of all this evening about the destructive patterns of grief that people get into, things that a lot of times people will get involved in as they're trying to deal with grief that uh ultimately hurt them more than they help them. And uh they're they're trying to find some measure of peace or or help, and yet it's going the wrong way. So a grieving individual will often do ill rational things. Um a young lady told her story about how she was just afraid to thank God for anything. She was afraid to thank God for anything because she had just expressed gratitude to God the day before for her husband. She specifically had said, God, I thank you so much for the gift of the husband that you gave me and and uh how much I appreciate him and he's such a wonderful man and and she had she had taken time in her personal walk to thank God for that and the next day he was killed. So in her mind, she was like, if if if I express thanks to God for anything, he's going to take it away. And so she was she was like trying to avoid expressing thanks to anybody. Um and so sometimes it's irrational thinking that that w people will get involved in because of grief and what happened around that situation They have, first of all, in your notes there, irrational anger. Irrational anger, such as angry because someone else is happy. You know, it it can be it can come on like a wave, like I said, but they they could be sitting in a restaurant and they'll see another couple stand up and hold hands and start to walk out to their car and it'll hit them. just anger, upset, because they know th they won't be able to do that. And then they feel bad about being angry about that because you know they they they don't necessarily wish bad on those people that but The joy that they once had has been robbed from them, and so so they're angry about it. A parent who's lost a child might be angry when they see another parent and their kids playing together They're just standing there. They could be in the foyer of the church and they're just standing there and and then there's Kate and Joe running around and, you know, grabbing Matt's leg. And All of a sudden they're angry because they they look at it and say, My son's never gonna do that. And it's It's it's irrational, but it's something that takes place because of what they've endured. And we need to be understanding of that. Um oftentimes they'll lash out against people uh uh that are even closest to them or that are trying to help them because of this anger. They'll have irrational activity that they'll get involved in. Oftentimes people with a grieving will see comfort in the wrong types of activities. And things that are only going to hurt them. In Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 13, he says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me. The fountain of living waters and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns that can't hold no water. He says, I I have promised to meet their needs, and I've promised to provide for them and so not only have they forsaken me, but they've gone and tried to find their own way and and make the make it happen without me. And and so now they've compounded, they have evil upon evil And how many times people that are enduring grief will do that to themselves? They've already suffered great loss and they're already dealing with such hardship and yet they will be motivated to go and do something in an effort to seek release. that uh will hurt them in the in the end. For instance, wanting to just go go buy something like like a new car. In in you know, in in the the idea of of this grief taking over and they just want to do something and and and I just want to do something to feel better and so I'm gonna go buy this car. And and for a day or two they feel better because they're driving this nice car, but then the payments start coming due. And then the pain of of having to make those payments and and when they're really not don't feel like being at work and and all that and and it just compounds the problem. Sometimes it's not a car, maybe it's just frivolous shopping, just spending money. I mean I've told you before when I get depressed I spend money. So if if I ever lose my wife, you guys are gonna have to take my credit cards away or something, you know. That's like I I'll just spend money, you know, and and And they might do that, but then what is that? That creates more problems. Now they have all the stuff that they don't want and they've spent all the money that they don't have. Sometimes obviously they seek release in in drinking alcohol or or drugs or some type of escape. Anything to get a few minutes of no pain. And they would do just about anything to avoid that. So so whatever they might you know, for some it might be eating. Might be just just eat. It makes me feel better. Half gallon of ice cream Here I go. I mean whatever it is. And so, but you know what? Ultimately that makes them feel worse too. So it's just compounding problem on top of problem. These irrational activities that they get involved in, we need to be sure that we're striving to help them to be doing things that are a gain and a blessing to them, not that they're going to hurt them. Obviously, we want to try and point them to God. In invest, get them to invest in activities that are going to take them toward God instead of away from God. Those activities are are relatively basic and understandable for all of us walking in the Word of God and spending time in prayer, spending time with other believers, good Christians that are going to encourage them and help them, being in God's house, being around God's family. Uh, you know, being a witness, sharing your testimony to others, things that are going to point you towards God, that give you uh purpose and a reason for getting through each day, if we can point them to that, instead of these uh irrational activities that aren't going to help. They many times associate something with the situation with regards to the last days of someone's life, their their loved one passed away and it it's amazing how they affix meaning to different things, like the illustration I told you about the lady who just didn't want to thank God for anything because she thought that you know if she thanked God she was going to lose her mate. And uh I read of another individual that her husband died of pneumonia. And then About three months later, one of her children was sick and they took she took her to the hospital and the doctor said we think he has walking pneumonia and it just took just like took her back immediate right there and any time she heard somebody had a pneumonia that's a decidence. And it it obviously doesn't have to be It's not normally, it can be, but she just had that affix that meaning to that word, that it means death, and uh can be controlling for them Sometimes avoiding situations or or places like they would say, well, the very last place we ate together. you know, was Andy Nelson's. It's the last meal we had together and so I'll never eat at Andy Nelson's again. Or something like that. You you'll find they'll have they'll they'll fix meaning to things And uh or their favorite restaurant that they enjoy going to. And so I'm not going to go to that restaurant ever again because I can't go with them. And sometimes even church, where they won't go to church because it's something they always did together, and to walk through those doors the first time by themselves without their mate can be very hard. They come through those doors by themselves and it's something that they they just uh face and and it's it's difficult for them. So We see ilrational activity. What people need to learn is that grief is just a cloud. And maybe it's a great wall. Maybe it's a great wall, but it's something that's blocking the sun. But the sun is still there. I know everybody here's uh pretty much you know is flown. And you know, isn't it amazing when you fly out of a a day like this and it's nasty out and and y and you break through those clouds and you get on top and the sun's shining and it's all fluffy and looks like you could just step out of the plane onto them, you know know, uh those clouds just go forever, but it's so beautiful. There's been many times I've flown in and out of Chicago and Chicago's looks like this most of the time. And uh you you get above the clouds and And it's beautiful. And that's the thing, there's that grief is it God is still there. The sun is still shining, but it's blocked. So we've got to help them get through those days when the sun is blocked. We'll see irrational accountability. Oftentimes when someone is seeking someone to blame, the grieving individual will blame themselves. It's irrational. But they look at it and say, well, it's my fault they died. Well, no, it's not your fault. But they want, you know, they they want a reason, they want a purpose, they want something, so they're looking for somebody to blame, so they blame themselves. You see, they begin to ask the what-if questions. Well, what if I would have took them to another doctor, or what if I would have not let them get in the car that day? What if I would have not allowed them to do that? That would have saved their life. Or what if we wouldn't have moved here? If we wouldn't have moved here, they wouldn't have never been in that place. So many things, and you could do what ifs all day long. But you've got to get to the place where you stop living in what if and start living in what is. What is Whether it's perceived or actual, if you have a perceived or actual part in their death, you need to learn how to deal with that guilt that's there. You know, maybe i someone was driving when a loved one was killed. And so for them, they're bearing that, not only have they lost that person, but now they feel like it's my fault they die because I was driving the car. But that's not entirely true. People need to be able to understand that and work through that. You see, you have to go back to the sovereignty of God. Do we believe the Bible when it says that our days are numbered? That God knows the day or the hour, that we're going to pass away? And although we look at things sometimes and we look at it as an accident and we say, well we played a part in that, so it's my fault. If I wouldn't have been driving the car that day or if I would have been more vigilant and and And watching, I could have avoided that wreck, and they would be alive right now. And in in some respects you un you understand the feeling they have, but our goal is to try and help them to get past that. pointing them to the sovereignty of God and saying God is ultimately in control. We we believe that And he says that the days our days are numbered. The bounds of our habitation has been set even before we were born. You can't live one day longer than you were supposed to, and can't die one day sooner than you were supposed to. By God's divine plan. He knows that. And so it can help an individual deal with this level of guilt that they're carrying along with the loss. Sometimes they look at it and feel like, well, if I would have done more, or could have done more. Believe it or not, people actually feel guilty for feeling better. They'll wake up one day and they think, well, I'm doing okay today. It's a pretty good day. Like I'm not st I'm not depressed today. And then they're gonna feel guilty because they feel better. You see, this is this is the circular uh emotion with grief that just takes over Um I read one story of a lady who uh talked about going going to dinner The first time with somebody after church, a couple of her friends that they used to go to dinner with or in her husband, her husband passed away And they says, Hey, you want to go to dinner after church tonight? We'd love to take you to dinner. And it had been several months since she had done that, but she she said, You know what? I would like to do that. She's like, I would like to. I I wanna don't want to just go home to an empty house. And she went to dinner and she said then I was sitting there and I felt like, what am I doing here? I mean somebody's gonna see me here. Somebody's gonna think that I don't miss him or that I'm just my life's just going on without him and it doesn't matter. But it does matter. You see this guilt comes upon them. But she shouldn't be carrying that guilt She doesn't need to carry that. It's irrational for her to carry that. Just because they might know a few minutes of happiness and then all of a sudden they begin to feel guilty for being happy. Sometimes they'll feel guilty for being glad that a burdensome task is gone. This especially happens when dealing with uh Somebody that has cared for a loved one, a mom or dad, or uh husband or wife that has been sick for a long period of time. They've been sick for a long time. And then they've been caring for them, maybe, you know, dressing them every day and administering medicine every day and taking them in and back and forth to the hospital on a regular basis and it's a lot of labor And now that burden is gone. And so they feel a little bit of relief that that weight, that burden's gone, but then they feel guilty because they feel better because the burden's gone. And it they would gladly take the burden again if they could have their loved one back. But you see, it's it's just trying to deal with all these emotions that they're dealing with. And dealing with that guilt that grabs a hold of them. And our goal is to try and help them. Many times people feel ilrational guilt for things said or things not said during the last days of one's life. Oh, I didn't get to tell them I loved them one more time. But he knew you loved him. Or or the last thing we said was was something cross or or you know he left the house mad And and that's a hard weight to carry. So how do you help somebody get through through that that guilt? Um one lady told her story of how she was cross with her husband. They had had an argument, you know, a spat, a little disagreement. Like you do sometimes and she said, you know, he he went into the living room and and she said he was complaining of heartburn. And he went in the living room and sat down and and she said, I kind of ignored him. I was upset at him, I was stubborn and didn't want to talk 'cause we had this disagreement. And she says, I just ignored him and I didn't tell him good night, I didn't say goodbye, I didn't say nothing. I I went to bed. She says, I got up in the morning and I didn't smell the coffee and I didn't hear any breakfast cooking. He usually is working on breakfast in there. There's there's no nothing going on. She says I got up and I thought man he's so mad he left the house already and didn't make breakfast or nothing. She says I went out and looked in the yard and the driveway, the car was still sitting there He said, then I came around the living room and saw he was he was sitting in the living room. And I said, hey hon, you're going to be late for work. And he didn't move He said I went in there and touched his shoulder to to wake him up and realized he was cold. He had had a heart attack and passed away. She says the last night we had together we were upset. And that's a level of guilt she's carrying. Like she she she let that happen Many times they feel guilt for the kind of person they were or weren't while the individual was living. They weren't a good husband or a good wife or they weren't a good father or they weren't a good whatever. Um they didn't show the love they should have. You know, uh sometimes there's guilt that's valid and must be dealt with. And it must be dealt with biblically. You see, when somebody's dealing with some guilt that's valid, something that's there that they did or didn't do they said something and that person's gone and now they have no means or way to to get that right. What they need to understand is several truths Uh, first of all, they need to know that their loved one is not holding a grudge against them. Their loved one's in in glory and their loved one provided they were saved, their loved ones in heaven. and is not holding a grudge, is wants what's best for them and let go of that and wants them to let go of it. Um They need to know that God doesn't hold them accountable for an accident. Something of an accident took place if you study the Bible, the Old Testament, you see somebody that had an accident was not held accountable, was not called a murderer. They they weren't held accountable for murder. If somebody died, even even though it was happened in an accident, they weren't held accountable for that. But if they did it on purpose, maliciously, well then they were held accountable. So if somebody was involved in an accident or there's something there that took a loved one's life, they don't need to be carrying that. God does not hold them accountable for that. And so they shouldn't hold themselves accountable for that. Secondly, I just want to encourage all of us tonight to live our life so that we don't have to have that weight afterwards. Follow the biblical admonition, don't let the sun go down on your wrath. We know the Bible tells us, boast not thyself with tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know that we'll have tomorrow. to let our wife or her or her mate know that we love them. If God took them in the middle of the night, would it would it be okay? You can say, hey, everything was okay between us. Before we went to sleep, we we hugged, we we kissed, we said goodnight, we we we we love each other. And everything was taken care of. There is nothing there. We need to live our lives, whether it's with our mate or our children or our our friends or whatever in such a way that we don't have to have that guilt and say, well You know, they asked for help two or three times and I kept putting them off. I just said, no, I don't have time for you, I don't have time for you. And then they passed away and now you feel bad because you never helped them And now you don't have the chance to. I'm just saying we need to try and live our lives in a way where we don't have to carry that guilt later. We could deal with it now and avoid having that guilt. Amen? So then we want to see the definitive patterns of grief. Definitive patterns of grief. No, definitive is not, I'm not using this in the way of a definition or defining that way, but uh according to the dictionary, it is the literally the first definition of the dictionary means most reliable or complete. Definitive means most reliable or complete. So what are the definitive or most reliable or complete actions for somebody in grief to help them get through this? First of all, they need to look at it as getting through. They need to look at it as getting through, not past or over or around. That's very important. A lot of times people say you need to get past this. You need to get over it. Just get over it. And it's not something that we just get over or we just get past. But there is a way to get through it. There is a way to move for forward. It's okay to find a new normal. If you're gonna get through it, you've got to work at it. There's no one, two, three quick way. There's no, you know, snap your heels together three times and you're home free. Uh, you know, there's no quick step. You gotta work through grief. And a lot of times that's the big hindrance is people don't want to work through it. They don't want to get they don't want to try and get through it. They kind of just put it away and don't want to think about it or deal with it. So they need to work through it. As you're working through it, you need to remember to do the basics. And sometimes just doing the basics is enough. And this directly from the uh uh program on on grief uh from grief share uh they give this acronym here uh dear And just remember that acronym and and think about, okay, w you know, many times people just doing the very basic things, they say, How can I do that? What do I have to do today? Well Just do the basics and deer is the acronym first of all is drink. Drink. You need to have fluids. So just say, you know, are you taking in fluids? Are you drinking uh enough water? Are you are you drinking? You need to eat. Eat good neutr nutritional food. A lot of times people dealing with grief they don't want to eat. They just I'm not hungry, but you need to eat something. You need to have sustenance in your body and you need you need to eat. Then you need to exercise. Now you don't have to go try and you know run a marathon. You don't have to try and do something major, but you need to get off the couch and you need to stretch your legs. You need to go for a walk. You need to do some type of physical exercise. Exert yourself a little bit. Do a little something that can be a help to get the blood flowing. And then you need rest. Rest. So these are the basics that people need to be involved in day by day, right after they're hit with the wave of grief. Sometimes you might find it hard to rest, but you need rest. Try and rest. And don't feel bad about sleeping when you're dealing and going through this grief. You need to remember that it's not moving, it's not moving on, it's moving forward. And a lot of times people get offended, like you tell them, you need to get past this or you need to get over it, or or why don't you just move on almost as if they need to just drop it and let it go. It's not moving on, it's moving forward. Moving on carries with the idea that you're leaving something behind, you're moving on. But moving forward carries the idea that you're bringing something with you. And you just need to learn to move forward in your life. You're still carrying that with you. You still uh you know have that loved one and and all that they meant to you is still there and still very precious, but you need to move forward. They need to work on moving forward. And how do they do that? There's several things I'm going to give you. First of all, is submitting to the current reality. Submitting to the current reality. I think that Yeah, that's in your notes there. So they need to work forward. Number two, the first one is submitting to the current reality. Uh your loved one is gone and they're not coming back. And this is a process sometimes, just getting somebody to admit that, to acknowledge the fact that the loved one is gone. And uh you'll hear just like somebody that has lost an arm, you'll you'll they'll talk about how they have phantom feeling like they can still feel something or they'll they'll they feel like their arm is still there. And a lot of times when somebody's a especially if they've had a long life together, uh that person's presence, you you'll feel their presence with you You'll feel that they're still there. You'll you'll often when you're not thinking about it, you may even turn and say, you know, hey Mary, what time is it? And then it'll hit you that They're gone. They're not in the other room. They're they're not they're not home. They're they're they're they're not coming back. And this is a process to that they need to work through and we need to try and help them through But have you ever had somebody tell you a truth that you didn't like but you know it was true? Something that, you know, you weren't real happy about but you knew was true, well this is where they're at. They don't like the idea. They would rather deny it. They would rather not deal with it. But they need to submit to the current reality. One of the ways that they can begin to do this is to start to go through their loved ones' things. It's a step in the right direction. Start to go through their loved ones things and just say, okay, who are we going to give this to? This is going to go to one of the kids. What are we going to do with this? We need to go through their things. in acknowledgement and acceptance that they're not coming back. This stuff doesn't need to be hanging in the closet. They need to work through that. And it's a sign that you're beginning to accept it when you start start working through that. Let me say to you, everybody here, you can help your mate greatly by getting rid of some stuff right now. Stuff that Y you know, you don't want to let it to get to the point where now they have an extra level of meaning attached to those things. It was something that was yours. So now they don't want to get rid of it. If it's something that you're not going to use that you know you haven't used in years and years and it's just sitting there in a closet, find somebody to give it to. You know, give it to goodwill, whatever. Just start cleaning out and getting rid of some stuff. And I know we all could do that. And and I I feel bad sometimes for people that a loved one passed away and they've got so much to go through. And sometimes they're even mad at their mate for you left me with all this junk. You know. Uh you guys don't know my mom and dad uh as far as their Dad is a a collector of things. He's got a lot of a lot of stuff and uh you know, my mom will will be like you know, your dad, he's gonna pass away and he's gonna leave me with all this stuff and I I don't I don't want this we need to get rid of this stuff. She told me when I came up in April, she says, Bring a trailer so you can fill it with some stuff and get rid of it, you know Uh, help help us empty the house, you know, help us get rid of some stuff. And uh say you can help now, 'cause my mom's already looking at it and saying, Dad's gonna pass away and I'm gonna have all this stuff to go through You know, let's get rid of it right now. And so maybe you could help by by doing that right now. Submitting to the current reality, you know, you need to bury the dead. That book Out of My Sight has the idea of of burying the dead, burying your dead out of your sight. Um and that seems harsh. But it's a reality. They're gone. And the danger of not burying them out of your sight is that they'll pull you into the grave with them. And now you're living your life as though you were dead. And you're not dead. You're still alive. So the idea of burying them out of your out of your sight is is biblical that they're buried, they're in the ground, and today we have so many ways. Uh you know, Abraham didn't have the option of uh all of the pictures and and uh stuff that we have and to remember people by and and all of that. Um but i the idea of letting them go. and coming to grips with the reality that they really are gone uh is is biblical and we need to follow that biblical pattern. That story of Sarah's in Genesis 23 from last week, just if you want to note that in your notes. So to move on, moving forward, it's not moving on, it's moving forward. If you're going to move forward, you need to submit to the current reality, you need to seek God. You need to seek God. Seek the Lord and His strength, seek His face continually. That's uh 1 Chronicles 16, 11 Seek the Lord and His strength, seeking God. He he draw nigh to God and He'll draw nigh to you. God wants us to seek Him, seek His help. You can't hope to get through this spiritual battle. Grief is a spiritual battle in the heart of man and you can't hope to get through it without uh spiritual strength. So you need some spiritual think strength from s from God. Um then this will help you Psalm 63, verse number 1. It says, O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land. In Psalms 46, verses 1 through 3, he says to a song, he says, God is our refuge and our strength, the very present help in trouble. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar, and the trouble thereof, the mountains shake, with all their swelling thereof. It says though all this happened, we're not going to fear. Why? Because God is with us. He's our strength. He's our refuge. And so pointing them, if they're going to move forward. They need to submit to the current reality. They need to seek God. You may have people come to you and ask you, well, what do I do now? What do I do tomorrow when I get up? How do how do I live? How how do I find this new normal? Point them to God. Say, seek God. Set a pattern of of looking after and trying to find God and and his help. You can tell them to do what David did. Tell them to do what David did in Psalms 13, verses 1 and 2 And it well 1 and 2 describes the struggle he was going through in verses 5 and 6. He tells what he did. And in Psalms 13, the whole chapter is only six verses long, but he says A Psalm of David, How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? He says, Lord, how long do I have to live this way? How long is it going to be like this? Then he gets down to verse number 5 and 6. He says, But I have trusted in thy mercy. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I will sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. So you can point them to those verses, those last two, verse 5 and 6 of Psalm 13. They say, What do I do now? You say, do what David did. You see the turmoil David was in, you see the struggle David was facing, how he was overtaken, and yet he said what he said three things there. He said, I trusted. In the mercy of God. And then ask him, can you trust in the mercy of God? Yeah, so trust in the mercy of God. Then he says, My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. He said my heart rejoiced in the salvation that God provided. And then he says, I'll sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. And you say, you might not feel like singing, but sing about the goodness of God. Not the goodness of your situation or the struggle you're facing, but just sing. And it'll bring strength to you. So you can point them to that. They need to find their identity in God. One of the hardest things in loss is the loss of identity. Some say a midlife crisis is hard. Well, try and go through an identity crisis. This is one of the things about losing a loved one where your identity was made up in that individual. They were your life. And now they're gone. What are you going to do now? Well we need to, especially even now as we're living and and have these conversations with our mate, with our kids. Make sure that they understand that our dignity is in Christ. This is the only relationship that will never change. It's an eternal relationship that we have with God. In 1 John 3, verse number 1, he says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. So we're children of God, and that will never change. That relationship will never change, and our identity through life, it changes. You become a painter. You become a mechanic. You be you you know you you your job changes. Oh I'm a I'm a CPA or I'm an electrician and that changes. I'm a I'm a deli shop owner, you know what but but no now I'm retired So no longer you're not a deli shop owner anymore, you're re you're retired, you know, and and oh uh I'm a I'm a father or I'm a husband or I'm a wife, but then they passed away and so now Well, no, I I'm a widow or I'm a widower. You know, uh your identity changes. And so we need to, as Christians even now while we're still living realize that our identity needs to be tied up in Christ, not tied up in that individual. And they need to understand that. And you need to understand that. And that'll help you drastically. You see, if your identity is made up completely, if your safety And and your your your peace and and hope for life and the joy that you have in life, and I'm not saying they that your individual can't bring those things to you, but if all of that comes from them, When they're gone, you've lost everything. And you're sitting there, what uh how can I possibly function? They were everything. But you see, God should be everything. And that's a relationship that won't change. And if our identity even now is tied up in Christ, then when we lose somebody we love dearly and it means the world to us, but we haven't lost our identity. Because we're a child of God. We uh He is our Father. Romans 14, verse number 8 says, for whether we live We live unto the Lord. And whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live therefore or we die, we are the Lord's. We're a child of God. Live or die, ultimately I'm a child of God, and I'm going to be in heaven with him. So we need to be careful. You need to think about your life and say, who am I? What defines my existence? If the whole of your existence is wrapped up in one individual or in your children or whatever, when they're gone or taken from you, you will be at your wit's end. So not only do we need to submit to the current reality and seek God, and but we also need to speak about how we feel. Speak about how you feel. Sometimes it might be very hard to express your emotions or show what you're feeling, but you need to speak about it. Maybe put it into a letter. Maybe write it down and and give it to a friend or write it down and just Tell the Lord, here's how I'm feeling. But you need to be able to express your feelings. Um maybe just get with somebody that's really close to you or that you really trust and talk about how you feel. And let me say, if somebody comes to you and they're just wanting to pour their heart out to you, they're not necessarily looking for an answer. They're not looking for you to give a reason or to find a solution. or to explain anything. They just need somebody that can hear them cry their heart out, that can hear their hearts cry and let them express that. And that in itself is the medicine That in itself is the answer they're looking for, just to be there and hear. But you obviously can speak to God about it. If you don't have a close friend or somebody that you can really pour your heart out to, God is there. The Bible says, Blessed are they that mourn. For they shall be comforted. God will comfort you if you just pour your heart out to God. It's dangerous to bury your emotions. Uh, because when you bury your emotions, you don't just bury the bad ones, you bury all of it You bury the good ones, you bury the joy, you you you you bury the happiness. And so now you've kind of squashed every every part. You can't just continue to be happy and have joy and all that and and not deal with this over here. When you just bury your emotions in squat, you're you're functioning at a much lower level and it can be very dangerous for you. You'll start to shut down and this is not helping you to deal with what you need to deal with. It's like having a wound Anybody have a wound that began to fester or began to have a problem, it hurts to deal with it. It hurts to pull the the bandage off and and And put new ointment on and rinse it off with peroxide. You know, you pour some peroxide and oh that hurts. Pour it on there, and man that hurts, and I don't like that at all. But you know that's necessary, because that's what's gonna help it get better And so sometimes people with grief, they need to deal with that. It hurts to cry, it hurts to share how I feel, it hurts to get these emotions out. But That's how they can help them go through and deal with that grief. It will help them in the end. And then somebody's grieving to move forward, they need to sanction the help of others That is, let somebody help you. Let somebody come alongside. Moses and he had Aaron and her. Time there in the battle when he was supposed to hold his arms up and he he just couldn't do it anymore. Well there's times in our lives when we just can't hold our arms up anymore. There's situations that arise and it just can't it's just too hard. The the burden is too much. And especially men, you know, we feel like, well I'm supposed to carry all this and I'm supposed to be able to do it and and and I don't want anybody to think I can't do it Well we know that's pride. It's pride. Because there's times when we need help. Proverbs 11, verse number two says, When pride cometh, then cometh shame. But with the lowly is wisdom. With the lowly there's wisdom. Just let somebody come alongside and help you. I know you all have heard the illustration about the guy that was caught in a flood. He was up on his roof. He's begging God for some Lord deliver me and the Lord sent by a raft with some people on it and it was didn't look too too good and so he's like, No, I ain't getting on there. You guys go ahead And the Lord sent by a boat and the boat was full of people and they thought, man, I don't know, that doesn't l look real safe. I'm not going to get on that boat. And and the boat went by Then a helicopter came and he says, I I you know they're like, yeah, just clip on that rope, just clip on, we'll carry you out of here. He says, nope. He died and went to heaven. He asked the Lord, Lord, I begged you to save me. How come you didn't save me He says, I sent you three three three places you could have been delivered and you didn't do it. You know, sometimes God's sending the help that you need. And you're just not accepting it. You're just pushing it away. And so we need to let people help, or we need to encourage those that are going through this. Listen, let some people help you Let some people come alongside and carry, you know, hold your arms up while you're while you're weak and and be there with you and for you. So this is some of the different emotions people deal with and how we can help them in their hour of grief. There's much more details and we're going to take another you know week or two and look at some stuff to see how much I get out of studying, but um This is just touching the tip of the iceberg and uh here in the near future we will be offering a class that's 13 weeks long if you're interested in uh you know, taking that not because you may be experiencing grief, but because you want to be better equipped to help people go through that. We'll we'll be doing that on another night during the week some night uh in the future that uh we can be uh help to you in that way.