Well turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter twenty-three. Genesis chapter twenty-three After the passing of uh Mrs. Nazarenko, I wanted to try and minister to Brian However, I could, and I began to meet with him once a week, and uh I started, I gave him a book, and uh we began to read the book together The title of the book is Out of My Sight, which the author, Thomas J. Hawkins, takes from this text that we're going to read tonight. And uh this book is on a biblical response to death and uh grief. And if you would look at Genesis chapter 23, verses one through four. The Bible says, and Sarah was a hundred and seven and twenty years old. These were the years of the life of Sarah, and Sarah died in Kath Jajbara. The same is Hebron in the land of Canaan, and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and he spake unto his son of Hath, saying I'm a stranger and a sojourner with you. Give me a possession of a burying place with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight. This title of this book, Out of My Sight, is found here in the text, and the idea is that Abraham lost. His wife lost the love of his life. The time had come where her earthly body had ceased to carry her spirit and needed to be laid to rest. And all those that go on before us are out of our sight for a period of time. But when that happens There is grief that grips the heart of man. As I met with Brian There was a a uh counseling program available and I had asked him, I said, hey, if you were interested or would like to, I would be more than happy to go with go to this counseling program with you We could sit down and and just just I'll go through it together with you if if you're interested in it. And he was. And so for thirteen weeks we met every Tuesday afternoon and and uh went through this counseling program together dealing with grief. It's a program that we will be offering here at the church at some point down the road, not too far distant future. This tonight and for the next couple of weeks, I want to talk to you about grief About grief. This to this evening would really just kind of be an introduction. It's going to function as a primer maybe for those who would be interested in taking the 13-week course. The material that I'm going to give you by and large is going to be a synopsis or a uh uh cliff notes version of it, if you would, of uh the thirteen weeks of study as well as the thoughts from the book uh out of my sight. And really I I think that as I went through that program, I I learned a lot about dealing with grief. And I didn't go through it for myself personally. I went through it to walk that journey with Ryan But I've gained from it. And so I think as a church we would all gain from just a a at least marginal uh amount of information, so because we all personally are going to deal with grief. But we also are coming in contact continually with people that are dealing with grief. I did not know until I read the prayer sheet tonight that Bob's brother died. Um I had not heard that. He's dealing with grief. Brother Eiler back here. Great to see his brother here sitting with him. He's dealing with grief. It's very fresh in these men's hearts and minds, and they're not alone. You know, a lot of things in life you get over and you get past. Missing a loved one is not one of those. You begin to learn how to function, and as you know, those of you that have been through it, life uh continues and you learn how to go on. But uh That loss is still prevalent. That loss is still there. So I want to talk to you tonight about grief and maybe just kind of give you some thoughts that it will allow you to be A help to others and maybe remind you of some truths that you can get in your heart and mind so that when you go through grief, it'll be a help to you. And uh I pray God will use it in our church uh because this is such an important time to minister to people when they're when they're dealing with loss. So as we begin this evening, the first thing I would like to look at is the description of grief, kind of describing it, giving you a basic definition. And the definitions of grief really are as varied as they are the people that go through it. Because it it takes on so many different shapes and forms based on who is experiencing it and what they're going through and and the situation that they individually are facing. And so one person's grief may look a little different than another's, and how they're dealing with it, and so on. And so there's varied definitions of grief, and everybody experiences their grief in a different way, not just because of their personality. Everybody's personality is a little different, but also because of the particular experience that uh they are going through. And everybody has to deal with their grief, hopefully biblically, but everybody's experience, you know, we always, when we look at it from a worldly standpoint, the worldly standpoint views their situation as the worst. As I had the privilege of going through this counseling program for 13 weeks, there was maybe anywhere from 12 to 25 people there on any given week And everybody's experience was different. Some people would talk about their grief as so great because they had no warning. It was an accident and it just it came upon them like that. And it was i they they had no time to process it And then another person, their grief is so great because they had to watch their father slowly die over two and a half years And and then another person's uh grief is is so great for another reason. Uh you know, each person individually is dealing with this and experiences it differently, and because every situation is different. I want you to understand that the closer we get to God and the more biblically we look at grief, the closer we'll come to a unified definition of it. I believe that when grief is looked at biblically, we'll begin to start to see it through the eyes of God instead of our own eyes. You see, initially we look look at it ourselves and how it hits us. But even as Christians, we've got to be careful that we don't get into that worldly mindset and we need to to get back to the Word of God and get back to God and view it through a biblical and Christ-like mindset. Let me say as I begin here that I don't believe that I have it all figured out. I don't believe that I that I know the answers to everything. I certainly have learned a lot And I will continue to learn. I personally have experienced grief in different ways, different aspects. Some of you know that the Lord chose his infinite wisdom to call our first child home to be with him. You know that i situation doesn't define me. We don't we don't talk about it a lot. But we've experienced some grief. God gave us five more children that he said, here these are for you, and you get to raise these. I said, well I know I raised at least one good kid. He's in heaven already. Or she's in heaven already. So I got one good kid, amen. But uh praise God he's given me five others that we get to raise for him. But we've experienced some grief in different aspects or areas of life As we talk about the definition of grief, grief, I want you to understand, is a result of bereavement, and bereavement is loss. Bereavement comes from loss. If you're going to take some notes, you might write down bereavement is the loss of something or someone. It's when something that we valued, someone we cared for, we lose them, bereavement comes into our heart. Loss can be felt over many things. You can experience loss. You can experience bereavement. From many, many things in life. I remember when I was about four years old, I was given for Christmas a red Kickball. You know, the ones with the like the checks on the outside, the right, just real official kickball, you know And I don't know why that ball was so special to me. I don't know if I never never had my own ball before that. I don't know what, but I really was excited about having this red kickball. Well we had Christmas and then the next day We left to go see grandma and grandpa. And I remember we left town and sometime on the trip I thought in my mind, oh no, I didn't put the ball away. I didn't put and I told mom and dad and they're like, well, you have to pray that it's still there when we get home. So I I remember like it was yesterday. I I can still picture myself. I'm in the car And we're driving down 9th Street, and I'm watching, and the church came in view, and the parsonage, which is across the street, came in view. And I'm looking out the window watching for this ball. And there it was in the yard. My ball. Oh, it was still there. I was so excited. As soon as the car stopped, I jumped out and I ran out there and grabbed the ball and I picked it up. And it was popped. Which is why they didn't steal it. I I they obviously played with it. Somebody did something, but I I can remember how broken I was about the loss of that ball as a four-year-old. I mean I I can still it's crazy. I don't remember much, you know that, but I still remember that. From the time I was four or five years old that I lost this ball. You see, you can experience that feeling of loss over many different things. That feeling of loss can come, maybe a loss of a job, maybe a loss of a home your favorite car. You know you you you've really loved that car and it finally gave up the ghost and you had to watch it get towed away. Just there goes a part of me. There's my car going down the road, you know. You you can experience loss when you become attached to things, when when you have an investment in something, maybe a friendship. A valued friendship, for whatever reason, is broken. And you feel that loss I think about older folks and recent days I've had many off many conversations with with older folks. And the fact that the time comes when they lose their mobility. That's hard for them. Give up those car keys. Give up the ability to just get go, you know? They experience that loss. They feel that, and they're like, man, that was so hard for them. Maybe the loss of health. I haven't had the opportunity to sit down with Bob and ask him. him and I'm talking about Bob Gamble but asked him specifically about this. But I wonder what kind of loss he felt when he lost his eyesight. Happening to continue to live and go on, but he has that loss that's there. And tonight he feels the loss of his brother. So bereavement is the result of loss. Grief Is the state of suffering that is caused by bereavement. Grief is what grips the heart when that loss is great enough. to grab a hold of you. Grief is real. It's pain of separation. It can literally damage the heart. Grief, whether it's major or mild When responded to unbiblically, will lead to despair. So we've got to personally respond correctly, but also try and help those that we have opportunity to minister to to respond directly. Grief can be brought on by shame when sometimes you maybe lose a loss of your testimony It can be brought on. I think about parents whose children have not died But they've lost their children to the world. Or to drugs. There's a level of grief that comes with that There's a level of uh it's it's almost as you've lost them. There's heartbreak that you wear and carry. There's grief that's there I want you to understand that grief is a biblical term. In Job chapter 2, verses 13 It states, none spoke a word unto him, for they saw that his grief was very great. You know, Job endured some great loss. So he had some great grief. In Job chapter 6, verses 1 through 3, he says, But Job answered and said, Oh, that my grief were thoroughly weighed, and my calamity laid on the balances together, for now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea Therefore, my words are swallowed up. He said, My grief is so great, my feeling of loss is so strong that if that weight was added up, it would be heavier than the sands of the sea. Understand that grief, when it grips the heart of somebody, can be very heavy. It can be all-consuming. It can take over their life. It can keep them from even desiring to go on. And that's the time that they need God's people to come alongside and be there and help them and carry them and walk with them when they're enduring and living through that grief. The weight of grief can be very distracting and disruptive. You know how much even just a small problem can distract you, can disrupt your day. I mean, you have a flat tire. I mean, how small in comparison to the loss of a loved one is a flat tire? And yet how much disruption does that bring? A lot of disruption. Uh some some inconvenience uh you know you you uh d this last it always happens that the most inopportune times. Friday afternoon, right before our India night, uh the well at the house over there went out. Worked on it for three or four hours and we found out that the i the pipes blew apart underground, under the house. So we could turn the well back on, but we couldn't get any water into the house. So I came here and I asked Pastor Derek to work on it. So Derek worked on it all night and the way he fixed it up is he got uh he hooked a water hose to the well directly and ran it through my basement door and brought it inside and and put a water hose tap on the on the spick it inside and hooked it up like that temporarily. So we lived with that until yesterday. But you know, something like that happens I remember Greg calling me last year or something and says, Hey, my water heater overflowed in my basement. You know, it's such a small thing, but how much does that disrupt your day? How much does that disrupt your life? It can be distracting. The one of the leaders at the uh sessions we were at, um her name was Barbara, she said she called it grief brain It's grief brain. She's like, you know, sometimes I got grief brain and I'm just not uh I I completely forget why I came into a room. I'm like, well, I don't have refaming when I do that. I don't know. Uh that happens to me. Uh but she's like, you know, it's just it's things and and people began to tell stories there as they talked about how they they were were driving to work and they would completely zone out like they wouldn't realize even what path they took to get there. Like they don't even remember Going through stoplights and and going through stop signs and getting there because they are so distracted and so distraught over the grief they're carrying. And one lady told a story about how that she drove to the school to pick up her child and she waited in a line and you know they moved up and moved up and she got to the front of the line. She stopped And then she drove off. She got two blocks away and realized she didn't pick up her kids. She's like, is grief brain It's just my you know, my mind is is so distracted, so so weighted down. And the weight of grief can do that, and you have to understand people are experiencing that. So we want to try and help them. I want to talk to you secondly here about the divisions of grief. As we discuss this, let me say that this is typically called the stages of grief, and I purposely am calling it the divisions of grief, not just because that's alliterated with my outline, although I like that. But I want you to understand that stages has with it the uh a linear mindset. The idea of the stages of grief is kind of like we we Say, okay, this is the first stage you gotta experience that this first. This is the second stage, so you need to be here right now. This is the third stage, so you need to be here You need to be here. This is the stages of grief. And which stage are you in? And we kind of think like, okay, you've reached all the way to the last stage, so you're good, right? Grief isn't that way. That's not how grief is experienced. It's not a linear progression. They may find themselves, somebody dealing with grief may find themselves way over here one day, and the next day all the way over here. They they they might not even understand why or or what's taken them there. But it's not a linear progression, but there is a way to divide it, and I think by dividing it it it allows us to maybe uh better understand where they're at, better understand what they're doing and and how they're experiencing this, and maybe we can better minister to them. First of all is the denial. If you would like a a big word, is abgonation. Which is denial. That complete rejection of a fact. One gentleman describing the knowledge of his loved one passed away, talked about how he had been told uh that if you ever have a police officer and a chaplain at your door at the same time, you know why they're there. He said, when I opened the door and I saw the police officer and the chaplain there, I looked at him and said, no, you're at the wrong house. And I just shut the door I said he just wasn't didn't even let them talk, didn't even let them bring it up. He's like, I knew why they were there and I just said, you're at the wrong place, and I closed the door on him. Because he knew he didn't want to hear that. Because there's a level of of maybe just denial of of trying to hide it. This is a time where they're maybe in some shock You know, parents, you can really help your kids deal with grief if you talk about life, talk about death, talk about God's plan. Give them an understanding of what takes place The first time that a child deals with death should not be when their loved one dies and is gone. You should have talked through these things with them, helped prepare them and educate them as to God's plan and And why death is here and what it means for believers. Give them a biblical perspective. Don't just ignore the topic or don't give it any thought Communicate with your kids about that and it'll help them where they'll be better able to deal with it when it comes. There's denial, then there's anger. The second stage or division is that they begin to lash out, maybe at those that are trying to help them the most. Because they're angry, and you just need to understand that. They may be mad at you, but understand it's it's rooted in the anger that they have, and it's not it's not necessarily you. You just got to continue to be there. Continue to try and help them. They're dealing with anger. They're processing this problem. Sometimes maybe they're even mad at the one that passed away. They're yelling, you know, mad at them. Why why did you leave me? You left me here with all this stuff to take care of. You left all this, all this, I got all these problems now, and you're not here to help Anger expressed, even at the loved one that's passed away. This obviously is a time of great emotion. Usually has an accompaniment of a lot of tears. Maybe a lot of questions like why? Why me? Why now? Why this way? Opposed to some other way. And then apathy sets in, or depression, a time of isolation. Extreme loneliness where they just say, Hey, I just want to be alone. I just want to be by myself, and what they need to do is be by people. But they just want to be alone. During this time they may be even experiencing some guilt. It's not their fault. They didn't cause it. Whatever the situation is Whether we describe it as an accident, ultimately we know God's in control, right? So they you they might need to be helped with understanding or dealing with some guilt that they might have over, well, maybe I could have Taken them to one more specialist. Maybe I could have tried and and took them to one more doctor, and maybe that doctor could have helped. I didn't did I do all that I could have done. And they're dealing with that guilt They might need some help working through that. They've come to the place where they've lost all hope. Maybe even lost the willingness or desire to live. An unbiblical response to death always leads to more death. Because it takes you into despair And the last division that I'm I'm looking at here is acceptance or healing. It's a gradual return to hope, a facing the reality and finding a new normal. You know that they are reaching this point or they're experiencing this. When they begin to make decisions and assume responsibilities, when they begin to show concern and interest in others When they begin to show or express gratitude for the past, for the time that they had. That's a huge step in the heart of a grieving individual when they can graduate from the place where it's all about them and it's all anger and it's all upset for the loss to begin to start to express gratitude for the time that they had that person, for the privilege of knowing them. Why don't you know it's normal for people to try and hide their grief A lot of times people that we're dealing with or ministering to, they'll come into church here and you'll say, Hey, how are you doing, brother? And you got a smile on and you're happy and it's Sunday morning and the sun's shining. And they're going to look at you with a smile on their face and they're going to say, okay, doing all right. It's been a good week. When really they're hurting inside. It's normal that they may want to try and hide that because it's easier than expressing to everybody that really they feel like breaking down and bowling right now. But they can't do that in public, so they've got to put a good face on. I'm just trying to help us understand that people that are dealing with great loss, they're hurting. And sometimes we are too quick to move on when they can't move on. It's not something you get over or get past. I believe with God's help and direction, it is something that you can get through. I think it's something that God can give you a measure of victory. You find a new normal in your life. But be aware that men, many times they try and hide it. Working through your grief can be very difficult. Norman Wright, I don't know any of you that are readers of uh he's a great counselor. He has many books on counseling, uh, an author. He wrote this, he said, when you bury your emotions like grief, you need to understand that they're alive and you've just squashed them. When you don't deal with it, there's going to be a resurrection. And you don't get to control when that happens. He said when when you don't deal with the emotions of grief and you just try and squash it down and just move on with the day and just don't deal with that, don't don't process it, don't work through it, just keep squashing that down. What happens is is over time at some day You know, pastors or somebody's gonna look at you and say, Why are you so down in the dumps? And that's gonna do it. That one little comment which under any other circumstance wouldn't matter anything, but you blow your stack because all that stuff you've been squashing down just got resurrected. Uh uh some of you've been there. You you've you've been the you've had to experience that from others, or maybe you've dealt with that where you yourself have kind of put some things away, didn't deal with them, and then all of a sudden, bam, it r roared its head up. You know, grief is like the layers of an onion. There are many layers there. It's something that has to be worked through. Every day is a new experience. Every day is a new heartbreak. Every season of the year is a new experience of going through that season without that person. And Every holiday or special day or birthday or anniversary, all of these things that pass through the year are new times and it's a new thing that you've got to work through. And you can just push it down and get rid of it, or you can try and work through it. You've got to be careful not to push it down. You've got to take the time to work through it. You know, uh an onion If you take an onion and hide it and you stick it in the back of a closet somewhere, it's gonna rot. It's gonna get all mushy inside. It's gonna begin to corrupt. And and putrify it's gonna be in the stink. When you don't work through the grief that grips your heart, that's what happens to you inside. But you know when you begin to work with an onion, what happens? My daughter does not like cutting onions. Why? What happens when you cut onions? You cry. It brings some discomfort. It brings some tears. When you begin to work through some grief in the situations and you face those things, it brings some discomfort. You feel back another layer and you experience something else. There's another heartache. There's another burden there. It brings discomfort. It might bring some tears to your eyes. It might bring some heartache. But man, when you take when you take an onion and you begin to work with it and you put it into a pan with some mild heat Boy, it adds an amazing aroma. My mom said, hey, if you're ever if you're ever cooking, you want the house to smell good, just put a little onion in a pan Doesn't matter what you're cooking, that that whole house will smell like that. You know, it just smells good. It'll it'll add some aroma, it'll add some flavor. When you begin to work with that, and when you begin to work through that grief, it takes time, it takes heartache, it takes some tears, but it begins to add a depth to your life that you can't get any other way. Like an onion adds a depth of flavor to a dish that won't come through anything else. Whatever the case In your life, whatever struggle you or the person you're helping is dealing with, we've got to try and encourage them, don't bury it. Deal with it. Work through it. When I was a boy here's my memory. I can't tell you how many times I've told this story, and now I can't remember how old I was when I broke my arm. But I broke my arm pretty young. fell sixteen feet onto a hardwood hardwood floor in a barn. Chipped my elbow inside here and uh Anyways, they did surgery. Cut a b I still have a huge scar here. They cut a big Y shape out of my arm. They could probably do it orthoscopic now, but back then they had to open the whole elbow up, you know, and take it apart and put the they put two screws in there to hold the chip. piece in place and then they pulled the screws out and and it healed. Well something in the surgery they messed up in there and my arm got infected. And over the next two years that infection grew, grew and grew and grew. It was almost two years later, but my arm swelled up to the point that I could not use it anymore. It would not, it wouldn't bend. And it was swelled up big. So finally dad said, okay, I'll take you to the hospital. So we went back to the hospital and uh they they looked at it and they found the infection there. What they had to do is they had to cut my arm open on the other side and let that infection drain out over the next six or eight weeks. They let the arm heal up on its own, gave me some antibiotics, let the infection drain out. But what I'm saying is that I had to be cut. It had to be dealt with. They had to let that go. And grief is that way. You can't just continue to bottle it up. You can't just continue to put it inside. It has to be dealt with. It has to be worked through. You've got to experience that. and bring that healing by letting it out. I'm gonna try and hurry here through the last thing this evening, but the diagnostics of grief. Don't you know grief is normal Understanding, grief in itself, beloved, is an expression of the blessings of God. Grief is An expression of the blessings of God. A pastor and counselor by the name of Brad Hambrick said: Grief is the celebration of a good gift from God through tears. You see, beloved, if you never loved, you wouldn't grieve. It's because you've had the joy of experiencing and knowing love. That your grief is there. And the greater the grief, understand that the greater the love you had the joy of experiencing. There are people we're on rate right now in Baltimore to have record homicides this year. Many people in Baltimore have been killed and shot. in in careless and needless ways. But people that we don't know. You feel for them. You say, man, this is this is mindless, senseless killing. But nobody in here tonight is carrying grief for those individuals because you did not love them. It's because we love that grief is there. So grief, beloved, the fact that it's present is in itself an expression that God has been good to you. But many times when people are experiencing grief, they look at it the opposite way. They look and say, What did God take from me? But God has blessed you and given you. The privilege of knowing love. Zig Ziegler said, grief is the price you pay for loving someone. Lother, I want you to remind you that Christ experienced grief. Bible says in John 11 35 that shortest verse in the Word of God that Jesus wept. When his friend Lazarus died. Abraham and Sarah, we read about this here, but Abraham grieved. He lost his wife. In Genesis 23, verse number 2, it says, And Sarah died, and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. Why? Because he loved her. Understanding that grief has with it a great ebb and flow. There's good days and bad days. Some days you'll be overtaken with grief. It'll feel like you can't go on. Other days you'll feel like you're okay. It can be overwhelming. As I said earlier, you may desire you may lose the desire to live. I found an interesting verse in Job. In Job chapter 6, verses 8 and 9, Job says, Oh, that I might have my request. And that God would grant me the thing that I long for, even that it would please God to destroy me, that He would let loose His hand and cut me off. I read that verse and I thought Job said, I wish God would just kill me The grief that I kept carrying, the weight that I have, the burden that I have is so great, I wish that I could just die. And I can't tell you the conversations that I've had with Christians who were at this point. And as a pastor, they look to me and they say, Pastor, am I doing wrong? It literally was not until I studied for this message that I found this verse. And I did not necessarily have a biblical answer for them, but I want you to understand we know that the Bible says, in all this, he sinned not So how is it that Job could reach the place where he said, My grief is so much that God, I wish you would just kill me, and God saying all this, he sinned not. I believe that the difference is is that Job was submitted to whatever God wanted. He was expressing his heart to God, saying, God, I I I've lost the desire to live. Everything I loved is gone. Lord, if if it's your will, I would just like to go home now. For whatever you want. I think that was the heart that he had. And that's why he could ask for that. There's a big difference between being willing to die. And wanting to kill yourself. There's a big difference. And I want you to know that there are people that reach that level like Job did. When they're experiencing grief, when they're experiencing loss, they think, I've got nothing else to live for. There's no reason for me to be here. They may even have, maybe one of their children died, and they may even have other kids. But the grief is so heavy. I've sat there in their living room and they've talked about why am I still here? Well, because you have two more children here. You look at it and you think, how can you not see that? Why do I even have to explain this? But the grief has taken over. And then they say, oh, I want to just let go. I just wish I could just die. Don't you know that's normal? Something that people will experience when grief is so strong. But they've got to be submitted to the will of God. And put themselves in the hand and care of God because God has a plan. And when they trust God, they know God will bless. As I said, grief is a biblical word. I'm going to wrap this up here. I want you to understand that our grief as Christians is bound by hope. You see, we know that we do not sorrow as those that have no hope. We still sorrow, though, amen? We still experience the loss. We still feel that loss. And that is still heavy on the heart. And it's not y you you can't look at somebody and say, oh, they're they're not trusting God or they're living in sin or or they're doing wrong when they're experiencing grief and you look at it and say, Why can't you just get past that? Why can't you just get over that? No. It's normal. It's grief that's in their heart. And we sorrow, but we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. Because we do have hope. Amen? It's only when we know our true weakness that we can experience God's strength. The Bible says, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Amen? When we mourn is when God brings comfort. There's hope. There's hope in Jesus Christ. There's hope in looking at death and loss through the eyes of Christ. And we get a view from Christ's eyes when we look into the Word of God. Tonight this has just been a Kind of an introduction to this idea of grief and kind of just trying to get your minds wrapped around it. Over the next couple of weeks I want to try and give you some practical things and some more insight into grief and helping people that are experiencing grief. Realizing this is something that really the first title of the book out of my sight is the first chapter is The Grief Pandemic. And the goes in that chapter into the fact that grief has gripped the heart of even Christians where they've ceased to be able to function inside of God's plan. And Satan's winning a victory. And we need to fight against that. Just like people get gripped by a sin, by an addiction. By a besetting sin. They need God's power to overcome it. And this too, we need God's strength to overcome.