Well we're going to read as a text, Proverbs chapter 2, verse 1 through 5 here. He says, My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom and imply thy heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after her as knowledge, and lifteth up thy voice for understanding. If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as hidden treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord And find the knowledge of God. The devotional that was written for this morning He's dealing with the same the title of tonight's message was going to be The Knowledge of God, and I asked Pastor Gus, I sent him that title yesterday, and said here's tomorrow, but as I went over it more and more, uh the objective, the goal is that we would be growing in our number Knowing that we would be growing in our knowing, in our knowledge of God that we would be growing. And uh the devotional that was written, I don't know how many of you have had opportunity to read it or are planning to read it yet. But uh Brother Anthony said, let's go treasure hunting. You are what you eat, as the saying goes. As I read that, I couldn't help but remember the uh story of the husband and wife who were debating uh on dinner. The husband was not pleased with what was being prepared and he said, you know, honey, you you gotta make something really good because you know you are what you eat. And she said, Well what have you been eating, boneless chicken? But you are what you eat. He says The same can be said about what you read or anything else that we do. How much time do you daily spend digging into the Word of God? Is it evident To others around you, yes, yes it is. If you are anything like me, you certainly could spend more time diving into the scriptures There's treasure in there that's right for the taking, but it does no good for us if we don't seek it out. Hidden treasure does little for you if it isn't held into your hand. The knowledge of God awaits us, instruction for holy living and the understanding of the fear of the Lord, wisdom to wet our lips and our minds. in hope. I hope that you are hungry for an adventure. God makes it easy for you if you're willing to put in the work. As a Christian, you have the Spirit of God that will guide you to those nuggets. Without him the best you can hope for is to barely scratch the surface. I recall putting effort earlier this year and reading Psalms twenty two and discovering the Talleth Worm, my knowledge and appreciation for that precious prophetic psalm grew my appreciation for that precious prophetic psalm grew. Our Savior was a worm indeed. Whether lamb or worm, Jesus' precious crimson blood was shed for you and I to cover all of our sins. When was the last time you were in the Word of God, or the Word of God got you excited? You see, treasure is not only to be shown to us, to be sought by us, but it's able to be shared by us. Who doesn't love a good bargain? The only thing better than finding a good bargain is telling others about the deal you scored. We should treat the treasures found in the scriptures the same way. God showed them to us that we might share them with others. The next time you want to enrich someone's life, point them to the Word of God and the gold that's in their pages. I want to thank Anthony for uh his effort in writing this devotional, but it uh goes exactly along with the topic for this night's tonight's message. Growing in your knowing about the knowledge of God. I won't be very long this evening. First of all, I want you to see he gives to us the directions for For growing and your knowing. The directions are given to us right here in this passage of Scripture. He says here in verse number one, My son, if thou wilt receive my words, In hide my commandments within me. Receive my words. We are to receive the words of God. Look for opportunities to receive receive the word of God. Spend time reading the Word of God. Listen to good preaching and hearing the Word of God. And then that's hiding My commandments within thee. What do you think that means, young people? What does that mean to hide the commandments within thee? Caleb, um cannot share God. No. Hide it in your heart. To hide it in your heart. How do we hide God's word in our heart? Memorize. Hide God's word in your heart that you might not sin. against him. So here we're growing in our knowing. We've got to hear the commands of God, but we also want to try and hide the command of God in our heart. Spend some time memorizing at least the verse of the month. Spend some time committing scripture to memory. Any area that you're struggling or that you need encouragement or that that you need help or you know somebody that else is dealing with or maybe the Romans Road or maybe assurance of salvation or uh the love of Christ. These you could pick topics like that and memorize Some scripture that has to do with that to encourage you and to grow in your knowing, your knowledge of God. He says, Incline thine ear and imply thy heart. That means listening, inclining your ear, listen for those things. Boy, some of us have an ear for other areas that interest us. Some of us are are very political, uh and the latest news cycle or the latest thing that's come out that is the topic of discussion in the political arena is and and we're like, what is that? And we jump on that. We incline our ear to that. Boy, we want to know what's going on. And there's nothing nothing wrong with wanting to know what's going on. And nothing wrong with wanting to uh be informed about those things, but there's an interest there, so we incline our ear to it. I've told you before that in in recent days I have a little bit of money in the stock market. Well, that just makes it very real. Wherever your treasure is, there's your heart also, right? I mean I never gave two hoots about what the stock market was doing years and years ago. And now that I got a little bit of money in there, uh all of a sudden I I incline my ear to what? Somebody said the stock market's crashing today? Oh no Uh oh what uh I find there's some interest there. And so uh if there's news about that, I I incline my ear. What what what's that But that's what we're supposed to do when it comes to the Word of God. Do you have that interest? Do you incline your ear? Or is it, oh, they're just talking about the Bible. I'm gonna go over here. Let's talk about the ravens You know? I mean incline your ear. Have a desire and interest and want to learn that. He says, Incline thine ear. unto wisdom, and apply thy heart to understanding. Just like Anthony said in his devotional It does us no good treasure that's not in our hand. We've got to do some work to dig it out We've got to do some error, apply thy heart. Take some time and some effort to learn about it, to consider it, to apply thy heart to the knowledge, to learn what God wants us to have. Sometimes it doesn't come real easy. Sometimes it takes a little bit of extra study. Sometimes you've got to look up some words. Or get a defined King James Bible. A lot of those words are defined for you right there in the text. It makes it easy when you're looking something up. But putting the effort into it, apply thy heart to understanding. How many of you kids started school this year? Working on it on school. You know, I bet you you got them new textbooks and you just look right down to the end and say, you know what, I'm ready for the final I'll take the test. We can skip this whole year because I know all this already. Timothy's like I'm ready. Apply thy heart. You've got a you've got a that math book is put in front of you. The teacher does some teaching. And you can't be thinking about the ball game while the teacher's teaching. Because you gotta know how to work those problems. Now when you get out of school, you're probably never gonna need that again. Parents are like, don't tell them that. I never one time in my life have worked a problem that had letters in it, besides in school. Okay. I'm just telling you. Whatever. Anyways, you gotta apply your heart to try and learn how to do it. I'm on your side, kids. If you're gonna know how to do it, you've got to apply your heart. Same thing with the scripture. Apply yourself to learning. Apply. Put some effort. The directions God gives us to Growing in our knowing is given to us right here. He says, Here criest after it. If thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy Voice for understanding. What he's saying is, beg God. Ask God. Lord, give me understanding Help me to know what these pages mean. Help me not to just read it and pass over it, but to be able to see my life in these pages. and to see how this applies to me and what this means to us today and where we live and what we're dealing with. Because these things are applicable to us. Don't just wait for somebody to get up and teach a Sunday school lesson or to preach a message and open a passage of scripture and to to to lay it out for you and show you, yes, this is what it means. And this is how it applies to you. And that is the job of the pastor. And he's supposed to be doing that. But you can uh do that yourself too. You can say, God, show me what this means Show me beyond just reading it, but get something you know the most powerful truths that you'll ever get from the Word of God are the ones that God showed you yourself. Just like I was talking my my mind again this morning About that, yeah, this morning, about the passage of scripture about uh Paul, how he bore in his body the marks of the Lord Jesus. I still remember when I saw that verse and I was in my own devotion time and I saw that and God spoke to me and thought, wow, wouldn't that be amazing to live your life and to burn bright for God and to Do something amazing for Jesus. And maybe you bear something, or maybe you're scarred, but it was for God. And I thought, that's what I want. I don't want to burn out in this world. And I don't want to waste my days living for money and I don't want to waste my time. That powerful truth has stuck with me all these years. Why? Because it's something God showed me in my own devotions And yes, there are many truths that God showed me in the preaching of His Word and in God's house and sometimes listening to a message, and those are things that are used as well. But boy, it's so rich when God gives it to you. When your God speaks to you, cry for it, say, God, show me, seek, search for it. There's a degree of intensity described here, a level of commitment and desire that goes beyond casually reading our one chapter. The goal behind the devotional of reading one chapter a day was not to make your devotions very convenient. I was telling somebody about next year's devotional, and of course, next year we've offered for those that would like to help write some devotionals and share things that God spoke to you about, and you can participate And I was talking about how next year on some days we're gonna have to read two passages so that we finish the Bible by the end of the year. And the the individual goes, Pastor, I don't know if we can read two pages in a day. He said, Two two chapters in one day? I think you might be asking too much, Pastor. And he was just messing with me. He was just joking, you know. He's like, That that's too much. Two chapters in one day. But the goal of just one chapter was so that you could take some time. So that you could look up the words you don't understand, so that it it you could draw some meaning personally out of it. The directions of growing and our knowings given to us here, but I want you to see that many In the world today are in denial. I want you to turn to Hosea chapter number four. Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zachariah, Malachi. So get to Isaiah, Jeremiah, go a little further. Ezekiel, Daniel, if you get to Hosea. Hosea chapter 4, verse number 1, he says, Hear the words of the Lord, ye children of Israel, for the Lord hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. Now, you're gonna have to think about what he says. He says, Hear ye the word of the Lord, who is he talking to, ye children? Okay, so the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. The children of Israel were inhabiting the land. He says, because there is no truth. Nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. He said, I've got a controversy with you. I have some level of contention. I have to contend with you. I've got a situation, a problem here. The problem is that there's no knowledge of God. Now, beloved, there's no question in our mind today that this world has lost all this knowledge of God. We did come from a Christian nation. And we have a godly heritage here as a nation that Still today we reap many benefits from that that we can't even quantify. We couldn't even it would it would take somebody with a much deeper mind than mine to actually be able to define and show the benefits of the Christian heritage that we have that we are still reaping today. But I remember when I was Stephen and Caleb's age Pastors getting up and preaching about how America is gone. I remember Dr. Tim Lee getting up and preaching, and he was A pastor's son that was running from God and he joined the Marines and he went out and was sent to Vietnam and He was in Vietnam and everywhere he was going, he was running from God and didn't want to talk about God or have anything to do with God. And one morning when he was out on patrol, he stepped on a landmine and it blew his legs off He was dying. They his his best friend picked him up and carried him to a chop and and put him in the chopper and and he was heading out and he said, I I prayed there. God if you'll If you let me live, I'll serve you with my life. And he came back and preached all over America and the world. He would always preach in his dress blues from his wheelchair, with his pant legs folded up underneath him. But I remember sitting in the audience probably in 1989 and he was preaching America the crown has fallen. It was the title of the message, America, the Crown Has Fallen. What I'm saying is we're so far gone from that. There's not even any comparison for where we are today. But beloved, the real problem is not That the world has no knowledge of God. The problem is that the church has no knowledge of God. The problem is, is the church has lost all spiritual discernment. I found a poll from two thousand and two. I mean this is long time ago. But the Barner Group did a poll in 2002, and it says 22% of adults affirm the notion that there are any moral absolutes. Now that's all adults, but it went on and says one in ten teenagers Who profess to be believing born-again, born-again Bible-believing Christians, one in ten Believe that there is an unchanging moral truth. This is kids from church. Back in 2002. One in ten that said they were Christians, that they were saved, they were born again. Only one in ten believed that there was an unchanging moral truth. And you wonder the importance of Christian education. The church today has lost all spiritual discernment. It's it's mind boggling. The the the the things the churches are doing. And I I'm not just talking about bringing the world's music in. That's been happening for a long time. I I mean embracing and putting in women pastors. The Bible is very clear on that. The knowledge of God. The word of God is very clear. This is not something that's gray or or you y that there's it's up for debate or or maybe we don't know. You have to be the husband of one wife. How can you be the husband? Women are not to usurp authority over men. They're not supposed to be leading men. How can a lady be a pastor and be leading the church? Let's go one step further. They're ordaining homosexuals and hanging Rainbow flags out in front of their church. The church has lost all spiritual discernment. They're the the church is existing as a cultural organization, not something for Christ. Pastors meeting and hold holding conferences on how woke they are. We've lost all spiritual discernment in the house of God. And that's why Hosea goes on. We've reached a place today where we don't just need to evangelize the world, we need to evangelize the church. Just as the knowledge of God requires intimacy. To know God, to get an understanding of God, then gaining that knowledge is more than just knowing about Him. It's knowing him. The knowledge of God requires integrity. That is, when you gain that knowledge, you yield to it. And you adapt and change your life to fit in line with With what the knowledge of God revealed to you. Verse number two in Hosea down through verse number six. He says by swearing and lying, what do you that that swearing there is not cursing that's that's committing A promise, an oath, by swearing an oath, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery. They break out. And blood toucheth blood. Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish with the beasts of the field and with the fowl of heaven. Yea, the fish of the sea also shall be Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another, for thy people are as they that strive with the priest. He says you argue with the one that God sent to tell you the truth. Verse number five, he says, Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall fall with thee in the night. And I will destroy thy mother. Verse number six says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Why do we have a lack of knowledge? He says right there, because thou hast rejected knowledge The church today is denying the knowledge of God. They're rejecting it. They're saying, no, we don't want to go that far. We don't want to know that much about God. We don't want to live that kind of holy life. We don't want to follow this because it's not popular today, because it's not embracing modern culture, because it doesn't fit in with my personal agenda And so we reject the knowledge of God. The knowledge that God wants us to have. But if we are going to have integrity as we gain the knowledge of God, that means that we learn to obey, not reject. I want you to see the determination. Turn to the book of Corinthians, several passages of scripture, but in 2 Corinthians chapter number 10. In Second Corinthians chapter number ten we see the Apostle Paul's admonition to us Concerning the knowledge of God. He says, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalteth itself against the the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ Imaginations, casting down imaginations. That's human reasoning. That's our own logic. That's our own understanding. Casting those things down, he says, every high thing, that's our human pride, that's our pride that lifts itself up, that wants to find our own way instead of yielding to God's way. And bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of God, to what God wants, lining up with Scripture. Instead of lining up with culture. The church is destroyed for lack of knowledge The question of tonight is how bad do you want the knowledge of God? Are you growing in your knowing? Are you willing to do whatever's necessary? You know, read your Bible, pray every day, and you will grow. Grow, grow. It's a fact. Read your Bible and pray every day and you'll grow. Spending that time in the Word of God, reading your Bible and praying But neglect your Bible and forget to pray, and you're going to shrink, shrink, shrink. You're not going to grow in your knowing unless you're in the Word of God. It's a shame, beloved, that God's people continue to live in ignorance of the knowledge of God, of what God would want. Corinthians 15 34 says, Awake to righteousness and sin not, for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to your shame. Knowledge of God comes from God The Holy Spirit guides us unto all truth, and God has given us his word. In Proverbs chapter 2 and verse number 6, he says, For the Lord giveth wisdom, and out of his mouth cometh knowledge. And understanding. It's from God. So if we would follow the directions that are given to us there in today's reading, we could have the knowledge of God. I want you to see one passage of scripture and I'm done tonight. Turn to 2 Peter, chapter number 1. 2 Peter, chapter number 1. You know all the turmoil that's just going on in the world today? All the stress and the the problems that are on every hand and people don't know what's going to happen and they don't know What's going to come, and we've got the election around the corner and all the debate, and there's so much stress. I want you to see, beloved, what comes when God's people gain the knowledge of God. In 2 Peter chapter number 1, verse number 2, he says, Grace and peace be multiplied unto you Through what? Through the knowledge of God. You can have grace and peace, multiply it in your life through the knowledge of God. According as His divine power, read a few more verses down through verse number seven he says, according as his divine power, hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these you might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in this world through lust. And besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue, and to virtue Knowledge. And to knowledge, temperance into temperance, patience, and to patience, godliness. And to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. Beloved, the question tonight is, are you growing in your knowing? In the knowledge of God? Do you have an intimate and personal, powerful relationship with God? And as God reveals himself to you, do you have the integrity to change you, not his word? Lord, we come to you tonight. We ask you to help us to grow in our knowledge of you. To maintain That relationship that we would desire and seek after it. There would be an intensity there that we would long to know you more. As the Apostle Paul said, that I may know him in the power of his resurrection. Lord, I pray you would help us to yield to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.