Alright, if you have your Bibles, we'll turn to Hebrews chapter 5. Hebrews chapter 5. That'll be our text passage tonight. Hebrews chapter five, and we will Read towards the end of the chapter, starting in verse 11, we'll go through chapter uh verse two of chapter six. Hebrews chapter five, verse eleven says Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye our dole of hearing. For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles Of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil The thought continues in chapter 6, into the first part there. Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection, not laying again the foundation Of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God, of the doctrine of baptisms and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. I think about children and when I was a child specifically, but children in general, they have no discernment when it comes to balance in their diet. Um if you know they get a lot of candy at church or you know maybe they go trick-or-treating or somewhere where they can get a lot of candy, um they like that. They enjoy having a bunch of candy. Um now if they were allowed, that's all they would eat. Um some parents are saying amen and yes from experience. Um they they would eat it uh because they don't understand that that's not good for them. You know, some pieces here and there, you know, uh on occasion are fine, but eating that whole bag at one sitting is detrimental to their health. And why wouldn't you let them eat it? Because you want them to have a proper diet. You you don't want their teeth to be falling out by the time they're ten years old. Um and you want them to grow up and be strong and healthy and not um malnourished or something like that. You know, that kind of appetite, we expect that from kids, right? We expect them. They don't understand. They don't have the discernment. They love candy, snacks, sodas, anything sweet. Um But if you grow up to be an adult and that pattern hasn't changed, you're in trouble. Um I found that out too. You know, when I was in high school sports, you know, I'm running three, four times a week and you know, I can eat four thousand, five thousand calories a day and it didn't it didn't matter. But now I eat, you know, two McChickens for McDonald's and I'm in trouble. Um so I understand that I understand this specifically. But if we continue that appetite uh the same way it was when we were kids, there's going to be a problem. You expect that from a child. You know, that can be cute. That can be funny for a child, but it's not funny for an adult. And spiritually the same is true. God expects a new believer that's newly saved. He expects them to start on the milk of the word He doesn't expect them to be able to handle something big or something harder from God's Word. No, it's something simple. But his intention for them is never for them to stay on the milk. His intention for them is that they would continue to grow. And they would continue to grow and have this discernment. You know, at some point we have to start moving on from the the easy things in God's Word and and moving on to those Things that will actually make us strong, the meat of God's Word. So the title of my message tonight is Growing Beyond the Bottle. Growing Beyond the Bottle. So let's pray and get into the message. Our Heavenly Father, thank you for this day. Thank you for giving me the message of the hour. I just pray that you would uh fill me with your spirit. God, pray that you would empty me of uh myself and uh that you could just use me tonight. I know this is the message you've given uh me for tonight. Just pray that uh you would use it and uh work in hearts in your name. Amen. So about a month ago in Sunday school, pastor's been teaching on um he's been teaching on Hebrews and uh you know New Testament survey. And so uh it was during studying for this For Teen Sunday School is where I got the inspiration for the message tonight where God used this in my heart. In Hebrews, I'm going to ask for a little QA here tonight. Can anyone tell me the author of Hebrews? Trick question. Jacob. I I believe it's Paul. You believe it's Paul? Correct. I I would agree as well. Um but we don't we definitely um do not have a definitive answer on this is who wrote the book of Hebrews. I almost said the book of Paul, but this is who wrote the book of Hebrews. We don't know that. But I would speculate to say Paul, so forgive me tonight if I say Paul. That's who I believe wrote it as well. There's many evidences. to that. Others might say Luke or or Barnabas perhaps, but we're just going to go with Paul tonight. So in in Sunday school he did discuss this and we talked about this. So just uh and then also who is the audience of Hebrews written to? We discussed that it was the Jewish Christians. Whether that was uh spiritual but also physical persecution. And what was happening is they were saved, but they were being tempted to drift back into Judaism. They were being tempted to to leave what they what they knew was right, the truth, Jesus Christ, and they were tempted to to go back into what they knew was wrong. So that is why the author wrote the book of Hebrews to confront that. That's what we call apostasy. The falling away. They used to believe something is true, but for one reason or another they fell back to something that was false. So that is the audience, that is the purpose, and that is the theme of Hebrews as well. These Christians were struggling to fully grasp the superiority of Christ. Of who Christ was and his purpose. So during throughout this book, the entire theme is Jesus Christ is better. If you've been saved, you know, maybe you got saved later in life and you dabbled in the things of the world, I'm sure you can testify tonight that you know that Jesus Christ is better. Than anything else this world has to offer. He is better. And that is the theme here in Hebrews. He's better than the angels, better than Moses, better than the priesthood of Aaron. And the author in chapter 5 here is painting the picture of Jesus Christ as high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Look at chapter 5 with me. We're just going to go through that quickly. Verse 1, for every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins. Who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way? For that he himself also is compassed with infirmity, and by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but that is called of God, as was Aaron. So verses one through four show Christ's role. As the high priest. He represents men before God. That is Jesus Christ. He represents men on behalf of men. He also offers sacrifices for sins that is mentioned there in the verses. He mentioned that he has compassion uh because he understands human weakness. He was human flesh himself. So he has compassion. on us as humans. Verse 4, and no man taketh this honor unto himself but that he is called of God, as was Aaron. So we also see that Jesus Christ was appointed As the high priest by God Himself. So he wasn't self-appointed. It wasn't like he said, you know, here I am, I'm the high priest. Verses 5 through 10 go on to show why Christ was qualified to be our high priest. Verse 5, so also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. as he also is in another place, thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek, Melchizedek, who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications, with strong crying and tears unto them that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared. Though he were a son, yet learned he ob Obedience by the things which he suffered, and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all of them that obey him, called of God and high priest after the order of Melchizedek. So These verses go on to show why Jesus Christ was qualified to be our priest or was qualified to be our high priest. Verse 5 through 6 show how Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest, but that he said unto him, Thou art my son. Back in Psalm chapter 110, verse 4, it says, The Lord hath sworn, it will not repent. Thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. So that shows that Christ set the pattern here. That Melchizedek was the high priest back in the Old Testament times. And this is why Jesus could follow this pattern. So, who was Melchizedek? And why is he important? He was the king of Salem. This is back in Genesis 14. You can look at this look this up for yourself if you want, but he was the king of Salem But also he was a priest of the Most High God, appointed by God, who was blessed, who blessed Abraham. We also see Abraham bringing him tithes and things like that. But the emphasis here is that he was a king. Jesus was a king. He was a king, but also was a high priest. So the author of Hebrews is getting at the heart of why they were struggling to understand who Jesus was. Because in Jewish thinking, priests were not supposed to come from the tribe of Judah. Which tribe were they supposed to come from? Levi. Exactly. So why why is Jesus supposed to be our high priest when he's not even from the same lineage of our priests? So you can see that you can see their heir, you can see their concern here Because of the example of Melchizedek, he was someone who was both king and priest, and he wasn't a part of a lineage of a Levitical system. He was directly appointed by God. And that's the point that the author was trying to get across. Jesus was qualified to be a priest. He was qualified by a divine appointment from God, just the same way as Melchizedek was. And that Jesus Christ was better than any other high priest that there was. So here in verse verses 5 through 10, he's laying the groundwork and he's getting to the good part in the chapter. He's getting to the part about Jesus and who Jesus was. Verse 10, look at that with me. Called of God and high priest after the order of Mokizedek, of whom we have many things to say. We're talking about Jesus here, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. So he has a he has a timeout moment. He he's getting to the the meat of the matter, the the the good stuff. You know, uh he's laying the groundwork and then he just stops and rebukes his audience. Why did he rebuke them? He stopped and rebuked them because he knew his audience wouldn't or couldn't understand what he was about to say. He knew there was no point in going on and continuing what he was saying because they wouldn't understand him. Have you ever had a conversation with someone before where maybe maybe they're interested in what you have to say, but you know they have no idea? Like no idea what you're talking about. Maybe it's where you work or something that you're interested in, and they have no idea what you're talking about. Um you know and you're talking to them and you can just look in their eyes and you can just tell it's going right over their head. You know, the light bulb is not on. The elevator is not going to the top floor with this one. It's nothing's happening. They're not understanding what you're saying. That's what Paul is experiencing here. Of whom you have many things to say and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. They were dull. Of whom here is referring to what he was saying regarding Jesus. He like I said, he was getting to the part where he wanted to continue. He wanted to say something more about Jesus, but then he stopped. He remembered who his audience was. I wonder what he was going to say. I think that maybe it was more important for us to get this part of the uh passage uh more importantly than what he was going to say about Jesus. I don't know. I I wish I knew what he was going to say, but he doesn't give it to us. So also in verse eleven, he said the things that were hard to be uttered. The things that are hard to be uttered. The author, I I I believe, didn't have the necessary vocabulary to to come up with the words to try to explain this in a way that they would understand. He just didn't know how to explain it to them. It was pointless. So why couldn't they understand? What w what was the roadblock? There was something they were missing. What were they missing here It's at the end of verse eleven. Seeing ye are dull of hearing. It wasn't an author problem. It wasn't that he was saying the wrong things or saying something was false. The hearers were having an issue. The audience had a specific issue here. They were dull of hearing. So number one tonight, I'd like to look at the problem of dullness. The problem of dullness. This passage isn't targeting the audience's intellectual ability of what they can understand. It's targeting their lack of growth There's spiritual laziness. There's spiritual sluggishness. It's not about what they didn't know. It's about what they didn't do with what they knew. And they were accountable for that. You know, I believe, and not just our church, but as churches as a whole, I believe we have a lot of dull Christians. Christians who who've sat under the best preaching, you know, they've gone through discipleship. They come to church week after week, but they've never grown. They they read their Bible, but they they've never moved past it. They're still stuck on the milk. They've never gotten to the meat. They are spiritually immature. You know, they they've accumulated knowledge. They come and hear the preaching of God's word. They've accumulated that knowledge. But they've They haven't applied it to their lives. They've been exposed to the truth through reading their Bible or through discipleship, but they haven't exercised that for themselves personally. You know, they they know what's right. They know what they should do. But they've grown comfortable with doing nothing with it. You know the the problem isn't that they don't know any better, it's the prop the problem is that a heart problem. It's that they're goal. They're spiritually lazy. And that's what the author is trying to get across here. You know, I think about how can a young person grow up in a church like this and churches all across the country, how can they grow up in a church like this? They get saved, you know, they get baptized, they they start joining ministries And then as soon as they hit 18, they're out the door. They're spiritually dull. You know, how how can a member of Hump Valley Baptist Church come to church week after week, sit under the good preaching that we get here? Yet they refuse to be committed to Christ. They refuse to go all in for Christ. They refuse to commit to coming to church faithfully. They refuse to serve in any ministries It's because they're spiritually dull. It's not that they don't know what's right, it's that they refuse to do what they know is right. And at some point the issue stops being ignorance and it starts being neglect. Christians who've never grown beyond the bottle. They've just stayed right here at the milk. They've never continued to grow. That's a problem. I wonder if there's a topic that our pastor would want to preach to us, that he would want to preach to his congregants, to his audience, but he can't. Because we can't handle it. Because we can't understand it. Even if you tried, it just would go right over our heads. That's a sobering thought. I hope that's not the case. You know we like our comfortable Christianity, don't we? We like our spiritual comfort food. Uh I was typing that last night and I went home and um I popped a uh microwaveable mac and cheese. in the microwave because I was thinking about this. I'm like, man, this is perfect. So I was hungry and then I had my mind set on it and I went home and told Lisa, this is what I'm having for dinner. But we like that, right? Spiritually speaking, we've become picky eaters You know, we we like that microwave message from Pastor. It's it's easy. Um but uh y y d it better not go over thirty minutes, right? He's got a strict time limit. You know, if he wants to if he wants to expound on God's word, well he You know, uh you know, we'll we'll take we'll take encouragement from God's word, but um I don't want that you know, I don't want the conviction. I you can I can I can do without that. Oh, we'll take the truth. I'll take the truth. You it's fine, you can give it to me, but don't expect me to make a decision. Don't expect me to change. Don't expect me to walk the aisle and make a decision for Christ. You know, we want the appetizer, we want that mac and cheese, we want the dessert, but don't expect me to eat the steak and the potatoes. Don't expect me to get the good stuff from God's Word. That's how we've become. 1 Peter 2 verse 2 says, As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. Starting out. It's expected that a new believer needs the milk of God's Word. It's expected that they can have something palatable for them. They can't have the meat. And that's understandable. That's not what I'm getting at tonight. I'm getting at the people who have been saved, who have been in church for decades, and they're still on the milk. They can't handle the meat. There's an expectation that when you're on the milk, you'll grow out of it. You know, I I uh if you ever played an instrument before, or you maybe play the piano or something like that, um you don't start playing scales. You you know, on the piano you start learning how to hold your fingers. You know, when I uh the first instrument I learned was trombone. I remember the first trombone I remember being so excited walking in, like I can't wait to show my mom what I learned and I go in there and I didn't even I didn't even pull my instrument out. Like what is this? This is pointless. You know, I'm supposed to be learning how to play my trombone. They didn't even let me pull it out. Well, what was the point? The they were making sure the basics were right. They were making sure I knew, you know, I I knew the fundamentals of music and things like that. You know, but my band director was giving me those things because he knew that at some point I could take that and I could learn and I could grow and then at some point I could play music because I had taken those fundamentals and I had gone with it. You know, that's the point of what we're trying to do here. Uh that's the point of what the writer of Hebrews is saying. There's people who have who have the milk, and that's fine. But They stopped there. It's like going to music class and oh okay yeah that's a that's a that's a whole note, that's a half note, that's a quarter note, but then you never learn music. It was pointless There was no reason. So we see the problem of dullness here. That's the spiritual immaturity. After that, we see a pattern of dependence. A pattern of dependence here. Look at verses 12 through 13. Verses 12 through 13, for the time ye had ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which be the first principles of the oracles of God. And are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat. For everyone that useth milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe. He's pointing out the spiritual immaturity here. These Christians are being rebuked because they should have been teachers. For when you ought for when for the time you ought to be teachers. He's showing a time here and saying you should have grown into this You should have been a teacher. They weren't teachers. They still needed someone to explain to them the basic things. They are the ones who needed the basics repeated. They kept getting stuck spiritually. You know, I wonder if we have some have someone here tonight who who's supposed to be a teacher. They should be leading a ministry. They should be heading up something or serving in some capacity, but they can't handle it. Because they're dependent on someone or something else for their spirituality. They've become dependent on that. They can't handle it on their own. They've never grown beyond the bottle. They can only handle the milk Keep your finger in Hebrews chapter five, but I'd like you to turn to First Corinthians briefly. First Corinthians Look at uh chapter three with me, first Corinthians chapter three in verse one It says, And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto bathes in Christ. I have fed you with milk, and not with me. For hitherto you were not able to bear it, neither yet now are you able. Paul here, he wanted to feed them with meat. He wanted to go into depth about who Jesus was. and how good he was. And he wanted to discuss topics that were important for their spiritual health. It was important for their growth, but he couldn't. They couldn't handle it. They were spiritually dependent on someone else. You know, I'm I'm totally all for discipleship. I am totally an advocate of that. I love our discipleship program. You know, I totally believe we should be bringing people along spiritually, but at some point Those people being discipled, they're going to have to grow up and and for spiritually I mean and and learn what they believe for themselves. You know, they they can't they can't uh they can't learn w uh they can't go to you for everything. They have to know what they believe for themselves. Christians, we have to stop being dependent on someone or something else for our spirituality. Maybe it's a parent or or someone else, the pastor. Certainly a lot of people do that But we need to know what God's Word says and we need to know what we believe for ourselves. We see this pattern of spiritual dependence and We also we need to become spiritually independent. We need to become that, and that happens by taking the path to discernment. Number three is the path to discernment. Look at verse 14 with me. But strong meat belongs to them that are a full age, even to them, even those who, by reason of use, have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Look at the second part of that verse. Even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised. The writer here is emphasizing that spiritual maturity comes through exercise. Consistency. Practice. So if that's the case, then discernment must be developed You don't just wake up one day, even at salvation, and have spiritual maturity, discernment. You have to grow into that The more you use Scripture, the sharper your judgment becomes. That's discernment, obtaining spiritual guidance and understanding. You know, I've I've heard um believers say, well, I don't know why I keep falling into the sin. Or, you know, I I just keep struggling with this. It's because they lack discernment. They haven't grown into the point where they can even discern what's right and what's wrong. So to develop discernment, the truth must be practiced. It must be exercised. So what do I mean by that? Hearing sermons. We come to church, hearing the truth, reading your Bible, those are all ways we can hear truth. Hearing it is not enough. Hearing what the truth is is not enough. You must actually take the truth and apply it to your life if you truly want to grow. That is growing to the next level. So knowledge without application leads to spiritual stagnation. You can have all the knowledge you want, but if you do nothing with it, you're going to grow stagnant as a Christian. Spiritual maturity is going to require effort and intentionality. You have to be intentional about it. The word exercise there in 14 implies work, discipline, repetition. Last night I was playing basketball with Eli and um it was a lot of fun. Uh we just played for a few minutes and um He beat me pretty good. So I thought it was gonna be close, you know, it wasn't close. Um it's been several years since I played. Um so Uh but I was thinking about that and he he was pretty good. So how did he get to that point where he could prettily pretty handily beat me at basketball? I know beating me is not that hard. Um but how did he get to the point where he can consistently make shots and and buckets. He practiced. You know, you don't contrary to popular belief, you can't just walk in the gym and just Do all the stuff you see on TV. You know, I see professional basketball players and I I watch games sometimes and I'm just like, man, that looks so easy. You know, but I you know, I can't even dribble the basketball right. You know, and and they're way past that. So how did he get to that point? He practiced. He put a lot of time and effort. How did those NBA players or college basketball players get to the point where they can do amazing things with basketball. It's because they put thousands of hours into practicing. That that practice was intentional. They were intentional. They were exercising to be good at basketball. You know, growth in our life, in our spiritual life, doesn't happen by accident. It's intentional. You know, in that same way, we need to be intentional. With our walk with God. We can't just do these mundane things and expect to grow. We have to be intentional. Applying what we hear and allowing the Word of God to transform our hearts. That's intentionality. This is how we grow spiritually. We should desire to continue to develop and grow as Christians. That's a problem if we don't desire that. And then number four tonight, the pursuit of development. The pursuit of development. And then the next verse there in chapter six, verse one says, Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection. Let us go on into perfection. Let's be honest. We're not gonna be perfect, right? We're we know that. But we can try to be We can try to do the right things. We can try to seek to improve our Christian life. 2 Peter 3 verse 18 says, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior. Jesus Christ. We're commanded to grow. We are to continue to grow in our Christian life. If we aren't growing, there's a major problem. Ladies, if your if your baby is not growing, after A couple weeks, a month, you know, you know there's gonna be a problem. There's a problem that needs to be addressed because this child is not growing. Christians, if we're not growing spiritually, there's a major problem. We should see red flags More than likely it's if we're not growing, it's because we're spiritually dull, as the author mentions here to this audience in Hebrews. So if we if we want to continue to grow We must first desire God's Word. Desire the Word. 1 Peter 2. 2 says, as newborn babes desire, desire the sincere milk of the Word. They desire it. We starting out, they desire it. It's in them as babies to desire milk, right? Literally speaking. They they're they get hungry. They want milk. The same way a newborn believer desires God's word. Do you remember when you were saved and and and how excited you were to to learn and And to grow and to and to understand what God's word was and come to church and and to learn what truth is, that's the desire you need back. That's the desire you need back. I believe I don't believe Christians lack desire in general. I just believe we desire the wrong things. You know, we can we can binge watch hours of entertainment, but you know, one hour service on a midweek night, that's that's a lot of commitment for some people. You know, the the problem is we desire the wrong things. So growth here, if we want to grow spiritually, first we have to gr desire God's word. And that's where growth starts. You'll never grow spiritually if you don't even desire it. So also we not not only do we desire God's word, we also have to digest the word. Joshua 1. 8 says, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Meditating on God's Word is where growth begins to flourish. Meditating on God's word takes that to the next level. You know, there have been times that I've I've read my devotions, maybe a couple chapters. And if you ask me an hour later what I read, I couldn't tell you. I had no clue. Why? Because I I might have been reading, I might have been reading the words, but I wasn't meditating on it It it takes it takes it to the next level. My brain wasn't engaged. I wasn't focused on what God had for me that day. If we're not careful, we can even come to church that way. We can sit there, but our brain is, you know, off at mission barbecue. Thinking about the meal we're gonna have after the service, or thinking about work tomorrow, or something like that. We have to be intentional with how we take in God's word. This is the reason why Hebrew was was written. Because they knew who Jesus was. They just didn't apply it. They were spiritually dull. We have to allow God's word to change us. We have to obey it. We have to learn. God's Word, when we read it, it'll motivate us to action. And when you act on God's word, it will change you So also we have to disciple others. Disciple others. That's the point of the discipleship program, right? One of the fastest ways you can grow as a Christian is to pour what you already know into another believer. That's why this discipleship program is so key. It's so important. 2 Timothy 2 verse 2 says, And the things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to teach others also. That's why we do discipleship, so that they can tell others also, so that they can teach. If we are discipling others, we have to know a little bit about the topic we're talking about, right? It'll it it it uh pushes us to know more. As a teacher, I studied secondary education in college. Uh I did teach a class for a semester, but I didn't want to just Study everything, all the notes that I was giving them, right? What's the point of that? Because if they ask me a question If it wasn't in the notes, then I could only answer what was in the notes. No, I needed to soak everything in about that. I needed to know almost double what I was going to give them so I could properly have an understanding and a concept of what I was trying to teach them. them so that they could effectively learn it. You know, you pick up it on if your teachers actually know what they're talking about or not, or if they're just, you know, getting by with the material that they have. You know, that's the point of discipleship. We are to learn. And then when we have come to the point where we know that topic, we can tell others also about it. It moves you from being a consumer to a contributor. You know, we have a lot of consumers in churches today, right? You know, what can I get today? You know, what what blessing can I receive From church today. You know, we we sit there and we expect, you know, we want all the people to come up and talk to me, and then we get mad, you know, oh, so-and-so walked right by me, didn't even say anything. You're a consumer. What can I get? No, we need to go to church with the attitude of how can I contribute? How can I help others? What blessing can I be today? Not what blessing can I get? What blessing can I be today? You know, God didn't just call us to grow. He he ri called us to help others grow as well. So if we do these things We will see growth in our lives. We will see that spiritual growth, the things we know to do. Not only just knowing truth, but applying it, allowing it to change us, allowing it to transform us. Growing beyond the bottle. You know, the mark of spiritual maturity, it's not about what you know. We can be naive and think that, right? Oh, so-and-so. They're just so mature. They just know they know they've memorized the whole Bible. You know, that's not spiritual maturity. It's about it's not about what you know, it's about what you're doing with what you know You know, that's the difference between milk and meat, as the author was getting here too. Milk is hearing. The meat is doing. The meat is taking it to that next level. We need to move beyond just receiving the truth in by but also into responding to the truth. And that's and that is the point of this message tonight. Because if all we ever do is hear it but never apply it, we're never going to grow. We're going to stay in exactly the same place. So where are you tonight? Milk or meat? Are you growing beyond the bottle? Are you actively growing spiritually or are you just coasting along? Just just getting by? You're here at church, but you're not actively allowing God's word to change you. You know, I thought of this. If everyone in our church tonight had your spiritual appetite, would we be a dead church? Or would we be thriving? You know, that's a sobering thought. God never called us to be comfortable as Christians. He called us to be growing. As it said here in the Bible, but strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. Where are you tonight? Are you growing beyond the bottle? Are you going to that next level in your spiritual life? I hope these thoughts could be a blessing to you tonight. If you could stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed, we'll just have a short time of invitation. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word tonight and just thank you for this uh passage of scripture uh you've allowed me to meditate on the last couple weeks and uh We confess that too often, God, we're hearers of the word, but not doers. Forgive us of that spiritual laziness, God, that uh keeps us away from your word that uh our lack of desire and hunger for the times that we've chosen that comfort over spiritual growth. God, I pray that you would allow us to grow into that discernment, that we can be teachers to help others grow in truth as well. Help us to lead others to you as well. Feel this time of j uh invitation in your name, Amen.