Taking society by storm today. In your relationships. And I don't know tonight. I mean, certainly every husband, every wife present here, this this is for you. It doesn't matter how young or how old you are, this is for you. I believe that there are principles and truths that you will get here. You say, well, I'm not married. Eli said, Praise the Lord, huh? I'm not married yet. So what does this have to do with me? And and listen, there's some truths, there's some principles that I'm going to give you. I'm going to be practical tonight. And I believe there's some things that you ought to get rooted in your mind about how to handle yourself with those of the opposite gender. A way in which you're doing things decently and in order. And if you'll get a hold of this, it will protect you, it'll protect your future relationships. Some of you older, more mature members of the congregation, you say, well, uh, you know, my stage of life, these things are not really that big a deal or big a concern. Well listen, you you will have opportunity to influence others. I have no doubt, because this is something that impacts so many people So I believe that although maybe there is a segment of our congregation tonight is present or online that Or listening to this, that this directly impacts, I think it is applicable to all of us. We see in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 16 through 19. He says, What know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined to the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. What know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and you are not your own? I'm going to strive tonight to preach here really on the idea of guarding against infidelity. Watching yourself, using some wisdom, giving some real simple practical things that we ought to put in place. Back when I was working at Walmart, when I was a young man, the day after I turned 16, I walked in and said, I want a job. I need to make some money. Amen. Well, I remember that if you took a liquid, didn't matter what it was, if you took any liquid and dumped it into a bottle that was unmarked. Walmart could be fined $25,000 per bottle. Anytime you transferred a liquid into let's say you needed some Windex, and you grabbed a bottle and used a gallon and filled it with Windex and had it just a bottle off the shelf and you were using that, if you didn't write Windex on the side and the inspector came through and it was not labeled, it was a $25,000 fine Because there had been times when people were hurt because the label was not, it wasn't there. No safeguard was put in place. There's some things that are put into place to protect us And we need those, especially in this area of infidelity in our world and society today. This is a widespread problem. And sadly, it's not limited to just the world. Even the children of God are really, statistically, just as guilty. Of allowing this sin into their lives. We know that the Bible tells us that written on the heart of man is the law of God. Beloved, even those who have never been through the doors of a church, and those who have never opened the pages of Scripture, they know in their hearts That an affair, a breach of trust like that, is immoral. Actually, statistically, in America, ninety-one percent of Americans believe that any type of affair is immoral. That's that's amazing. I'm not sure if you know this, but 91% of America are not Christians. I don't think that that statistic holds true. But it is something that's written on the heart of man. We know that this is to be the case. Now the world today has gotten further and further from the law of God and Children raised in such a society can have the law of God that's written on their heart overwritten with what's acceptable in society. They begin to see what is practiced, what seems to be okay And whether it's because they removed God from the picture at all, or because it just happens to be what is most prevalent, they they just feel like this is normal and this must be okay. That's why you can have a large segment of society that believes homosexuality is not a problem That it's not a sin. They believe that transsexual lifestyle is okay. That it's not a sin. In fact, there's large segments of society that don't even believe that those people have a choice. They bought into the lie that they were born that way. When the Bible is very clear that he made him male and female. There is no other way to interpret that. I want you to understand that anything other than that is a deformity. Of the natural process. And there is deformity because of sin. Sin brings that. Just read Romans chapter one. The real problem comes as when the church begins to adopt the world's philosophy and mentality about what is acceptable. Or what they feel is right or okay because of what's acceptable or right in society. We have to guard against that. We have come to think and believe that it's normal, that everybody is doing it, that it's not that bad. This wicked, destructive sin of infidelity, we at least, at the very least, we've reached the point where it is so prevalent That we feel like, well, I at least don't have to feel that guilty because this person, this person, and this person, they did it too But just because you know somebody else that has fallen into that sin doesn't make it acceptable or any less damning for you. One issue of Marriage and Divorce Journal stated Seventy percent of all Americans engage in some kind of an affair during their marital life. That statistic is from twenty nineteen. I'm not sure what happened in twenty twenty. We know one of two things happened. Either they got real close or they got real far apart because they were all forced to stay home together, right? Everybody was in the house. That's mind boggling to me, seventy percent. A study highlighted that one in six people who are using dating apps are using the app specifically to cheat on their partner. One in six Beloved, there is no way that any man or woman can justify the act of adultery. Further, I would say that every aspect of infidelity is sin. We of course tonight are going to apply this and we may kind of flow in and out of this aspect, but the by and large we are dealing with the aspect of physical infidelity. But you understand that infidelity at its root is a lot more than just that. If we were to listen to the 1828 dictionary definition of the term infidelity, it starts with the word unfaithful. particularly in married persons, a violation of the marriage contract, adultery, or lewdness? A breach of trust or deceit. You see, that description goes a whole lot further than just the physical act that takes place way down here. This is what we look at as the ultimate breach of trust and the ultimate betrayal of our love and uh care and compassion that we've given to a mate when they finally cross this line and they've committed adultery and they've they've crossed that line and and and it seems like that's such a strong line for us that we say, whoa, there's a problem. You've gone too far. But the problem, Christian, is For us, we should have been way back here when we were just talking about the beginning of the breach of trust. You will never get to the place where you commit that sin against the one that you love more than anybody else in this world if at first time you see a breach of trust Of any trust, if you breach that trust, you stop, you put the brakes on, you say, Whoa, there's something wrong here. We have got to guard against this. And it starts way over here. It starts here where we put the brakes on, where we stop and we say there's a problem, there's something not right, I've got a guard against that, and if we if we throw up the red flags and we do something way over here We'll never get there. Now by the way, let me throw this out here for you, husbands and wives, if your mate is over here throwing up some red flags And you're like, well, I have not done anything yet. You need to heed that. You need to acknowledge and realize that your mate is is at this point quite possibly saving your relationship. My prayer tonight is that God would convict our hearts of even the smallest breach of trust, the slightest measure of deceit, the first sign of unfaithfulness. That no one here Would ever be guilty of committing this most treacherous and destructive sin against their loved one Unless you tonight would say, I would never do that. I would never sin like that against my mate. Let me remind you, the Bible says, wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed. Right. Take heed. You know, we have an adversary. The devil. And he's a roaring lion. And he's out there and would love to destroy your home. To take all that you hold dear. To rob from you the joy and the blessing of the family that God's given you. He would love to do that It's so sad the destruction, the pain, and the hurt that remains for years, even if you're able to work through it. It's something that remains for years. For what? For what? David, the psalmist of Israel, the man after God's own heart, committed the sin. If David could commit this sin, there's not one man or woman here tonight that is free from this temptation. It is by this one act that many families are destroyed. And again, we're talking about infidelity. Any infidelity. That breach of trust. That breach of trust can come on a financial level. Where you are being deceitful with your mate concerning the finances What you're spending money on and what you're not. Hiding those things. Being secretive and holding that back, breaching that trust. It can come on an emotional level. And obviously it can come on a physical level. Because infidelity Takes that dream that's in the heart of all who truly love It takes that dream that they had. And it just destroys it. Infidelity takes that, you know, that marriage relationship. Uh I want to be all that Mary needs. I want to fulfill that role in her life. I I want to be the one that she looks to. I want to be the one that satisfies her. I want to be be the one that she thinks most highly of. I want to be the one she's closest to. I want to be the one she'll turn to in an hour of need. I want to fill that role. And infidelity destroys that and says, I thought I was that, but I guess I'm not. And then the one sinned against begins to think, where was I not enough? Where did I fall short? Where did I fail? How is it that I could not be what they needed? I thought I was the one for them. It puts a question in their mind, can I ever trust you again? Can I ever trust anyone? I mean, if I can't trust the person I love most in the world, can I trust anyone? They begin to wonder what's wrong with me? How did I fall short? Beloved, this is a destructive sin. And Satan is subtle. This sin has destroyed churches. It has destroyed men of God. And it has destroyed families. It harms the cause of Christ. It gives those in the world a means to laugh at us. Say, see your Christianity wasn't real. You know, they might not listen to what you have to say, but I guarantee you the world is watching you. So how do we guard against infidelity? Just going to give you some simple truths. First of all, don't let your eyes wander. Don't let your eyes wander. By and large, this is a sin that men deal with. But not entirely. It's not only men. For we know that Potiphar's wife in Genesis 39, verse number 7, says she cast her eyes upon Joseph. She looked and she saw Joseph and she thought, Boy, I would like to be with him, and you know the story, where she calls him and says, Come and lie with me. Because she began to watch him. She began to look. Now she had her own husband, and maybe her husband was preoccupied, and maybe he was busy with the affairs of government and wasn't around much. But that looking. You've got to be careful and control your eyes. You've got to be careful where you look and what you look at. She knew what she was doing. David fell into sin with Bathsheba because he let his eyes look. In 2 Samuel chapter 11, verses 1 or 2, he says, And it came to pass after the year was expired at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab and his servant with him And all Israel, and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Raboth. But David tarried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in the evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of his king's house And from the roof he saw a woman washing. He saw a woman, and she was beautiful to look upon. So beloved, well Amnon was besieging Rabah. Satan was besieging David. Getting a hold of him. Our world today does everything they can to turn your eyes We live in a visual society. And we are inundated on every side. With filth. And it takes a measure of grace and power and strength to guard your eyes today like it never has. But you've got to do it. You've got to do it. Because you don't want to end up over here. Right. Yeah. You know, 2 Peter 2 verse number 14 says, having eyes full of adultery that cannot cease from sin. That's the world we live in. Eyes full of adultery. Beholding it on every front. That is having in your mind's eye some woman, some man Beloved, this idea that I can look as long as I don't touch is a lie from Satan. It is a lie from Satan. Because in that look is where the seed is planted. It's where lust is born. If you never look, you'll never lust. If you don't lust, you won't commit adultery. You've got to stop it at that first look. You've got to control your eyes. Job said, I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maiden? Listen, ladies, this is one reason why we at Hunt Valley Baptist Church encourage and strive to help you dress modestly. As a lady, you might not understand the draw that it is to a man's eye. But you know that in today's society everything is sexualized. And the fact of the matter is that in today's society Ladies feel like they have to show about half their body to be beautiful. It's a mindset, it's a mentality that I have got to show a certain amount of cleavage. I've got to show a certain amount of my thighs. I've got to show a certain amount of my buttocks I've got to make these things visible to be attractive. But that's not true. That's not true. And we want to try and encourage you as a lady to dress appropriately so that you're not drawing the eyes of men. On one hand, ladies yell and get upset because they're sexualized and they're symbols of sex and all of this. But then on the other hand, they dress like they're for sale. Okay? You can't have it both ways. I don't understand a man that would let his wife or daughter go out of the house dressed like that. This world today, I mean, just everyday common clothes that people are wearing today is is vulgar. And I'm trying to help you to understand we want to avoid infidelity, and if we want to avoid infidelity, then we've got to guard our eyes. But ladies, you can help that a lot. By being careful what you wear. By the way, just because you're in a skirt doesn't mean you're modest. I've seen in this auditorium ladies whose skirts were so tight, I could see their panty lines. Ladies, if I can see your panty lines, your skirt is too tight. You say Pastor, I can't believe you're talking like that. I can't believe you dressed like that. This is important. I don't want to get the call one day. That your home is broken because of this sin. And there ought to be at least one place in the world where we can gather And not have to walk around with blinders on. Ladies, you can help with that. And don't get irritated or upset when somebody tries to encourage you. The right way. Now listen, let me let me say, do not walk up to a visitor that just came into the church for the first time and say anything about their dress. They need the love of Jesus Christ. They need to know who Jesus is and that he died for them and that their sins can be forgiven. They've got to take some time to grow. This is the Sunday night crowd. You're getting some meat tonight. But that that is not what you deal with when somebody just comes through the door the first or second or third time. They need to grow. You've got to give them grace just like people gave, well maybe nobody gave you grace, but you need to give them grace anyway You say, well that's what they told me when I walked in. Well they shouldn't have. I don't know. Maybe God knew you could handle it. I I don't know, but I'm just saying you need to use some grace with those that are just coming along. You gotta guard your eyes, men. Ladies, 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 3 and 4 says, Who's adorning let it not be that outward adorning? The planting of hair and the weaving of gold and the putting on of apparel. But let it be the hidden man of the heart in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and a quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. That's the true beauty of a woman. This world wants to make it all physical. How many of you understand the physical just doesn't stick around that long? I mean, it just I'm telling you, it just changes. It just there's not much you can do about it. And listen, if you won your mate with the physical It's very likely you're going to lose them to somebody else with the physical because you will not keep that figure. There's got to be something more to you than that. And I believe there is. You've got to control your eyes because where you let your eyes go soon, your mind will follow. So don't let your eyes wander, and don't let your mind wander. It's always been God's plan for man, one man, one woman, until death do us part. That's been God's plan. It used to be, beloved, that the idea of monogamy was one man for one woman for life. Now the idea of monogamy is one man or one woman at a time. It's a shift in our way of thinking. It's the world's thinking that's kind of creeping into the church. Well society is not what determines what is right and wrong. When we open the door to allowing our mind to think that direction. We open the door to a lot of foolishness. When we give in to think for even a minute, well if it doesn't work out I can just try over. If it doesn't work out, I can just get a new one. When you allow your mind, you you see we start to think, now listen I'm gonna qualify this. I don't think anybody here would get offended, but this is gonna be online. So I'm I'm not dealing here with the topic of divorce. I'm not talking about those that have gone through that tragic and painful thing and and And you would be the first to yell and say, please if you can help somebody avoid it, we want to help them avoid it. Because it's painful. It's hard. And no we don't want anybody to go through that. And you know that what's in the past is under the blood, and you've got to go from here and do what God wants you to do. But the mindset today just that, well, it's not so bad anymore. It's it's acceptable. We can do this. It's okay There's not near the stigma there used to be, and and we can just if it doesn't work out, I'll just try a new one. One thing that's helped Mary and I is from day one. We said there's no way out of this thing. So I guess we better figure a way through it. Just from day one. There was a commitment in our heart and mind. There's n there's no way. This is never this I am stuck with you forever. That's what she said to me. I said, I am blessed with you forever. That's what I said. I am blessed. Amen. Yes. I figu I I I guess we better figure out a way to be happy. 'Cause we're gonna be together. Jeff Allen said his dad gave him one piece of advice on his wedding day. He looked at him and said, Son You can either choose to be happy or you can choose to be right. He said, then my dad looked at me and sobbed like a baby. He said I didn't know what he was talking about. But I haven't been right in 33 years. But I'm a happy, happy man. He said, just ask her, she'll tell you. You gotta control your mind. It said that the kiss you imagine can be every bit as powerful as the act you perform. You've got to control your mind. When you allow your mind to wander. That's why God said you have heard that it was said of them of old. Thou shalt not commit adultery. But I say unto you that whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her committeth adultery with her already in his heart. In that verse, there's both those truths. The idea of looking, controlling the eye. Looking, you know, in our world and society we're in today, we see a lot of things. But it goes on. It says looking to lust. It's allowing that look to linger and beginning to lust. and beginning to visualize and allow your mind to wander down that road. It's easier today than it's ever been to be unfaithful to your mate. And I'm telling you that you're unfaithful to your mate way over here. You've breached the trust. You've you've Committed infidelity way over here. A long time before the act ever's committed. That's what God said right there in that verse we just read, a man that thinketh this, if you ponder it, if you begin to dream about it and envision it, and if you don't stop it there, you will be there someday. In today's world with all the social media outlets, the consumption of vile and wicked things online. The communication between people through text, it's easier than ever to be unfaithful to your mate. You've got to guard against it. Don't let your heart wander. Not only control your eyes, not only control your mind, but you've got to control your heart. And there's a progression. in this that is seen. Proverbs 4. 23 says, keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Beloved, when we allow our heart to wander, you will allow your relationship to drift apart. An invisible wall will begin to form between the two of you. I want you to understand that emotional infidelity has become as big of, or even a bigger problem, than sexual infidelity. A breach of that trust. It's just as much a breach of trust. Some foolishly act like, oh, I haven't done anything yet. There's nothing wrong because I I haven't slept with her. But when you allow someone to fill a role in your life, Any role in your life that your mate is supposed to fill, that's a breach of trust. That's infidelity. When you find it easier to talk with somebody at work than your mate, there's a problem. When you find that you can just sit down at work and talk for an hour and a half, you know, oh lunch is already over? Oh my goodness, we talked all this time. But you can't sit and communicate with your mate like that. There's a problem. There is a warning sign. There is a flag that you have got to start investing some time and energy in your relationship. And you also need to stop sitting with whoever that is at lunch. Because you're allowing them to fill that role that's supposed to be for your mate, to meet that need in your life. Many married couples have gone from soulmates to roommates over the passage of time. You still live together, but there's very little intimacy. You cannot let emotional detachment linger in your marriage. Because of where it's going to lead. You cannot allow an emotional bond to form with someone else other than your mate. This is by and large a sin that women face. We dealt with the visual that men deal with. But by and large, women deal with this. And because it's not so overt, not so out there, it's almost like, oh, it's okay. But it's not. It's a breach of trust. When you're sharing personal and intimate details with somebody else about your life that you should be sharing with your mate, it's a breach of trust. Forty percent of women state that the reason for cheating is they were seeking an emotional bond. No men, you can help with this. It's our fault for being emotionally disconnected. It's our fault for being emotionally unavailable. It's our fault for not willing being willing to sit down and take time to talk to our mates. We get busy with the hustle of life and past each other are coming to and fro and we're existing together, but the relationship is not growing Let me throw out a warning to you. You've gotta do something. It's infidelity when you allow yourself or you allow someone to fill a void or meet a need that your mate should fill. Sir, when your compliments to her are meeting her need for value and appreciation There's a problem. What I'm saying is you've got to be careful how you communicate. There's things, guys, that we just don't need to be saying to ladies Guys, you shouldn't be commenting on ladies' dress. On how uh oh that dress looks really nice on you today. You should be oblivious of how that dress looks on her. And if you're not, I just can't imagine having the audacity to say that. Yeah. Well why not why don't you just say she looks hot today? I mean you're almost there, right? I mean there's things that you just should not be communicating with with the opposite sex. That's not in your purview. There's there's a boundary there that we shouldn't be crossing. When your attention meets his need to feel important Or to feel like he still has it. There's a problem. Because their mate is supposed to fill those roles. When your concern meets her need to be heard We've touched on it already, but to guard yourself against infidelity, don't keep secrets from your mate. When you've started to keep secrets from your mate in any in any capacity, you're laying the foundation for much deeper infidelity. True intimacy takes place only in the presence of true transparency. And beloved, when there's anything in the way of that transparency, we're starting the root of infidelity. The root of breaching that contract. We've got to be open with our mate. Beloved, don't embrace or allow any thought to linger that you would not share with your mate. You say, oh, she doesn't know that I'm thinking this. You can't let that linger. Because that is a secret that you're keeping from her. And if you can't share it with her, then you shouldn't be thinking about it. And the same goes for you, m ladies. If you've thought, boy, I wonder what it would be like to be married to that person. Are you going to share that with your husband? Yeah, today I was just wondering what it'd be like to be married to Armando. Just want to let you know. You know. What? Yeah, I like his Spanish accent. Just that. Anything that you wouldn't share with your mate. You say, I can't think about that. And when you have that level of transparency, that is where true intimacy between a couple is found. One of the things that we love so much about our relationship with God is that we know that God knows everything about us and he still loves us. And we can come to him at any time. And he sees us at our best and he sees us at our worst. And it's all okay with him. And we love him for it. Because that intimacy with Christ is there because we're transparent before Him. That's what happens in a relationship, and that's what's necessary to be able to maintain it. Don't make provision for the flesh. So don't keep secrets. Don't let your eyes wander. Don't let your mind wander. Don't let your heart wander. Don't make provision. for the flesh. Don't be alone with someone of the opposite gender. It seems so basic, so simple. But being alone Is what opens the door for infidelity. 62% of men and 57% of women declared that their affair took place while alone on a business trip. Just a business trip. But they made provision for the flesh. You know, Potiphar's wife, that story that we mentioned back in the beginning here. He says in Genesis 39, verse number 11, and it came to pass about this time that Joseph went into the house to do his business. And there was none of the men of the house there within. There was nobody else around. This seems very simple and very basic, but you need to guard yourself and don't put yourself in a position where you open the door to that. Right. When you make provision for the flesh, the flesh will win. Don't allow yourself to have contact. Inappropriate contact with the opposite gender. Here's something we need to guard against. Even in the church. Listen, no man in here has any business hugging, handling, or touching my wife. And I have no business hugging, handling, or touching any other ladies that are here. That is intimate contact. Karen, she's old enough to be my mother. And about once a year, when God really touches her heart or we're in the middle of some struggle or something, she'll just say, I just I just want to give you a hug. And it's It's here in public, everybody's around. And that that you know an embrace like that before everybody, it's okay But you know what? I don't have any business hugging Galena. I have no business hugging her. Any time. That's not wise. You say, Oh, but we're just close. You're too close. Alicia, come here. Okay, I want you to just stand like that. Okay, let's pretend I walked up behind Miss Leanne and I did this. That's intimate contact. Men you have no business doing this to a lady in the church. There's no business. It's intimate contact. You don't you don't need to be doing that. What I'm saying is you need to put some guards up. Now, if Leanne's Say Lee was in the hospital and we didn't know if he was gonna make it and we're praying and I'm there with her and Mary's there and we're and we're praying. I might put my hand on her shoulder I might pray with her. I'm not going to let this hand wander around. Okay? You got to be careful. Thank you. You can be seated. We're talking about guarding ourselves. And it's using common sense. But we gotta be careful how friendly and how open we get. Right. With somebody that's the opposite gender. I'm trying to help you. I don't want to call one day that Pastor, come and Pray with me, I don't know what we're gonna do. My husband's committed adultery. Men, if your wife says that you're too close to a lady, in the church or otherwise, if your wife says that you're too close to a lady, you are too close to her. Your relationship is too close. Let me ask you, why would you protect your relationship with that friend at the expense of the relationship with your wife? Your wife is telling you there's a problem. You're too close. And you're saying there's no problem. You're just being snooty. You're just being jealous. You're just being, there's no problem at all. I can be friends with her. I can spend time with her. There's nothing there. You just need to get over it. You're sacrificing the relationship with your wife to maintain a relationship with somebody that you say doesn't matter. And if she doesn't matter, then why don't you cut it off? Come on. Let it go and work on this relationship. God gave you a wife and she's got some wisdom, believe it or not. And there's times when the Lord gives ladies a little bit of insight. You might be a I'm gonna be kind. Let's say you don't realize the intent of that other woman. But your wife is a woman And she sees what this girl is doing. And she sees what this girl is trying to work. And she's telling you there's a problem. She's telling you because she loves you, man. You ought to look at her and say, wow, I don't I didn't even really? I still got it, amen. You say And you just say thanks, honey. I'll stay away from her. I'll draw you gotta draw some lines. We're guarding ourselves against infidelity. And listen, this is destroying home after home after home in our country. Let's use some common sense and you say, man, Pastor, you're drawing some lines way over here. Exactly. Exactly. I'm trying to help us. I'm gonna close. You guys had a long testimony time tonight, so this is your fault. I'm going to close. Lastly, the greatest guard. All of these things are necessary, and without them you will fall into sin. But the greatest guard that you can have is maintaining a close, intimate relationship with God. Because beloved, the Holy Spirit will prick your heart when things are not right. And one of two things is going to happen. You're either going to walk away from that relationship that's not right, or you're going to walk away from God. Because you cannot continue to walk with God and have a relationship with God and continue in a relationship that does not honor Him. So it is vital that we are maintaining a relationship with our Lord. An intimate relationship with our wife, an intimate relationship with our God. Putting some guards in place to keep us from sinning.