Went on what they were expecting to be a lifetime uh you know, the chance of a lifetime dive In the Atlantic Ocean. They were twenty miles off the coast and they dove down and they were doing gonna do some spear fishing. They had enough oxygen for a 45 minute dive and They dove down and they had a successful uh time fishing, enjoyed everything. It was just a great, great experience, and they surfaced Unbeknownst to them, they were over 300 yards from the ship, the boat that had dropped them in the water. They have guidelines that normally go down into the water that those divers are supposed to stay within proximity of. They had drifted 300 yards and didn't realize it. There was a little bit of a surf. Water was choppy They, of course, were yelling, they were waving, they were trying to get the attention of the captain of the boat, who was at that time knowing they were supposed to be up, was on the lookout for them. Not seeing them after an hour, realizing that they are out of oxygen, they have to be up somewhere, the captain began to look for them. He looked for them feverishly for an hour and then called the Coast Guard Said I can't I can't find them, I don't know where they're at. The Coast Guard got involved. Uh they brought boats, helicopters And searched for these men. They searched for these men for over 24 hours. They were ultimately found by a course co- Coast Guard plane, a C-130. flying at how high altitude using infrared technology, uh spotted them over thirty miles from their initial drop point Here's the moral of the story. If you aren't careful, you're gonna drift. You're gonna drift. And tonight I would like to speak to you for a few minutes on cautioning you or warning you about the Process of drifting, which I would like to describe as becoming desensitized to the wickedness that's around us. Look in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 13, beginning in verse number 8. Genesis chapter 13, beginning in verse number 8. We're going to read down through verse number 13. This is a familiar story for anybody that's been in church for a number of years. If you've read through the Bible, of course you've read the story of Lot and Abraham. And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee. Excuse me. God had blessed Lot and Abraham. They had increased their goods. Their herdsmen had multiplied the amount of herds they had, and there started to be some conflict. There started to be some issues between the family members Abram said, hey, we don't want to have problems. Listen, as Christians, we ought to pursue peace. We ought to be willing to do whatever's necessary. I've taught my kids, you know, that Even if it means you get the shorter straw, pursue peace. You don't always have to be right. You don't always have to have the best. It's okay if you don't get your way. You can pursue peace. It ought to be the spirit of the believer. Well we see Abram here has that spirit. Whatever it is, you choose lot, whatever you want. Be brethren. Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. If thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right, and if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left. And Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere, before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zor. Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain. And pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord exceedingly. Beloved, everybody must guard against drifting. It is a normal pattern and habit of life. If you are not driving towards something, you're gonna drift. You put a boat in open water and if it is not anchored, if the engine is not running, it will drift, and before long you won't realize uh or have any idea how far you drifted. I read a story about uh three people that got on a big rubber duck And just for fun we're sitting on this rubber duck and they didn't realize it, but the rubber duck was floating out to this to the ocean And before long they were so far away they had no way to get back. Somebody came with a paddle boat and tried to get them back with a with a kayak, but the kayak wasn't strong enough to fight the current So the kayak said, Hey, you gotta let go, you're pulling me out. And and what happens if you're not careful, you'll you'll drift And we being in and around this wicked world that we're in, as it wax worse and worse, beloved, I want you to know that it is possible and very likely the Christian will drift. You will become desensitized to the sin that is around us. But even far greater tragedy is that we become desensitized to the sin that's in our own lives. Someone that has a very sensitive nose. You all have known people like that. They just have a nose and they smell everything. Sometimes ladies that are expecting they really get that way. Different odors. They just pick them out, you know, and it just bothers them. They gotta do something about that odor. But you know what? Doesn't matter how sensitive your nose is, you can become nose blind. That is, you can get to the place where you don't realize how foul or how bad the smell really is. Just last night at the activity. That was last night? Friday night. Just Friday night at the activity. Uh I lit the propane uh to uh heat up the oil to cook the fish and we're you know th normally I put the propane on that end of the tents because ninety-five percent of the time the breeze at that property comes from the direction of the Orthodox Church over there, kind of diagonally across the pro property and pushes towards the back. I mean 90% of the time That's the direction. So I put that on purpose at that end of the tent so that when the breeze was coming it would push the smell and everything the opposite way. Well it just so happened that after I lit it I realized that that the breeze was not going that way as you know Murphy's law would have it. It's blowing back under the tent. And so the smell of propane and burnt gas was kind of strong and I went over after a little bit to apologize to the ladies and I said, ladies, I'm really sorry that this And Miss Kim said, well when you first lit it it was pretty bad. But it's not that bad anymore. She goes, or maybe we're just used to it. I said, I think you're used to it. Uh you don't realize how bad it is, and that's what will happen, Christian. If you're not careful, in a sin-sick world, we get so used to the sin around us that it no longer upsets us. That it no longer puts us up on edge, that we are no longer bothered by the wickedness. Can I remind you, beloved, that God's expectation and standard for his people is that we would be holy? He says in Leviticus chapter 20 and verse number 7, Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be ye holy, for I am the Lord your God. In 1 Peter 1 and verse number 15, he says, But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be holy, for I am holy. God's standard for us is holiness It is not that we maintain or keep a direction or a certain distance from the world. God's standard is holiness. And he has not moved. His expectation is that we would be holy. It is not, contrary to popular belief, that we just wouldn't be that bad. See, some people feel that, well, I'm really not that bad. After all, when I look at whatever, whoever You know, every one of us here could find somebody worse than we are. We could find a greater sinner than we are. Just look down the aisle. Don't look, don't look. You you it won't be that hard for us to find somebody that falls uh further away from perfection than us. And so we can look at somebody else and say, well we're not that bad, but beloved, they're not the standard. The standard is God He is perfect, and we to strive to be like Christ, we're to strive to be like God, which means we ought to strive to be holy. I watched a video this last week about a very gifted pediatrician who took an infant and he had to give this infant a shot. And of course, you know, the doctor comes in with the needle. Big Blur, you know, comes in and walks over to the baby, and the baby just sees him and sees the needle and starts screaming, right? And they're like, hold them down and let's stab 'em. That's not how he did it. This doctor, he comes, he he comes up to him and and he's playing with he's like Hey b doop And he's tapping this baby skin. He's tapping them all over the place. He's like the baby smile and he's said You see those little pokes, and then all of a sudden the baby got a shot and the baby hardly realized. That's what Satan's going to do to us. He comes in with this little busy thing. It's not that bad. And we become desensitized. To the wickedness that is even in our own lives. Like the proverbial frog in a pot That you can slowly boil and he does not realize it. That's what Satan would do to all of us if we are not careful. I would like you to see that Satan's going to come and try and desensitize us if he's going to do that, if it's going to accomplish in our life. We see here in the life of Lot what happened. First of all, it begins with an appeal. It begins with something that appeals to us, something that we have an appetite for. We see that Lot lifted up his eyes and beheld the plain of Jordan. And it was well watered everywhere. He said, boy, that is beautiful land. Lot had a choice to make, and you and I have a choice. to make, choices that we meet make each and every day, what we're going to do, how we're going to live, what we're going to allow into our lives. In verse number nine, Abraham says to him, Is not the whole land before you? Is not the whole land before you? You have a choice, you can choose the all of the it's all an option, and can I tell you tonight that the rest of your life is before you Tomorrow hasn't been lived yet. There is. One of the pleasing things about our God is that We get another chance tomorrow. We might have messed up today. I might have had some impure thoughts. I might have uh fouled and and and uh got angry at my wife today. I might have uh you know said some things I shouldn't have said. I might have done some things I shouldn't have done today, but I can wake up tomorrow. It's uh the page of tomorrow is not marked on yet And it's I can I can live right and choose tomorrow to do right and to be how God wants me to be. Your whole of your life is before you, and so you and I must choose each and every day what we're going to do. And beloved Satan is no dummy. He's going to tempt you with that which is appealing to you. That which you would like. That which you want. You can put the world's best coffee ice cream in front of me And I am not tempted at all. All you have to do is say, and they trick you sometimes because there's so many goofy names for coffee I'm like, I'll taste it and then like, Oh, gross and there he's like, Well that's coffee. I'm like, Well how do I know? It doesn't say coffee on there. Uh whatever, I don't even know all the names for for that coffee flavor that's that's in all kinds of desserts and And, you know, th that doesn't tempt me at all. Satan's not going to tempt me with that. Satan knows what's appealing to you He knows what you would desire. He knows what is going to draw your eye or be appealing to your appetite. We come to the place where we lean on our appetite instead of leaning on the Lord. Proverbs tells us to trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not into our own understanding We cannot trust our appetites. We need to lean on the Lord. Lot saw these well-watered plains. He saw all that they had to offer. Do you know real do you know that many times in life What Satan has to offer is going to be far more appealing than what you're supposed to do. What Satan has to offer is going to look a whole lot better than what you know God would have you do. It's going to be a whole lot more enticing and it's going to look a whole lot funner. And you know what? It might not really even be that bad But if you aren't careful, you'll participate in something that maybe if you looked at it and say, well, technically it's not really sin, but you've cast your tent towards Sodom. You see, he saw the well-watered plains and he said, boy, that's where I want to be. He's in the plain. And then it says that he dwelt in the cities. And then he cast his tent toward Sodom. It's a progression that goes downhill that direction because of that appetite, because of something that he desired. You see, he didn't jump right into wicked sin No, he was just choosing what was best for his herd. I mean that would make perfect sense. Just choose what's best for your family. I mean, after all, if a guy doesn't provide for his own, he's worse than an infidel. And some people will use a biblical verse like that and say, well, I must choose to work overtime And I'm gonna miss church and not be where God wants me to be. Uh uh and and you know what, in the big grand scheme of things, uh is it really that bad to miss church once in a while? Oh, I don't know, but you become desensitized. And then you start missing more and more, it becomes less and less important because you have an appetite. For those things, Satan would take every believer slowly and gradually to a place where he is completely out of fellowship with God. That was never your plan. You never thought that would happen. But you just allowed one little step at a time. Backsliding is a slow, gradual process. It takes place slowly over time. Satan's not going to come in with some great big old thing and and and say, okay, throw your family away, throw your children away, throw your all your relationships you have at church, throw all those away, and go do this. You're going to look at him and say, what are you, an idiot? No, I'm not going to do that. Oh, but he'll come in with something small. It is the little foxes that destroy the vineyard. It is the small things, and beloved, Satan wants to ruin our fellowship with God, and Isaiah 59. 2 says, But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face. from you. It is the sin, even small sins that separate us from God. If he can just get you to participate or to take one step towards that appetite. When Lot should have been running, he was relishing the abundance that he could have had. He was looking at all of the abundance, all that the great well-watered plains, and he thought, boy, this is great. You know, some men are blinded by appetite. A job, a girl, a car, possessions These particular sometimes there's something you have a desire for and everything else takes a backseat to that I've seen men who desire one particular thing, let's say a car, and and all of a sudden that car is the goal. And so they've got to get the overtime in order to get enough money to get that car. And so uh time with the family suffers and and away from church and and this is the goal and you know what? It's been long enough ago that they no longer even have the car anymore. It's gone. There's been different things in in people's lives over the years that I've seen them pursue so adamantly that I want this. They're blinded by appetite Instead of doing what they should be doing. What happens when we're blinded by appetite, we begin to work to accommodate the sin. We see in verse number 11, then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan. And Lot journeyed east, and then they separated themselves one from the other. Lot chose the plains of Jordan. He journeyed that way. He began to look at it. If you give in to the appeal, you're soon going to find yourself working to accommodate. Doing what you can to justify it, doing what you can to explain it, say, oh, it's okay. The appetite. At first he just pitched his tent that direction. And then he began to work to accommodate the wickedness that was around him. You see, Lot thought he could accommodate the wickedness of the city without participating in the sin. He said, Boy, I just like being in this environment. I just like being here, the the possibilities. And after all, I could be a leader in the community here. I like the position that I have, but he he he was He didn't realize you you couldn't lie down with the skunk and smell like a rose. Beloved, the world and Satan are crying for you to accommodate them. Here's a word they like to use. Tolerate. The world and Satan are crying out for you to tolerate their sin. And it's become such a big buzzword today that uh if you say anything against the sin Oh, you're not tolerant. You're not loving. You know, you can love somebody without accepting their sin. Without tolerating their sin. But they'll use that in the world today and ask you, just leave a little room for it. But we know from 2 Peter that lot, the Bible says that for the righteous man dwelling among them and seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day. Day to day he's living there in that wicked city and at first when he got there he's like oh my oh oh that's disgusting I can't even look at that Oh, you guys, oh that the the the what the conversation you hear down there is just filth and I need to plug my ears and oh kids don't know you can't go Go down that street. The stuff that happens on that street, no kids, you guys stay over here. And they came to the city and they were distinctly different. And people recognized them. They didn't want to be around the wickedness. It vexed his soul, but he tolerated it because of the advantages that were there. And after a while that which was offensive became okay. That which at one time made him blush, he looked at and said, well, it's not too bad. You know, beloved, today the prevalence of homosexuality in our society has desensitized the Christian to the wickedness of it. Those of you that are older, you remember at least the era, the time frame when you first saw A man kissing another man. When you first saw a woman kissing another woman, when you first, the first time you saw that and you looked at it and said, oh, this is so disgusting. Do you know what? There was a time, even in our country, where by and large that activity was illegal. Why? Because it didn't even matter if you were a Christian, everybody knew it was wrong. Everybody knew it was wrong. They didn't even have to do anything with the Bible and with what God said. Society as a whole understood, as the Bible says in the book of Romans, that it is unnatural. That is not the natural use. The Bible clearly says men will give themselves to it, but it's unnatural. But the fact of the matter is, it is pushed upon us so much. and it's around so much they use it for advertising to sell everything that you can imagine uh from I mean you think about uh I saw a commercial some years ago now it's been years ago but for the flower company that sends flowers around the you know you call them up and they'll send flowers to somebody in Colorado or whatever uh and you call them up well this was a advertisement for them and they t Somebody made a phone call and and then these flowers got delivered and the man grabbed the flowers and brought them up to the porch and the man answered the door and they kissed On a commercial to sell flowers. But I'm saying is it's a part of every program that's out there, every TV show. And and they they make the people that would say anything derogatory or negative about them to be villains and to be you know, terrible people and they they they move on the emotions of society to be for them To the point we have people in our church whose kids go to the public school who come home and argue with their mom and dad and tell their mom and dad it is normal, it is natural, and you're just a bigot. I'm talking about kids that speak to their parents like that. Because they have been so trained by society that it's acceptable What I'm saying is we become desensitized to the wickedness of it. And it becomes acceptable. And oh, that's really not that bad. But the Bible, God calls it an abomination. We get to the place in our society today where we are so used to the nakedness that is prevalent everywhere. You know there was a time that even on TV, when a couple on the TV show were married in the program, that they had separate beds. And I'll bet you that during that time there was preachers preaching against that. Can you imagine what those preachers would see if they if they looked at a program today? Not only had they drifted to the point where they're in the same bed, They drifted to the point where they by insinuation they they show the clothes dropping off. They show the the the silhouette of a nude image walking into the room. They show them getting into bed together, people that that are not married. They drifted to there and nowadays they just show the whole act. This straight up pornography on primetime television. But society as a whole is so are you guys doing okay? Society as a whole is so desensitized to the wickedness of it that they're like, oh, this is normal. But it's not normal. And Christian, what I'm saying, if you aren't careful, you will be desensitized to it, and you'll let the wickedness of the world come in and be part of your life. And God says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. You have to purpose in your heart to draw a line and say we're not going to partake or participate in the wickedness that's around us. There was a time where Lot said, oh man, that's terrible. I can't believe it. And then it got to where, well, it's not that bad. I mean that's just the way it is. I mean what do you expect in the world today? It's it's how it is. And then the Christian that wants to be holy is the one that's the weirdo. You see, lastly what happens in Satan's plan, he presents something that's appealing to you, he gets you to accommodate it, and then ultimately there's an assimilation. See in verse number 12 and 13, and you Abraham dwelt in that land. Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent toward Sodom. But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the Lord. I think it's just a couple chapters over in in uh chapter nineteen, where you see Abraham praying for the city of Sodom, God's going to destroy the wicked city, and Lot is there, and he and his family don't want to leave. They are so assimilated into part of the society that they are accepted, that they are part of it. You see, when they first came to town, people looked at Lot's family and said, boy, they dress different. Boy, they talk different. Boy, they worship a different God. I heard him say something about Jehovah. Boy, they're they're very different and there was a distinction there between them and the world that was around them, but given a little bit of time uh and becoming desensitized to the wickedness of the world, they started to assimilate into that community and started to maybe look and dress a little bit more like them and started to act and talk a little bit more like the world and the community that they lived in to where they were part of it and people couldn't tell them apart. And they didn't want to leave. Beloved, his own wife looked back longingly With a desire to, man, I don't want to lose all that. God was burning it up. And she looked back and said, man, I don't want to let it go. We'll get you to assimilate. See the thing is though beloved is God has not changed. His standard has not changed We can for the sake of illustration say that this organ is where God stands. This is where he is, and this is holiness. This is where God is at. This is where we all want to be. Uh Stephen, come on up here, I want you to help me. Then The epitome of wickedness. Sin incarnate. Right here. You're gonna come over here. I really should do it the other way, but uh alright, so this is Sam now. I'm just somebody and Somebody from the church, somebody by God's direction comes across my path, presents me the gospel. I trust Jesus Christ and He saves me out of the world. He saves me and He begins to change my life. He begins to purify me. He begins to clean me up. And I'm in a process of getting over here by God, and at the same time, I'm leaving, I'm stopping, living in wickedness and sin, right? But what happens to the Christian is we get here somewhere and we get comfortable. We say, well, I'm I'm okay. We're not have not reached perfection yet. We should still be pursuing that. We should still be going that way, but what happens is we get comfortable. And then Satan presents us with some well-watered plains. And here's the problem. We think we're okay. Because as a church and as Christians, what we've done is we've maintained our distance from the world. So the world is going to wax worse and worse. I want you to keep going that direction, just walk that direction. The world's waxing worse and worse and worse, and it's getting so bad you just cannot believe it. You can't imagine how filthy and vile the world is getting. But we we don't understand because we've lost and we're desensitized. As a saved, born-again believer, I am where the world was twenty years ago. God has not moved. His law has not changed. His standard of holiness has is not different because society is different. We've maintained our distance from the world and we think, boy, we're we're holy. We're doing good because look at how far we are from the world. But beloved, as the world waxes worse and worse, Satan continues to sell us on the lie that, oh, we're okay, wants you to wax worse and worse. We think we're we're okay because we still maintain some distance from the world. But the question for you tonight is how far are you from God? You can be seen. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. It's not, beloved, how far are we from the world? It's how close are we to God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed, guarding against becoming desensitized because of the wickedness of the world that's around us?