Grab your Bibles this evening, turn to Joshua chapter twenty-four. Joshua chapter twenty-four As we begin, uh the message this evening, I told you this morning that we would be talking about or discussing the idea of that. Heritage that godly heritage and the practical aspect of striving to hand down that godly heritage Now I know there's people in the church in all different stages of life, and I want to say in the outset here and on the beginning that By no means is the thoughts or things presented tonight in any way meant to be an indictment on those that have already progressed past this point in your life. I know there are some who have children that they're praying for. They have children that are in a very biblical way a prodigal and and are maybe out in the world and they're seeking for them to come back. The things tonight are are not given to try and cause hurt or pain in those situations. They're given this evening to strive to encourage and challenge the younger generation that haven't yet reached that point to strive to pass on that godly heritage. So they don't have to know that pain. So they don't have to go through that which you're feeling. And I just want to be sure you understand as we begin that it is not in any way uh uh a mark on you. I can't tell ya how many times uh following a service I'll walk down and and be headed towards the back or somebody will meet me on the foyer on the way out and especially with regards to this topic the topic of the family I will have more comments, more people will say things like, man, I just wish I would have heard that 30 years ago. I wish I would have known that when my kids were still in the home. I wish I would have known that truth and that practical teaching when I still had the opportunity to do something with it And so I'm just trying to encourage and exhort you to tonight, uh, that this is for that generation that's coming up We have a large nursery right now. We have a big group of of young parents and they're just starting out maybe with some of their children Or maybe like Pastor Gus, they have two families and they already messed up a cura, so they're gonna try again, right? No, we praise God for a cura servant's heart. She's been coming in and helping a couple days of the week uh here cover the phones and and just uh serving to help cover things, which is why she got stuck here on Wednesday uh but we uh or Tuesday but we appreciate appreciate her and so wherever you're at in life understand it's it it's just uh biblical truths and principles. Secondly I would like to say that uh although mom and dad are here and and I battled with this in my heart and mind all week uh because in in many respects I believe that the things shared tonight will be uh a way of honoring them uh it also is going to be uncomfortable for them. Uh they certainly if if you talk to them or ask them about this they'll they'll say it was the grace of God. and that they made more mistakes than they than they did things right and that God helped and and God did it and we they give honor and praise to God and by no means Uh are they I know this will be a little bit uncomfortable for them as I strive tonight to really give some practical illustrations and talk about my family growing up and and uh Uh I talked to all my siblings this week and I I said, Listen, this is what I'm gonna be speaking on. Tell me what from Europe's mindset, from your aspect, what would you say was the number one factor or the number one principle or what would you say is the reason you chose to follow God to carry on that heritage. And we had several conversations through the week with my siblings and discussing those things and I'll be sharing some of that with you tonight. But the goal is to try and help the next generation And uh I myself uh I'm in the middle of it. I'm right in the heart of it. Uh so by no means am I saying that I've got it figured out. Or that here just do what I did and you'll be okay. I'm taking the examples that were given to me that I'm trying to hand on and and uh with fear and trembling and prayer, just seeking that God would continue again that godly heritage. So we see here in Joshua chapter 24 some familiar verses from which we will draw our points and then talk about in a practical way, but he says here in Joshua twenty-four, verses thirteen through fifteen, he says, And I have given you a land for which ye did not labor. And cities which ye built not, and ye dwell in them, of the vineyards and the olive yards which ye planted. Not did ye eat. Now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. And put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose ye this day whom ye will serve. Whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell, but as for me and my house, We will serve the Lord. These are familiar verses, and we know and understand that Joshua here is giving this statement and drawing a line in the sand, as it were, and admonishing God's people uh to make a choice and to stand up for God and choose what they were going to do. He begins here talking about this heritage which they've been given, this inheritance of land. And many times when we talk about a heritage or inheritance, especially in the Word of God. It was it was land given to them. It was something that was passed down. It was something that they received and they were supposed to care for They were supposed to take care of, they were supposed to be stewards of, so that they could hand it down to their children. And there was a lot of importance, and I don't have time to teach on that tonight, but with regards to the inheritance and the the blessings or that were passed down through the family. And we understand that that is God's plan and God's design. Well you and I have been given a heritage. We've been given a godly heritage, a uh biblical heritage, and we have been made stewards of that. And whether that is a heritage that you personally As I would say, like my mom and dad, not necessarily first generation Christians, as in that they were the first ones saved out of their families because much of their family knew the Lord. But they got into the book, and they learned the truths of the Word of God, and they began to desire to follow God's Word, and they began to grow in God and in in the truths of the Word of God and began to take stands and do what God wanted them to do in following the Bible. And they pass that on to their children. So whether it's something that you are that place and you're growing in the Lord and you're learning these things personally and you're taking these steps, or you're like me. where I kinda received it from mom and dad. I it was kind of handed down to me and and I didn't have to walk through the pages of scriptures personally and learn these truths without without a guide because mom and dad were the guide. They they showed us and taught us and helped us to understand those truths. The heritage is that thing it's passed down to the rising generation, literally from the ancestor to the heir. There's a verse that I would like to mention in Psalm 16:6. It said, The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. There is an aspect of this. One commentator talked about the idea of these lines. Being handed to me in pleasant places and the tied together with the idea that I that I have a goodly heritage. And he likened the lines to the harness on a horse from a chariot. And that that chariot and the direction it's going and all that it represents, Dad's teaching his son. And there's a place where it's pretty smooth. And things are looking pretty good. And you think, okay, my son's ready. And he hands the lines to his son in a pleasant place. In a place where the path is smooth and the son's more likely not to cause or make an error and hands him the reins and says, Okay son, I think you're ready. And the sun takes those reins and says, Wow, I've been given a goodly heritage. And I Uh I was talking to Alicia last night and I said I I bring it into modern age, I liken it to a parent who generally that first time gives their seventeen year old son the wheel uh of their thirty, forty, fifty thousand dollar car and you're like, okay, son I think you're ready. And what do you do? You take them out somewhere where it's open and it's smooth and there's not much traffic and it's going to be okay. And you say, okay, I'm going to trust you with this. There's a lot of value. There's a lot of money here that I'm letting you control. And at the same time, you could do great damage to yourself and to others, but at some point you've got to take the reins. At some point you've got to take ownership, so I'm trying to help you and get you ready to do that. So we're talking about the idea of a father or a mother handing down that heritage, that godly heritage. And at some point they've got to take the reins. At some point they've got to take ownership. And the heritage which we have from an Almighty God concerning the biblical principles of the Word of God is far more valuable than a car. Far more important than a vehicle. And so when the time is right, a parent hands over things to their children and prepares them and This heritage that I'm talking about tonight is not just teaching your kids to work hard, although that's important. And we're not just talking about teaching your kids to be good people, or even to have a measure of morality, although those are good things. We're talking about that godly heritage, we're talking about a passionate pursuit of God. And let me just say, I am not talking about your children being in full-time Christian service. Although I think that's a worthy ambition. That's a wonderful desire to say, boy, I would love for my kids to serve God full time with their life. But let me say, if you set that as an expectation for your children, I think you're making a mistake. The goal should be them for them to follow God's will. To do whatever God wants them to do, and that's the thing that they would just have a passionate pursuit for God. Whatever it is, wherever God takes them, whatever God wants them to do, whatever business they're in, that in the midst of it all, they would say, God, I love you and I desire to please you and put you first in my life. Whatever they're whatever they do in life. Whether that's being uh a a pastor or a pastor's wife Or being a doctor or a lawyer or a mechanic or a trash man or whatever. Dad used to say, if you're going to be a trash man, be the best trash man you can for God. Amen. He was okay with whatever we did as long as we pursued God. My oldest sister Stasia and talking to her this week, talking about the time and the decisions that you make, and she said, I remember As a young girl thinking, I want to please God, but I don't want to be a pastor's wife. She saw the abuse that my mother took From people that called themselves Christians in churches that mistreated her, she would find mom crying. And deduce what it was? Find out a situation and where mom was taken advantage of, or criticized, or ridiculed. For just wanting to pursue God or help people, and she said, I want to please God, but I don't want to be a pastor's wife because I don't want to go through what my mom goes through. One year at a summer camp You heard a pastor preaching on complete surrender, and she said she in her heart said, God may never want me, He may never ask me to be a pastor's wife. But I know he wants me to be willing to be a pastor's wife. And she went forward. And bowed and said, God, I'm willing. And that's what we're talking about. Being willing to do whatever God wants. Your children to do. If you're going to get that kind of passionate pursuit of God, hand it down to your children. There's some things that you need. To do it. First of all, I want you to see that you need to see God fearfully. He says in verse number 14, Now therefore fear the Lord. Now, therefore, fear the Lord. There is in your heart as a parent an awesome awareness of God and who He is. There is a holy reverence of God You see, beloved, you are going to obey God and be obedient to him for one of three motivations. You would obey him possibly because you're desirous of gain. For God does reward those that are obedient to Him and that follow Him. And maybe your motivation would be that of gain because of God's blessing. You might be smart and you have deduced that the Lord chastens them who he loves. And so you may say, well, I'm going to do what God wants because I want to avoid punishment. And sometimes that might be the motivating factor. But when you become aware of an awesome God and stand in his holy presence, You begin to desire to do right because it's right to do. You see, doing right is its own reward. You can lay your head on the pillow at night with a clear conscience before God and man. And that can't be bought. Somebody said you're not wealthy. Until you have that which cannot be bought with money. You can't buy a clear conscience. Mom said, you know doing right is not really that hard. Compared to what you have to pay for doing wrong. Doing right is really not that hard compared to what you have to pay for doing wrong. Can I tell you, beloved, when you've been in the ministry as long as my parents have, you've had the privilege of seeing the fruit of righteousness. Born out in the lives of those that chose to do right. But at the same time you've had the pain Of seeing the heartbreak, the turmoil, the tragedy, the complete and utter frustration that comes from those that decided, I don't want to follow God, I want to go my own way, I'm going to disregard what the pastor says. I'm going to forget what the Bible says. I'm going to just do what I want to do. And they pursued their own life. Because after all, they're in control of their life and they can do what they want to do, and nobody's going to tell them what to do. These are true principles. But in the end, I'm talking about 10, 15, 20 years down the road I could stop right here, and mom and dad could stand up and for the next hour give you story after story after story. of people that sat in the pew, that sang in the choir, that worked in vacation Bible school, that chose to pursue their own way and disregard the principles of God and the heartbreak. That they ended up with. But I want you to understand, beloved, there's pain in doing wrong. And doing right is its own reward. It is its own reward. You know, the Bible talks about the wise man and the foolish man. Talks about the houses that they were going to build. You know this wise and foolish man had the same opportunities. This wise and foolish man heard the same preaching. They looked at the same Bible. In Matthew 7, 24 he says, Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them I will liken him unto a wise man. Hearing the truths of the Word of God and doing them. I will liken them unto a wise man. But then he says in verse 26, and every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man. You know the wise man built his house on a rock, and the foolish man built his house on sand. They heard the same sayings. One chose to do it, and the other chose to go their own way. You've got to have a healthy respect and fear for God. Choose to do what is right because it's right to do. And let me say your kids need to have a healthy respect and fear for you as a parent. Your authority needs to be final in the home. That's where your kids learn about the authority of God is the authority of the parent which has been delegated to you by God. Listen, if you have to repeat yourself, your kids did not obey. Okay. If if I tell my son to come up here and sit in this chair and I go get him and pick him up and put him in this chair, he did not obey me. The only reason he did that is because I'm bigger than him. And as soon as I'm not bigger than him, he will not do what I want. You have to build that level of respect in their heart when they're young. Not only do you need to see God fearfully. You know, Dad I'm gonna back up here. Gad Dad it his word was law, right? Um and uh we we as kids did everything we could to get away with everything we could, like normal kids. But if dad and mom found out about it then we reaped the consequences. Um but when dad said something, he meant it. And I remember uh we had these college students that would come down from a college not too far away and they would serve in the ministry on the weekends. And uh this college student was there for a meal at our house and I don't remember exactly what the meal was. There's a little disparity as to what the college student was eating. Uh but uh What I know is that dad always said, if you put it on your plate, you eat it And we didn't have much at that time. It was things were pretty tight. And dad and mom are feeding these college students out of their own pocket. And I'm uh telling you it was tight. These college students didn't know that they were literally eating the only food in the house And uh dad looked at this college student and he says, Now I have a rule with my kids, if they put it on the plate they eat it. Can you eat all that? And the college student says, Oh yeah, yeah, I can eat it. I said, okay, if you take it, you're eating it. And I can tell you this, there's been more than once in our life where one of us children sat at the table for hours. Finishing a meal that that that we took uh that our eyes were bigger uh than our stomach, right? And uh By the way, I'll just throw this out. At church functions you ought to do that with your children. It's really it's really disrespectful. for you to allow your children to take a big piece of cake and a piece of pie and a bunch of cookies and chips and ice cream, all these things that were paid for and provided by other people and then take it and throw it away. As a parent, you really ought to teach your child better than that. But uh dad looked at this college student and he says, You're gonna finish that and he said, Okay. And then of course we're getting done with the meal, and this college student had a ways to go yet Dad said, I told you you're gonna finish that. So here's this college student here that's just here for the weekend serving at the church. Dad didn't let him get up from the table until it was done. He said, You eat you eat it. You aren't moving, you're gonna eat it. He finished all of it. When he got up from the table, we made about ten steps and lost it all. I don't know If he if he ever cared for that type of meal again. Uh but I do know that he found out that whatever Roger Mitrell says is what he means. As a parent, that is vitally important. Now, you need to serve God faithfully. He says in verse number 14, now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth. We see this admonition to serve the Lord repeated at the close of the verse and serve you the Lord. But there's two principles given here with our service to God is to serve Him in sincerity. and in truth. Sincerity is a heart that is true, that is without any hypocrisy, that is not for show and not for everybody to see, but as a heart of love for God, you're serving him, not just so people might applaud you or praise you, but because you love God. You're serving him out of sincerity, out of the sincere heart that loves God. Let me say, beloved, that you don't have to be perfect, but you need to be real. Lord knows that my parents weren't perfect. Do you know who else besides the Lord knows that my parents weren't perfect? You're looking at them. Their children. But as I spoke with all of my siblings this week, all of them without fail I said, what was the thing that caused you to decide to be true to the faith, to follow the Lord, and to take up that spiritual heritage that we've been given? And without fail, one of the things that every one of them mentioned is mom and dad were real. Mom and dad were real. They served God from a sincere heart. What they said, they did. What he preached, they lived. Not just in front of the church family. Not just at at church where everybody could see what they were doing. 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, they were real. They weren't perfect One time when I was a young boy, we were still in El Paso. We left El Paso when I was nine. So was before I mean we were still in Wisconsin, left there for El Paso when I was nine. Uh dad had said, get upstairs and go to bed. Time to go to time to go to bed. And there was a rule that when he said it was time to go to bed, you went upstairs, got in bed, lights were off, and there was no talking Well, we had been in bed for a while and we were supposed to be sleeping. And Daniel and Dave were talking. Dad heard them all all the way downstairs. And I, the innocent child. had maybe even fallen asleep already, but I got up to go to the bathroom and I came back and dad was coming up the stairs with a paddle. Because he heard talking. And he saw me walk into my room to get into my bed, and dad walked into my room and grabbed me by the arm and beat the living daylights out of me. No, he's he's saying that's a little harsh. He's saying I lightly swatted your rear end. He gave me a spanking. And if Dad gave you a spanking it hurt. By the way, it's supposed to hurt. That's what it's for. Oh. Anyways, he leaves. Fix that problem, right? He's walking by Dave and Dan's room and Dan goes, Dad. Now I was talking to Daniel about this this week. Mm-hmm. And Daniel said, You remember that time that dad whipped you when it was meat that was talking? I said, Yeah, I remember it. And he said, Yeah, that made a big impact on my life. I said, You it made an impact on me I said, yeah, uh But what a made an impact on us is that he walked by the boys' room and Dan says, Dad And he stuck his head in there and then Dan and Dave said it was us that was talking. So dad turned around and beat both of them. No, just kidding. He walked back into my room. And begged my forgiveness. Now there was many, many times that I should have got a spanking that I didn't. And you are messing up as a parent if you just chalk that up and say, well, that'll cover one of the ones you should have got. Your children will hold that against you. You see, Dad was humble enough to admit when he was wrong. Serve God from a sincere heart. Just be real. You don't have to be perfect. You just gotta be real. And he came in and said, I was wrong. I misread the situation. Will you forgive me? And I said, I'll try. Maybe when I'm done crying Yeah. What I'm saying is you just gotta be real. Serve God together. Serve the Lord as a family. You know, beloved, it would be better for you to come and do something for God as a family than it would be to sit down and watch a movie Be better for you to come to the Lord's house and do some work at God's house, sweep the floors, take out the trash, do whatever there is that needs to be done around here than it would be for you to go to the batting cages. I mean there's nothing wrong with the batting cages. Those are fine, that's fun, and glad to glad, you know, hey, there's nothing wrong with sitting down watching a c a good clean movie There's nothing wrong with those things, but when you talk about and chalk up what are you going to do with your life and the time that you have to spend together, there's nothing more valuable than you can do than to do something that lasts for eternity. Serving God. You want to pass out on a a passionate pursuit of God, then take those times and opportunities to serve God. Do it as a family. Dad and Mom said work is fun. I asked them, uh When I was gonna learn that. I said, what do you you know, what what do you mean works fun? Mary looked at me and she said, Your children are asking the same thing. You can make serving God fun. You can make work fun. Now work is work and there's no way around it, but you can make it fun. You can you can give reward for work, you can you can make doing the work enjoyable, you can have a good time. My siblings and I were talking this week about different jobs and crazy things we could do and I don't have time to just we we did so much stuff together and working and and the the fun times we had with my my oldest sister She was talking about being about six or seven years old and dad teaching them uh how to strip paint. when this is back before the EPA got a hold of all the train strippers, you know, and here they were in the basement stripping paint, uh in a confined space Uh with this toxic chemical, you know, you pour it on there and the door all the paint goes, you know, and dad's like, just scrape it off. And they're down there stripping paint off of these doors and and Station said Dave and I were down there doing that and we were singing, Oh, we've been working on the railroad all the live long days she says we must have sang that song five hundred times, just scraping paint, you know We uh built the building there in El Paso, Texas, the church, the ministry there, and uh uh there's so many things in the project wise. I mean you heard Melissa give a testimony the other day about uh how you know the pastor's family just does it because it needs done and that's how we grew up and we did the work well. We got on the roof in the the in the heat of the summer and uh we roofed the church The pastor and his kids what was that building, ninety by uh forty five by eighty or Sixty by eighty. So we uh you know, as kids, little kids, uh roofed that building. And uh, you know, we just had a had a good time doing it. Serving God together. I could tell you stories after story uh of the labor and the work we did. Um just make the work that you do fun for your kids. Help them to see the joy in the work. You know, I want you to say also here, it's not just serving God in sincerity, that is, from an honest and a pure heart, without hypocrisy, but it's serving God in truth. And that is serve him in a biblical way. You know, the Bible is truth, thy word is truth. You know, there's people that serve in all sincerity. But they're sincerely wrong in what they're doing. And and part of it is they they haven't been taught they don't know and and and they're not held responsible if they don't know but If you have the book and you're being showed the truth, you need to line your life up with the book, not the book with your life. We saw that in our parents. You know, my mom's from California. She's still through in therapy for that, by the way. Um I'm just saying Afropatrick has 'cause he loves California. But uh what I'm saying is she was a beach bum. Or whatever you want to say. She spent a lot of time on the beach growing up. And dad was a lifeguard. I remember one time as a teenager, I found a picture of mom and dad on the beach, and I'm like, go my soul Mom mom and dad were like, oh we didn't know we still had any of those. They tried to get rid of all the evidence, you know, they were they were hiding it. But you see they they started learning the book and seeing what the truths of the Word of God are about modesty, and they had to adapt and say, you know what? We can't be involved in that anymore. That's not where we get to go. That's not where as a family we're gonna spend our time and I don't know it. I've had people tell me it seems kind of funny like they've never heard anybody talk about the idea of not mixed swimming before It's something that I never even knew. I mean I mean I knew people did it, but I'd never in my mind even pondered a thought about the idea. But you know, by the way, when we went through, I mean as a family We were all fully clothed. I'm not saying we went in tuxedos. Okay. We got comfortable, but the Bible defines nakedness. It defines nakedness as anything below the shoulder or above the knee. We can take time and look at the Word of God, but that's what the Bible describes as nakedness. Right. And whether you're in your family or out in public, you should not expose your children to nakedness. Your children shouldn't see your body, Mom. Your children shouldn't see your your sons shouldn't see your daughter's body. That's to be covered. And they lived that. You see, they decided in their life, and you know what, this is foreign. Their siblings didn't do that. Their mom and dad thought they were a little goofy. They thought, why are you doing all this? Boy, I'm not sure about where you got tied up in, Roger. But they saw the truths in the Word of God and they said, We're going to change our life to line up with the book. You see, you serve God in sincerity but also in truth. That is not just what you think is right or what you think is good for you and your family. That's where modern society is. You serve them in truth, and that is you line your life up with the book. You want to pass on a godly heritage, a passionate pursuit for God? Line your life up with this. You know, when you serve others, you're serving God. In Matthew 25, verses 30 through through 40, he says, Then shall the king say unto them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom. prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was and hungered and you gave me meat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in, naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee and hungered and fed thee, or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger and took thee in, or naked and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee seek, sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. When you serve God's family, you're serving God. My parents have built a life of serving God's family. And we've seen that. Them continually serve others, give of themselves. Rebecca described a time when It was Saturday night, well actually Sunday morning, about two in the morning. And dad came and woke her up. Said, Becca, I need you to go with me. She was an early teen at this time. Becky didn't know what was going on, getting up at two in the morning, going out to the car and where are we going? And Dad says somebody called and their teenage daughter just ran away. We're gonna go. We're gonna try and find her. So they had prayer and they went out and they drove the streets of El Paso. Where they thought this girl might be. And they found her and brought her home to her dad. Things like that happened a lot. Where dad and mom just did what other people needed. It wasn't about their schedule, it wasn't about their life or their time. You know, you've seen us take people in. People have come and lived at our house. Where do we get that? Mom and Dad. At one time, there may have been more, but as the hars I can recollect, there was thirteen. Other people, not batrels, living at the battrell's house. And I don't mean for a day or two, I'm talking about months and months. Because there was people in need. We saw mom and dad take in kids that got kicked out of their home over and over and over again. Kids whose parents said we don't want you anymore and kicked them out and mom and dad said, Come on, move into the room with my son. We'll take you in. One of those young men we've told you stories about he's the guy with the munchies that eats too much food. Frank Escobar. Mom and dad were telling me this week. They have recently heard about him and he's involved in a truck stop ministry. And has seen over four hundred truckers come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. As he ministers and labors for the Lord. You know, when he was a fourteen-year-old boy, and he was eating mom and dad out of house and home. And he was breaking stuff in I mean he was a rough kid. Breaking stuff in the house, causing problems. Uh uh you know, here's what I'm saying is when you've been in the ministry as long as them you get the privilege of seeing the fruit of righteousness. And a lot of times that reward doesn't come today. It doesn't come tomorrow. It may be 10, 15, 20 years down the road, but you see it. What I'm saying is you've got to serve God. When you serve God, you're when you serve others, you're serving God. They taught us to serve others. One year for Christmas, Mom and Dad looked at us kids and said, Hey, I want you to look under the tree. I want you to pick any present under there that has your name on it. And choose somebody in the church to give it to. We didn't get to open 'em first and decide which one we didn't want. It's like that I thought of that this morning where Dad was telling that story of that guy that sold that twenty four dollar uh piece of furniture is worth two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, you know. It's like us with the president, we're like hoping we we find the worst one, right? And then you're then you're watching them open it, open, open that it's feeding the junk You're hoping that you know you're looking at it, you're like, Man, I hope that's not something I want. But we were kids. But see dad and mom taught us that it wasn't about us. It was about others. So you pick a present that was knit for you and go give it to somebody else. Just serving others. You know, you can't wait until it's convenient to serve God. It's never going to be convenient. Satan will make sure of that. It doesn't matter. We've got people here in every stage of life. I tear the microphone out. Every stage of life. We got taking a man that don't have any kids yet. You can look at them and say, Well, they don't have any kids. It's easy for them to serve God. They can they they got all the time in the world. And then you look, well, they only they only have a little baby. I mean that's not that hard. Oh well Pastor Caleb, all his kids are grown and and they're more more help than they are work. Oh, Lee and Leanne, they're they're their son's out of the house. I mean they're they're free. They can do whatever they want to do with their time. You could look at everybody else and say w about their life and why it's easier for them or harder for them. What it boils down to is are you going to do it? Are you going to serve God? One of the greatest servants of God that I know is Brother and Sister Stumple. Just a servant of the Lord in Lawrence, Kansas. They serve God faithfully, nonstop. You know one time I was at her house, and her house was a mess. We know him pretty well. I asked her about it. Mrs. Snuffle looked at me and she said, Caleb, my husband and I decided many years ago. That we were going to put God first. And that if something was going to get left undone, it was going to be our house, not God's house. So if something needs cleaned at church and something needs cleaned in my house, the church is going to get cleaned first. They live that way. And their kids are serving God today. You see, back in 2000, when we met them, their kids were in grade school. But they live that way and now their kids are living that way. They passed on that spiritual heritage. It's never going to be convenient. Your to-do list at home is never going to be done. Never. Brother Lee, you've probably got 40 years on me. Mm-hmm. Just kidding. Not that many, I know. You you've gone through several transitions. He's out of the house now. Your is your to do list done? You've been working on that list for fifty years. Come on, brother. Yeah. That's what I'm saying, is it's never gonna be done. You just have to decide what are you going to spend your time on. What is going to be valuable to you? And here's the thing. If you want to pass on a passionate pursuit of God to the heart of your children, you've got to live sacrificially and say, you know what? My list is not what's most important. We'll get to that when we get to it, but God's work is what's most important. And listen, the Stonefalls weren't full-time Christian servants. The Stumbles weren't pastors or youth pastors, or they're just servants in the church that chose to do what God wanted them to do. The world lives a different way. It's mind-boggling. Let me read for you an article that gives you the perspective of the world, and I want you to understand the church has adopted a lot of this philosophy. The title of the article is Nine Ways to Stop Living for Others and Start Living for Yourself. If you've been told that living your life for yourself is an unforgivable selfishness, you've come to the right place. It's time that we put that idea where it belongs, far away from you. There's a reason that you have a will of your own Living your own life is something only you can do. Other people have their lives to live and their choices to make. Other people's lives are their responsibility. Your life is your own responsibility If you have a spouse and especially children, it is even more critical for you to know how to live your own life. That's wickedness. That is teaching towards divorce. Live your own life. Don't worry about your kids. Don't worry about your spouse. Worry about you. Because you're the most important. That's the world's philosophy. But God's is the opposite. Goes on, if you have kids and don't want them to grow up thinking it's normal to prefer to live their lives for others. And repress their own desires, and it just gets ridiculous since then. Further. You don't want your kids to think it's normal to live for others. Well, I hope my kids think it's normal to live for others. Others, Lord, others, let this my motto be that even while I kneel and pray, my prayers will be for others. Listen, we're we're out of time and I'm less than halfway done with this Let me just give you the other points here and we see thirdly that you need to separate unto God fully. He says here, put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt. Separate. You might have to separate from some of the gods that your family served. Some of the family traditions that your family had that aren't honoring and pleasing to God? Some of the activities that you participated in. You might have to put away some things that this world offers, some of the activities. You know, your kids don't need everything this world has. You know, Mary and I been married twenty-seven years and there's never been a TV hooked up in our house. Somebody just recently looked at me shocked. You know what? Growing up we never had the TV. I was okay. I lived. No, I wanted one bad when I was a kid. Well I I I people would give dad TVs. Dad would take it in the front door and well lock it out the back door. Throw in the trash. I can't imagine how many TVs were given to Dad. People trying to help him raise his kids I mean I I I know about three or four. That's just the ones that I know about. I'm sure there are many others that that people offered. You know, hey, you need to have a TV, Pastor Kid. But you know he said my kids don't need that. They don't need that worldly influence. They don't need to be taught those things. We need to keep that out of our house. He just decided to separate from those things. Separate fully from those things. Avoid all the appearance of evil. I have many illustrations here that I could give, but let's move let me give you the last one. You need to settle on God firmly. Settle on God firmly. In verse number 15, he says, and if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose ye this day whom you will serve. You know, half-hearted casual Christianity is not going to pass on a passionate pursuit of God into your children. What I have seen, and I've only been pastoring for a number of years, but I've been in the ministry since 1999. And what I have seen is a lot of parents that want to play church. They want to play Christianity, but they want their kids to be godly. They somehow think that if they come to church, if they're here, if they put their kids in this environment, somehow their kids will be more than what they are. But I've been around long enough to tell you I'm not saying it never happens because I have seen it. It's very, very rare that a child will go beyond what his family is. It's very rare, but it's some children I've seen them where they'll get a hold of God and they'll say it doesn't matter if dad and mom are right, it doesn't matter if dad and mom love God, it doesn't matter what dad and mom participate in, I'm gonna pursue God, but most kids will not do that. Most kids will be a little bit left or a little bit less of a Christian than you as a parent are. I know your ambition for them is that they would be passionate about Christ. You expect that out of them when you're casual about Christ. When you could take it or leave it, you have to make the decision to choose to follow God fully Settle on God firmly. Settle this in your heart. When do you settle it? You need to settle it now. I saw a picture this week. Six men carrying a casket. And the caption under it was Don't wait for six men to bring you to church. You need to settle your commitment to God. Settle your commitment to church attendance. Settle your commitment to being a soul winner. Settle your commitment to helping and serving others. Settle your commitment to the the biblical standards. Settle your commitment to have a conviction about what God's Word says that you're going to live and do it. Settle these things. You can't expect it out of your children if you're not gonna live it. Now as I close, I just I want to tell the kids here that you're being handed a heritage. You're being handed a godly heritage. You have a responsibility. Your parents are handing to you the lines. They're saying, okay, you're ready. It's your time to take it. It's your time to go. And you have a responsibility to keep that heritage. You understand it is immensely selfish to take the heritage that you're being handed. And cast it aside. All that's been invested in you, all the prayers, all the time, all the energy, all of the life lessons, all of the training. And you say, I don't want that. I'm my own person. I can do what I want to do. That was good for dad. It's not for me. You're taking the heritage that's being handed to you. And just throwing it aside. It's immensely selfish. And that's the world's philosophy. Live for yourself. Make yourself happy. I want to say That I believe I have a biblical responsibility as a pastor to rule my house well. And that if one of my children Decide not to take up the heritage. I'm not saying that they're going to be a non-full-time Christian service or or or you know they may be a doctor or you know Melissa wants to go into cybersecurity. You know, uh it's okay. That's what God wants for her. But what I'm saying is if they take the heritage that they've been given and discard it. Then I'm no longer qualified to pastor. And I'm telling you, church, that I will step down. When the time when the day comes if if the devil gets a hold of one of the kids and they disregard all the heritage that's been given to them. Then I'll step down. So that puts a pretty heavy weight on me to try and do it right. But it also puts a weight of responsibility on my kids. You see, none of us live a life unto ourselves. We don't. You think you do, but you don't. Everything you do affects others. So kids, you have a responsibility to take that heritage. The goodly heritage that's been handed to you and to honor God and to honor your parents with what's been handed to you.