And uh this goes along with the readings that we've done in recent days, reading through just getting out of Genesis and uh the history and the story of of God's people. It's a very familiar uh story, but turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter number three. Hebrews chapter number three. I want you to listen. Uh one key thing uh with Bible study and Bible reading and as you're reading your one chapter a day, one key thing that you should really be looking out for and watching for is any type of repetition. Anything in a passage that is repeated more than once or given to you several times or stated in the same way. And you can kind of grab a hold of that and give you a direction for study. So as we read through this, we're going to start in verse number seven and read down through verse number 19. And uh as we read through this, you listen and follow along and try and pick out what is repeated. Hebrews chapter 3, verse number 7. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith today, if you will hear his voice, Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness. Now you recall the story he's talking here about. We just got through reading about the children of Israel. In the book of Genesis there, he says, When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their hearts And they have not known my ways. So I swear in my wrath they shall not enter into my rest. Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in departing from the living God. But exhort one another daily Well it is called today, lest ye, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. For we are made partakers of Christ if we hold the beginning of our confidence steadfast unto the end. Well, it is said today, if you will hear his voice, harden not your hearts as in the provocation For some, when they had heard, did provoke, howbeit not all, that came out of Egypt by Moses. But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that had sinned Whose carcasses fell in the wilderness, and to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. So if you were paying attention, what is the phrase that's repeated in there? Anybody find it? Harden not your hearts. Harden not your hearts. That's the title of the message this evening. Harden not your hearts. And I pray God would speak to us as we look at this pastors this evening and talk about hardening not your hearts. Let me pray and ask the Lord to leave We thank you for your love for us. We thank you for the Word of God and the privilege that uh is mine to be able to preach it. I pray, God, that as we look at this story that's given to us in the Word of God, in a in a reflection or a thinking upon back of what the children of Israel knew to be a story of their history, and given to them with this admonition, which we know that Pharaoh's heart was hardened. He did not want to yield to you. And God, we as Christians sometimes will harden our hearts against your will, and I pray, God, you teach us to yield to you. Lord may use this message this evening in our church and our lives, and we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This phrase, the title of this message tonight is found three times in the Word of God. The phrase specifically is found twice here in this chapter of Hebrews and once in chapter number four. Um harden not your hearts. As we have looked at and seen the Word of God Given and taught to us as Christians, as believers, we need to have a heart that yields and surrenders to the will of God. You know, when the Word of God gives us something that is repeated, it's repeated for a reason. God didn't repeat anything just for filler. You know, sometimes pastors, uh preachers, people that present the word of God or get up and they they teach, whether that's in a Sunday school or in a church, um, sometimes we might repeat something as a manner uh a matter of our personality or kind of how we how how somebody might teach. They just have a habit of repeating and then they'll go on. And they'll repeat and then they'll go on. It might be a method of their teaching. Um sometimes preachers they they don't tell you this, but they're repeating because they can't remember what's next. And they've got to get back to their notes and And so they're repeating what they've already said until they get back to their notes so that they can look and say, Oh yeah, that's where I was going, and they've forgotten all about it. So sometimes they repeat because they forgot what to say. But do you understand that God does not repeat anything in the Word of God because he forgot what to say? Because he didn't know what to say, or because he wants to fill the time. God gives us R in the Word of God things that are repeated because he wants to emphasize those truths to us. He wants to be sure that we get those. And sometimes the preacher That gets up and he preaches and he might repeat, he might emphasize something, because he wants to be sure that you get it. He wants to be sure that you heard it and that you understand it and that it sunk in before he moves on. And there's nothing wrong with that, and don't uh be overly frustrated with the individual who is is speaking who that that might repeat themselves. Especially if they get up in years, that tends to happen a little more often sometimes. But uh I'm sure the speaker, whoever it is, would be th thankful for your gracious spirit in that But here we see the Word of God is repeated, and the idea of hardening your hearts is repeated three times here. That phrase specifically to harden not your heart, and then in verse number 13. He says, if any of you be hardened, uses that phrase again. All three of these set off with the phrase today. Today. Now. We understand, and you as a church, I know you've been in church long enough, you know that the uh book of Hebrews here was written. To teach Jewish believers how to live a victorious Christian life. Now, when you're studying the Word of God, it's good to know who it is the book was written to. There's a different way of approaching the Gentiles and what you might want to say to a Gentile group of people and that they might have understanding than you would to the Jewish people. So he God here in the through the inspiration of the scriptures is teaching the Jewish people, Jewish saved believers, how to live and experience The Christian life. Being Jews, saved out of Judaism, they would know, understand, and have probably could quote you and tell you the stories of their history. So he approaches the teaching about how to live a victorious Christian life by taking them back in their mind, and he says, hey, you remember who it was that God said you're not going to enter into my rest. Because you didn't believe. You remember who it was that God said you are not going to do this because you did not have faith You remember the story how they were there on the edge of the Jordan River, and he brings back to their memory. Their history and what they would be very familiar with to them. This group of saved Jews, very familiar with the story. He takes them back to Egypt. Talks to them about how they were bonded and freed, and you remember how God freed you and allowed you to go out and walk across the Red Sea. Now I know that You and I understand that this journey that was given to us in the Old Testament is also a picture of the New Testament saint. And we look at coming out of Egypt as being saved, as being taken out of the world, as being freed from being in bondage and sin, right? That's where we we we look at that and Egypt is a picture of the world and we're freed from that and we're brought out of that and they come up to the Red Sea. And the Red Sea is the the the picture of salvation in that they stood there and they had no way of saving themselves They were there and the enemy was coming upon them and the Red Sea was before them. But God, in His miraculous way, provided a way of escape for them, provided salvation for them. They didn't do anything to deserve it They didn't do anything to achieve it. They didn't do anything to receive it. God miraculously delivered his people. All they had to do was by faith walk through that Red Sea. And trust God that those walls of water weren't going to pour down in upon them. That they could experience the salvation of the Lord by going through. And that's a picture of the salvation of us. as we were saved without anything of our doing, but all in God's doing. Then you have the journey that they went on through the wilderness. And as they journeyed through the wilderness and ended up getting stopped at the Jordan, they sent spies. In to the land. And you recall how the spies went into the land and spied out the land. And they came back and sent the report. They said, we can't do it. Sorry, we can't do it. You would think, with all that they had experienced in God's provision up to this point, that God said to go in and possess the land, that they would go in and possess the land. Amen? But they went in and they spied out the land and they came back and they said, oh, we can't do it. It's too hard. The giants are too big. This is is going to be too difficult. Let me just throw this out. You've got to be very careful about discouraging those involved in the work of the Lord. You read in this passage of scripture back in the Old Testament, he talks about how they discourage the hearts of God's people. And you've got to be very careful being the bearer of bad news and discouraging those that want to accomplish the work of God because in your mind the giants are too big or the task is too hard or maybe it's not worth doing, don't throw water on other people's fire. It's a dangerous place to be, and God said, Wow, if you guys don't want to do it, okay. Then you can just stay in the wilderness. Ultimately, those that are of fighting age now are going to live and die here in the wilderness until the next generation comes up, and they, by faith, will go in and possess the land. They were defeated and ultimately they died. These miraculous events for us, the picture A clear picture of being saved from sin, freed from the bondage, set free and winning victory over Satan, crossing the Red Sea. Jesus did this for them. They started on their journey to the promised land and they learned many lessons on their journey. As they walked through the through through uh the wilderness and went through different places, they saw how they could trust God and This is the journey of the of the Christian life, and we learn lessons, and our faith is strengthened, and we learn about God, and we see how God provides for us, and we we go day by day and see God's provision. Contrary to some of the songs that might be out today, Canaan Land is not a picture of heaven. You say, well Pastor Cob, how do you know that? Because when they went into Canaan land, they had a lot of battles they had to fight. They had a lot of victories that had to be won. They had some ground that had to be conquered. And when we get to heaven, them battles are already done. The victory's already been won. We're going to experience heaven without all that struggle. But here, when they were going to go into the Canaan land, there was some struggle that they had to go through. But you know what? God was going to be with them God was going to give them the victory. So Canaan land is a picture not of heaven, but it's a picture of the victorious Christian life. That God wants each and every one of us to experience. Yes, we're going to have battles. Yes, we're going to face some trials. We're going to face some struggles. But Jesus Christ is with us through those struggles. The battle is the Lord's, and as he went in, he promised them that they would possess the land. God has promised you and I the ability to have a victorious Christian life. The battle is the Lord's. We just have to by faith go and trust him in it. Hebrews talks here about this place being a place of rest. He says, and to whom swear he that they should not enter into his rest? But to them that believe not. He says, Hey, who was it that he said, you're not going to enter into the rest? Those that didn't believe that he could do it. It was a place of rest, even though they had battles that they were going to fight. They could rest in God because they knew God was going to give them the victory This Canaan land, a picture of the victorious Christian life. But they stood at the Jordan River with the option To go into the Canaan land, to go in and possess it, to experience the victorious Christian life. And they didn't do it. They said no. That Jordan River, the Jordan River, is a picture of the surrendered Christian You stand at the Jordan River and you get to decide. You get to, God says, go and possess. God says, go and do. God says, this is what I want for you. And each and every one of our lives, God has put forth a plan. And here's what He wants for you to do. And you have the option. You can go in and possess it. You can go in and experience the victorious Christian life. Or You can harden your heart and say, no, God, it's too hard. No, God, I don't want to go there. No, God, I can't do this. And you're never going to experience the victorious Christian life that God has or would like for you to experience. If you want to live your life in the wilderness, you can. And the honest truth is A lot of churches like ours, I'm talking about churches that preach the Word of God, that do their best, they're not perfect But they try and stay close to the Word of God. They try and teach the truths of the Word of God. They're soul-winning. They're mission-minded. A lot of churches like ours are filled with people that are saved. They've been saved out of Egypt. They've experienced some growth in their journey of their life as they've learned some things about God. But they have reached a Jordan River in their life. They've reached a location where God said, Go in and possess. And they said, no. And I'm afraid that so many of our churches, churches that are just like ours, where the truth is being presented Are filled with people that are not experiencing the victorious Christian life because they stopped at the Jordan Because they decided at some point, some decision, some step that God wanted them to take, they said, no. I can't do that. No, that's too hard for me. No, that is too great of a task. That's too much of an ask. God, I'm going to stay here in the wilderness. And they're living their Christian life in the wilderness and they're wondering what all the joy is that people are talking about. They're wondering about all the joy of the Lord, and how you what are you talking about, all this joy in serving Jesus and what do you mean? Oh it's not that exciting to me. It's not that fun to me. I mean I I know I have Jesus and He's with me and I'm saved and I'm on the way to heaven but it's just not that much fun What I'm saying is they're not experiencing the abundant Christian life. They're not experiencing the joy of the Lord, the victorious Christian life that God wants believers to have. Because they stopped at the Jordan. And God said, Okay, if you want to live in the wilderness. Then you can. And so many of God's people are existing in the wilderness. Yeah, they're existing on water from God and manna from God. God's taking care of them, but what I'm saying is they're not experiencing the Canaan land They're not experiencing the joy of the Lord and the victorious Christian life that God has and God wants for us as believers. Because they said no. Three times in our text, he says, Today, harden not your hearts. Don't turn your nose up at God and say, No. Don't live a life of unbelief and say God can't do it. I could never do that. I don't have the ability to do that. They they looked at the Canaan land and they said, oh, we don't have the strength to accomplish that. Those giants are too big and God may be calling you to serve in a ministry or to go to a mission field or to sacrifice in some way, and you look at it and say, I can't do that. I don't have that ability. I don't have that strength. You're existing and living in unbelief because none of us have the strength or the ability, but God does. And where God leads, God provides. Where God leads, God enables. And if you say, this is what God wants me to do, you just go and do it. And God will enable you to do it. God will enable you to do it. You just start by saying, Yes, Lord. Yes, Lord. And see if you don't enjoy crossing that Jordan River. You see, it comes by yielding. We need to make it a habit in our life that we yield to God. It just needs to be a habit when God says this is what I want, yes Lord. And if we start doing that and saying yes, Lord, and start yielding in our life See if you don't enjoy crossing the Jordan River. You'll experience some great victories like that, and you'll come away from that, woo man, God is good. Look at what God did. Look at what I got to do. This is so exciting. Seeing God do this, and He used me to do it And you'll just be thrilled about God doing that for you, but it started because you said, Yes, Lord, I'll take that step Yes, Lord, I'll do what you're asking me to do. And what a thrill it is to get to see God use you to do it. You'll start enjoying and seeing that victorious Christian life, and it won't be quite the drudgery that it has been You'll experience the joy of winning battles won in and through the power of God. You'll start to enjoy the prosperity of the promised land. And this is not prosperity gospel, it's prosperity given to us by God for being faithful and following Him. There's an abundance of promises given to those that follow the Lord. So look with me, we're not going to spend much time on this, but I just want to show you. If we are going to have, he says to them, in in chapter three, he lists this out. And he says, listen, don't harden your hearts. Don't harden your hearts. Don't harden your hearts. Follow God. Do what God wants you to do. Don't say no like your forefathers did. Yield to him. And if we're going to experience this Christian life, the victorious Christian life that He wants us to experience, what do we have to do? The author of Hebrews goes right into it and he says, chapter number four, verse number one, he says, let us therefore That therefore is saying, hey, because we want to be victorious, because we don't want to say no, because we don't want to live in the wilderness. We want to go into the Canaan land He says, let us therefore fear. Now, I have taught a series of lessons on the let us that are in Hebrews And I've spent entire messages on each one of these points. But I want to show them to you in context and you can see what he's saying. He says, Hey, you don't want to exist in the wilderness. You want to go into the Canaan land, you want to experience the Christian life? Here's how you do it. And he says, first of all, let us fear. He says, what does he say there? He says, lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest. You see how that ties together exactly with what we just looked at? He says, hey, who is it that didn't get to go in the rest? Those that didn't believe He says, let us fear lest we're not able to enter into the rest. Any of you should seem to Come short of it. Come short of the victorious Christian life. I mean, they were just shy of Canaan land. They were right there at the border, at the Jordan River. I mean, they could look over and see it. It's where God wanted them to be, and they couldn't go because of unbelief. We need to fear not entering into that rest. We need to fear not being able to experience that victory promised to us by God. They came short of the promised land and experiencing and knowing that rest. They had to continue their days just laboring along, existing in the wilderness. We need to fear disappointing the Savior. This is what God wanted them to do. God had a plan for them. He had set it all up. He had a provision for them. He was going to give them victory. And he says, Hey guys, go in and possess and they said no, can't do it. And I think of how that must have disappointed God. How God said, after I fed you every day, after I gave you water from the rock. After I took care of you, after I freed you from from Egypt, you're telling me you you can't go? You can't do it? We need to fear not being able to enter in the rest, fear of disappointing the Savior. Look down at verse number 11. He says, let us labor therefore. What does he say? What's what's the next uh five words? To enter into his rest. Let us labor, therefore. That doesn't make sense. Labor and rest? That's backwards. But God says, let us labor. that we might enter into his rest. He's saying, hey, you've got to cross the Jordan River. You've got to go into the Promised Land to experience the rest. There's going to be some labor You know, most of the things that we labor at in this world amount to hilla beans. Most of the things that we invest our time and effort and labor into They they're gonna account to nothing. It's gonna be you know, we the kids and I we we cut firewood, right? And we get to heat the house with it. But you know it's amazing how all that firewood gets burned up and it's gone I mean there's nothing to show for it, a little bit of ash. Like man, that was a futile effort, right? But we did get some heat, but it's just uh it's continual. My kids have decided they don't like cutting firewood But you know s a lot of stuff we do, you know, that that phrase uh that is gonna amount to a hill of beans is because a a hill of beans isn't worth that much. Uh today In today's society, bean prices are probably up and they're probably probably worth the money. But uh it came from the fact that you could get a whole pile of beans and not have very much money. There's not a whole lot of value there And in our life, a lot of the things that we invest our time and energy and effort into, that we labor at, are really not that important. They're really not gonna amount to that much. What should we labor at? What does he say in the text? What's the very next verse say? Verse number twelve. Take heed, brethren. Oh He says verse number twelve he says for the word of God Is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing, even the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and the marrow, and the discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. What are you supposed to labor at? To enter into his rest? We need to labor in the word. We need to labor in the word. That is something that will last for eternity. God's word will not return void. Not one jot, not one tittle is going to pass away. Any time spent laboring in the Word is going to last forever. It's going to be here for eternity. It's time that is valuable. You know We like to go to the buffet and eat. Why? There's two reasons. The first is because it's all you can eat. Right? Amen. You can go and you can you can fill up. You can you You walk down the aisle and you say, Oh, I do like some steak, I want some steak and you go, I uh I want some fried chicken and uh we want some some fried shrimp and and looking for some of that baked uh fish and you go down the aisle and and you you you eat and you say, Oh, there's a whole dessert counter. We're gonna get some blueberry pie and vanilla ice cream Amen. And you get to go through and you get to have all you want. You know the Word of God is a buffet. You can have all you want. You can dig in. You know the other reason we like to go to the buffet? It's because you get to choose what you want. That's where it differs from the Word of God. You see, you get to choose what you want, and I'm afraid we've taken the buffet mentality into the church house. And oh yeah, oh I like the the apple pie and I I like the the ice cream and I enjoy the steak and I sure like the chicken, but oh Pastor Them collard greens, they ain't for me. Them lima beans, nope, I don't like those. You can preach on that on a Sunday that I'm not here. Don't don't get into that, preacher. Now you're starting to meddle. I mean Hey, preacher, we sure love the the the preaching on on the missions and we like reaching the world and boy preach on salvation, man. That's good. Let's hear about Saving souls and let's hear about how God sent his only son. And boy, that's good, preacher. We sure enjoy that. Yeah, give me some more of that. Feed me, preacher. But then I mean I I can feel it. I can feel it like somebody just threw something at me. When I get into something that hits a little too close to home and the whole spirit in the room changes. I feel it like oh I guess I'm not supposed to touch on that. I guess that is something that they don't appreciate. I just put some Salad down in front of them and salad is not their thing. We're supposed to labor in the word and we are talking about saying yes, Lord. Yielding to God, that means as we labor in the Word of God, whether that's being preached in the pulpit or studied in our prayer time, that we don't come up to the Jordan River where God is teaching us in His Word and we say, No, Lord. No, we yield to him. We say, whatever you prepare, God, whatever you lay out for me, I'm going to take. Yes, Lord. And you yield to him. You want to experience the victorious Christian life? Let us fear. Let us labor. And then turn to verse number 14. He says: Seeing then that we have a great high priest that is passed unto the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession. Hold fast our profession. This is your testimony. Hold fast to the testimony that you have before this world. You know it takes a lifetime to build a testimony and five minutes to tear it down. Brother, and we've got to hold fast to that. We've got to hold fast to the testimony that we have. You know, Satan would come in and try and take you over and make you think that the most important thing in your life right now. Is what it is that's on your mind, what it is you're dealing with right then. And your testimony goes out the window, and you say, that doesn't matter right now. What matters is this. I mean I don't know how many of you have a temper or don't have a temper, but there's been once in my life or twice that I lost my temper. And you know, I remember one time when I was a teenager, I lost my temper and I got so mad at something I walked outside. And I kicked my dad's truck. I mean nothing else mattered. I was so mad I just wanted to kick something that would do some damage. I mean I I didn't want to kick a brick wall. That would damage me. I wanted to do some damage to something else And my dad's truck was there, and I mean I kicked that door as hard as I could. And of course, you know what I did. I put a big old dent in the door Then all of a sudden what was most important changed. I mean at first what was most important was just to get that anger out, just to let it go, and I just had to do it, you know. I had to kick something And then I realized what I did. And I knew I knew what was gonna happen. Oh boy. Now what? How could I fix this? I hadn't worked for Greg yet. I didn't know how to pull the dent out. I mean I was stuck I was like, oh, I'm dead. Say goodbye to the family. I'm history. You know what I'm talking about, how the devil gets a hold of you and whether there's something like anger. Or it's a temptation in your life. He puts in your heart and mind that that's what's most important right then. And everything else kind of fades into the background. Sometimes in your argument, in the relationship with your family, your husband or wife, what's most important is winning. instead of communicating. And you say some things in that anger or that situation because you want to win And then you do damage that you have to unfix later. What I'm saying is we've got to ask God to help us to hold fast to our testimony. We need to beg God on a regular basis, Lord, please keep this in my mind. Please keep this ever in front of me. Help me to hold fast to my testimony because I'm gonna one thing the devil could bring in and cause me to lose it Destroy it after all the effort and time and energy put into holding fast and loving God and following God and doing what's right in a moment. It's gone. And damage is done to the cause of Christ, and your friendships and relationships are hurt, and so on. We need to hold fast to our testimony. Lastly, verse number 16, he says, Let us therefore come boldly. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Brother, and we need to if we're going to live the victorious Christian life, we've got to get real good at just coming to God. Real consistent. Come to God. Come boldly. Run to Him with every burden. Run to Him with every blessing and praise Him for it. Run to Him with every challenge that you face. With every change that comes in your life, with every decision that you need to make. We need to get real consistent about running to God. If we want to experience the Christian life, we need to come boldly to the throne of grace. You don't want to live in the wilderness. I don't want to live in the wilderness. I want to go into the promised land. I want to experience the Christian life. So I ask you, if that's what you desire, he tells us how to do it. Fear. labor hold fast and come boldly let me close this in prayer Lord we thank you for tonight and the opportunity to look into your word. Lord, this message this evening, although typically on Thursdays we've been doing some teaching, this certainly is something, God, that you Could challenge our hearts to take and change and help us to experience the Christian life. I pray, God, that you would be with us, that you would help us to do this. To fear, to labor, to hold fast, to come boldly. Lord, I pray you'd be with the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And we would experience and know the thrill of the victorious Christian life as we follow after you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.