Two individuals specifically that uh were asking that question. How do I know that I know that I'm saved? How do I have that assurance? And so that kind of stirred my heart to say, you know what, it's not just me. I think our church family ought to know how to deal with this, but maybe there's others and uh people that you know or come across. And uh so I wanted to try and put some tools in your hand and and help you at least from the standpoint or aspect of how I would deal with it. And uh there are m several ways to approach it, but at least I can guide your thoughts and give you some foundational tools that you could start developing and grow from. Uh we'll just see how far that we get through this tonight. So I would suspect that we won't get into the third point. We'll hopefully get through the first two, which is what you have on page one. and page two of your notes there will deal those the two pages you have are technically my second point, but that's what we're looking at tonight. The title of the message is Having Conviction About Your Conversion uh having conviction about your conversion. Tonight I stand before you and I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I'm saved, that I'm on my way to heaven. I have not doubted that. in in many, many years. Now I'm not going to say I never went through a time of doubting, that a time where I wasn't sure and and I think uh quite possibly Many, if not most, Christians at some point in their life will deal or battle with this idea of knowing beyond a shadow of a doubt that you're saved. Well, our text this evening comes from 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse number 5. This is going to be our launching point, kind of a foundational verse with regards to this. 2 Corinthians 13 and verse number 5 says, Examine yourselves. Whether ye be in the faith, prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you Except she be reprobates. He is quite literally stating here, giving to us a pattern for somebody that is saying, well I don't know if I'm saved. He's saying every believer needs to examine themselves. It is truly a tragic thing for a soul to go through his life filled with doubt and worry. Not settled, not having his eternal destiny settled. It is God's plan that every Christian Everyone that would profess or name the name of Christ have that settled. They know beyond a shadow of a doubt that they're on their way to heaven. There is no question that people should not have a question about their conversion. That should not be something that there may be some things that you wonder about, but as a Christian, that's something that should be settled in your heart and mind. We know that the Bible tells us very clearly that we can know, that we have eternal life. 1 John 5:13. These things have a written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know. That ye may know that ye have eternal life. Now, this is vitally important for the Christian. And I just, by way of introduction here, I want to just kind of throw out some thoughts with regards to the cost of doubt When somebody's living their life and they're unsure of their salvation, what does it cost them? What is the damage done to their life? What is the destruction that is brought? And first of all, I want you to know that doubt destroys the foundation. Of your Christian life. The Bible tells us to add to our faith. We are supposed to add to our faith. We are supposed to be growing spiritually. We are supposed to be adding and growing as Christians, but when When you doubt that you're even a Christian, how can you begin to secure and add and build upon your Christian life D. L. Moody once declared that I have yet, I have never known anyone who was any good in the service of Christ who did not, first of all, have the assurance of his salvation. That's foundational. It's necessary. And when we doubt, it destroys the foundation. Beloved, it destroys the fun. It destroys the fun. I mean we are supposed to be uh saved and on our way to heaven and know it. John 10. 10 says, the thief cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy, but I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it more abundantly. God wants us to have an abundant Christian life. I use the word fun because it's alliterated, but there ought to be the joy of the Lord in our heart. A Christian life ought to be fun. It ought to be enjoyable for us. That enjoyment comes from security. Have you ever been in the airport and you've got the people that have their ticket? And they're sitting there and their plane's taking off a little while. I mean they're sitting there, they aren't worried at all. They're just, oh, I got my ticket. You know, I I'm okay. But you have somebody else standing over here and they're on standby. They don't know if they're getting on the plane or not. And the anxiety that they're dealing with uh uh is there room on this plane Can I get on this one? Am I going to be able to get out of here? That anxiety they feel, that stress, you know, they don't have it settled in their life. David said, Restore unto me the joy of my salvation. The Christians should have joy. I heard a story about a man on an airplane that was didn't enjoy flying much at all, but he was going through a storm. And if any of you have had the pleasure of traveling through a storm and riding some of those uh you know air gaps and uh turbulence and And when that plane drops thirty feet, you know, whoom and you know it's uh everybody's buckled up and and I mean there is no service because it's it's a rough ride. Well I'll tell you I get air sickened and that is Brutal for me. Now I'm not at all afraid of crashing. I really am in the Lord's hands and I I've never really worried about that. Now maybe I haven't been in bad enough plane yet? I don't know, but but I for me personally it hasn't ever been too brutal. But y this guy didn't like flying and he was the entire flight he was in so much stress So full of anxiety and worry. He was literally wet with sweat. And he was getting off the plane and was almost still shaking. Once they landed on the ground, he was just sweating, visa sweat, still coming off of his face and sick to his stomach and so just thought he was going to die And he was walking out of the plane and he said, at the same time I was walking out of the plane, the pilot came out of the cockpit, and the pilot was whistling. And he said, you know, I was just as secure on this plane as he was. But he had no stress. He wasn't worried. He smiling and happy. We were both on the same plane just as secure, but one couldn't enjoy the ride. And that's what doubt does to the Christian. You got one who just has the joy of the Lord and the peace of God in his life, but the other one is just filled with anxiety and stress because you don't have that peace. How can you sing the songs of Zion? When you don't know that those truths belong to you. You sing, gonna go to heaven, can't wait, gonna see my Jesus, can't wait. And you're in your mind thinking. I'm not sure I'm going to go to heaven. I don't know. Gone, gone, gone, gone. Yes, my sins are gone. Buried in the deepest sea. And in your mind, you're like, I'm not sure my sins are gone. I mean the whole church is singing and praising God and having a time just lifting their voices up, but in your heart You're plagued with doubt, and you don't have that settled. The windows of heaven are open. The blessings are falling tonight. There's joy, joy, joy in my heart since Jesus made everything right. In your mind, I'm not sure Jesus has made everything right. Right. I mean, you could walk down song after song after song that we sing that brings joy and peace and comfort and happiness to the Christian, and the one in doubt doesn't know. What to do. Beloved doubt also destroys your focus. You can't concentrate on anything else because doubt consumes your mind. Have you ever been traveling down the road? Now this is pre-GPS, okay, so you kids don't have any idea what I'm talking about. But I'm saying you had directions to go somewhere, and maybe you got distracted or or uh you were talking to your mate and and in your mind you think I think I've passed my turn. And you're looking for some kind of landmark? Especially if you're not in your part of town or you're traveling traveling somewhere and you're like you're looking at the map and you're like, okay, so I should be coming up and it's like five miles to the next intersection on the map and you're like, I gotta drive five miles to figure out if I'm still going the right direction. And that whole time you're like, I don't I'm not sure if I'm Maybe I'm supposed to turn back there and I don't know and and that stress you're feeling. Have you ever felt that? Dealing with that, that destroys your focus. Because you don't have that security that you know where you're headed, you know where you're going. Your work for Christ is going to suffer when you're worried about your eternity. You'll have little time and energy. energy to worry about anybody else's. Could I ask you, what kind of a testimony do you have for the world? If you yourself don't know if you're saved. So beloved, no one should just live with doubt. So how do they settle this issue of doubt once and for all? How do they get through this or past it? How do they get that blessed assurance? Jesus' mind. How do they have that settled? How can they get to the place that they know that they know that they're settled? saved. Well, they got to do a checkup on their doubt. And this is what I want to try and give you here on how to deal with somebody, how to talk to somebody that's comes to you And says, How do I know I'm saved? I think I'm saved, but I'm not sure if I'm saved. Or I don't know if I'm saved. I might be lost. Well, our verse here, 2 Corinthians 3. 15, says, Examine yourselves, whether you be in the faith. faith, prove your own selves, know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be Reprobate. Now, beloved, there's several things here, and I've got so many different aspects of this that I want to try and bring to you. But first of all, I do not believe that idea that has been presented and even myself when I was in youth camp as a kid. you know, people would come down to the altar, somebody would deal with them, and and uh they would s they would stand up and say, Oh, he prayed tonight and got assurance of his salvation. And the idea of praying to get assurance. The idea of, well, if you're not saved, just pray just in case. Just make sure. You know, I mean if you're not positive, well why don't you just get positive tonight? Um that I've seen over and over and over again. Brings more doubt. Because you have to understand what you're dealing with here is you're dealing with something uh a a measure of doubt in a person where they are doubting for a particular reason, maybe it's their performance, maybe they think I don't know if I had enough faith. I don't know if I believed enough. I don't know if I prayed the right words. You see, the problem with many of these things is that it's an inward look. And well, if you d don't remember how you felt, or you don't remember what it was, or you don't know how you prayed or Or whatever, maybe you could just pray right now and do a better job. Essentially is what you're saying. Make sure of it And that kind of reasoning, that inward look, is not going to bring peace for very long because they will once again begin to doubt and say, well, I know I did it at the church altar But maybe I didn't do it right. Or maybe I didn't believe enough. So the key here, beloved, is that they need to examine themselves. Know your own selves. Prove your own selves. They need to, first of all, in their heart and mind, they need to establish whether they are saved or lost. There is no in-between. There is no, well, I think I'm saved, but maybe not, so let's get assurance. No, you are either right now saved or lost. That is what they need to, in their own mind, they need to determine if they're saved or lost. Not you telling them, the things we're going to give you right now are going to try and help you guide them to come to their own conclusion. You know you could, I could, I I was talking to somebody this week and I said, I believe wholeheartedly that I could right now convince you that you're saved. Or I could convince you you're lost. But I do not want to convince you of one or the other. You need to be settled in your own mind. And I went through this with this individual these these thoughts. Talked about these things that you've got to settle this. Assurance is quite literally just being convinced in your mind of something that you already possess. And you might get assurance, but it's not by praying another prayer. You get assurance by being convinced of the truths of the Word of God. And the promises that God gave you concerning that which you already have. And sometimes Christians doubt, and they need to be reminded of these truths, and they can be reconvinced and realize again and be assured. But it's not just praying another prayer to get assurance. Either you're lost or saved. So when you're dealing with somebody, the first thing you need to do is get them to the point where, okay, first thing we need to determine You need to determine is are you saved or are you lost? You want to lead them to do a self-examination to determine if they're saved or lost. One of the worst things that we could do is tell somebody, if you're not saved, just pray a prayer just to make sure. Ron Comfort tells a story of when he was preaching, a young lady came up to him and said, I made a profession of faith when I was 11 years old, but I have since that day till now been plagued with doubt Every time doubt entered my mind, I prayed and asked the Lord, if you did not save me when I was 11, would you please save me now? And yet still I am plagued with doubt. She says, Dr. Comfort, will you right now help me with a prayer? You see her focus? Help me with a prayer that will give me assurance Dr. Comfort looked at her and said, I will have no part of you calling God a liar. He went on to say, Sister, if you understood yourself to be a sinner, and that Jesus Christ died for your sin, and to the best of your ability, called on him. You're saved. To believe otherwise is to call God a liar. So beloved, they have to come to the place where they determine that they're saved or lost. They do this self-examination. That word examination in our examine yourselves in the text literally means to test, to scrutinize. You need to look at your situation. You need to, the the word there, know yourself, is you need to know that you're saved. You should know that. And we know, as I've read already, 1 John 5. 13, that we can know that we're saved. And the fact of the matter is, is no one else has that answer for you No one else has that answer for you. They have to know it. They have to be convinced in their own mind. They have to know it for themselves. So they do the self-test. What is the self-test? There's three questions I gave you on your seat. There. These three questions, you look at them and you look at them in the eye, and you say, okay, here's the thing. You need to know the facts. At the point of your conversion, at the day when you look back and say, I was 11, I was twenty, I was four, whatever it was, if you look back to that time, let me ask you, did you know the facts? Could you look back and say, I had an understanding of that? If you think about it and think back in your mind, did you know the facts? You see, for someone to receive Christ as their Lord and Savior, they have to know the facts. That is foundational. That is necessary. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. Now, I believe everyone that's confessed Christ, that came to Christ, should remember the occasion. Now There's too much focus put on some aspects of it, but Brother Townsley, in his book, Beyond a Shadow of a Doubt, said salvation does not occur mystically. Without your knowledge. There must be a time or a place when the Holy Spirit of God reconciled you to himself. There is no such thing, beloved, as I've always been saved. I've always felt saved or that's just who I am. Or I don't know when it happened, it just did. Just as you have a physical birth, there has to be a spiritual birth. There has to be a day or hour. There has to be a time. Now you might not necessarily remember the date, but you ought to remember the season. You ought to remember some aspect of I was in grade school or I was in high school and And I I don't remember the date, but I know I was in junior high and and going back in your mind as older you get, the foggier things are, maybe. I I don't know. But I'm saying there ought to be something in your mind that registers I do know when it was. And I don't believe you have to know the date or even the day of the hour or all these things that sometimes you hear people get up, and that's what sometimes causes other people to doubt. They're like, oh I was saved on December the thirteenth at 234 in the morning, right here at this spot, and hi oh I never doubted it. And then other people are like, I have no idea when it was that I got saved. But ought to be able to at least in your mind recall back to when it was. Not necessarily who dealt with you. But that someone dealt with you. Ought to be able to remember that someone dealt with you. Here's what I would say, beloved, the less a person remembers about their salvation experience, the less likely it is that they are truly saved. This is a new birth. It is important. And that to me is a characteristic that's very important. If they look back and and and you start asking them this question, did you understand the facts? Listen, if they say to you what facts, and we're going to get to those in just a second, but they didn't understand the facts, you've narrowed it down right there, you've settled the problem. They don't know Um but looking at this, they ought to ha be able to recall and remember a time and you say, well, when did you call upon the Lord? Or when did you when did you do you think you got saved and and what happened and and you know if they look in their mind the more detail that they have the more likely it is that they've trusted Christ. I also would say that it's People put far too much concern upon the individual and his experience. What happened and how did you feel? What did you say? Did you use these exact words? Did you have enough faith? As I said in the beginning, this is an inward focus. We need to remove it from an inward focus because the security of the believer does not rest on us. It rests in Jesus Christ. So you need it starts with an understanding of the facts. Did you understand the facts. When a decision of salvation is made is based on knowledge, and ye shall know the truth. And the truth shall set you free. There has to be a time when they knew the truth. This is not a lesson on salvation. leading somebody to Christ, that's a whole nother lesson, and I'm gonna take for granted that you know how to do that. So you asked him this first question, did you understand the facts? And the facts are God wants all men to be saved. That there is all men are sinners for all the sin that come short of the glory of God, that there's a penalty for sin, uh, that Jesus Christ came and paid the penalty for sin. and that we need to call on him for forgiveness of that sin. Those are the basic facts. And there's scripture for all those. I'm going to take for granted that that's that's something that you know or if you need help with that, there's a track rack out there that has all kinds of different basic outlines with regards to that. I have dealt numerous times with somebody just looking at a track and say, you see these verses are right out of the Bible. This is what it says. You can look right at that track and just walk them through it And uh, you know, so that you you point them to the facts and say then you look at them and say, Did you when you look back, did you know that? And they'll say, Well, that was three years old. I don't I don't remember any of that. I I don't I couldn't have known the facts. I was too young. Well then you're not saved. Because you have to have known what you were doing. It didn't just mystically happen. It didn't just all of a sudden one day because you came to church four days in a row that you got saved. I mean there has to be that time. So you ask them did they know the facts and and you walk through that with them Then not only do you need to know the facts, but second question you look at them and say, okay, you did know the facts, and you're like, yeah, I I've known that my whole life. You know, been in Sunday school every Sunday, and I know the facts. There's no question I knew the facts uh at that time And then you say, okay, at the time of your conversion, at the time that you professed to Jesus Christ, did you believe the facts were true? Did you believe it? You see it's one thing to know the facts, but you have to believe those to be true. I can know the the facts about different things, but do I believe that they're true? Did it that it really happened that it was that way? Did you believe what God said in his word about sin and salvation? To just in James chapter 2, verse number 19, it says, Thou believest That there is one God. Thou dost well. The devils also believed and trembled. So to just believe is not enough either. So you're narrowing down here. You're asking them, did you know the facts? Oh, I knew the facts. Did you believe it? Oh yeah, I believed it But just to believe it is not enough. The devils believed. The devils believe and tremble. There are many people in the world, and I believe even in our churches today, that believe. They believe Jesus Christ came and died for them. They believe that they're sinners. They believe it all, but they have yet to apply the facts. They've yet to receive Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. You can believe in Alexander the Great. I believe he existed. I believe he lived. But he hasn't changed my life. There's something missing. There's a step that needs to be I have personally talked to people about salvation and walked through and showed them the facts. And I said, Do you agree with this that all men are sinners? And they said, Yeah. Do you know about Jesus Christ and that He came to pay your penalty for sin? Yes. Do you see in the Word of God where that thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved? Oh, I I see that. You believe these things to be true, and they'll look at me and say, Yes, I believe that. And you'll say, okay, do you want to confess and accept Christ today? And they look at you and say, no, I'm not ready. So are they saved? They know the facts. They believe them to be true. But are they saved yet? No. Because there has to be an application of the facts So you're walking this person down this road. You say, did you know the facts? Did you believe the facts to be true? Thirdly, Did you accept the facts or apply the facts that you knew to your life? Did you call on God, knowing the facts, and in faith, ask Him to save you, to forgive you of your sin One pastor shortly after he took the pastorate in a church in a small town in Wyoming, he himself was plagued with doubt. One day he was reading 1 John 5. 13, that familiar verse that we would always use to point people to the fact that they can know it is written that you believe on the name of the Son of God. He said, these things have I written. It was then that the Spirit of God spoke to my heart, he said. The question was asked almost as literally if it was audible. God said to me, Have you done that? Have you believed on the name of the Son of God? He said, I answered audibly as well. Yes. He said, then God pointed my mind or my eyes back to verse number 12, where it says, He that hath the Son hath life. And he said, it was at that moment that God said to me, You're safe. You see, it's not about what we did. It's not about our how well we prayed. It's about what God said. Did you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? Did you call on him? He said yes. And the Holy Spirit convinced him and said, You're saved. If you did these three things, then you're saved. If you're talking to them and saying, okay, what we're doing is establishing whether you're saved or lost. And anytime through this discussion, they may get to the point where you could say, okay, you tell me, and again, you got to be careful, don't put words in their mouth. Don't say, okay, you're lost or you're saved. And that's sometimes it's hard to do because You might be excited one way or the other as far as helping them, but you've got to say, okay, you tell me, are you lost or are you saved? And get them to give you the answer. Okay, well then, and you go down through the questions there, asking them these questions. Do you are you lost? Are you saved? Now These three questions really are foundational for trying to get to the bottom of that answer. If they did this, God promised that they would be saved When you get to this point, to this third point here, many times somebody that is saved, they'll say, Yes, I knew the facts. Yes, I I believe. Yes, I did accept Christ. I did call on him. Okay, then why are you doubting? So let's figure out why are you doubting? They should not be doubting, but let's find out why. And many times, beloved, this has to do with performance. with performance. They know that they should be doing something that they're not, or they know that they're not doing something that they should, and they feel in their heart that if I was really a Christian If I was really saved, I wouldn't be doing this. I wouldn't be living this way. And that's where you get into another matter with them as far as counseling and dealing with them. to to kind of and many times if you've answered these first three questions and they say yeah I'm saved okay well what's causing you to doubt and that doubt many times it's it's one of two things And And did I pray the right thing? And I just again I'm just trying to give you ideas because they might say something like, well, I'm not sure I prayed the right words. Well, what is the Bible requirement for salvation? I know that we look for key words when we ask somebody their testimony. Give me your testimony. Tell me when you trusted Christ. And they say, well, when I was 14 years old, I realized I was a wretched sinner. And that I needed Jesus Christ. And I bowed my head and confessed my sin before God, asking Him to save me and And admitted the fact that I couldn't do it myself, but I was trusting in him and him alone. I put my faith and trust in him and that was it. And I did it on that day, and we look at that and say, boy, that guy got saved. You know? Why? Because he hit all the points, you know, he had all the stuff we like. And but what is the b you tell me, what is the Bible standard for salvation? Call. Call on the name of the Lord. When Peter was drowning, he said, Lord! And God reached down and grabbed him and pulled him up. Now Peter didn't pray a very good prayer. That was not eloquent at all, did not check the boxes that I like to see. But the Bible standard is call on God. The thief on the cross. He just did not check any boxes either. I mean, remember me? Remember me when when thou art in paradise, you know. That prayer was just not very good. But I'm saying is you can point them to these couple things and say, Listen, what you're what you are literally talking about is how well you did, but it's not based on us. Did you call on the name of the Lord? If you did, God said you're saved. And to believe different is to call God a liar. You see, what somebody has to do is they have to come to the place where they realize this word is what gives us assurance. Our belief and trust is in what God said, the promises that He has given us. Now, let me go quickly through this second section here, and this is they take a Bible test. The first questions there really are foundational. You're dealing with them. We need to determine are you saved or lost. If any of those questions don't narrow it down yet, I mean 98% of the people you deal with, those three questions, they're going to find out they're not saved or yes, they're saved. Then you get into dealing counseling with regards to why are you doubting? And you can get into that. And I'm thinking about doing the Lord gives me liberty next Sunday night I'll preach a whole message on what causes doubt. That's the third point we're not going to get into. But here tonight I want you to look at this Bible test. And these are directly out of uh the A to Z Bible mentoring program or discipleship program. So these questions aren't mine, they're right out of the discipleship program that I just uh I mean I reworded them some, but basically they're right from there. And and you've got to be very careful when you get into these, because beloved, these questions are are looking, they're evidences. Of salvation. And if you aren't careful or you present them wrong, you will make them uh you'll make salvation performance-based Right. You've got to be careful how you present this and you have to understand that these questions and I want to give you the references so you have them there with you, but these questions Nobody is going to hit every one of them, yes, every day of their life. Because some days we're just not very good Christians. Regardless of how spiritual you are, there's some days you are not as spiritual as you should be, right? And so sometimes you might not hit all these questions, yes So you've got to be careful. But these can bring assurance to somebody that's already saved because they can look at them and say, yes. And so let's walk through these real quickly here. He says Again, the truth is the Word of God. The Bible is our authority. So does the Bible say that I'm saved or lost? We have to prove to our own selves. That literally means to check the evidence to prove to yourself. That's what a test is for. You prove that you know the knowledge. So that's what our text verse tonight says prove yourself. That means you check the evidence. So first of all, um there's always evidence of true saving faith. In 1 John 2, 3-6, he says, and hereby we do know that we know Him. If we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. So prove yourself. Number one, there you can ask them or let them answer these questions. I know I'm saved because my life brings forth good fruit. Matthew 7, 17 through 18. Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. So just the question. Now, do we are we always bringing forth fruit? Always bringing forth good fruit? Sometimes no. But could you look at your life and say, I've seen fruit? And this there's a whole nother lesson right here because you talk about the fruit of the Spirit that should be evident in the life. And are any of these evidences evident in your life? We're not going to get into those because we need to walk through this quickly here. But that fruit Do you see any fruit in your life of Jesus working in your life? Has anything changed? Is there any fruit you could look at and say, yes, I've seen fruit in my life? Any evidence of that? Then I know I'm saved because I hear God's voice. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Now, beloved, again, somebody Christians, somebody saved and on their way to heaven, Peter denied Christ three times. Somebody saved can get so far from God that they're not checking any of these boxes. And they're still saved. But are they going to feel saved? No. They're not going to feel saved. So you go back to the first three questions and establish that it's not about how you feel. It's not performance-based. These listen, David was a man after God's own heart. And you know the sins that David committed. So it's not performance-based, but these can bring assurance to somebody that is striving to know God and they just don't see the evidences uh that they would like to see. And this one in particular, I found a lot of times people struggle with I don't hear God's voice. God doesn't speak to me like I wish He did or I would like Him to And and so i it's not that you're gonna have a yes at every one of these and if you have if you're missing one you're not saved. That's not that's not the case Okay, I know I'm saved because I believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm sorry, that was Jim the last one, number two is John 1027, if I didn't give that to you yet. John 10. 27 Number three is I know I'm saved because I believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's Acts 16. 31. And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. So again, going back to the third point here, did you believe on Jesus Christ? Did you confess and uh ask him to save you? If you did, you have that. I shall be saved. You don't have to walk on water. To experience salvation. You know, I read a a story in my study for this of of a of a pastor and I don't have time to tell the whole story because it was quite it was several pages long, but he was pastoring and and serving he was an assistant pastor at a church and He w people in the church, he grew up in a Christian home, like a lot of these young people down here. And uh he grew up in a Christian home and he would hear people People get up and talk about how, man, he was so under conviction and God broke my heart and I I just I cried for hours and I I just couldn't get past the fact that I was a sinner And I needed Jesus and and God saved me. And it was like a burden was lifted off and joy came into my heart. And this this assistant pastor was like, I never experienced that I never had that. Because he grew up in a Christian home. And he never walked in all those wicked ways and didn't have that weight of sin built up over time. And and he would hear testimony after testimony like that, and what he was seeing is the experiences that they had, and he he started to doubt his own salvation and say, I I don't know if I'm saved because uh I didn't I didn't have that experience But what does it say here? Did you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ? Thou shalt be saved. So believe. Then number four, I know I'm saved because I desire to keep God's commandments. 1 John 2, verse number 3. 1 John 2, verse number 3. And hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. We know we know him if we keep his commandments. That is not that you're going to keep them every single time without fail. We're all sinners. The Apostle Paul himself, as we heard this morning, did things he didn't want to do. And so sometimes you'll battle with that old flesh, but the question is, is do you want to keep his commandments? Do you desire to? You know, every ship gets blown off course a little bit in the storm. But the question is is do you do you as quick as possible get it pointed back the right direction? Or do you just stay adrift out there? You know, when Judas betrayed Christ, he showed no remorse, no repentance, no evidence of salvation. But when When Peter denied Christ, he went out and wept bitterly and came back to Christ. You see, everybody gets blown off course every now and then, but the difference between one that's saved and one that's not is do you come back? Do you want to keep his commandments? I know I'm saved because I don't love the world. 1 John 2. 15. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. I know I'm saved because I love the brethren. 1 John 3, 14. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. That's pretty clear. Do you love being with the brethren? Would you rather be in church than at the bar? I mean, do you is do you love the brethren? That's evidence of salvation. I know I'm saved, number seven. I know I'm saved because I have his spirit. In me. First John 4. 13. Hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of You have the Spirit of God, and I couldn't have sistered together any two messages better than this morning and this point right here. Because this morning was an entire lesson on this point right here. You've got the Spirit of God? Uh you should have the five evidences that we saw this morning Not that you have all of them all the time, but does the Spirit of God ever work in your heart? Now you helped me. It was just this morning. What are the five evidences that he said are going to be evident in the Christian life Life. You're gonna have life. Do you have the joy of the Lord? Do you have life as a Christian? Are you dead as a doornail? Do you have life? What's another one? Conviction. Does the Spirit of God ever convict you? No true believer can go out and live in sin and be happy. I'm not saying they don't enjoy sin for a season. I'm not saying they don't have but you know if you're saved that You walk away from that and the Spirit of God is convicting your heart and saying, that is not right. You shouldn't be doing that, and you're miserable when you do That's conviction. Do you experience conviction? What's the third one? What's another one? Peace. Do you have the peace? Do you have peace? Peace in your heart. What's another one? Help. Your your paracletes, the one to come alongside and help you in this Christian life. Sanctification. Sanctification. That process of being more of what God wants you to be. So that's that's the Holy Spirit evident in your life. Are those things evidence in your life? Do you have the Spirit working in you? Are those evidences present? I know I'm saved, number eight. I know I'm saved because I am overcoming. the world. First John 5. 4. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Are you experiencing victory in your Christian life? D. Al Moody wanted to encourage and challenge his preacher boys to have this evident in their lives. This victory of overcoming the world. This is the testimony. That you have Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, are you overcoming the world? You know, I illustrated this morning That picture of how we overcome the world, how we get the world out. And it's not so much about our effort and our work to try and dig in and pull this stuff out of our lives. It's when we're filled with the Spirit of God. The stuff that shouldn't be there gets out. It just goes out. It's a natural process, or I should say, a supernatural process. that takes place because of the power of God. Number nine, I know I'm saved because I believe the record. This is so important. I know I'm saved because I believe the record. 1 John 5, 10, and 11. You know, this point right here, I would encourage you to put right on the end of your third question on the other page. Uh okay, you say you did you say you understood, you believed, you confessed Okay, then you should know you're saved because you believe the record. Let me read these verses to you. 1 John 5, 10, and 11. He that believeth on the Son of God hath a witness in himself. He that believeth not God hath made him a liar. That's what uh Ron Comfort was saying. You didn't believe God, you called him a liar. God said he saved you. Because he believeth not the record that God gave of his son. Verse number 11, and this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is eternal. Now, if Pastor Gus, let's say you were having a network problem at your house, And Pastor Gus said, okay, I'll be at your house tomorrow to fix that for you. Pastor Gus has proved himself to be an upstanding you know, reliable man. If he said he was going to be at your house, I think everybody here would believe that he would show up. Right? But he's just a man. You're telling me you would put more weight on his record than you do on the record of Jesus Christ? You see, you believe the record. Jesus Christ has never failed. And he said that if you believe He would give unto you eternal life. And this is the record that you have. And you have that record from God Himself. If you did that. If you were called today to appear before a judge and prove that you were married You know, John and Stephanie got in trouble for living together and the judge called them in and said, you guys can't do that. That's not acceptable. You know, you you guys, you gotta be married to live together. And John told the judge, Judge, I know we're married, because man, when I was standing at the altar, oh I felt the love. Oh man, Judge. I mean it just was so rich. I mean when I was looking into her eyes, I couldn't help myself She says, Judge, I don't know what this guy's talking about. I don't know. What what is the judge ultimately going to believe? Judge, I have a record. I have here a marriage license that was signed and dated on the day we trusted or we got married. This is the record. And beloved, we need to believe the record. It's not about our performance, it's not how much we prayed, it's not the level of faith that you had when you prayed or how rich of an experience it was. When you stand before God in heaven, you're not going to say, oh, God, you're going to let me into heaven because, ma'am, did I feel it? No. You're going to say, because I have the record Actually, I think Jesus is gonna say, Hey, I have the record. I have the record. He is my son. We believe the record that Jesus has. Number 10, I know I'm saved because I have the Son. 1 John 5. 12. He that hath the Son hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath life. Hath not life. So these things, I believe, the first three questions, the first page is really foundational in establishing: do they know they're saved or lost? They have to come to that conclusion themselves. And then when they answer that question, you can say, okay, if you're lost, you need to get saved today. And then they get saved by following the plan that God put forth, putting their faith and trust in God. In Jesus Christ, or if through that process they realize I am saved, then they're being assured of the salvation that they already possess, but not praying a prayer of assurance. They're just renewing their faith in what God had already said to them. So I hope these things were of help to you. Gave you some tools when you deal with somebody with regarding this doubt. I think a lot of Christians have doubt. A lot of people worry about these things and and Lord willing next Sunday night we'll deal with what causes doubt and why people doubt and how to overcome that. But uh this this is the foundational part to help people get through it.