What Denver people had to say about Jesus when it came to his birth, um as I believe uh They're being passed out, but we do have notes available for that both on the website for those that are streaming and for those that are here. We do have did have a couple of the bookmarks left that went over those different claims Regarding Christ. So far in our series, we just uh took time a few weeks ago to look at the claim made by the angel to To Mary and to Joseph that he is coming. What exciting news that they found out that Jesus was on the way, that there would be a baby that would be born to them that should save his people from their sins. Then we looked last week at the idea that was given. Um I just lost. He is uh sorry. My mind just went blank. What we talked about. I can't blame you guys if you don't remember what lesson was if I if I don't remember what it is. He is Jesus. That's right. Joseph. Joseph said that he is Jesus, uh, giving the name uh to the Messiah. uh when he was born. What w we saw how that was prophesied um to the an by the angel, but it was prophesied before that by Isaiah, but it was prophesied before that was given to him by God. a name that was chosen for his son and has special significance about the fact that he was the Savior. Today being Christmas Sunday, we're going to wrap up the series Today with the claim made by the angels as well as by the shepherds that he is here. What a fitting uh lesson to go over on Christmas morning. The fact that we're rejoicing, the fact that yes, yes, he was promised that he would come. Yes, we know who he was, we know about him, but the fact that he actually came, that God put on flesh to dwell among us, what a wonderful truth that is. That has much meaning for us today. Can you remember a time, as we kind of get into an introduction here, can you remember a time when you were perhaps waiting for some news? Waiting to hear about something right now at Christmas time. Kids are waiting, waiting to see what's under the tree. The presents are wrapped and they're there and they've got their name on it. They, oh I can't wait for Christmas morning or kids that are at the point where they're buying presents I want to tell mom what I got 'em. I want to I want to go ahead and give it away to my brother early because because I picked this out for him and there's an excitement when you're when you're waiting uh for the news, whether to receive it or to share it Perhaps for those in school, you're waiting on that report card or that grade some of the college students that just finished up their their final exams and hopefully you've got those already and they turned out okay, but maybe you're still waiting. waiting to hear. How did that how did that go? Uh did I did I get the grade that I was looking for in those things. Maybe for uh those that work, you may be waiting to hear the results on a on a uh promotion or a performance review and and kind of that that anticipation And that weight that is there. Maybe it's an important letter, an email, or a text that you're waiting for. You know, it's a problem now with texting that with some phones, when I send a message, I can see that the other person read it And then they don't reply. Like, well they got it. And and and they read it. And what they do they not know? Do they not want to talk to me? Do they not I don't know what's going on because I know they read and it adds this whole extra level of anxiety that you're just waiting for them to respond. You ever had a time-sensitive message that you saw somebody read they didn't respond? Maybe there's some serious medical news that you're waiting on. In some form or another, we are all familiar with the idea of waiting for news. You know there's many emotions that go into waiting. First you you that initial time you're you're excited. Excited that you're gonna get that news back. Uh then i it may be the um the anxiety, like uh oh I don't know, is it is it gonna get here on time? Is the news gonna be here? The nervousness, the despair, the discouragement, all these things we feel during this time of waiting and anticipation when it comes to news that are here, that are coming. There are also many emotions that happen when you finally get the news that you're waiting for. You could experience joy, maybe grief, maybe apathy, or perhaps even relief. You know your response to the news is directly tied to how you were waiting for the news to get there. How you acted during the waiting period. For example, I remember one doctor's visit with I believe it was Elena. We went into the doctor and they did a did an ultrasound on her and they um said, you know, there's this there's this thing we are concerned about. She has this this uh deposit, this this material that's near her heart. We believe it's a calcium deposit and we want to run some tests. Now it's not life-threatening, but it could could cause some developmental issues for her, so we want to run some extra tests. So we get some blood work done and then the next couple days while we're waiting to hear, there's that Nervous anticipation. Well, what's going on? What are we going to hear? We're going to find out about it. We're praying about it and things. And we get the news and everything was okay. And because of all that pent-up anxiety, there was great relief when we got the good news Now there's another uh medical uh uh time when I was waiting for waiting for news, or not exactly waiting, I'll explain as I go along here, but a few years ago I had a cyst removed um out of my neck. Went in very easy easy procedure and went in, they cut it out, uh I left A couple weeks went by, I took the stitches out, and then a little while later I was up in the tool room, I remember, because I answered I got a phone call from a number they didn't recognize. Answered the phone call and they said, Hey, just letting you know that your test came back and it was benign I said, okay, thank you. They hung up. So what test? And what is benign? Like is that a good thing or a bad thing? Like, oh that must be that thing I had to take it out of my neck. Benine. Oh, that's the good kind. Um there was no the news didn't mean anything to me because I wasn't waiting for news. Um if I didn't if I wasn't anticipating news getting there, my response was just I Didn't didn't mean anything to me. So how you feel during the waiting period attributes to how you feel when you finally get the news. Sorry. Went through a lot of my notes about look at it. Alright, so the people of Israel, good news. Um people of Israel are waiting for the news of the coming Messiah for thousands of years. Some were excited about the prospects, others were apathetic, some had hope, others had lost faith. When the message finally did come, how their people responded was tied to their attitude while waiting Some were excited about the news, others didn't care at all, some were skeptical, others were angry. But how they were looking for the news determined how they received the news You ever heard what you get out of something, what you put into it? This is based on a principle in the book of Proverbs, chapter twenty-seven, where the Bible says, The full soul loatheth in honeycomb But to the hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet. If you are eagerly looking for something from God, we can even use the example of a church service. You come to a church service eagerly looking to hear something from God, even if it's not the best sermon in the world, you'll get something out of it because the to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. But when we're so full, full of full of the world, full of distractions, full of ourselves Uh we come even the best sermon in the world wouldn't mean anything to us because we're full, and that's for the which people of Israel. Some of them were hungry for news of the Messiah. They were waiting, they were eager, they were anticipating, and when that news came there was great rejoicing, there was excitement. There were others that they were they were busy with their lives. They had given up on the fact that Christ may come. And so the news didn't mean anything to them But we see here in our story today that the angels and the shepherds brought the best news of all. Some loathed this honeycomb while others ate up the news. So we look at the message shared by the angels and also shared by the shepherds, and that message was He is here. Let's go to the Bible now, Luke chapter 2. We'll read verses 9 all the way down to verse number 17. Luke chapter 2, verse number 9 says, And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a savior which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swollen clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. good will toward men. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem. And see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. We'll go ahead and read verse number eighteen, because well that'll come into play in the notes here a little bit, but it says there, and all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word and the things that we can learn from it. Lord, I pray that you would challenge us this morning with this thought from your word, and we see the example given by the angels and the shepherds of The rejoicing that took place with this news that he is here. I pray that we would never grow tired of the news about Jesus, that he came, the story of the gospel, that he came, that he was born, that he lived a sinless life, that he died and rose again. so that we might experience salvation, Lord. That that would always be exciting news for us. Lord, pray you bless us now as we study your word, and we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. So as you look at this claim that was made by the shepherds, the claim was, and the angels, the claim was that he is here. As we look at this claim, I want to first of all look at the messenger. Who was the one that was bringing this message? We see first of all the messenger was the angel. Now a few weeks ago we looked at this with the mess We're not going to go over all those notes again, but most likely You could take time to review that. This was the angel Gabriel. We're not told this for sure, but we had already seen that the angel Gabriel was used by God to send messages. He had already been the one to deliver the message to Mary that Jesus was coming. And his authority in the Bible is we see him being joined by the other angels here in a minute in the passage. So most likely this angel, this messenger, was the angel. The message continued though when the angel Gabriel was joined by the other angels. We see in the verse it says that suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, So there's a multitude of the heavenly hosts that joined Gabriel in bringing this message to the shepherds. You know, when we look at the Bible, we're not going to take a lot of time here to go into a whole study of angelology, what the angels are and who they are in the Bible, but we understand there's a lot of different types of angels in the Bible There are uh cherubim, there are seraphim, there are other angelic beings that surround the throne of God. There are some angels that perform tasks for God, such as Gabriel bringing messages. There are some angels that minister to the people of God. And we're told that you can entertain angels unawares, that there's angels that perform that function. There's some angels that are involved in spiritual warfare. We see other angels that are only involved in worship. They surround the throne and say, holy, holy, holy. So a different angels, different types of angels, different angels. Different jobs of angels, but we understand that all these angels are the servants of God. So when we think about this idea of the multitude of the heavenly hosts, who did God send? Which angels did God send to welcome his son into the earth? Hebrews chapter 1 makes the case that Jesus is greater than the angels. If you remember from the study of Hebrews we did in our devotions a few weeks ago, the book of Hebrews, the whole theme of the book is that Christ is better. So it's being presented to the Jewish people that Christ is better than anything else that you've experienced or understood religiously as a nation. Christ is better. He is the fulfillment of the law. So he starts the book in in chapter one with describing how Jesus is greater or Jesus is better than the angels. Because angels have had a lot to to do with Israel throughout their history. They had brought messages to to different patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, that met with angels that had ministered to them throughout their history and brought messages for God from God or or fought on their behalf in different battles that they faced. So Angels were were powerful beings that were involved in their history, but God was showing through the Word of God that Christ was better. And one example that he gave of this was by sending Christ Um sorry, sending angels to worship Christ when he was born here on earth. So when you look at this uh idea of who is greater angels, Jesus, we can see that which Well, which angels got the opportunity to skip this worships worship service? If they were so important they didn't have to be there, well then maybe maybe we could make the question there, is is the angels greater than Jesus? Well, Hebrews 6 verse 1 gives us the answer And again, when he bringeth the in the first begotten into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him. This heavenly choir, who was there? God sent them all. God says, I'm sending when I bring my son into the earth, I want all the angels there. Worship him, because he is greater than any of them. Because he's the most important thing going on right now is that my son is there. Hebrews 1 6 tells us that let all the angels of God worship him when he brings his first begotten into the world. Every angel of God was sent to worship the baby in Bethlehem What a group to bring the message to those shepherds and to the world. No wonder Gabriel had to preface his message with, fear not. It's one thing to have an angel show up Not a thing to have all of them show up to sing, but they had the message here that they shared of of Jesus' coming, that Jesus is here. So we saw the angel Gabriel brought the message. We see the angels also shared in bringing this message. But we see the message continued with the shepherds The final group that shared this message that he is here was the shepherds. Now the shepherds were a very different group than the angels. They weren't nearly as, you know, the angels we we we get this picture in our minds, but even understanding because they're in the presence of God There's a level of holiness and purity that's there. And then we imagine a shepherd, uh a shepherd who's sleeping in the fields. It's been a couple days since he had a shower. Clothes are a little bit wrinkly, maybe He's dealing with animals and there's a general smell that comes along with that. And so we we see a contrast of these messengers that the angels of God brought the message, but also these shepherds brought the message. They they probably would have lacked the eloquence. I'm sure the worship that these angels have perfected over thousands of years as they sit around the throne of God worshiping him was a little bit more eloquent, a little bit more perfected than what the shepherds may have been able to accomplish They would have lacked the uh presence of the angels, presence being just their demeanor. Uh every time an angel shows up in the Bible, um basically every time, they have to w preface their message with, hey, fear not. They're they're very imposing individuals, the angels are. The shepherds wouldn't have had that. Now they might have had to say fear not when they went around banging on people's doors in the middle of the night. Hey, hey, don't worry, it's okay. I'm just sharing some good news here. Um but they did it wasn't because of their presence. It wasn't because that they just had people could understand these are messengers from God. So these messengers were very different from one another. These were these shepherds, they were men, they were created lower than the angels. We understand in Hebrews chapter 2 that when Christ became a man, the Bible describes as him being made a little lower than the angels uh to in order to be made a man. So there's there's a an authority or a power that is greater when it comes to angels or men. But when God was sending the message about his son into the community, he didn't send the angels. He sent the shepherds. Because that's who God wants to work through. God's not interested in the best. God's not interested in the mightiest. God's not interested in the most eloquent. God's interested in people that are willing to serve him. And that's what these shepherds were, these messengers that they went out. Now, maybe the people around town would have listened if they would have had the whole fire of angels show up, but that's not who God chose to send. When God chose to send the message that He is here into the community, He sent these shepherds. So they're a group. What was so great with these shepherds? Well, they had a greater experience than the angels. Backing up from that, we see although they they were different in their demeanor, they did have the same message. We'll look at this in a little bit, but we see when they shared the message, they shared what was told unto them. They didn't change God's message, they gave the same message, but they had a different experience. We're not going to take a lot of time to go into this, but Hebrews chapter two tells us how the aspects of salvation and Christ's coming to earth and faith and all that is something that the angels desire to look into. It's beyond their understanding. The experience that we get to have in being forgiven of our sins and brought back into reconciled with the Father through the work of Jesus Christ. That's something that that goes beyond the understanding of the angels, and it's something that no angel gets to experience. But these shepherds did. These shepherds did get to have this experience. of meeting the Son of God this way. When describing these Christians in in Peter, he in First Peter it says whom Having not seen ye love, the salvation that we experienced when we look at Christ since his coming is something that was beyond the understanding of both the prophets and the angels. While these were just simple shepherds, it was through their faith in the Word of God that they were given the wonderful experience of being introduced to the Savior So we see these three messengers that all brought the message that he is here. We had the angel Gabriel, we had the angels as a whole, and we have this group of shepherds. Well, what was the message that they shared, secondly this morning? The message. The message of these people, as they're bringing the message that he is here, if we read it in its entirety, it says, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you, ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. This is the message that God gave through Gabriel to these shepherds. It was a message, first of all, of courage. The angel told them, fear not Don't be afraid. Now we spoke already of how just the presence of an angel often induced fear into the one they were bringing a message to. So yes, this this would immediately tie to the presence of the angel Gabriel and all the angels that joined him uh in worshiping the Savior. But it would go beyond that because if what these angels said were true, these shepherds were in in for uh some major life changes. Don't be afraid. I've got news that's going to change your life. Fear not. Fear not. Have courage. Here's what this news is going to do for you. We look at these shepherds. It was contrary to their profession and that of their children. We look historically at the context here, and very likely these shepherds were raising the sheep, the lambs that would be offered as sacrifice. Well, with the coming of the Messiah, there would be no more need of sacrifice. These people had for generations and generations their fathers, their grandfathers, their great grandfathers, years after years after years they've done this, provided these animals for sacrifice. If this news was true, that was gone The need for their profession was over. And their children, what they had in plan for their children, what they wanted their children to do when they grew up, that would be gone as well. But they needed to take courage in this news. This message was an introduction to the new covenant, and their religious practices would have to change. The message would separate them from society and those that they worked with. You know, these shepherds would likely work very closely with the priests who would be put out of a job if the Messiah showed up, the priest who rejected and ended up crucifying. The Savior. The shepherds work closely with them in providing these lambs, and if they if they accepted this news, it would break off their business relations. It would have a great impact on them. Just as we talked about last week with the character of Joseph, the suffering that would result of these shepherds from receiving the message by faith far out sorry, the blessing far outweighed the sacrifice. Whatever they would have to give up in receiving this news, what they would receive was so much greater. It was a message that they gave of courage, fear not. These shepherds were going to be asked to do what no one else in town could be bothered to do. They were in Bethlehem as well for the census, would have been distant relatives, very likely of Mary and Joseph. They are the only ones that are described as coming to see Jesus after the baby was born. So it was a message of courage. Secondly, we see that it was a message of congratulations The angels told the shepherds, I bring you good tidings of great joy. This angel had good news, good news to share with the shepherds. We've looked at this before, but this idea of good news is chronologically the first mention of the gospel in the New Testament. Because good tidings I bring you good tidings that were tidings is news. And good, good news that is the gospel. It is in fact the Greek word Gospel that underlines this phrase, I bring you good tidings, I bring you the gospel. They were receiving the good news of Jesus Christ And we see this good news. This good news was all that it cracked up to be. I don't know if you ever had the experience of getting good news and been a little bit disappointed. Disappointed in the good news that you got. Alright, you were expecting something and then it went away. In fact, just uh This past week this happened to me. One of the cards that I use is having a promotion right now where they're picking 50 random charges a day that they're going to reimburse, that they're going to give back to you. And so I never win something like that. I didn't think anything about it. But I got an email the other day. Congratulations, you won. Now I got the email the day after we took our kids to the dentist. And we had put that dentist charge, that large bill, on this card. And I got the email, congratulations, you won. I clicked on the email and it said this, hi Derek, congratulations. One of your recent card transactions was selected for a random reimbursement as part of the winter sweepstakes. You are getting $3. 30 back from your purchase at Chili's of Padonia. Little bit disheartening. I had I had so much joy, so much excitement, and that news kind of let me down a little bit. Let down. That wasn't the case with the shepherds. They got good news, and the good news was all that it cracked up to be. They got good news that was going to change their life and the lives of millions of people Forever. It was a message of true congratulations. So we see it was a message of courage, it was a message of congratulations. It was also a message that was common. We see the angel said, Fear not, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Which shall be to all people. It was God's intention that this message would not stay with the shepherds. It was also his intention that this message would not stay with the Israelites. This good news that the angels were bringing to the shepherds, God intended it for it to go to all people. That's what God wanted to happen with this message. It would be commonplace around the world. Everybody should know about this good news. You may have heard this illustration before, but there's an illustration often tied to the idea of sharing the good news around the world. But it comes from the company of Coca-Cola. In 1886, after the state of Georgia passed prohibition laws, a young man named John Pemberton invented a carbonated non-alcoholic beverage which he thought would appeal to Americans giving the prohibition against alcohol. It was marketed as a soft drink as opposed to a hard liquor. It combined a mixture made from Cocoa leaves and cola nuts, giving it the name Coca-Cola. John first started selling his soft drink in pharmacies in his hometown of Atlanta, Georgia. The first servings were sold for five cents a glass. During the first year, sales averaged a modest nine servings per day in Atlanta. But he had a much grander vision for his invention. He had a dream that within one hundred years every person on the face of the earth would have tasted the soft drink that he created. He didn't quite quite reach his goal, but I'd say he was pr pretty successful, wouldn't you? Today it's estimated that about n one point nine billion daily servings of Coca-Cola are consumed globally 51% of people living in the world today have tasted Coca-Cola. 72% have seen a can or a bottle of Coke. And 97% have heard of Coca-Cola. He did a pretty good job. He had a goal. This message, this drink, shall be to all people. You know, God had a goal as well. This message of the gospel shall be to all people. But it's estimated that 42% of people on earth today live in what is deemed unreached people groups. These are categories of ethnic groups that with less than 5% of their group claiming any form of Christianity Forty-two percent of the world live in groups, tribes, ethnic groups that less than 5% profess any form of Christianity, and that would lump in Catholicism as well. That 42% of the world haven't heard They haven't heard this message that was supposed to go to all people. This story is not nearly as common as God intended it to be You know, I would love to see a large number of people go out from our church and churches around the world. I was talking to a pastor just a couple weeks ago. He says it's his prayer that 10,000 uh people in the next couple of years would surrender to go into full-time ministry, whether that's stateside or abroad. He's praying for that young young people would go into the into the gospel ministry and and older people and adults and retired people go into the gospel ministry because there's such a great need. A need out there for people to hear the gospel. And it's our prayer that through our church God would raise up people that we could send out to go and be a witness for Christ and share the message that with God's goal of it reaching the entire world could be met. But in the meantime, there are many people on Reach living just down the road from you. You know, I've knocked on a door in the United States, talked to an 18-year-old kid, and told him Hey, we're here to tell you about Jesus. And the response was, why does he live around here? Never heard, eighteen years old in America, never heard the name of Christ. I don't even know how that's possible. But it was. There's people that are unreached. This message that God said should be to all people, and this message God said should be common. It's not as common as God wants it to be. And that's on us. We need to make sure we're sharing the news. We're sharing the gospel to those around us. We've received it. We need to pass it on as well. We see it was also a message of Christ. It says, For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. The shepherds were told about Christ's humanity. We see that the angel said that he would be born. This points to his humanity, that God would put on flesh and live among men, that God who is unlimited would limit himself in humanity The God who never knew uh tiredness, who never knew hunger, who never knew pain, who never knew death, would come put that on himself for us. They were told about his humanity, his birth When we think about the humility of God to take on human flesh, it's just an amazing thing to think about. Philippians two deals with this in some detail, but as I was thinking about this idea of Christ coming to earth and being born and taking on humanity, just Just one thing that really struck me about this is the God, the one who spoke this whole world, this whole universe into existence with just the word of his mouth. By humbling himself and being being born on earth that same mouth would be used to cry for food from one of his creatures that he had created. That he had to humble himself that much that this God who could speak the world into existence would have to cry out for somebody to provide nourishment for him. What an amazing fact that Christ was willing to come to earth to be born, to take on flesh, to live a life to when they die. for us, what great love he had for us. It was a message of Christ. It was a message of his um humanity. They were also told about his sacrifice. It said there that you uh unto you is born this day what? A Savior. A Savior, a savior that would one day be sacrificed for us. It was prophesied to Mary and Joseph before his birth he would be savior. It was prophesied to the shepherds at his birth that he would be a savior. From the moment that God's plan took action and Christ was coming to earth, Christ knew. Christ actually knew before the world began that he would one day be a sacrifice. He was born a savior. They were told about the sacrifice that he would make. They were also told about his deity, his humanity, his sacrifice, and his deity, for unhe was born this day in the city of David, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Christ at the title for the Messiah. The anointed one. The Lord. The Lord is the supreme authority. It is God He is, yes, born a man. Yes, he is Christ the Lord. And he combined those two. Why? So that he could be a Savior. That's the message that was shared. It was a message of Christ. We see also that it was a message of clarity. He shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. They knew exactly where to go. They knew what to look for. They knew what they were going to find when they got there. God's instructions are clear. I'm thankful for that. That God didn't leave us some ambiguous We figured out you're on your own. God told us what he wants us to do. He told us how he wants us to live. And he put that in his word. So it was a clear message. It was a message of Christ. It was a message that God wanted to be common. It was a message that w asked for courage. That was the message that was given by the angel Gabriel to the shepherds. We see the message that was given by the angels as a group. The message they gave as a group was glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. After the message delivered by Gabriel, he was joined by the rest of the angels as they sang praise towards God to worship the Son of God, the first begotten brought into the world. We'll take a lot of time to go into this because Pastor dealt with it last week, but this message was a message that was directed to God and it was directed to man. He said, to God in heaven He should receive glory. God in heaven should receive all the glory, should receive all the honor, should receive all the praise. And on earth, man is going to receive something as well. What God receives in heaven by Christ is glory. What man receives on earth by Christ is peace and goodwill. It was a message for us both, and that message is wrapped up in this baby, and the good news is that he's here. The good news is that he's here and that gu at this in in this child God would bring peace to men. God could bring goodwill. And God could receive glory. This is the message of the angels. We see also the message of the shepherds. They had a message to men. We see in the verse it says they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. This is the same message that they were told. is the message that they gave out. You know, we don't have any right to change the message that we've been given. We have an obligation to share the message just like it's been given. We're not we don't have a an opportunity to To make it more palatable, uh to soften the message. God's given us the message, it is our job to give that message to others. We don't have a right to change or to adjust. God's message. We don't have a respon it's not our responsibility to make it more palatable, it's our responsibility to make it more known. They had a message that they shared to those around them of the message that God gave to them. They had a message to men, they also had a message to God. Says that when they returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. Just as the angels gave the message to them and then gave glory to God, the shepherds gave the message to men and then gave glory to God. They followed that same pattern that they had seen. Praising God, giving the message, and then giving God glory. Glorifying and praising God should be part of our lives and should be part of our message. As we go out and we share the good news that Christ is We share that news. We need to make sure we're continuing to give God the praise, honor, and glory. Your personal testimony should be involved as you as you go out and you reach people and tell people When was the last time that you gave your salvation testimony? Do those around you, do those even in your family, know your salvation testimony? Would they be able to to tell it when did well when did your when did your mom get saved? Oh here's what happened. Let me tell you about her salvation. When was your dad? When was your child? When was your mom? When was your sister? When was your brother? A few years ago with my family, and we sat down at Christmas time and I just asked Can we just all share our salvation testimonies? Because I I I know I know you got saved, and I kind of remember when it happened, but but I I haven't heard you tell it in a while. And I want to hear about when you got saved. I want to hear when you got saved, because you know what We're not all gonna be around. One day something's gonna happen to me. And a pastor is gonna go meet with my family and say, We're preparing for your the funeral. Can you tell me about when he got saved? Well if I never tell them, how are they gonna know to share that with others? Do people around you know your testimony? Is God giving getting glory in your life for your salvation? Anybody that would interact with these shepherds, they heard them tell the story, and they heard him tell God how great he was for sharing this story with them. our giving glory to God should be part of our testimony. When was the last time you praised God publicly for the time that you got to meet Jesus? So this is the message given by the angel, the angels and the shepherds. Finally this morning, what's the meaning? What did this message mean? For the shepherds, for those that heard it. I see three decisions that had to be made. First of all, there was a decision to see. When the shepherds got the news that Jesus was here, they had a decision to make. What were they going to do? Here's the news. The news is that Jesus is right over there in Bethlehem. What are you going to do about it? Were they going to go see for themselves, or were they satisfied with their life just like it was? You know, they had plenty of excuses not to go see the baby. They had a job to do. We're washing the sheep. It's an important job. You know, we're they were there by night. They didn't just send the shepherds out or the sheep out in the field. And say, hey, we'll come get you in the morning. No, they were there watching, protecting those sheep. Would they leave it? Leave the sheep to go see a baby? What would happen when the boss found out? They had a decision to make. It was not a convenient time. It's the middle of the night. The baby's just born. Mom wants to sleep. Right? It's not a great time. This isn't the best time for it. Maybe we could maybe we could do it later. You know, someone else could go and and meet the baby Maybe we can save it for for another time. But we know this is not the decision that was made by the shepherds. They did not put anything off. The Bible says they came with haste. Came with haste. We got the news. They dropped what they were doing. Wolves can have the sheep. We're going to see Jesus. Alright, that's what they're that was their attitude. They came with haste. They responded to the message that Jesus is here. Now we could contrast this with the chief priests and the scribes who were in Jerusalem when the wise men came And the wise men said, A baby's been born, the king of the Jews. And that Herod says, Well let's get the wise let's get the chief priests in here, the scribes, the religious people. Hey, where's this baby going to be born? Oh he's over there. Bethlehem, it's in the Bible. We know where it is Okay. Wise bend her head now. You guys want to come? Uh we're good. We're good. You have a decision to make when you hear the fact that Jesus is here When you hear about Christ coming, when you hear the gospel, when you hear the good news, you're forced to make a decision. Are you going to go see for yourself? This message rings true today. If you never personally met Jesus and began a personal relationship with Him, The news is that he's here. He has come. The good news is that Jesus is here. He was born, born to be a Savior. He's ready to meet you if you're ready to see him for yourself. Today, right now, you can turn from your old life and turn to Jesus just as the shepherds did. He will save you, he will bring you into the family of God. So when this good news came, the shepherds had a decision to make. Are we going to go see for ourselves? Well, we thank God they did. And if you're saved, you've done that yourself. You've met Jesus. You made the decision. When you heard the gospel, you responded to it, you've met Christ for yourself. Now what? You have a decision to share. After meeting Jesus themselves, this message brought them to another place of decision. In the message, they were told that this message was given to them for all people. If I were to call up one of the teens and say, Eli, you don't have to come right now, but if I was to call Eli up here and say, hey, Eli, the cantata tonight is at 5 o'clock. And everybody in here needs to be told that. What would he assume? Well, I should go tell everybody. Um if that's what that's what I'm being given, that everybody needs to know this one thing that I've been told, I need to go tell others So the shepherds, they got done seeing the baby. They met Jesus for themselves. They got that experience of meeting Jesus personally. They could go back to their job, live life just like it's always been lived. Keep that to themselves. Or they could follow through on the implicit command given in the message that everybody should know. Would they go ahead and share this message? Would they go? Would they go share? Would they go back to their job as if nothing had happened? We see already that this is the case that they went to anybody who would listen. The Bible says they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. Let me ask you this question. Have you met Jesus? Have you shared that news with anyone else? I read a statistic the other day that 95% of Christians will never lead another person to the Lord. I don't know what the exact statistic is, but it's probably somewhere around 95% of Christians would tell someone if they met a good plumber. If your car broke down, hey, I've got a great guy that can help you with that. Your cell phone is having trouble? Let me tell you about this great service that I've been using. Your yellow tool broke down again. Let me tell you why I only use red ones. Your mom is in the hospital? That's too bad. Sorry to hear that. Your kids are wrecking their lives? Must be really hard for you. How come when someone has a problem that can be fixed by some man, we're more than happy to advertise for Tom the landscaper? But when someone has a spiritual problem, we fail to say, I I know a guy that can fix that. I'll be glad to tell you about a roofer, but tell someone about Jesus? Well, but they've got a leak. There's water coming through their drywall. They're on their way to hell. Right. They don't know about the Savior. Are we willing to share the message that we've been given? The shepherds responded with the decision to share. We see the third group, we read the verse at the very end there of how people responded when they heard the news of the shepherds, and we see that they made a decision to stay where they were at. The third group faced the decision, and they were the ones who heard the message brought by the shepherds. The Bible says all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them concerning this child. The fact that these shepherds were to come and they brought the message, the news, that he is here. And all the people said, huh, that's interest. Why? 'Cause because it wasn't the best time. But because they had other things that they were doing, because they were they were too busy. But everyone who decided to stay where they were at, they missed what God had for them. They were content with their lives as it were, as they were. And they missed something that could change their life forever. Because they were content to stay the way they were. The decision to do nothing was a decision to reject the message. Now, don't let that be your testimony today. For those that are unsaved, you've heard the message, He's here. He wants you to meet him. He wants a personal relationship with you. Don't stay where you are. Don't stay where you are because a decision to wait is a decision to say no. A decision to do nothing is a decision to reject the message. What about us as believers? There's calls in this message. There's calls in the preaching of the Word of God that will happen here in a moment with the morning service, Sunday night, Thursday night. God's speaking to our hearts, giving us a message. Are we content just to stay the way we are? Because when we stay where we are, we miss what God had for us. We miss what God wanted us to experience. To know Him better, to grow closer to Him when we say, oh, that was an interesting message. We missed what God had in store for us. Don't be like those who decide to stay where they were. Be like the shepherds who decided to see for themselves. The message today is that He is healing.