Alright, you should be in James chapter one. We have a familiar verse here. James Chapter 1, verse number 22. The Bible says here, be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Be ye doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving your own your own selves. This verse here is one that we have heard and uh I'm sure that I've preached on it uh maybe an entire message at some point. I didn't actually look through my history and and see if I preached a message on that. But really for the most part, when you read or hear this verse, the emphasis is put on the doers. Be doers of the word and not hearers only. Tonight I want to take the second half of that and look at that idea of hearing the word of God. Hearers of the Word of God. Before you ever become a doer, you have to be a hearer You have to be taking in the message of the Word of God. We got to be a hearer. We might need tonight to reevaluate how we're hearing the Word of God. If we're hearing the Word of God You know, kids, it's a running joke, but there is a lot of truth in it. Children have selective hearing. When it comes to dealing with mom and dad and and you know they they can readily hear the call to supper or the the dessert is a ready or there's cookies on the table Uh but you know they there's other things they're like, oh I didn't hear you. You didn't you didn't hear me. Yeah, right. That selective hearing. And sometimes as Christians we have selective hearing. There's a lot of things about a message that's brought from the Word of God that we enjoy and that we like, and we're saying amen, but there's that one or two things that Yeah, I don't know about that, or I'm not that's not I'm just gonna forget that part of the message. I'm just gonna leave that part off and not bother to take that in The fact of the matter is the success or failure in the workplace may be largely in part to how well you hear your instruction and what you're supposed to do. Is not many problems that are found in the home between a husband and wife really rooted in communication? I mean that's uh the the big word, right? Communication. Um it's just so vitally important that we are hearing one another. These situations are important, but the most important situation of all, beloved, is that we hear the Word of God. That were hearers of the Word of God. Ian Bounds, that great Bible scholar, said this. Could I give you this quote? He says: to hear the Word of God is no small matter. It is our life. It is as milk to the baby, our God-appointed food by which we are nourished It is not a lecture. It is not entertainment. It is not the wailing away of an hour. But it is the incorruptible word of God that liveth and abideth forever. The soul that receives this precious seed must be well prepared. So I ask you tonight, how prepared is your heart to receive the Word of God? To receive the Word of God, to be a hearer. of the Word. I think one of the hardest services of a week to be a good hearer of the Word is Thursday night. You're coming into church after a long day of work. You're coming in after being out in the heat or laboring all day and your mind is tired. You're occupied with the things of life. And you come in and you gotta you know Sunday's a little easier because that day's given to worship and given to God and you you you focus on that for the day and Your mind's kind of in that worshipful uh mindset, but on Thursday night it's kind of like, okay, I gotta change gears, right? Hopefully you have time to even change clothes. Sometimes you don't. You you come straight from work and you just get here And praise God you made it. Amen. But you you trying to change gears and get your mind into the Word of God can be difficult. But it's very important that we're prepared to hear the word. There is clearly in the Word of God the idea that we are to prepare that soil Of the heart. One of the longest parables Christ ever spoke described for us the heart of man. And it detailed the heart of man and laid it out as different types of soil. That amazing truth shared for us, and we of course could consider the fact that we're all to be sowers We know that. We could, of course, could consider the fact in that parable that the seed is the word of God. But when you really look at that parable, what the heart of the parable is the discussion of the heart of man and the ground that was prepared and the ground that wasn't prepared. We have In that parable, the soil, that wayside soil, which would be a packed soil, that soil that is hardened, that heart that has been hardened, sometimes by tragedy. Sometimes by hurt, sometimes by just worldliness, but something has hardened the heart of this man or woman, and no matter how good the seed is, the soil is too hard and it's never going to take root. Then you have that stony ground that is perfunctory soil, superficial, soil that Just doesn't want to grow. It there's not enough substance there. There's not enough depth there. It's right on the surface Many times Christian duty is performed merely as routine, just as just getting through the motions. It's the spiritual life that's just right on the surface. There's not a lot of depth in that kind of a Christian, you'll see them here and you'll see them busy and all of a sudden they get in and they're active and they say, Oh, this is exciting, but then a few months later you're saying Where were the where are they? I thought they were excited about church. I thought they were excited about God. Man, they were they were fun to be around. I mean that was that was really neat. But they're gone Well, there wasn't any depth there. Superficial. Then you have the thorny ground described for us in verse 7 and 22 of that passage. That only has partial hold. That Seed that was planted and began to grow there was suffocated, choked out by worldliness. The thorns, something from this life is too harsh and too hard on it. Like that rich young ruler who couldn't sell what he had. You know, he he wanted to get saved, wanted to follow Christ. But Christ knew what really had his heart. I said, okay, sell what you have. Oh. I can't do that. There's something greater that grabbed a hold of his heart, the distractions of life. But then you get to that good ground, that profitable soil, that soil in which the seed takes full root and ultimately brings forth fruit. Would you turn there with me if you would to Luke chapter number 8 where this parable is found? I want you to see how he concludes the thoughts. That he shares with regards to this soil, talking about the heart of man and That wayside soil, the pack soil, and the stony ground, and the thorny ground, and the good ground. In Luke chapter number 8, look down at verse number 18. He says here in the Word of God, take heed therefore how year. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have. He says, take heed, therefore, how ye hear. That's the thrust of the message tonight. Taking heed to how we're hearing the Word of God. I know sometimes that when there's a man up here presenting the truth, we like to humanize him. Seems like especially in today's world, we we like the statement, he puts his britches on the same way I do. He's just a man. These are true statements. But at the same time, we need to remember that it's the word of God that's being spoken. That it's the truth of the Word of God, and it's not and never should be about the man that's presenting the truth. It is the Word of God, and we need to take heed to how we're hearing The word. The Bible describes for us in Matthew 7 two types of people. He talks to us about that story, you know, we sing the songs, A wise man built his house upon a rock. That that song. It struck me some years ago when I was teaching some classes on the family This passage of Scripture in Matthew chapter 7 describing the wise man and the foolish man, they both had access to the same information. They both heard the same truths. But the wise man, let me read it for you. The Bible says, therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man which built his house upon a rock. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon the house, and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man Which built his house upon the sand. And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. How are you hearing the word? The word of God. Sometimes We, in our mind, believe that we are right in our thinking. As a matter of fact, I would venture to say 99% of the time, we believe we are right in our thinking But can I ask you, is it possible that maybe we're not right in our thinking? Is it possible that we could be wrong? I know the chances are very, very slim that we could be wrong. But Can I remind you of a couple principles from the Word of God? The Bible says: if the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it? We know that verse, we quote that verse, we we we say amen to that verse, but when you're confronted with a preconceived thought about what you think to be right in your heart, and somebody says Is that correct? Is your thought to question how you view things, or is your thought To rear up and say, no, I'm right. I'm right in the way I think. That's human nature. We know the Bible tells us that our heart is desperately wicked. We can't even know our own heart And yet we stand on how we feel about things strongly to the point where we won't hear the word of God. The Bible also says in Proverbs 16, 25, there is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof is the ways of death. Amen, preacher. That's right. There's a lot of people out there that think wrong. There's a lot of people out there that they have their mind made up and and they they what they think about life needs to be adjusted. Amen. But what about us? What about how we view life? What about the way that we think? Are we willing to hear the Word of God and let it change us? After all, that is the goal of preaching. That is the goal of spending time in the Word of God. Is that the Word of God would change us from the inside out, make us into His image. We we put a lot on the guy standing up here to present the truth. But it's not about him. It's about the truth of the Word of God. Ezekiel chapter thirty-three, verses thirty one and thirty-two says this. And they came unto thee as the people cometh, and they sitteth before thee as my people, and they hear thy words. But they will not do them. For with their mouth they show much love, but their heart goeth after covetousness. And lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song, of one that hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument, for they hear thy words But they do them not. He tells Ezekiel, he says, you know, you're skilled with your words. People come and listen to you, and and it it is like a it is like an orchestra. He's obviously not talking about me. He's talking about Ezekiel. Okay, he's saying you're skilled with your words. Ezekiel, I mean, people come and they listen and they say, man, he's eloquent. Wow, that was an amazing presentation of Scripture. Wow, that was phenomenal. What a gifted speaker. But did they hear the word? They were entertained, but they were not changed. And we want to be changed. Break up the foul ground. Beg God, ask God to soften that heart. Ask God to get us ready to hear the word. To speak to us through the Holy Spirit and through his holy word, to our hearts individually, to change us into what we ought to be. We need to purpose to hear the word. Not just prepare, but we need to purpose too. Familiar verses in the book of Revelation. When you start digging into it, there's so much in the Word of God about hearing, about hearing. You know what he says in Revelation, he who hath ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches. What he's saying unto the churches. What is the Holy Spirit trying to say? You know, beloved, it's important that we have discernment and we're careful what it is we're hearing. We need to purpose to allow the Word of God to impact our lives. We need to, on purpose, plan to be where the Word of God is preached and have some discernment and be careful about what we're listening to out there. Today, there's so much stuff readily available that you could listen to. You can get access to every kind of preacher you can imagine, and they're all out there, and it's mind-boggling what's at our fingertips today. But we need to have discernment that we are hearing the Word of God. All through the Proverbs, there is a concentrated effort, a pleading. Given to the heart of the young man to heed the wisdom of his parents and to ignore the foolishness of the world. Sadly, sometimes we're not even talking about allowing some false preacher to impact, but we're talking about the world. How is the world influencing you tonight? We let a lot of things influence us. I'm often amazed how influenced people are by the news media, different news outlets. People are all worked up over the latest scandal. And then in a couple weeks we find out the whole scandal was a scal. was a scam or a lie and well that wasn't even true anyway. And now we're all worked up because the that they told us about was a lie. It wasn't even true. And and I mean the news media goes from one tragedy to the next. That's just the way it is. Just one tragedy to the next, one heartbreak to the next, one struggle to the next. And listen, folks, all that is going to burn up One day this world is gonna burn and and we're not gonna be here. That shouldn't be what consumes our life. Just maybe do a self-check and say, you know, how much time do I listen to the Word of God compared to how much time I'm listening to the news outlet of your choice? Whatever it is. We need to be hearers of the word on purpose. You know, I I have some investments which right now are doing You you know how they're doing. Just don't look at it, right? Or you're gonna throw up. But you you know you've got those investments and and so there's a desire for me to kind of find out like what's what's happening Why is it so bad? When's the hemerging going to stop? And and so you look for some some sources of information and find out what this analyst says and what that analyst says and And they're all just guessing anyway, but you know, you just you know they they don't know. So what I'm saying is that, you know, there's there's kind of a desire, because I have an investment there, to learn a little bit about maybe when things are gonna turn around or what's gonna happen and and so I look for that. I on purpose say, you know what, I'm gonna I'm gonna go listen to this guy and and find out what's happening with this stock right now But are we on purpose looking for the Word of God? Amen. I I need to know What's going on in the scriptures? I need to know what the Lord has for me today. You know Psalms 1, that blessed man. His delight is in the law of the Lord. Is your delight in the law of the Lord? I mean, do you delight in it? I hear that word delight and for some reason I think about ice cream. I love ice cream. And you know, it's y In my house, you you guys know I don't really like chocolate. Okay, I mean I'll eat it if there's absolutely nothing else, but I would prefer not to eat chocolate. And in my freezer last night I looked and there is four containers of ice cream. Now we had five containers of ice cream. I looked at Andrew and I said there was five containers of ice cream in here These four are full of chocolate. I do not like chocolate. Why did you all eat the ice cream I like? The one thing that I like There's lots of choices. You guys bought these because you like them, and that's okay, but why'd you eat the one I like? I don't understand that. The one that I would delight in was gone So I had to eat something else had to suffer and have a different flavor. What do you delight in? Do you delight in the Word of God? Is it something that you just delight? You just want to hear the Word. I just want to get in the Word of God. I just need to hear God. Does the preaching of the Word of God excite you? It should. For it's an opportunity for you to hear the Word of God By the way, it's not really up to the preacher to pump you up. I know the preacher can, and I work hard to try and bring a message that's engaging I work hard to try and have some illustrations and things that that kind of bring the focus back and help draw the attention and and and and to make it maybe easier to stay awake I understand the struggle, especially on Thursday night after you've been laboring all day. You come in and get to sit down for a few minutes. I understand. But it's about the truth of the Word of God. And we should be excited about that truth. We've got to be listening on purpose. You know, we often pray at church here. In corporate prayer, we'll hear somebody say, Lord, give us ears to hear. Right? Give us ears to hear. We ask God for that. That comes from Mark 4, verse number 9. And he said unto him, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Matthew 11, verse number 15, he says, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. Several other places in the scripture. If you have ears to hear, let them hear. And so we ask, Lord, Lord, give us ears to hear. Give us that mindset, that heart, that passion for you that would cause us to hear your word. But I think many times what we're looking for is the Macedonian vision. We want to be knocked off of our horse with a shining light from heaven. And that's when we'll hear God. But we know that it's the still small voice that God uses to speak to our hearts. There is only one Macedonia vision. Your life's not going to be full of those. You're going to have those in church every six weeks. Or even every six years. There is times where God comes and moves on your heart in such a powerful, undeniable way, and that it that's amazing, but I want you to know, beloved, that doesn't happen every Sunday. You're saying, tell me about it, preacher, I know it doesn't happen But we need to be ready to hear the still small voice. Ready to hear the still small voice. I believe there were some people standing around listening to the parable that Jesus was teaching on the sower and the seed and the soil. And I believe there's people there that heard that lesson. And what they heard was a lesson on, listen, when you're out in your field and you're dropping seed, don't drop it on the side of the road. Get it in the good soil. That's what they heard. That's not what Jesus was saying. There was something much deeper there that Christ was trying to teach And sometimes the preacher can get up and he can be expounding a passage of scripture or he can be preaching on a truth out of the Word of God and it can just miss us completely. Because we don't have ears to hear. We'll hear the illustration, or we'll heal the direction of the message, or the overall idea, but it doesn't come to root in our heart. It doesn't land on the good soil because we're not hearing As I bring this to a conclusion this evening, I give you a couple of practical thoughts about properly hearing the Word of God. In Luke 8, 15, he says, but that on the good ground are they, which in An honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. He says that good heart, that good soil, brings forth fruit. If we want to have a heart that brings forth fruit, we need to be hearers of the word. Let me just give you a couple practical things. First of all, remember the importance of what's being done. Remember the importance of what's being done. This is the living word of God. This is a message from God. We should approach the preaching of the Word of God, regardless of the man who's up here. As the message from God's Word. There are many different men and a lot of different personalities. Some people are loud and boisterous and they just grate some people the wrong way. They're like, oh, I just can't stand that preacher because he's too loud. Other people like him There's there's some people that are quiet and sullen and just real systematic and they're just gonna give you your other points and they're more of a maybe on the level of a teacher. Every personality is different, but it's not about the personality of those presenting it. It's about the truth of the Word of God. And if we have ears to hear, remembering the importance of it. In 1 Thessalonians 2, verse number 13, he says, For this cause also thank we God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth. The Word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. He says, Man The Word of God had great recourse in your life. Because you received it as the Word of God. Sometimes I ask the Lord to just help me to get out of the way, because I know sometimes my personality gets in the way of the Word of God, His message that He wants to share. Tell me to get out of the way that your people would hear the message from God. Let me ask you this. How would you listen to somebody that was really important? You pick the person in your heart and mind. Somebody that's really important, that's coming to speak and share some truths or some message today Well who's more important than God? God has a message for us. Every time the Word of God is opened, and we can hear from God So remember the importance of what's being done. Remain engaged the whole time. Remain engaged the whole time. Now I know this is hard sometimes, especially after a long day. It's hard to and and I've sat where you're sitting, so I understand completely. And I don't You know, I'll wake up my kids, but I don't wake up other people. You know, I understand. But if you want to get the most out of the Word of God, remain engaged. Participate in the message. Some people check out after the first couple minutes. Their eyes glass over. They're gone until we say, alright, let's stand. Put their heads bowed, eyes closed. Some people just trying to stick along that the for for an entire message can be can be hard and and you know they'll they'll struggle and they'll strive to stay there but lose it before the end. And if you want to get the most out of it, remain engaged the whole time. From the beginning to the end. You know, if you get the intro and you get the conclusion, you've missed the heart of it. And I mean you don't typically pick up a book and read the preface and the closing chapter. Some of you might. I don't I don't know. Say I just I just want to get the idea of what and then you just maybe you decide that way if you want to read the whole thing, I don't know, but um I mean if you want really glean from that book you're gonna read the whole thing I'd encourage you regardless of who's speaking. I'm not talking about me. You guys know I'm not anything uh I don't feel that I'm I'm anything special as far as a preacher. But I'm thrilled for the privilege to do it. I'm thankful for for you all putting up with me. But who whoever's up here, strive to remain engaged. Not only that, it's a blessing to him, whoever's speaking. It is a big help when there's people engaged. I I do like that. And it is okay to say amen. I like Brother Hunt, I appreciate you saying amen. Don't don't d uh don't feel bad. I w I'm hoping that it'll rub off on a couple other people. I'm waiting for Matt across the aisle to say amen. His son does it already, but we're going to get Matt to do it. That's the problem. Yeah. We're gonna bring little Joe out of the nursery so I have an Amen section. That's right. It's good to be engaged. It it helps. It really helps the speaker, whoever's preaching, to know. You'll hear you'll hear me sometimes. I'm like, listen, I I don't I'm not connecting. There's something happening where everybody's tired or whatever it is. You guys, for the most part, are engaged tonight. And that helps the speaker. You say what? Yeah, but we want him to quit, so we know if we're engaged he's gonna keep going. Yeah. But you'll get the most out of it as well as if you're engaged. Now, lastly, respond to the message as presented This, I believe, is where the where the doer part comes in. You'll never be a doer if you don't hear the word. But uh there's got to be a time where we do it. Where we where we respond to the Word of God. The message from God has spoken to our hearts. Now we need to respond. A message that just entertains you will not change you. And if we don't respond to how the Holy Spirit spoke to our hearts or stirred us, then we don't allow that change to happen in our lives. Just this last week I had somebody ask me about our invitations here. And they said, okay, I understand you call people to come down and if they want to get saved, they come down and and they they talk to you and they get to you know somebody shows them how to get saved. But I I've been watching And there's other people that just go down there and they don't talk to you. What are they doing? That's a good question. And so I explained what the altar is for. And it's the opportunity to make a decision for Christ. And yes, you can make that decision. at your seat, but there's something about coming. You look in the Word of God, the altar was a very special place. All through the scriptures. So we have a space that we've set up as our altar where we come. And Respond to the Word of God. And I would encourage you to do that. As the Holy Spirit speaks to you. Again, it's not about the guy that's up here. It's about did God touch our heart? Did God speak to us? We want to be hearers of the Word.