It's the book of Philippians this morning. Philippians go to the New Testament there. Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians. We're going to be in Philippians as a as a launching point. Then we're going to move just a few pages over into the book of Colossians. to see some things that Paul is teaching us. I don't know if you've realized or or uh caught the theme of the songs today, but they uh by and large have dealt with that great and glorious place that one day we as God's people, those that have put their faith and trust in Christ, are going to get to enjoy. They've uh reminded us of being on shores and calling it heaven. They've talked about that the golden gates and being in God's presence and standing by the river and Gathering together there with God's people and these songs continually stir our hearts and we look with anticipation for that day when we step on shores and call it glory. We're there in God's presence. And you know what As the songwriter said, when all my labors and trials are o'er, And I'm safe on that beautiful shore, just to be near the dear Lord that I adore, will through the ages be glory for me. Oh, that will be glory for me, glory for me, glory for me, when by his grace I shall look on his face, that will be glory for me. The songs that they have drawn our hearts and and kind of pointed our minds towards heaven as we've contemplated that. But what I want you to know is that Uh although we look towards that with anticipation and we should. Our eyes are supposed to be on the eastern sky. We're supposed to look towards the day when we're going to be in heaven, anticipate that. I want you to know that God in His infinite wisdom and by His glorious grace has also granted to you and I an abundant life that we get to enjoy right here. I know that in this life there are trials and there are storms and there's heartaches, there's burdens that we carry, and you there are amongst us here, there are people that have uh right now their heart is heavy with having suffered loss There are some right now who heart is heavy because they've got family members or friends who are dealing with uh great uh life-threatening diseases and I understand there's those struggles and boy we look towards the day when we get to heaven that all of that will be over. But what I want to encourage you this morning as uh I bring to you a message that I have entitled Our Heavenly Conversation is that we are to have a heavenly conversation here on earth. That we have uh God has granted for you and I an abundant life, a life that is blessed by his hand, that we get to enjoy even though we're going through. Some of the struggles and heartaches that are here. We see in our text here, if you're in Philippians chapter number three, look down at verse number 20. We'll read verse number 20 and 21 and just kind of see that anticipation that's there. He says in Philippians chapter 3, verse number 20, For our conversation is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall change our vile body that may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself? There is an anticipation here. We look to the eastern sky to when Jesus comes that comes from heaven. He comes here and we will be united with him. But he Mentions here that we are to have, notice he says it is a present tense, for our conversation is in heaven. Beloved, we are to have heavenly conversation here on earth. Paul is saying to the church, he says, hey, I know that our citizenship is in heaven. That one day we're going to be there, but between now and then we really ought to live like a citizen of heaven. We really ought to talk and walk and act like we're actually a citizen of heaven. Beloved as a child of God, your name is written in heaven. Your Bible came from heaven. Your rights are secured in heaven. Your investments are sent on to heaven. Your interests are settled in heaven. Your prayers are answered in heaven. Your loved ones have gone on before you and are in heaven. Our hope is fulfilled in heaven. We look forward to heaven. Amen. And as a citizen of heaven, we should begin to act and look a little bit like that's where we belong. It's sad that some people are going to be uh they're gonna have culture shock when they get to heaven. I've landed on some foreign shores and I've had some culture shock. Some things that I wasn't quite ready for. I don't think I'm going to get into that. Every place has its uh uh great uh beauty and blessings, and there's some that it's just culture shock You know, you're just like, wow, I wasn't ready for that. It's sad that there'll be some people that name the name of Christ for many years and when they get to heaven, they're gonna have they're gonna have culture shock Because I haven't been living like a citizen of heaven. I want you to turn a few pages over now to the book of Colossians. You're just going to go a little bit further, just a couple pages over, and Colossians chapter number three. Where Paul digs into this a little bit and gives us a little bit about this Christian life that we're living today, about our heavenly conversation. We see in Colossians chapter 3, why don't you read verse number 1 with me? Let's read verse number 1 together. If ye then be risen with Christ. Seek those things which are above, which Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. I'll tell you here, I want you to see, first of all, it's a personal decision. He says, if ye If ye be risen with Christ, are you sure this morning that ye, that you have been risen with Christ? If ye, there's a question there, there's a possibility that maybe you're not. There has to be a day or an hour, a time when you Acknowledge the fact that you were a sinner, that you were on your way to hell without the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and you you acknowledge that Jesus died and gave himself for you, and he says here ye be risen with Christ Just as Jesus Christ died, was buried and put into a grave, but then on the third day, praise the Lord, he rose again. He says, if ye be risen with Christ, just as Christ rose You have that assurance because of what Jesus has done for you, he says, hey, if ye, it's a personal decision. Have you made that decision? I didn't say have you gone to church? I didn't say have you ever read the Bible or have you ever done anything religious or anything spiritual? All those things might be good things, but they won't get you to heaven. Only having put your faith and trust in Jesus, shed blood on the cross, will get you to heaven. That's what the Bible says. It's not what I say. It's what God said. I'll tell you what, since he's the creator of the universe, he's the one that sent his son to die. This is what he said we have to do. I think we ought to believe and follow it. He says, we have first of all here a heavenly ambition. He says, if ye then be risen with Christ, not only is it a personal decision, but it's a powerful deliverance, beloved. He says, be risen with Christ. What a glorious truth to know that just as Christ rose from the dead, we too one day if if we happen to pass off the scene while we're here on earth that we can be risen with Christ. The dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds. So shall we ever be with the Lord. That's a promise from the Word of God. It's a powerful deliverance, beloved. Romans chapter 6 and verse number 4 says that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so We also should walk in newness of life. This is what we're talking about today, heavenly conversation. He said there's an expectation that just as Christ was raised from the dead, you and I, who have been raised with Christ, that we should walk in newness of life. As Christ came out of the out of the grave, he had new life. We've been given a new life in Jesus Christ. Amen. There should be some heavenly ambitions there. We've been delivered from this vile body. We have been delivered from death. The Bible says in death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second Death, we've been delivered from that death because we put our faith and trust in Christ. You can be, if you haven't been, you can be today, be delivered from that death. We have been delivered, beloved, to walk in newness of life. That's what he says. Now, there's a uh operative word there. He says, even so, we also should. Walk in newness of life. We also should walk in newness of life. You see, beloved, that's what the expectation is. That's what God wants us to do, but you have a choice to do it or not. You get to decide if you're going to actually walk in the newness of life. When we observe baptism here and somebody gets their faith and trust in Christ. Then we observe baptism. They get into water back here and we baptize them. We say, I baptize thee, my brother, in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Buried in the likeness of Christ's death, raised to walk. And newness of life. That is a picture of what's supposed to happen to this old body. That now that I'm saved and I'm on my way to heaven, if I be risen with Christ, then I should live like I'm risen with Christ. Amen? We have a new life in Christ, and that's what we're supposed to be. There's some heavenly ambition. We ought to start living like we're all we're almost in heaven. Hey, it's getting close. Whenever I've taken some trips to foreign countries, I call and talk to missionaries from there, and I get information from other people and They tell me, hey, here's what you need to do. This is what you need to have when you get there. Here's how you greet the guy at this person. This is an acceptable thing. Or you need to do this. Don't do that, boy. You'll offend them for sure if you do that Uh don't say this. Don't tell any jokes, Pastor Caleb. They don't they don't want to hear your jokes, you know. Listen, God's given us a whole book on how to act He's told us what the expectation is, and we ought to start living like we're a little bit closer to heaven than we are to this old earth. Amen. That's the expectation, our heavenly conversation. Do you have heavenly conversation? Is your conversation heavenly? Now you know conversation in the Word of God is more than just our words. Our conversation in the Word of God is our actions, it is our lifestyle, it is our what the Bible calls your walk. You walk. Hey, beloved, if your life is consumed with the here and now, if you are presently completely occupied with this old world, you're not getting ready for there. We ought to be looking ahead with some heavenly ambition. He says, secondly, here, there ought to be some heavenly affections Look at verse number two. Read verse number two with me. He says, set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. There's some heavenly affections. We are to set our affections on things above. If you're going to experience a little bit of heaven here, you've got to start putting some thought. some energy, some time into thinking about and contemplating that glorious place. I think about a young man who can get completely Engrossed in a new car. You know, have you seen the 2024? Whatever. And they know about that car and they know what size tires are on it and the rims that are on it and and they know uh how many horsepower the engine generates and what kind of uh that transfers to the tread and what they can do and they they know they're just in in enraptured by this vehicle. They're so uh they know all the specs about it. Can I ask you how much do you know about heaven? Have you have you thought about that? You find a young lady Who starts to get interested in a young man, she becomes completely enraptured. By the affections of this young man. Her affections are set on him. And every conversation, somehow he comes up. And the friends are like, Could you please stop talking about him? Oh, but he's just so amazing. I mean he does everything right. I mean he is just phenomenal. He looks so sharp. He's such a smart guy. Makes no mistakes, right? I mean just enraptured. Her affections are set that direction. The Bible says we're to set our affections on things above. You see, beloved, it's a choice. He said, set your affection on things above. That means on purpose you determine, listen, I'm going to contemplate and think about being in heaven And what I'm going to live like and what it's going to be like, and I'm going to do what I can to prepare that I won't have culture shock. I'm going to be ready for that. Beloved, the natural man has set his affections on things on the earth. The man without Jesus Christ, it's all about here and now. You hear people talk about the new on the news and the the goofy stuff people say because they don't know the Lord and they don't know I saw a thing this week. The Florida shoreline. I don't remember it was 18,000 years ago or 118,000 years ago, I don't know. But it said the Florida shoreline when the earth or the seas were uh 127 feet lower than they are today. Like somehow they came up with some brilliant thing. All you have to do is look at how deep the shore goes and say, okay, if the sh if it was a hundred feet shallower then the shoreline would be way over there. But some this is some scientific thing. The problem is the earth isn't that old. Not 118,000 years old. I mean i i it the the the ignorance is mind-boggling. And yet it's put out there like, oh, this is fact. Scientists have discovered the Florida shoreline used to be here People. The natural man is consumed with this life, with homes, with honor, with land, with luxury, with fashion. With all that this world has to offer. That's what the natural man is consumed with today, with the here and now, because they say, hey, there's nothing else after this But if you're a believer this morning and you know that Jesus Christ came and died for you, you know one day you're going to be in heaven. You know there's something after this. Amen? And we look forward to the day that we're gone from this old world and the toils and the heartache and the pain of today, and we get to rejoice and and and we look forward to heaven with anticipation We're excited about that day. That means we need to set our affections on that. Think about don't let this world consume us. Hey, the Bible tells us that it's all going to burn up. It's all going to burn up. This whole world is going to be consumed with a fervent heat. That's what the Bible says. This whole world's got nothing for us. Romans chapter 8 and verses 5 and 6 says this, for they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. He's saying, hey, what consumes your heart? Those that are after the flesh, that is this world, this earth, all these things, this is what fills our mind and consumes our mind, is is the the next meal or the next purchase or uh tomorrow's project or whatever, but what ought to what we ought to be setting our affections on is on heaven. Hey, there's been some times when I was looking for or wanting something in particular. I've been shopping for a car for Mary for several years It's probably gonna be three or four more years till we find one. Um but but I've been looking for a car from Harry. And uh, you know, I kinda like I'll watch Facebook Marketplace and I check online, I look at different places and see Uh just take I pause like if I got some free time or I'm sitting in the doctor's office and I pull it up and say, Oh, I wonder if there's any cars for sale right now that I could afford that I like or whatever. And uh, you know, what I'm just looking. I'm kind of putting some affection towards putting some energy towards that. How often is our heart and mind turned heavenward? Towards that day. We see some heavenly affections. Verse number three, we see some heavenly attributes. Colossians 3. 3 Read it, read it aloud with me, Colossians 3. 3. For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. You see, when Christ died, How God the Father looks at it is the believer died with him, right along with Christ. In his mind, he counts it to be so. We are to be dead to this world and raised to walk in newness of life. Therefore it says here, for ye are dead, and when your life is hid With Christ in God. What he's saying is that Caleb Bathrell's dead. And they don't see Caleb Bathrell. What they see is what I'm hid inside. They can't seek him of trial. What they see is Jesus Christ. They see what I'm hid behind. Caleb Atrell is supposed to be dead. If I be dead, then I'm hid in Jesus Christ. It is his righteousness that God the Father sees And beloved, this world ought not see Caleb Batrell either. There ought to be some heavenly attributes about the way that Caleb Battrell lives. About the conversations that I have, about the attitudes and the spirit that I have, that they look and they see Jesus Christ. Why? Because I'm hid in Him. He is in front of me. I wonder, beloved, if we would really take on some heavenly attributes, if it wouldn't create a desire for those in this old world to want a Savior. I mean you think about how weary worn this world is. How empty of any hope the world is How they long for something different, for something with some meaning. How they look at world, this world and life is just, you know, just one endless rat race. Man, if they saw Jesus in us, if they saw some heavenly attributes in God's people, they might look and say, boy. Everybody around me is miserable, but that guy, there's something different about him. And it would create a desire in their heart to want what you have. A Lord and a Savior Jesus Christ who has changed you from the inside out and given you hope where there was no hope We're to have some heavenly attributes. There's some more that we could look at here, but let's down to jump down to verse number 12. I want you to see some heavenly attitudes. Some heavenly attitudes. This he gets a little practical here. He gets a little straightforward with them. He says, just follow along with me, verses 12 through 14. He says, put on, therefore. as the elect of God, that is those that have put their faith and trust in Christ, holy and beloved, bows of mercy Kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. If any one have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so do ye. Above all these things, put on charity, some heavenly attitudes. Well, we ought to try and Have these attitudes be part of our life. And you know what? It takes some work. It takes some some power of the Holy Spirit to overcome that old flesh that wants to rear itself up and take back the reins of your life. But he says, hey, here's some things that you ought to do. You ought to have some kindness about you. Just some good old-fashioned kindness. As mama used to say, if you can't say anything nice, keep your mouth shut Don't say anything at all. I mean just some kindness and you say well uh it was the truth. It doesn't matter if it was the truth. If it's hurtful, it doesn't need to be said. Keep keep your mouth closed. You if you're not trying to truly help somebody, why would you try and hurt them? We just need some good old-fashioned kindness. He says, hey, how about that as far as a heavenly attitude? Have some kindness. Have some humility. You know, this world has contempt for the humble person. But God commends the humble person. He says, if you humble yourself, I will lift you up. But a haughty spirit cometh before a fall. Those that lifted up in pride and haughty and all proud of whatever, God says, wait, you're going to fall. He commends the heart of the humble and beloved. That is what the Christian is supposed to be. We're to have a humble spirit about us. Humility is not concerned so much with how I look as it is with how others look. The proud man is most concerned about himself, how I'm perceived, what people think about me. Humility is concerned about what people think about others. Humility is not defensive. You know, we always want to come to our own defense, right? We want to defend ourselves. Jesus Christ, humility personified. You know they accused him of so many things, which every bit of it was false. And yet the Bible says he answered not a word. He answered not a word. Next time they're accusing you and in your heart and mind you're like Bless God, I'm I want to say something. Just remember, hey, Christ-like is to just not say anything. Let God take care of it. God will take care of it. He knows. Just answer not a word. That's what humility is. He says a spirit of meekness. We ought to put on that attitude, that spirit of meekness. Meekness, beloved, is power under control. It is a measure of, again, just kind of kindness or I would say gentleness about you. You know, you can even be a strong leader and still have gentleness. You don't have to be a jerk. You don't have to be hurtful. You can still lead and be gentle. You know, I saw a great illustration this week talking about leading people. And uh I'll just show it to you. Caleb, come here. Um So here you go. What I want you to do is uh we're we're gonna walk together, we're gonna walk to the other side here. Let's let's walk down here. All right, wait, wait, let's let's go back here to the middle. Okay, now stand there. Here. Uh put your hands up. Okay, here's the illustration. When I said, hey, let's walk over here. I don't have to do anything. But what happened as soon as I beg I didn't say anything to him. I didn't say anything at all. I didn't give him any did we talk about this? I didn't give him any instruction at all about what happened when I started to push? He resisted. That's human nature. When people feel like they're pushed, they're going to resist. Meekness learns how to lead without pushing. Being a leader But still having love, being kind, being gentle. Thank you, you can be seated. That's what it takes. Learning how to lead by example and being gentle, meekness. That's what a Christian is to have, meekness. He says in um here he goes on, he says that we ought to have a spirit or an attitude of long suffering. Long suffering and forbearing. These two kind of go together. Kind of a long, enduring patience with people. Forbearing, putting up with those irritating and frustrating things. That young lady that was so in love and enraptured by that young man who couldn't possibly make a mistake, uh, you know, just wait till the honeymoon's over. Right? You're gonna find something that you looked at and was so endearing. I mean you could have somebody that Absolutely, they just dote over you every little thing. They just tend to you on constantly just there and and and they're just I mean showing you so much love and affection. And you know what happens after a few months? You'll be like, could you please give me some space? Just let me breathe. I mean on one hand you're saying, man, this is amazing. She's just doing everything for me. She's you know providing getting all this and she's just here all the time, ready to serve. And then pretty soon you're like, boy, if I could just breathe You know what I'm saying? Because you get to that place where it's just too much. It doesn't matter. Sometimes those things that you think are so cute and wonderful, sometimes they begin to irritate you. He says, Hey, you're to be long-suffering. You're to be forbearing Could I encourage you or exhort you this morning that every one of us are guilty of some irritating behavior? Every one of us have things that are unattractive about us. Every one of us have things that are irritating. And the next time somebody is really irritating you, the next time somebody's got you just about to the end of your forbearance. Would you just think about the fact that there's somebody else that you are just about the end of their forbearance? I know a lot of times we view it from our perspective and we think, man, everybody's irritating. You think that you might be irritating somebody else? That somebody else is putting up with the unattractive attribute that you have that's not pleasing to them? And man, if somebody is going to put up with the foolishness that is Caleb Battrell and still care about him and still love him and appreciate the few good things that he has, if somebody's going to do that for me, boy, I can do that for other people That's what Christianity is. He says, put on that heavenly attribute. Have that as part of your attitude, your spirit as a Christian. He says a spirit of forgiveness. Boy, we need to be quick to forgive. Forgiveness should be full and free and forever. We need to be quick to forgive, even as Christ hath forgiven you. I mean how could we possibly you guys doing okay? How could we possibly hold something against somebody else when God has forgiven us of so much? But I've had many, many people tell me I just can't forgive them. I just can't let it go Listen, the Christian spirit, the Christian attitude is forgiveness Hey, I I'm not teaching on forgiveness. I need to move on, but I want you to know forgiveness does not mean that you're accepting what they've done. You're not saying what they did is okay. The person who's hurt by unforgiveness is you. Forgiveness is you turning it over to God. Realize God says vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. You're forgiving. You're letting you're saying, God, I'm just putting this in your hands. You know what happened. You know where and I'm just letting you have it. I'm forgiving them. I'm letting this go so that I'm not carrying around any bitterness or anger in my heart That's what the Krishna spirit is. You forgive and move on. We are to have above all else, he says, a spirit of charity, an attitude of charity, love. He says it there clearly. He says, above all these, verse number 14. So above all these other things, and why is that? Because it's the second greatest commandment. And because beloved, if we are really loving like we should, all these other things will take care of themselves. If we really love people like God loves people, We will be forbearing. We will be long-suffering. We will be forgiving. We will be meek and gentle with them. We will be humble. We will have kindness. Why? Because love is the guiding factor of our life. Lastly, this morning, I would like you to see in verse number 15 some a heavenly atmosphere that is ours to enjoy. In 3. 15 he says, And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. You see, beloved, the Christian life should be defined by peace. There really shouldn't be all this turmoil and stress and heartache. The Christian life should be defined by peace. It is the peace that we have to offer this world. In this world where hostility is on every side, I mean just listen to any news broadcast. The news is not about peaceful things, is it? The news is all the time about some other hostility, some other conflict, some other trials, some other heartache, some other burden But the Christian life should be defined by peace. First of all, beloved, we have peace with God. Because we've accepted his Son. You can have peace with God. The Bible describes those that are without Jesus Christ as at enmity with God, as an enemy of God. That they currently, right now, are under the wrath and the judgment of God. But when we come in faith and believe what Jesus Christ did on the cross for us, ask Him to forgive us, say, listen, I know I don't deserve it But I know what you did for me on the cross, and I believe that you did that, you died to forgive me of my sin, and that you were buried, and you rose again. on the third day. You put your faith and trust in Christ, what Jesus did, then you're hid in Christ. And God the Father, when He looks down from heaven, He doesn't see your unrighteousness. He sees the righteousness of God that's imputed unto you through Jesus Christ. And so you have peace with God. That's the beginning place where you can get peace in your life When you have peace with God, there's peace between you and God. Philippians 4, verse number 7 says, and the peace of God Which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ. Once you have peace with God, then when we live this life, you can have the peace of God. The peace that's in your heart as you're going through this life with all of its hostility and all of its trials and all of its struggles, all of the burdens and the phone calls from from from bill collectors or from doctors or from family members. Listen, I got a call last Saturday morning and says dad uh collapsed. He went to went to the hospital and uh with I didn't know this till later, but within about 30 minutes they had put two stints into his heart. His blood flesher was, I think it was 57 over 16. And uh they said, Pray for dad. Listen, at those times When you have peace with God, the peace of God rules in your heart. I wasn't at my wit's end. I wasn't like, oh no, what are we going to do? Or oh, I'm losing dad. I was able to say, listen, Lord, we commit him to your care. We know that you're in control. And we have faith and believe and trust that your will will be done, and it's for my good and for your glory. It's just the peace that God gives you to go through those storms of life. John 14, 27 says, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world gives. This is not a peace that comes from the world. The great thing is, beloved, when your peace doesn't come from this world, you see somebody that gets peace from this world, what that is, is somebody that has enough money in their 401k. That they feel like things are okay, like they're okay, I'm I'm settled, I'm I'm I'm stable, my life is gonna be alright, I've got enough money. How many of you know It doesn't matter how much money you have. I mean, uh first of all, all the money you had is worth about half what it was four or five years ago. Uh you know, people are looking at that and they're reevaluating. They're like, oh no, I don't know. You know, one guy said if I could just make my uh debt or or my income in the same time as my my uh life, I'll be okay. So right now I get to live till tomorrow afternoon. Um, you know, it's how how much money he's got left. You know, people are looking, well I thought I had enough to live till I was ninety, but not now. Uh you know I I'm saying one tragedy, one major event in your life can bring about great change. And you say, Boy, I thought everything was stable. I thought my retirement was set. I thought everything was fine. And now look what happens inflation and all this and and all that stress and turmoil, but hey, when you have the peace of God, that'd be all right. The Lord's in control. My peace doesn't come from my 401k. My peace doesn't come from the vitamins that I take. Nothing wrong with taking vitamins. Amen, Betty. If you need some good health advice, she's one to talk to you. She got a lot of good ideas. And I would encourage you. I'm not a good example in that area Don't follow my example. Uh you should take better care. This is the temple of God, and we want to live as long as we can so that we can magnify and glory God as much as glorify God as much as we can. And uh that's part of taking care of the temple. Amen. But listen, our peace, we know our health, all that's from God. You know, Dad never had a heart problem at all, ever, in his life. He was shocked. I was talking to him on the phone and he's like, I don't even know why this happened. He's like, I have never smoked in my life. I've never drank anything in my life. I've had a good lifestyle. I said, Dad, it's McDonald's French fries That's what that is. He said that there's nothing sinful about French fries, but they do clog the arteries. Amen. He said, You're probably right. He he likes a good McDonald's french fry, so Uh, you know, but our peace with God, our our health, those things, it's all in God's hands. And you have that peace that you know He's in control And you don't have to live in turmoil or struggling or just thinking, man, how am I going to make it through tomorrow? When you have that peace of God that rules in your heart, it passes all understanding, everything this world has to offer. And you say, boy, that doesn't do anything for me, but to know that I have a Savior that's in control. He rules in the affairs of men, and the steps of a good man are ordered by him, and God is in control. And it will be okay. He says to let the peace of God rule in your heart. Love that's something you have that decision. He says, let it. You as a believer You see, be anxious, be careful for nothing, but in everything We he's saying, listen, every part of life. Let your request be made known unto God. Listen, he's saying, don't be anxious. We can, even as God's people, get anxious. We can get consumed with worry. We can get overly burdened about some of this life's cares and heartaches. But what he's saying is let that peace of God rule in your heart. We're we're on our we're heaven bound. We've got our tickets are ready. We're planning to go. The only thing that's not set is the date. Amen? We don't know. We don't know when the Lord's coming back or when he's calling us home. But we've got that peace. We know it's coming. And uh, beloved, between now and then we want to live like that's our destination. Like that's where we're going. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed