To be on Heaven this week in Griefshare, that is yesterday in the session that we had, we discussed this topic, looked at the idea of heaven. Also, earlier in the week, somebody asked me some questions with regards to heaven and just kind of stirred my thoughts that direction as this week seems to several things have been pushed that way. Certainly in today's world there's great interest in the topic of heaven. Whether you're saved or not, whether you're a churchgoer or not in the world, there's a lot of interest in heaven. That is evident by the number of news broadcasts and podcasts and things out there, even books and movies that are portraying or dealing with the topic of heaven. And uh it is amazing that it doesn't matter how far back in history you go and what group of people you talk to or what what segment of society, whether they're rich or they're poor, or whether they're on the the the backwoods of of some uh remote island, doesn't matter where you go, if you look into their history a little bit, you'll find that there was a belief, something in their c in their being, something in their culture, something in their study that talked about or looked at what happens after life. And there are a group of people in the world today, they call themselves atheists. The Bible says the fool has said in his heart, There is no God And there's a group of people that want to deny and say there's no God and there's no heaven and there's no hell. And I'll tell you what, that they're they're fools. Because it's r the law of God is written on the heart of man and every one of them. They may deny it publicly and they may even have come to the place where they have fully convinced themselves of the fact that there's nothing after death and they're just going to be in the ground and and go back to dust and that's it. But I want you to know it's written on the heart of man and every single person knows that there is something more. They might not know what it is, they might not know how to explain it, they may not know how to get there, but in their heart they say there's something more, and they long for it. They look for it, they hunger for it They in many times endeavor in pursuit to get there, even in far greater measure than many Christians. Because they have bought in or believe in a false teaching with regards to heaven The Bible tells us in John chapter 14, these familiar verses, beginning there in verse number one. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believed in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go and prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am. There ye may be also. And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye know. Thomas saying unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest. Then how can we know the way? Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh to the Father but by me. There's a lot of truth in those verses. There's a lot of teaching in those verses. It's amazing for all of the desire in the heart of man to attain heaven. And all the different conversations and movies and and uh st speculation that's out there and Sometimes superstition that's out there and all of the conversations around heaven, it's amazing what a lot of people have manufactured in their heart and mind. about what it is, about where it is, about how you get there. But you know, beloved, the Bible is not silent on the topic. We really don't have to go through life ignorant of what heaven is and how to get there. The Bible has a lot to say about this place called heaven. There are some things that maybe we don't understand. There's some things that we maybe can't grasp or won't grasp until we get to heaven. But you see, beloved, I believe that God would desire every one of us to look towards heaven with anticipation. He wants us to look towards the day that we are there with him and with the saints. And therefore, he has described for us and given us an adequate picture. of heaven. He has given us a lot of truths with regard to heaven. I mean how is it wo how would you build anticipation in one of your kids about going somewhere Without describing it to them. Without telling them what it is and and what they're going to get to do and and how it's going to be and all of the excitement, you know. This last week uh we had a staycation And uh we I took the kids and we got a boat for a day and we went water skiing. And uh this is a first experience. uh for the Botrell children. And uh so I was describing to them, you know, the excitement and the you know, getting up on skis and drinking all that water and, you know All of that, you know, the process and and we were talking about it and uh you know just just building anticipation and excitement and looking forward to it and and because it's described and you picture yourself there You see yourself in heaven? You picture yourself there. Looking forward to that day, well I want you to know God has given us a lot about it. The Bible says in second 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and verses 9 and 10 says, But as it is written I hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. There is there a description of the fact that there are some things in heaven That in our wildest imagination we can't even guess. We can't picture it. We can't even it hasn't entered into our heart the amazing things that God has done for us. But beloved, I want you to notice what it says in the very next verse here. He says, but God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. He said, there's some things about heaven that might be beyond your finite ability to understand. There's some things until you get to glory you may not fully grasp. But God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, has given us a lot of truth about heaven. And He has shown us and given us a picture of heaven, and we don't need to go through life wondering what it's about. And listen, there's a you've seen them, there's all kinds of movies out there and all kinds of different experiences about heaven and to these near-death experiences and this people experienced that or saw this or There was a great light or there wasn't a light or somebody met them or somebody didn't meet them. All kinds of things. And you say, well, which one of those are true and which ones aren't? You know it really doesn't matter because I know the Bible's true. This is God's source as to what heaven's like And so we want to go to God's source. And we want to learn about heaven and what God has for us. Beloved, it's been said that the greatest promise ever made by the greatest person who ever lived about the greatest place that was ever created is heaven. That's what heaven is. The word heaven appears 583 times in the King James Bible. I'm glad we have computers today, and I didn't have to go through and count those. You type in heaven and the computer pulls it up 583 times. Now in my dad's day, he might have had to go through and count them. I don't know, but I'm thankful I don't have to do that. It's very quick But in the Bible, you guys know this already, and so I'm not going to belabor these things, but in the Bible there are of those five hundred and eighty-three times. Those times are all one of three heavens that are mentioned in the Bible. There are three different heavens that are described And so they're not all referring to the place that we're talking about today, but first of all, there's the atmospheric heaven. That is the air we breathe. That's the air around us, the the the clouds and and this atmosphere that we're in, the that space in which storms take place. But we had quite a storm a few weeks ago, didn't we? We're still cleaning it up. I mean that storm came through and it was uh just unbelievable the damage that it brought in such a short time. That's our atmosphere. That's the atmosphere of heaven. God described that in the familiar verses in Isaiah 55 where he was talking about the fact that God's ways are higher than our ways Where he says, hey, his thoughts are higher than our thoughts. In that passage, he says, For as the rain cometh down and the snow from heaven. And returneth not thither, but watereth the earth. He's describing there the atmosphere, where rain and snow comes from, but he called it the heaven. So sometimes it's the atmospheric heaven, sometimes it is the planetary heaven, or the celestial heavens. That is the area, the space between our current atmosphere and all of space, the stars and the Milky Way and the great scope of that heaven is unbelievable. I mean, I I don't have time to even get into it. I I I had put down some descriptions of that space and and you know how they kind of Uh they they scaled it down and and re-described it to try and allow our mind to even grasp it. I don't have time to get into it all, but it's it's uh the space is immense. Some people, uh some scientists believe it's infinite, that there is no end of it. It just keeps on going. Obviously we don't know, but God knows. That is the second heaven there in Genesis chapter one, verses sixteen and seventeen, some familiar verses, but he says, And God made two great lights the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night. And he made the stars also, and God set them in the firmament of the heaven. To give light upon the earth. So he's describing there that heaven, that space that we would look at or call outer space. That's the planetary heavens or celestial heavens. And then there's the heaven of heavens. Or what the Apostle Paul called the third heaven. In 2 Corinthians 12 and verse number 2, he says, I knew a man of Christ above fourteen years ago, whether in the body I cannot tell, or whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knoweth. Such in one caught up to the third heaven. This is described as the third heaven. Beloved, it is the place where God dwells. Somebody asks you, where's heaven? You say, where God dwells. Or what is heaven? That place. It's a place. Where God dwells. It's where God is. The Word of God, this heaven has many different names. I'm not going to go into all of them this morning, but just to remind you of some of those, one of the names we know that that heaven is called Paradise. You remember the thief on the cross when he was dying, he says, Lord, remember thou me? And he says to him, he says, today Thou shalt be with me in what? Paradise. By the way, let me just say that paradise there has no implication or or similance to the paradise that's talked about in the Islamic faith. If you if you read the Quran and look at what that paradise described, it has no no similarity to the to the heaven of the Bible. And I'm not going to get into it, but I want you to know it's very it very it's not the same thing. Not the same thing at all. But it's called paradise. The Bible also calls it glory. It's glory. We sing that song just over in the glory land. Yeah, one day we'll be there over in the glory land. It is the dwelling place of God in uh Matthew 6, verse number 9, familiar, he says, and this is The manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father, which art in heaven. You see, our Father, which art in heaven. I want you to understand, and this is very, very important, because there's a lot of false teaching with regards to heaven out there, and a lot of it Can be proven wrong with the simple fact that heaven is a literal place. It is a place. Just like Hunt Valley is a place. Just like Baltimore is a place. Heaven is a place. It's not a state of mind. It's not a euphoric uh experience. It's not spiritual enlightenment Heaven is a literal place. Beloved, it's the place that God dwells. If God dwells there, how can it not be a place? In the Word of God, the Bible tells us in the book of Revelation chapter 21, you can read this at your leisure, but in Revelation 21, 16 and on, it describes heaven and gives to us the dimensions of that literal place. If it's not a place, then why do we have dimensions? It's 12,000 furlongs. Now, people a lot smarter than me said a furlong was about 1,500 miles. I'm gonna take their word for it. Fifteen hundred miles is about the distance from uh Boston to Miami. That's a pretty good stretch. But it's 1500 miles wide, it's 1500 miles long, and it's also 1500 miles high. according to Revelation 21. That's the dimensions of that place. The literal place called heaven. That place is a place that has God is there, but not just God. There are many people there. How many of you have some friends, some family, some loved ones that have gone on to heaven? To that place. They're there and they're waiting for us. They're in that place. That place has homes in it. In the text we read this morning, he says, In my father's house are many mansions. And by the way, I'm looking forward to a mansion. Amen I mean I I pretty much live in a mansion right now, to be honest with you. I certainly don't deserve it. It's that that parsonage over there is unbelievable uh what an amazing place that we get to live here on earth. And if that's what God has me in here on earth, I don't know what's he gonna put me in in heaven. Wow. What a mansion. But uh you know some of the other versions they take that mansion out and they replace it with dwelling. Uh they replaced it with some other things. I I don't know, but I I I like the idea that he's preparing a mansion. He's preparing for us a mansion, whatever it is. I know it's prepared by God, it's going to be great. He says, I go and prepare what's the next what's the next four words? A place for you. You see I'm saying it's it's a literal place. Well, but the reason this is so important is there is a lot of false teaching. Even on national television, you'll see people like Larry King live and they'll interview a a weak anemic preacher who doesn't have enough guts to stand up and talk about what it is and how you get there and they'll say, What is heaven? And they'll say, well, it's a it's a state of mind. It's it's the uh it's the place or the the eye that we get to where we uh suddenly here let me let me read you a quote from somebody. He said this, heaven is the eternal joy and happiness that you receive once you become one with God. Now there are so many things doctrinally wrong with that statement. You never become it's Mormon teaching that we become gods. This guy was a Baptist preacher. I have his name in the the interview that he he said this on. But we don't become gods. And heaven is a literal place, not just something that we Reach in a state of mind of euphor of euphoric joy and happiness. The Bible describes for us the foundations of heaven. It talks to us about the streets of gold and the gates of pearl. I'll tell you what, if heaven wasn't a place, why would it have streets of gold and gates of pearl? I believe this is a is like everything else we interpret the Bible literally. I believe that heaven has streets of gold and gates of pearl. There are some people who would want to say, well, that's just a description. That's just something that you would look at and say, well, it's going to be nice. Well God said it has sheets of gold and gates of pearl. The description's actually pretty clear. It's gold that's so so pure that it's transparent. The gates of pearl are not just gates with some pearls on it. It's a gate that's a massive gate. That's one gate. One pearl, I mean. All one pearl. I mean it's pretty descriptive as to what that is Now, beloved, I believe that he has described this for us and told us about this place to give us a picture in our mind of the unimaginable beauty of that place. But not only that, I believe he gives us that picture so that we would understand that when we get to heaven, the things that we had in this life that we looked at and valued so much. We understand when we get to heaven they're nothing. That thing that you held on to, that that almighty dollar, that thing you sought after so much in this world that grabbed a hold of our hearts so much. That what can be represented by gold, we get to heaven and that's just pavement. We understand that when we get to heaven, all of those things aren't going to really mean much at all. Because what's most important in heaven is not the gold, but it's our God. That we get to be in the presence of our God. The rest of those things are just decoration. It's just the beauty that God put up. I mean, you think about even just this world and what we see, the beauty that's in this world, the amazing sights that we get to behold And I can't imagine getting to heaven and seeing what God's prepared for us. That place, beloved, it has a tree growing in it. I don't know how there's trees growing there if it's just a state of mind It has a river. It has a river flowing through it. There's so much in the Word of God that that contradicts this thought. I don't know how anybody Could get it wrong. What I'm saying is this is it's a literal place. Don't let anybody convince you or talk to you about into anything else. And beloved, if you know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, when you die, you're going to that place. You're going to that place. I want to give you some truths about it here from the Word of God. It's a place of reservation. It's a place of reservation. We have an incorruptible inheritance. 1 Peter 1, verse number 4 says, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Reserved in heaven for you. It's a place of reservation. What I'm saying is you have to have your reservation. You know what? I I have been to some nice restaurants and I went inadvertently and didn't realize that you had to have a reservation to get in. I don't know if you've ever been there, but you walk up and the Matri D's there and they're like, oh what's your reservation? I'm like, well, I'm Caleb Battrell. And they're like, well, that's fine, but uh you have to have a reservation. And and I say, well, I worked really hard today. I mean and I I prepared and I got dressed and I got ready. I mean I I I drove all the way over here. Is there any way that I mean here's my wife, this is our anniversary, it's a special day, you know? I mean could you just make an exception? They say, sir, you have to have a reservation. Yeah. Well that's what Greg does. You you gotta have a reservation. What I'm saying, beloved, is when you get to heaven you have to have a reservation Your name has to be recorded, written down in the Lamb's Book of Life, and you're not going to get to that place, that heaven, because you know about it You're not going to get there just because you desire to be there. You're not going to get there just because mom and dad talked about it, or because you went to church, or because You d just decided that, oh, I want to go to heaven, so I'm gonna go to heaven. No, you have to have a reservation You have to have your name written down. There has to be a day, an hour, a time that you look at in your life and say, This is when I trusted Jesus Christ This is when I called up to heaven and asked God to forgive me of my sin, and he wrote my name in the Lamb's Book of Life. Without the reservation, you aren't going to get there. You can know all about it. You could quote the scriptures about it. You can preach about it. But if you don't have a reservation, when you get there, the Bible says, They'll say unto me, Lord, Lord, and I will say unto them, Depart from me, I never knew you. And how sad is that? How sad would that be that some people come into church week after week after week and they sit in the pew and they Praise God and they sing worship songs and they they look forward to going to heaven, but they've never made their own reservation. But I encourage you this morning, if you're here and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, you've never asked him to forgive you of your sin and to write your name in the Lamb's Book of Life, would you do it today? Do it before it's eternally too late. It's a place of reservation. Also, it's a place of reward. The Bible talks about Beloved, our reservation is given to us freely, guaranteed to us by God, not based on our performance at all. It's 100% Him, and I'm so thankful for that. But beloved the Bible talks about this place of heaven is also a place of reward. And that is dependent upon me. I don't have time to teach on it this morning, but there are five crowns that you can earn as Christians, that you can take and place them at Jesus' feet. The rewards you're going to be rewarded. It's a place of reward. It's also a place of record because the Bible tells us that every man is going to give an account of the things done in his body, whether they be good or bad. A few weeks ago, Pastor Derrick taught a lesson in Sunday school on the title, was it Library? The Library of Heaven or God's Library? God's Library. And he talked about the Lamb's Book of Life. But also the book of record. That book where everything's recorded of what we've done. We're going to give an account of everything that we do in this life. And that's what I was talking about as we began the service this morning, beloved, is we've got to live with heaven in view because there is a reward to be had. And there's a reckoning that's going to take place for those who live without heaven in view. Those who just live for this life and just live for now. Well, let's live with heaven in view and remember that it is a place of reward and boy what a joy to have those rewards to place at Jesus' feet. We know as well, beloved, that it's a place of reunion. It's a place of reunion. That glad reunion day. Are you looking forward to that? I can tell you, we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. Some years ago I was asked to preach a funeral Most uncomfortable situation as far as a funeral that I've ever been in, but I took the opportunity to preach the gospel. But a young lady had married into a Muslim family, and her family was Christian, and they wanted to have a Christian funeral, and the other family wanted to have uh I'm sorry I said mu it was Hindi, a Hindi family. And uh they wanted to uh have a funeral Honoring their their God. And so I went and I got up and I preached the gospel. And there was smiles on the faces, there was joy, there was there was we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. And then when I when I got done I sat down and I'm not sure what they call him a a priest or what their uh leader is, but he got up and talked. And boy the solemnness, the hopelessness filled the room. And then we went out to the graveside, and at the graveside, you know as Christians that we're buried so that when we when we rise, uh we rise facing the east. looking for the soon coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But do you know when they're buried, they're they're buried, so when they rise they're looking towards Mecca. So when we went to the graveside, they placed the body facing the east and I spoke. And then when I got done I stepped down and they took the body and they changed it and faced the body towards Mecca. And then the priest spoke. And when he began to speak, about three-quarters of that group just fell on the ground in hopeless despair. The wailing, the the just just the the the cries of hopelessness, the cries of utter pain of loss because they had nothing. And I wondered why would you want a faith like that that has no hope? Beloved, we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. We have a promise from God, the Creator of the universe and Savior of our soul, that we will see our loved one again in heaven, in that glad reunion day. And that's the only reason we can offer a a c a support group like Greef Share. Because it offers hope. It offers the truth of heaven It's a place of recognition. We're going to be reunited, and the Bible's clear that we're going to recognize each other. Paul said But they shall I know and even as I am known. He said, they're going to know me and I'm going to know them. We're going to recognize each other I'm not sure if we if it's because we have perfect knowledge. I mean, how will we know? Like, you know, you hear preachers all the time talking about, I want to go talk to Paul. I want to ask Paul about what was this like? Or I want to see Daniel and say, what was it like in the lion's den? Man, those lions there just with their mouths closed. And I wanna, you know, uh are we gonna have to be introduced to them? Because we never met 'em before. Or maybe we'll just know who they are. But we're going to recognize one another. It's clear it's a place of recognition. On the Mount of Transfiguration, Peter, James, and John saw Moses and Elias. They knew who they were. They recognize them. Again, it's not just a state of being. It's a place we're going to be and enjoy one another's company and enjoy the presence of God. It's also a place of rest. Are you looking forward to some rest? It's a rest from some of the trials of life. You know, life's hard. I was sitting with brother Garland yesterday, and uh his brother died. He left this morning at seven o'clock to drive North Carolina, the funerals tomorrow. And I just told him I said, man, Brother Garland, I call him Heavy. That's his nickname. I said Heavy I'm sorry. He said, oh, it's all right, preacher. It's just the way life is. You just gotta keep on going. He says God is good. God is good. That's just just how life is. You know life's hard. There's trials here. But there's going to be a rest from those trials. Luke 19, 38 says, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace. In heaven. We're going to have peace in heaven, rest from the trials of life. We're going to have rest from the tears of life. Revelation 21, verse number 4, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. These tears that we shed that are tears of pain, tears of loss, tears of suffering. Those tears are going to be taken away. That pain is going to be gone. That sorrow, that crying Neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Yeah. And be rest from the trials, or the toil, I should say, the toil of life. In Revelation 14, verse number 13, he says, And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. From henceforth, yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors. Life's a lot of work, isn't it? It's a lot of work. Just the labor of life. There's always more to do than you can get done and Always something else broken, something else that needs fixed. Life's a lot of work, but one day we'll be at rest from those labors, from that toil. It's it's gonna be past. And that's when we get to heaven. Right. We look forward to that. Yes, beloved, heaven is truly an amazing place. All the marvelous and wondrous things that God has described for us about this place. is certainly sufficient of enough description for us to desire to go there, amen? For us to desire to want to be there and to look forward to it with anticipation. But I think that we might be like the young blind girl whose story was she was she's born blind. Never really had sight, but she had a compassionate, loving mother. Her mother didn't want this young girl to be defined by her disability and wanted to give her every experience of life possible that she could be part of and worked very hard to do that and this mother staying by her side and taking her everywhere that they could go and As they went, she would describe for her every part of life. She would tell her everything that she could. She would describe the beautiful sunrise and the majestic colors that filled the air. She would describe the Awesomeness of the valleys with the wild flowers that grew as the wind blew across She would describe for her the sunset out over the ocean and the magnitude of the ocean and the size and the colors that were there and all of it. All of her life, mom worked so hard and so fervently to give her daughter a picture of everything that this world had to be able to behold. Because of the advancement of science in the medical field, doctors one day came and said, I believe that with an extensive but a very possible surgery, your daughter's sight could be restored. They raised the money to do this, and at 13 years old, this young Anne was able to get her sight restored. At 13 years old, she went through the surgery, and after some weeks of recovery and allowing her eyes to slowly adjust, one day she was in the living room and they took the bandages off of her eyes. She stood up and looked out into the world. She turned and looked at her mom and says, Mom, why didn't you tell me it was so beautiful? Imam said, I tried, as good as I could, as best as I could, and my ability, I tried to tell you And I believe one day when we get to heaven, we're going to look at our Heavenly Father and we're going to say, God, how come you didn't tell us how beautiful it was? And he says, Well, I I drew a picture for you But but your mind couldn't hold it all, your eyes couldn't understand it all, your ability was finite. So you just had to wait till you got here and saw it yourself. Yeah, I'll tell you John Bunyan, the author of The Pilgrim's Progress. He was asked one day about heaven, a particular question about heaven. And John Bunyan said, well, I can't answer that. Because, to my knowledge, there's nothing in the Word of God that addresses that particular question. He said, but sir Why don't you get saved and you can go to heaven and find out for yourself? You get to see it for yourself. Yeah. You see, beloved, all there is about heaven And all that we desire in our heart to go there. It's written on the heart of man, and I think everybody in the world, in in the quiet of the night, even no matter how belligerent or angry they get, they look towards heaven with anticipation. But just because they're looking toward it doesn't mean they're going to get there. The Bible's pretty clear about who gets to go to heaven. Revelation 21, verse number 27, it says, And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth. Neither whatsoever worketh abominations, or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's Book of Life He's not gonna let anything into heaven. He can't let sin into heaven. He's a just God, but he's a loving God. You see, beloved, our main focus in this life really should be on correctly preparing for the next. If I was going to take a trip to a foreign country, like we just did, there's a lot of planning that goes into it. There's a lot of preparation, a lot of, okay, where are we going to fly from and to and how are the connecting flights all going to be and all that? And then when we get there, what are we going to do? Where are we going to stay? What are we going to experience? And sadly, the most important destination that we'll ever go to is heaven. And so much of this world is unprepared for it. You know, beloved, in Islam there is no guarantee of heaven unless you blow yourself up in jihad. Other than that, I mean according to them, there's there's but that's the only way you can be guaranteed a spot in heaven. It doesn't matter anything else you do. You can work every single day of your life and be as faithful to the Quran and be as consistent in every single belief that they have, and you still aren't guaranteed paradise. No hope. But beloved, you and I have a promise from God that if we just accept Jesus as our Lord and Savior He would forgive you of your sin and take you to heaven. You have the promise of heaven. You see, God loved you so much, He paid your way. That old cartoon you remember years ago, The Born Loser? Remember that from the comics on Sunday? There's only two things I read in the Sunday paper. That was the Best Buy ad in the comics. Every Sunday, Mary would pull those two out of the paper years ago when we got a paper. It's The Best Bay-Aid and the Comics. The Born Loser. He was talking about his time in the war. He was describing the battles he was in, talking about how he walked through firefight after firefight, went from the beaches of Normandy to somewhere, you know, he's talking about all this. And he says, boy, somebody up there must really been looking out for me. And then somebody in the room commented, or somebody up there just really doesn't want you. Well beloved, that's not the case. Your Heavenly Father wants you. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God is more earnest that you would come to him than you are desirous to go. It would take the smallest little bit of faith, the smallest little bit of trust, but there has to be a day or an hour when you put your trust in him. And when you do that, you get to go to heaven. As I bring this to a close, I'm going to ask the pianists to come and prepare for our invitation, but as I bring this to a close, I just want to tell you a little story. There was a dear saint of God who loved the Lord and desired to serve him But she was in the situation, the challenge that many ladies find themselves in, having come to Christ later in life That her and her children were all faithful to church and loved God, but their her husband was lost. Her husband didn't know Jesus as his Savior. And the church was having some revival services, and she asked the church, she said, would you pray that my husband would come to revival and that he would get saved And everybody began to pray that he would come to the church and that he would be there for revival services and that he would get saved. And everybody's praying. Revival services came. The first night came and went and he didn't come. The second night came and went and he didn't come. And everybody's praying and she's asking each day as meekly and as kind as she can and working hard to be everything that she should be as a lady. And and the third night came and went. The fourth night came and went. He came to church that night and the service went went on, the message was preached, and the conclusion was given, and the invitation And her husband didn't move, so she walked out of the aisle and came down to the front. She knelt down and she began to pray. She began to pray that her husband would get saved. She didn't want to go to heaven without her husband. The invitation came to a conclusion. The pastor closed in prayer and dismissed, and she was still there. Her husband sitting back there with the kids was, you know, kind of like, okay. Is this normal? What do we do now? And he's sitting there for a little while and he's like, man, everybody's leaving. Finally he came up and he said to his wife, he's like, Hey, come on. It's time to go. Let's go. And she said, I can't leave here. Until you put your trust in Jesus Christ. And he and he says, Forget that, and he walked back to his seat and sat down and The church was clearing out and pretty much only just a few people left, some people cleaning up and whatever, and she's still praying. He came back up and he says, Now this is this is getting ridiculous. You need to get I gotta go to work in the morning. Would you get up and we gotta go And she says, I can't leave here. She says, I I don't want to go to heaven without you. I can't leave here until your name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And she turned and continued to pray, and he he he more perturbed and upset now, turns to start walking away. And he gets a little bit down the aisle and he turned back and he came here and he says, listen. We gotta go. I'm telling you right now, if you don't get up off your knees and come with me, I'm leaving without you. And she says, I can't leave. So you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. I don't want to go to heaven without you, and your name's got to be written in the Lamb's Book of Life. And he said, fine, and he turned and he walked out of the church, grabbed the kids, loaded up in the car, and left without her. He got home and started trying to usher the kids into the house, but the Holy Spirit was hammering his heart. And he saw the love of his wife. And through that he saw the love of a savior. And his need of a savior. And he turned the kids back to the car, put them in the car, and turned and drove back to the church. Walked in through the back of the church and came down to the front and this time instead of saying, hey, you need to get up, he knelt down beside her. And he says, How do I do whatever this thing is you're talking about? Because whatever it is, I need it. And right then he put his faith in Jesus Christ, asked for forgiveness of his sin. And was assured of a home in heaven. His name was written in the Lamb's Book of Life. They both stood up rejoicing. And went home together. Not just home to their house, but as the progression of life went, they went on to glory together. Because they knew Jesus. If you're here this morning, listen, we're all looking forward to heaven, and I hope that the message encouraged you today. But if you're here and you don't know for sure that your name is written in Land Book of Life, I'm going to ask you to come. Don't leave and drive home until you know Jesus as your Savior.