We have been singing this song all month and at the beginning of the year I started a series called More Than a Song. And the idea was to take our song of the month each month and Talk about the truths that were found in those songs. Um again, it's not about I don't want anybody to ever say uh Pastor Caleb's preaching from the song book. It's about finding the fact that a lot of the uh older hymns that we have really were rooted in scripture. The truths that were we sing about um just reminding us that we need to be getting our doctrine and our truth from the Word of God. And a lot of doctrine that people have today uh they get from their songs they listen to, but the problem is is the songs they listen to are not doctrinally sound. They're listening to CCM and uh the the songs they're singing is not doctrinally sound You know, uh Megan Woods uh sings that that song. Um come on, uh somebody help me. Her big her big hit here Yeah, but the words of the the words of the course Oh come on you guys know it. I know you guys know it, you bunch of pious people. Yeah, amen. That's good. But she sings that song in uh oh she says in the words are I was made in the image of my king and something something God wouldn't change a thing Basically, the idea is I was made in the image of a king, and that's true. We are formed and we are to be like Christ, but the idea is that she's happy with the way she is and that God wouldn't change a thing. That's not doctrinally sounds. Fact of the matter is, as behold, all things are new. That we are changed into the image of his son. Not we're not that way to start with, and the process of sanctification takes a lifetime. And and that's supposed to happen as a as a process of time and God conforming us into the image of His Son. And so it's not that we're happy and acceptable just the way we are. Oh, God will take us like we are, but in his love and his grace, his goodness to us, he changes us through the years to come and we know it's a lifelong process of us being conformed into the image of his son and that's her her big hit and that's the only thing I can remember. I don't remember I uh Timothy could sing it for me. What do you know you know just kidding Yeah, he was like, Here let me get a mic. Let me grab a mic. No, I don't know, but um i the idea is a lot of the CCM and these, you know, songs you hear on the radio, they sound really good. The lyrics are powerful I mean that's the way they're designed to be, but they need to be doctrinally sound. And the the the joy is that when we some of these older hymns that we sing They really are rooted in Scripture. It's sound doctrine that you're getting, and it's fun really to look at and to consider these things. So let me just remind you of the words of the song that we just sung. He says, Safe is my refuge, sweet is my rest. Ill cannot harm me, no foes ere molest. Jesus my spirit so tenderly calms, holding me close. in his mighty arms. He's holding me close in his mighty arms. The chorus says, oh, what wonderful, wonderful rest, trusting completely in Jesus. I'm blessed. Sweetly he comforts and shields me from all arms, holding me safe in his mighty arms. I'd like you to turn your Bibles to Deuteronomy 33 and verse number 27. I would put to you this hour that the believer is the only one that can claim such a glorious truth, that we are held safe in the mighty arms of Jesus. That he is our everlasting Father. And we look this evening at the Word of God to see What promises the writer may have gleaned their inspiration from this evening. In Deuteronomy 33, verse number 27, the Bible says, The eternal God is thy refuge. And underneath are the everlasting arms, and he shall thrust out the enemy from before thee, and he shall say, destroy them. First of all, I want to tell you just a couple things. The mighty arms of Jesus, of God, our everlasting Father, they are everlasting. The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. You know, dear friend, it doesn't matter if you're five years old or fifty years old. the arms of Jesus are there for you. If you're ten or you're a hundred, the everlasting arms are there until the end. We know the psalmist says in Psalm 90, verse number two, before the mountains were brought forth And ever thou hast formed the earth, the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. God always was and God always will be. He is everlasting. His arms are everlasting. He is not going to be weary. How could we not think about the verse that I mentioned this morning in Isaiah 9, verse number 6, for unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace You know, did you ever that verse that I just read, that is talking about who? Jesus. Literally, we consider, we think about that as the baby Jesus, right? For unto you his child is born, right? We think about baby Jesus. Isn't it amazing if you ever stop thinking about he says that this baby Jesus is called the everlasting Father? He is the everlasting Father, even though it is talking about Jesus who's coming, but why? Because he was God in the flesh. A Father is one that protects. A father is the one that a child will run to when faced with fear. He is our Abba Father. The Father that we run to, our everlasting Father I know some of you here have had to say goodbye to your fathers. You've said goodbye to your mothers. They're no longer present with you here on this earth, and we know that that parting and separation is for a time. We will see them again And praise the Lord, we'll see them in glorified bodies, where they have all of their strengths and their their who they were back present with them. But you know the everlasting Father we'll never have to say goodbye to. He is always going to be there. He's always going to be with us. He is the everlasting Father. Not only that, these mighty arms of our everlasting Father are empowering. The Bible describes and talks about the power of God and the strength that He has. Isaiah, sorry, Isaiah 59, verse number 1 says, Behold the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that he cannot hear. I'm glad tonight, one of the greatest things that we can do is go to our Father. That he has ears to hear, but not only that, that he has hands and arms to help. That his arms are not shortened, that they cannot help, that he can reach out. He has the power to do something about our situation. He's never gonna falter. He's never gonna fail. We get weary in well-doing. If I was to ask one of the boys to come up here today and say, hey, this little light plant's got styrofoam in it. I mean it's not really made of much, I want you to come and just hold this out like this for the rest of the service. It's not very heavy, but you know in about three minutes that's gonna be that's gonna be pretty he's gonna be like shaking, you know. Uh why? Because his arms get weary. I'm glad that the arms of God don't get weary. That he has the ability to help. We sing the song: He is able, He is Able, I know He is able My God is able to carry me oops, I messed it up. He's able and I'm not, amen. Alright, well how about this? He heals a broken hearted and he sets a captive free. He made the lame to walk again and he caused the blind to see. He is able, he is able, I know he is able, I know the Lord is able to carry me through He's able to carry us through. His arms are able, whatever the challenge. I think about the word of God and just going through the pages of scripture and the stories that we love to read about so much, you know, beloved, he was able to bring Daniel through the lion's den. He was able to bring the three Hebrew children through the fiery furnace. You remember in that text there, they said, our God is able to deliver us. He said, Hey, they they understood that God was able to do it, and they said, God could do that, you know, that he was able to bring the children of Israel across the Red Sea, as we talked about this morning. He was able to tell the l lame man to Take up thy bed and walk. He was able to the blind tell the blind man to open thine eyes and see. He was able to tell Lazarus to come forth out of the grave. He is able, beloved He is able. Whatever the need is, whatever the shortfall is, whatever the struggle is, he is able. He has arms that are not shortened that he cannot help. He can help. Paul knew that he was able. In 1 Timothy 1, verse number 12, he says, For that which cause I also suffer these things, nevertheless I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed and am persuaded. That he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. He is able. Whatever it is, he's not going to get weary or fall by the wayside, he's not going to falter or fail. He's able. We can bring those requests to him. We can bring those needs to him and know that he is able. He's able to help you in your hour of need. Not just to help, but you know what? To go beyond just helping. You know what Paul said in Ephesians, in Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 20? Some of you probably have that memorized. Now unto him that is able to do Exceedingly abundantly, amen. He is able to do exceedingly and abundantly above that which we would ask or think. Even beyond what we could ask or we would think to ask him for. He's able to do exceedingly above that. To provide way beyond sometimes my kids are hesitant to ask of me things because they don't think I'm gonna do it, you know. They're like, well forget it. Mom they'll ask mom and mom will say, ask your dad and they'll say, forget it. I'm not asking him They're like, it's hopeless. That's a hopeless endeavor. I'm not gonna I I'm not gonna approach dad. But mom already knows that I'm just waiting for them to ask. I'm just as good as they ask, I'm gonna let 'em do it. Not only that, I had a I had another idea that would even be better than what they were thinking. But I'm just waiting for them to ask. And and it'll go beyond that. You know our Heavenly Father, he's just many times just waiting for us to ask. We're we're just like, Oh, forget it, you know, it's too hard, it's too bad. God's not going to do it for me and God's just saying, What, would you just ask? Would you just ask? He's able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we would ask or think. He is able, beloved. Yes, and he wants to do more for us than we can imagine. Paul met God on the road to Damascus. He saw the power of God in his life and his ministry in magnificent ways. And even in the midst of that, he still said, man, beyond what we could even ask or think, God's ready and willing to do. Beloved, do you think that Joshua marching around the walls of Jericho? He knew God was going to give them the victory, but do you think that Joshua and the children of Israel thought The walls were just going to fall down flat. I mean you think in their mind they thought that's how God was going to deliver Jericho to them. The walls are just going to fall down and they get to just walk right into the city I don't think they thought of I think they're watching around the city just this is what God said to do and people are asking Joshua why are we doing this? And he said because this is what God said Well what's gonna happen? What good is it gonna do? Joshua's like, I don't know, but this is what God said to do, so we're doing it, you know, and they're doing it, marching around, and maybe God's gonna send a plague, or maybe God's gonna send hail. Who knows what God's gonna do? But God Knock the walls down so they could walk right in. What I'm saying is if we would just trust God, He is able. He'll do abundantly above what we could ask or think. Man. Do you think Hunt Valley Baptist Church had any idea in our heart and minds what God was going to do when we started praying for a church back in 2007. When we started, I still remember getting that building program, the the the big banner we had with the steeple on it and the first Sunday being to pull the first ten thousand dollars and the second ten thousand dollars because people had already been given. I think that first week we went all the way to fifty. Didn't we go to fifty that first week? So we we had fifty thousand to start out with right in the building fund. So we went right all the way to fifty and we're like man praise God and we're going to be praying that God would give us a building, but here we are, this little bitty church meeting in a storefront and all the property around here. I mean just to get a house is ridiculous, let alone you're talking about a church and we're like, no I mean it's to us it was an impossible dream. But we just said, Lord, it's your church. We're going to do what we can do, and God, we're putting it in your hands and asking you to do something miraculous. And man, God did it. God went exceedingly abundantly above what we could ask or think and we come into this building. Beloved, we have one of the most beautiful church buildings In all of the country. I mean, I've been in so many other churches and and there are many very nice churches, but I tell you what, this is just God's given us such a beautiful place to meet and comfortable pews, hallelujah. They're not hard wood and and and without you know. I've been in some churches, man. I'm thinking, boy Mom always said that the mind can only absorb what the seat can endure. And I'm like, these people are done listening in ten minutes. Some churches, the fuse are so hard. And I'm glad we've got such an amazing place. But beloved, that's all God God did that. Why? Because the church had enough faith to just say, hey, it's beyond us, but it's not beyond him. And we can just pray and we can do what we can do, and then God will do the rest. Yeah, because he has arms and he's able to help. Not only that, beloved, his mighty arms are arms that are built for embracing. Psalms 46 1 says God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. There really is something truly comforting and special about embracing by having an embrace from somebody that loves you This morning at my closing point, I almost started preaching tonight's point because they're so very close. Where I was talking about the comfort kids get from uh a boo-boo and from getting abandoned, you know, and I was talking about that and how of course mom loves to h hug a child and I almost went into And they're jerk they were too close. My mind just started going down this road for this tonight's message and I had to cut it off. But isn't that amazing that a child just coming in and getting embraced by his mom, held by dad, uh but not just kids. Any of us, there's something meaningful and impactful with being able to be held and embraced by somebody that loves you when you're going through something hard, when you're facing a turmoil or a trial and and life is beating you up, man, to have somebody that loves you embrace you. There's power in touch. That's why you gotta be very careful who you're touching. And that's why parents, I want to encourage you to, even if it's not your personality, but there's power in touch. You need to give your kids an embrace. You need to hold your children. If they're young enough, you need to wrestle with them. You need to spend time with them. There's power in that. They should know what it feels like to be held by mom and dad. Children that love running into grandpa's arms Or even Uncle Doug's. Amen. Dixie's got the best friend in the world and a and an uncle right there. And and she looks forward to that. Somebody that loves her. There's so much comfort In those painful hours when there's no hope anywhere else but going and being held by somebody that loves you. Well, God is our refuge. He is our place of comfort. 2 Corinthians 1, verses 3 and 4 says, Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, the God of all comfort. Who comforteth us in all our tribulations, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. We are comforted of God. His comfort is inexhaustible. His comfort is instantly available. His comfort is there for you and I. In that passage of scripture, four times that word comfort is literally the word paraclete. Which we know is the word for the Holy Spirit, who comes alongside. He is the comforter. God has given us the Holy Spirit who is present with us and is our comforter in our hour of need. We know in John 14, verses 16 through 18, he says, And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another comforter. And he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him. For he dwelleth with you and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come unto you. Beloved, he is a present help in time of need. He is a comforter that's there, that's with you and for you, ready to embrace you Oftentimes when I pray with people who have experienced great loss, I will ask God, Lord, would you be so close to them during this time that they would feel your comfort. And I believe, as I've experienced in my life, that it is possible. It's something that God gives you during those great hours of loss. It's a comfort, it's an embrace from the Holy Spirit. It's a presence of God. that is carrying you through those days that cannot be explained any other way. An internal strength that you're given, a a spirit of comfort that you're given Because of the Holy Spirit of God walking with you through a time of great heartache. It's a comfort that God gives to us. We're so thankful for that. The mighty arms. of our everlasting Father. Oh, what wonderful, wonderful rest. Trusting completely in Jesus, I'm blessed Sweetly he comforts and shields from alarms, holding me safe in his mighty arms. Beloved, he comforted the disciples on the tempetuous sea. He comforts me and you through the scriptures. The Bible tells us in Romans chapter 15, verse number 4. For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we, through patience, And comfort of the scriptures might have hope. We might have hope. We can be comforted. Sometimes just getting in the Word of God, just sitting down and reading this precious book can bring you comfort. Beloved, we're held in the mighty arms of God. And what a blessing it is to have them. Safe is my refuge, sweet is my rest, ill cannot harm me, nor foes eer molest. Jesus, my spirit so tenderly calms, holding me close in his mighty arms. Would you stand with me to your feet, with your heads bowed and eyes closed? Come and play. Just really a word of encouragement tonight, just to be thankful for what God has given us. That He is able. And he is there, we're comforted in the mighty arms of God. What a