Good morning. Morning. As we say in Zimbabwe, we say uh in the morning it's manguana niakanaka. So it's it's good to be here with you. Turn to the book of First Corinthians, the book of First Corinthians. Um It's a good crowd here for for Sunday school. I appreciate that. We're going to be in 1 Corinthians. We just well let's we're going to do an overview of the book here. Uh in the in the context of of the local church and the gospel, this is a very, very crucial book. And so when we look at the Pauline epistles and how they're laid out, you know, obviously uh Romans is the first book, but but the Pauline epistles are laid out by length. But that's not undivinely because Romans it's it's the greatest book ever written on the gospel of Jesus Christ. Probably two of the greatest chapters in all of the Bible are in the book of Romans. I would say Romans 3 and Romans chapter 8 But the book of Romans is it it's it's it's about the gospel of Jesus Christ that tells us what the gospel is. why we need it and what it should produce in our lives because the got getting saved is not the end of the matter, it's only the beginning. And so that's that Paul wrote the book of Romans, two saints, two individuals, two saved individuals that they might be established in the faith. And so uh but the but the book ends uh this way with with the mystery going to all the nations. Right? Uh verse 25 and chapter 16, you're you're you're pretty close to being there. Now to him that is of power to establish you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ according to the revelation of the mystery which was kept secret since the world began, but now is made manifest and by the scriptures of the prophets according to the commandment of the everlasting God made known to all nations for obedience of the faith. Alright, and so the book the the book of Romans ends with this mystery of the gospel going to all nations, but it's written to individuals. It's not necessarily written to a church. We get into 1 Corinthians, which is written to a local church. And so, look, when you get saved, uh the the very the very next thing on on the list is to be part of a local church. And I know you guys are here this morning. I I'm talk I'm talking to the to the crowd, but uh there there are a lot of people that are not not here j even in Hunt Valley today, but all around the world that ought to be in church on Sunday morning and they're not And so the the next logical book is 1 Corinthians. And so 1 Corinthians is written to a local church Because whereas you're given the responsibility individually to get the gospel to the world, right, the Lord's given you a sphere of influence that you're supposed to influence But that's fleshed out, that's worked out in the local church, because that is the vehicle that God has chosen to get the gospel to the world. Now I set out from Middle Tennessee yesterday to to drive up here and I you know what I got in a vehicle I didn't get on a bicycle. I didn't walk. I wouldn't be up here today if I walked. And so I can, you know, I I traveled a lot more miles by getting in the vehicle. And what a what a lot of Christian what a lot of saved people do is they set it they they you know they want to do their own thing. They want the YouTube preacher because they don't have to they don't have to uh answer to him then and so they they don't want to be a part of the local church and so they're walking everywhere while the local church is driving because I mean let's let's just be realistic about it. Ten people can do more than one, most of the time. And so God has chosen the local church to get the gospel to the world. And it's made up as made up of saved people. And so um this this is the next logical book here, but Um what what do we all know the book of 1 Corinthians for? It's the problems, right? And so um I don't well I know about I know about you guys as well. I'm my own worst enemy Now the devil's an enemy. I'm not trying to discount him. The world is an enemy. I'm not trying to discount them. But it you know if I commit sin, you know whose fault it was? It was me. It's not because the devil tempted me. It's not because my worldly friend tried to offer me something that I didn't need, it's because I simply chose to sin. That's Romans chapter six. And so um In the context of getting the gospel to the world in the local church, the first book that we're presented with is full of problems. And so the theme of the book of 1 Corinthians is perversion of judgment by pride. Pride is the problem here at Corinth And it pride in essence is think is thinking and making more of man than of God than they're supposed to and making less of God And so I I separate the book into two blocks, uh chapters one through four. We have God's wisdom versus man's wisdom, the way God thinks uh versus the way man thinks. They're completely opposite. They're they're nowhere they they are nowhere close to the same. Chapters five through sixteen are simply perversions of judgment. And this is where we tend to dwell on in the book of First Corinthians, because that's where all the problems are at. But that's a satanic device because If you dwell on the problem, you'll never get to the root of the issue. And so the root of the problems are not chapters 5 through 16 in the book of 1 Corinthians. It's found in chapter 1. And so to fix a problem, you should get to the root of the issue. And if you fix the root of the problem, then the problems will essentially take care of themselves. And so throughout the rest of this lesson, I just want you to keep that in mind. Everything that goes on in the book of 1 Corinthians is undermining the propagation of the gospel. Okay? And so what you do individually affects this body right here. And what what this body does obviously affects God's plan out there. The judgment of the Corinthians has been perverted, and it's undermining the propagation of the gospel. In the book of 1 Corinthians, Paul continually makes the gospel the main thing. Now Um the gospel isn't the ultimate thing. The glory of God is. That and that entails more things than just the gospel, but in the setting of the local church, the gospel ought to be one of the main things. And so in chapter one, I call this the travesty of the wisdom of God. And really the book, the book begins with a travesty, right? He says in verse 2, he says, You're sanctified in Christ Jesus. You're saints, he said, Grace and peace be unto you. And verse three, in verse five, he says, In all things you are enriched by him. In verse six, he says, even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you And verse eight he says, Who shall also confirm you to the end that you may be blameless in the day of the Lord Jesus Christ? Now consider what he just said to who he is actually writing this to Okay, and so that that's wit that seems like that seems like a contradiction, but it's not, because you know if you're if you're saved, the Lord's going to confirm you to the end, right? He's uh you're blameless in the eyes of God Okay, and so though that though these are blessed truths, the very next verse in verse 10, he's already bringing this problem to light. And he he he's he's he's talking about unity in verse ten and he sa he he he essentially avails this unity in five different ways. And then in verse eleven he says, For it have been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now we know that the Bible says in Proverbs thirteen that only by what cometh contention? Pride. Pride is this is the root of the problem at the church at Corinth. And you look in verse 13, it's illustrated, is Christ divided? Now this I say that every one of you saith, I am of Paul, and I have Apollos, and I have Cephas, and I have Christ. So what they have done Is that they they have in essence brought Jesus Christ down to the level of men and they brought man up to the level of Jesus Christ. That's what pride is It's the it's the very opposite thing that John the Baptist said, right? He said, I must decrease, he must increase. Well, pride is I'm going to increase, God's going to decrease. And so they that They've made more of man than they're supposed to here. And so we look in verse uh eighteen. The Bible says, For the preaching of the cross is is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. And so um th this is the travesty. God has taken the gospel Which we know we'll find out here here and here shortly that is the it's the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ and to the world That he has made that foolishness, right? Now, s a lot of you know this. You go out here and you witness to someone and you tell them that Jesus Christ died for your sins And then he rose again the third day, and the only thing you have to do is to simply trust that. And what do they do? They think you're crazy. They think you've got to get baptized. They think you've got to confess all your sins They think you have to go to church, they think they have to be a good person, and all these other things. Why? Because they're following the wisdom of man. Right? Man wants man wants to do something to gain favor with God. But Jesus Christ did it for us. And so this is the the travesty of the wisdom of God. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Two thousand years ago the gospel was finished. Right? The period was put on the gospel and and it was done And so when we add anything to that, when we try to add anything to what Jesus Christ did for us, we have now perverted the gospel. And so this is what man wants to do. Man wants to pervert the gospel. And so God has taken what What man says is wisdom and he's made it foolishness and vice versa. And why has he did this? Because in verse 29 of the same chapter that no flesh should glory in his presence. On March the 1st of 2008, I got saved. And I didn't have anything to glory in myself. The only thing I could glory in was Jesus Christ because He did the work for me And so this is why God has taken the gospel and he has done this because it's what Jesus Christ did. And the only person that deserves the glory is Jesus Christ. Verse 31, that according as it is written, he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. Chapter 2 is the teacher of the wisdom of God. So we have the travesty of the wisdom of God, we have the teacher of the wisdom of God. Chapter 2, verse 13, I'm sorry, verse 14. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. Now, Paul tells them in the first four verses there, he says, hey, I didn't come to you with excellency of speech. He says, I didn't I came to you in simplicity of speech, he said, in verse 5, because I wanted your faith to stand in the in the power of God and not in the wisdom of man. And so the Holy Ghost is the one that conveys spiritual truth. Now, uh Paul sent That doesn't that doesn't take away our responsibility of going. Now, Paul right he says, And brethren, when I came to you in verse one, so he came to them in in simplicity of speech because he wanted them uh to for for their faith to rest in the Lord. Now Listen, I believe in being prepared. I believe in in uh making preparations But when you go out there and you witness to somebody, if if you go out there and you have the greatest oratory skills and you just you just cross all the T's and you dot all the I's and the Lord's not in it, they're not going to get it And it's the same way up here, if I I can't do that, but if I could, and I could get up here and talk with the greatest voice ever, and I could just uh make everything sound just like it was great and it was the best thing ever, and the Holy Ghost didn't convey that to your heart, you're you're not going to get it. Because the natural man inside of you, if you're saved, you have a natural man, you have a new man, a spirit That natural man does not receive the spiritual things. Right? It's the Holy Ghost dwelling inside of you that that that receives those, and it's the Holy Ghost inside of you that conveys those. Now remember that the next time that you say you can't go out and witness to somebody. Remember that the next time that that you uh that you think when you minister to some of your lost family members or your friends that you're not doing any good All the Lord told us to do is to simply go and convey his mess and tell his message, and he's the one that's going to implant that in their hearts. Okay? And so I like that Because i if I'm simply just faithful to what God has told me to do, He'll take care of the rest. And that's that takes all the pressure off of us. All you have to do is just simply do what God says. Now, as far as the saved people are concerned, you have the Holy Ghost. So there is a there is a vehicle inside of you which is a man, it's the Holy Ghost, that will receive that. But You you actually have to receive that. And let me give you this to think about. Your pastor can get up here And he can be right on the spot, right? He he got the exact message that the Lord wanted, and he is conveying that. The Holy Ghost is is doing his part on his end and but but but you didn't And y and you're not where you're at supposed to be, uh, and you're not living exactly like you're supposed to. And that day was the message that God is going to take And to get you on the path that he wanted you to get on, but you weren't in the spot you ought to be in. Now, um, that's a sobering thought. Because what we're all about is we're the Lord, I don't I I'm not trying to sound all new agey here, but the Lord ha has a plan for each of you individually. Okay? And um There are enemies trying to undermine that. And we need to be on the same page with the Lord, with the Holy Ghost. So chapter 2 is the teacher of the wisdom of God. Chapter 3 is the test of the wisdom of God. This is the judgment seat of Christ. Look in verse 15. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. Now, we're we're not we're not uh we're not ignorant of this, right? We know what the judgment seat of Christ is. It's a day out in history, it's a it's a real day that every single one of you, if you're saved, you're gonna stand before Jesus Christ And you're going to give an account for what you did in your body. And it's a very sobering day right here. People are suffering loss. Now you know the thing about losing something is is um you actually had it, right? It was in your possession, it was yours. But you lost it. And so a lot of us are going to stand here on this day and we're going to watch things that we could have had uh that that go up in smoke and you say, well, you know, uh I'm saved Yeah, I understand that, and that's a blessing. This isn't this is not a judgment about your eternal uh standing. But yet I will remind you uh who comes back with Jesus Christ during the millennium It's the saints. And that's a thousand years. I don't know. Maybe we'd have to live with that regret for a thousand years. That's just a thought. But I wonder how many of you sitting here this morning have considered this day this week? How many of you put yourself out there on this day? At the judgment seat of Christ. Um I'm not trying to beat you up because I I'm guilty. And so You know what would be a real good thing if we would just simply make all of our decisions with this day in mind? Because it's it's it it's not about what you want, it's not about what you want to do now that you're saved. We'll find this out in chapter six. You don't belong to yourself, you belong to Jesus Christ, you're supposed to do what he wants you to do. And so in verse 18, the Bible says, Let no man deceive himself. And what we do is we deceive ourselves, and I'll talk about this tonight if the Lord will let me, because we become unaware. And we forget about the things that really matter. We forget about the things that are of utmost importance. And we just we don't think about what we're supposed to. Now in verse 4, the Bible says in chapter 3 it says, For while one saith, I am of Paul, and another I am of Apollos, are ye not carnal? Verse 21, therefore let no man glory in men, for all things are yours. Now on both sides of the judgment seat of Christ, you've got this thing of pride. And the Lord's giving you a warning right in the middle of that to say, you know what, just get over yourself and do what I want you to do. Chapter four is the trustee of the wisdom of God. Now, um, verse one of chapter four, let a man so account of us as of the ministers of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Now in verse 14, the Bible says this in chapter 3, I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you. Now Paul, what are Why are you warning them? What are you warning them about? In verse 7, he or verse 8, he st he starts uh telling them, he says, now you're fool, he says you're rich. You're reigning in verse ten, he says you're wise, you're strong, you're honorable. Then he starts talking about he and the disciples. He says we're last, we're appointed to death, we're a spectacle under the world. He says we're weak, we're despised, we're hungry, we're thirsty, we're naked, we're buffeted We have no certain dwelling place, we labor, we're revile, we're persecuted, we're defamed, we're the filth of the world, we're the offscurring of all things. Then he says in verse fifteen, For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus, I have begotten you through the gospel. Verse 16, wherefore I beseech ye, be ye followers of me Paul in essence is warning them, you know what, you've got it easy. You're not suffering these bonds. And he says, you better be real careful because it's through these bonds that you are begotten. And Sonic, you know why a lot of you know why more people are not being begotten, more people are not being born again because And that boy can we can we relate to this in America? We're at ease, we're at uh uh we we we've got it easy, we've gotten comfortable and We've forgotten what our responsibility is. Paul Paul is warning them here. He says, You've got it easy. We don't. He says, you better be careful because it bec it was but it was through these bonds that you were begotten. Now If if you're being faithful and and preaching the gospel and doing what you're supposed to do, you're going to experience some of these bonds. You're going to be despised. There there are people going to look at you and they're going to think you're weak. They're going to think you're a spectacle of the world But this is why people are not being begotten, and why we're not good trustees of the wisdom of God, is because we've sought ease instead of what's right. And if we're honest, we all struggle with that in our society and in our culture because it's a constant battle. It's always trying to push in. Now chapter 5 through 7, I call this perverted judgment by fornication. Chapter 5 is perverted judgment inside the assembly. Okay, so the the the rest of the book is a perversion of judgment, and every single thing that follows under undermines the gospel Uh in in verse six that their judgment is so badly perverted they're glorying in fornication Right? That this this man is probably taking his stepmother uh to be his wife, and they're like, Well praise the Lord, uh glory to God, w he he has the liberty to do that, and they're they're glorying in that And we look at that and we say, well, you know, I would never do that. Well, um, you know, they I uh they wouldn't have said this either. See the problem is they don't understand because their judgment's perverted. And this this is the problem with perverted judgment is because you don't you think you're doing right and you're not. You're actually going the wrong way That's deception. And so uh this is perverted judgment inside the assembly. Uh at at the end of the at the end of the chapter, look at verse chapter five, verse twelve. For what have I to do to judge them that are also that are without? Do not you judge them that are within. And so what they're doing is they they like to go out they like to go out and compare themselves among themselves, right? Because Once you you you can go out and you can find anybody out there to make yourself feel better about your spot and where you're at. And this is what they're doing. Paul's like, you know, you you're not supposed to be doing that, right? The the judgment's supposed supposed to take place within with inside the assembly And uh the the fourthmost would be within your own self, right? Uh the Bible says there if we judge ourselves we'll not be judged. I think it's chapter six. And so this is perverted judgment inside the assembly. Then it moves to chapter 6, which just flows naturally. Perverted judgment outside the assembly. This so chapter 5 inside chapter 6 is uh uh outside. Verse 1, dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints Okay, so what now what the now what they have uh done because they've got their eyes on the world, they went to the world to get their standard. Right? They they they no longer have the standard that God wants them to have, which is this, right? God has given you a standard right here. There's nothing in the world that you need outside of the Bible to get what God wants for you But they have gone to the world for them to fix their problems. And Paul is rebuking them of this. Listen, if if you're having issues, you don't go to somebody that has more issues than you do Right? Because the world needs what you have. You don't need what they have. And so the the world is is is sick and tired of saved people talking here and doing here. They're looking for something different than what they have. And this their judgment has been perverted here. And they went to the world to get their standard. Chapter 7 Is perverted judgment in the family. This is the last leg that the devil's going to kick out to destroy a church In verse 1, you've got a man touching a woman, which turns into fornication. Then you've got some getting married in in verses 3 through 5, but they pervert the relationship In verses 7 and 8, you've got some that get married that shouldn't. In verse 9, you've got some that should get married that don't. And then uh and then you've got divorces in verses 10 and 11 Verses twelve through fifteen, then you've got uh unequal yokes which s sends everybody into a tailspin because you're wondering, are they saved, are they lost, can I leave, do I have to stay, what should I do? And so then, right in the middle of that very thing, Paul mentions in verse 17 a calling. And a calling is in essence this it is a distribution. Right? It is God taking a piece of his work and placing it in your lap. He's distributed that to you. And so there's a lot of you young folks in here that are not married yet. Let me tell you let me tell you how you can miss the Lord's calling on your life is to get messed up domestically. It's to marry the wrong person or to not marry the right person. And that this is this is what's going on here at the first of the chapter. And uh then he he ends with uh domestic issues there at the end of the chapter as well. So chapters eight So chapters five through seven are more open in nature, right? We've got fornication going on, we've got we've got the church going to the world to get their standard. But in chapters eight through ten, this this is this is more inward. This is matters of the conscience. This is where the devils like to hang out at. And so I call this perverted judgment through idolatry. Alright, Chapter 8, you've got perverted judgment of liberty. It's this in essence You you you've got two brothers here. You've got one brother. He doesn't have knowledge of the idol, right? He thinks he thinks there's food over here that's being offered to idols You've got the other brother, uh, he has knowledge, right? He knows that the idols are nothing in the world, that that there's there's one true God, and I don't have to worry about these idols But but then you got the brother that's got the knowledge. He's going and sat down in the temple and he's eating the food offered to idols. But it but it inside his conscience it's not offered to idols because he doesn't he doesn't care about the idols But then you've got the other brother here. He he sees this brother who he knows has knowledge. He sees him eating this. And the weaker brother over here, he's struggling inside of his conscience because he thinks it this is offered to idols And he's already doing this and he's defiling his conscience and he sees his other brother take this and what does it do? It emboldens him to go t to to continue to go against his conscience. Now listen to me You want to do something to damage your life spiritually and physically, you just go against your conscience. And that's what's happening here with this weaker brother. The stronger brother, you know, he he he just has to exercise his liberty. He just has to let let he he just he he can't contain himself. And and something that wouldn't normally be sin becomes sin to the stronger brother Because here's the spirit of the matter. He's not considering his brother. And Paul says there, look in verse 13 of chapter 8. Wherefore if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. Paul says in essence, I'll be a vegetarian if it's going to offend my brother if I eat meat. Now that boy, that's Paul is thinking about his brother. He's not thinking about himself. This this right here is a church killer. I I'm not surmising, uh I I don't I don't have a clue what's going on here or anything. I'm just telling you If we don't consider you don't consider the guy sitting next to you, behind you, y you may be destroying that guy because he may be struggling with something he don't really know about and you you know, you've got the liberty to do it, but he doesn't. We need to be real careful about considering others. Chapter 9 is perverted judgment of the minister. Now this is really curious. The word gospel is in 1 Corinthians 13 times. Ten times it's in this chapter. Now you know what that tells me? Whatever Paul's talking about in chapter 9 is extremely important when we talk about the propagation of the gospel. And I'm not going to go all the way through it, but it's money. That's what he's talking about. He's talking about they that preach the gospel shall live under the gospel. And so, listen. I'm not going to Zimbabwe without financial support. That's just a fact of the matter. Pastors that are fully supported, they get a lot more accomplished because they have more time to devote to the ministry. And so this is a crucial matter in the enterprise of missions and in the enterprise of getting the gospel to the world. There's a lot I could say about that. We'll move on. Chapter 10 is perverted judgment of history. Paul's giving them a history lesson of Israel, and you know the problem with history is we don't learn from it Right? Israel in Acts chapter 7 is called a church, and God overthrew them in the wilderness. And Paul lays it out perfectly for you And in verse six, they lusted. In verse seven, uh they they weren't con they were content with God being out of the picture. In verse eight, they committed fornication. In verse nine, they tempted Christ. Verse 10, they murmured, and by the way That is the thing in Numbers 14 where God says, you know what, I'm sick and tired of this. Israel, you're going back to the wilderness for 40 years and you're going to wander there. Right, so so the journey wasn't a 40-year journey. Right, I don't know, maybe it was two weeks or so. But because of their murmuring, God turned them around and an entire generation died before they went into the land. This is perverted judgment of history. Chapter 11 is perverted judgment of the sexes and the Lord's Supper. Chapter 11 he's talking about head coverings and he's and he's distinguishing men and women, right? Because men and women are different I don't have to describe this to you. And he's talking about a a covering, right? Which is what we we could talk about, clothes on that. But they have perverted judgment of the sexes. Now is there anything more pertinent to our uh culture nowadays, right? People are arguing about what a man and a woman is. And th this is flesh listen, men and women are supposed to be different and they're supposed to look differently. Right? And I don't I'm preaching to the choir on that, but but but but this has crept into the church at Corinth, and it's not just your dress, it it's everything. And but then the the the chapter ends with they have taken something that is holy, they've taken something that is very serious, and they've made light of it, the Lord's Supper That's chapter 11. Chapter 12 through 14 is perverted judgment of spiritual gifts. Chapter 12 is perverted judgment of the body. Now, when you get saved, the Lord puts you in in the body and in whatever place he wants to put you in. Well I don't want to be a hand, I want to be a foot. Well I don't want to be a foot, I want to be an arm. And we We look at other people in the body and we get jealous about what they have and we just we just want to be like that person. Lord, why don't you give me what they have? And You're just supposed to assembly be content with what the Lord has given you, what he's put you in the body to do. And so verse 26 is, boy, boy, it's a death blow to pride. Look at chapter 12, verse 26. And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members rejoice with it. Now, a way to test this, uh Brother Caleb gets up here and and and he and he commends someone and he just he literally not on purpose he it was a genuine he just genuinely forgot to mention your name. Do you rejoice with the person that he commended Or are you sitting back there, well, I can't believe he didn't mention my name? He don't he don't really care what I do. That's that's pride. That undermines the gospel. That attitude undermines the propagation of the gospel and it perverts your judgment. Perverted judgment in the body. Chapter 13, perverted judgment of virtues. Verses 1 through 3 we won't read them, but that's that's some of the scariest verses in all of the Bible to me. You can do anything you want to. You can be the greatest person ever. You can have the greatest faith ever. If you don't have charity, Paul says here the Holy Ghost says here, it's nothing. It doesn't matter. We need chapter 13 to take care of the problems in chapter twelve. We need to exercise charity. If I'm ranking the virtues here, I'm not going to put charity first. I'll probably put faith first, but that's not what the Lord says. charity um is the greatest of them all. Chapter 14, it's probably the most straight straightforward chapter in all of the Bible. I don't know how the people how people mix this up It is an illustration of a spiritual gift that is used incorrectly. Right? The point of chapter 14 is edification. That's what it's supposed to be. It's supposed to be about somebody else and not about yourself. in the context of tongues. Chapter 15 is perverted judgment of the resurrections. They are there are people in the church at Corinth that are questioning the resurrection. And Paul says if you don't believe in the resurrection, he says your faith is vain Right, that's Romans chapter ten, verse nine. And this is a very, very sinister thing that is going on. So chapter fifteen is perverted judgment of the resurrection. Chapter sixteen is perverted judgment of offerings. Paul gives you 58 verses on the resurrection, and then right, verse 16. 1, now concerning the collection for the saints. In essence, he's saying, you believe that Jesus Christ rose from the dead, now put your money where your mouth is. Now for from what I've seen, you guys are doing that, and that's a blessing. Go further. Do more Paul ends the letter in verses 5 through 11 in chapter 16 with his missionary plans to come by Corinth, right? And so Paul was always concerned with what the Lord give him to do. So These the So we we have fornication, we have idolatry, we have we have perversion of judgment and in the sexes, we have perverted judgment as spiritual gifts, of the resurrection. and giving, and it all commenced with pride. And every bit of this has undermined the propagation of the gospel in the church at Corinth. And Paul is trying to get them to get their focus back on the gospel and what really matters. And because it is the local church which gets the gospel to the world. And if we um If we get prideful and we get lifted up and we get to thinking that we're something when we're not, um our judgment's going to get perverted. They weren't but you know they didn't they didn't expect themselves to be where they're at, right? God give them over to a reprobate mind, and a reprobate mind is simply a mind that's that that can't make a right judgment They they didn't understand it. They knew God, right? In Romans chapter 1, but yet they found themselves over here working all uncleanness. And so the the the point is is what you do individually affects this body, and what this body does affects the work of God because God has given Hunt Valley Baptist Church a responsibility. You know, we we use these terms sometimes, and I'm guilty of using them as well, like, you know, God doesn't need us. Well that sounds real well, but he's chosen to make himself vulnerable to every one of you. in here. Right? He could come down and preach a lot better than we could. Right? He he tells Moses, uh he tells uh Noah to build a boat. The Lord could have, I mean in the snap of a finger he could have built the boat, but he t he told Noah to do it Uh he he comes and he tells Moses, take the children of Israel out of Egypt. He could have he could have stomped on uh Egypt in just uh in a matter of a second. And and and brought 'em into the land, had their houses ready for 'em. But he didn't do that. He ch he chose men to do that. God has chosen to make himself vulnerable to Hunt Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And and I'm just I'm just trying to challenge you and and provoke you. What you do in your personal life affects the person sitting in front of you, behind you, on the side, and it affects the work of God. And we just need to focus on what really matters. Thank you, brother.