Proverbs chapter twenty-two. It's a familiar verse. I certainly if you are in the habit of reading a proverb every day Uh you'll have read this verse, it uh this thought appears twice in the book of Proverbs, and uh as you're aware, if you read Proverbs, a lot of the verses are repeated more than once and different chapters. So one of the man things that makes it challenging to memorize is is because it's the same thing in different chapters, maybe just one word different or something like that. uh but uh familiar in that regard and certainly if you've been in church for a length of time I'm sure you've heard something preached on this thought. But tonight I want to bring a message entitled Hold the Line. Hold the line In Proverbs 22, verse number 28, the Bible says, Remove not the ancient landmarks which thy fathers have set. Remove not the ancient landmarks which thy fathers have set. Solomon here was given instruction from his father. He was being told that there were some things that were important. There was some boundary lines that had been established, and it wasn't just a matter of convenience. It wasn't just a matter of preference It wasn't just a matter of what currently was popular, but there was a boundary line, there was something that had been established that they were not to move. And in context, this is talking about actual boundaries, land boundaries, back in Genesis. We see that Abraham was given the promise from God in Genesis chapter 12. He says, Now the Lord has said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house into a land. That I will show thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing You see, God had promised him a land. And you know the story of their journey to the Promised Land and ultimately entering the Promised Land. God had established or set aside a way or a set portion of land for each one of God's people. And he had established these boundaries, this inheritance that families were supposed to receive. And these were important things. And they were to be remembered and they were to be marked and they were to be held. They weren't to let it change. It was something that was to be valued and passed on from them to the next generation. What made it valuable was not just that it's something that they had received from their father or that they had received from their father's father. What made it valuable is ultimately it was something they received from God And so that importance was supposed to be laid on this, that it came from God, and then was passed down from father to father to father to through the generations, but the ultimate value and preciousness of it was a recognition. that it came from God. And so it was to be held and kept. In Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse number 14, he says, Thou shalt not remove thy neighbor's landmark. which they of old time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit in the land that the Lord thy God giveth thee to possess it. He says there's a landmark, there's a marker, there's a boundary that's been given to you. And don't move that landmark, don't move that landmark for you, and don't move that landmark for the next generation. This is your inheritance But not only is it your inheritance, but it's an inheritance that's going to be passed on. And if you move the landmark, the next generation is not going to have what God had intended them to have. If we change and we were going to receive 500 acres and we decide, well, times are rough. I'm going to move the landmark. I'm going to give 200 acres to my neighbor, then what I'm passing on to my kids is not what God intended for them I've changed what was God's plan. I want to take this a step further, and this I told you in context is dealing with the actual physical boundary lines that were established by God for His people in the land that they were to possess. But I believe that there's some lines and there's some things that are set up for us in the Word of God. There's some boundaries. There's an inheritance given to us by God that we should value, that we should appreciate, that we should hold as precious. And we should keep those things precious and hold that line. We shouldn't let society or the changing of times move the line for us. Because the things that were passed on to us, as we have as a text verse for our discipleship, the things which thou hast Learned of me the same, commit thou to faithful men. You're to commit the same thing to the next generation Not an adapted or changed or modified thing, but the same thing you're supposed to commit to the next generation. This is an inheritance given to us, handed down, that came from God. In fact, God said he would curse the one who moved the landmark. And Deuteronomy 27, verse number 17, he said, Cursed be he that removeth his neighbor's landmark. This is something God said was important. This land, this boundary line, this established line that God had set up was important. And he said, listen. Somebody's going to move that, they're going to be cursed. It's something that God held of great importance. You see, if we move the boundary line, friend, those who come after us won't have what God had intended for them to have. The inheritance that was God's plan for them is going to be lost. And God looks at this as a serious, serious thing. In Proverbs chapter 4, verse number 13, he says, take fast hold of instruction. Let her not go. Keep her. For she is thy life. Take fast hold. That fast hold is to grip tightly, to hold on to. To t to not let go, to take fast hold, take the instruction, take the teaching from the Word of God. Get a hold of it, but once we have it We shouldn't let it go. We shouldn't let the line be moved. Because there are people following after us Whether those are the next generation that we're raising up here in the church as our offspring, or they're the next generation of Christians that are coming into the church that are looking at us and saying, where is the line supposed to be? In this ever-changing world, an ever-changing society, they're asking, they're saying, okay, well where is the line supposed to be? And if we move the line, what hope does the next generation have? We need to hold the line right where God said it. Not where culture or convenience makes it easy to hold, but where God holds the line. And that's not popular and that's not t at times easy to do, but we need to hold to the line. We've got to stand no matter how hard it gets. We have a sacred duty, a sacred duty to stand, to hold the boundary line So that your kids and mine and those we're allowed to reach with the gospel of Jesus Christ who make a decision and come into the church and are being discipled here will know where the line is supposed to be It doesn't matter, beloved, that the world is getting farther and farther from God. Or that the church at large is getting more and more worldly. Just because something is acceptable in a church today doesn't mean it's acceptable by God. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. We know it and we say it. But then why is the church so quick and so easy to move today? Did God change? The society's changed. And we're following suit. But we shouldn't be. We should be holding the line God will not hold us guiltless if we don't hold the line. He is going to judge those who follow after the foolishness of this world. We first of all tonight I want you to know that we need to hold the line with regards to God's Word. Turn to the Bibles in 2 Timothy chapter number 3. 2 Timothy chapter number 3. We have been given the Word of God, this precious book. And I understand, beloved, that we as people here in America have the Word of God in every shape and form. We have multiple copies of the Word of God and uh tiny print and large print and digital uh means. We've got it so much that at best we've become careless of it. And at worse, we've been become contemptuous of it. When there was in bygone generations people that gave their lives. Risk life and limb to have one copy of the Word of God for their church, or one copy of the Word of God for their whole family, and it was precious and it was valued and it was something that they loved But we got so many copies it's oh oh yeah it's my Bible. Sadly, many times Christians don't even know where their word of God is In 2 Timothy 3, verses 15 through 16, we hear that Timothy had an understanding of the truths of the Word of God, first of all. And then we are admonished to the power of the Word of God for us today. He says, in that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. And that very familiar verse to all of us is all scriptures given by inspiration of God that's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Beloved, we need to hold the line on the Word of God. This needs to be something that's important to us as a church and as individuals. And when I say the Word of God, I literally mean the King James Version of the Bible. This is something that's not very popular today. It's mind-boggling how many churches have dropped their belief or their holding to that line of the King James Bible. Everyone wants to move it. Many think, well, what's the big deal? Oh, okay, it's the King James. Okay, the King James is the best, but Over here, this is pretty good. It's good enough. It's close enough. Or they might say something like, well, at least I'm reading a Bible. And in our mind we think about it and we think, well, yeah, at least they're reading some Bible. I mean at least they're getting some Bible, right? You know what? I I was thinking about that, and y you know what for f In my defense, because I'm always attacked for drinking Mountain Dew, I I have always told people This is about 90% water. I'm drinking water. It's true. There is more water in this bottle than anything else. You know what? I have never in my life had one person agree with me. Oh, you're right, Pastor. You're drinking water. That's good for you. Go ahead and drink Mountain Dew. No, they don't know. I've never had anybody agree with me. But why is it that we all of a sudden Say, well yeah, it's a perverted version, it's a changed version, it's not really what God said, but at least it's some of the Bible. This is something that we need to have a conviction in our heart and we hold to the King James Version of the Bible. Man, beloved, this is important. There's many in the world, and there's some versions that are so far gone that it takes very little spiritual discernment to understand that this is not the Word of God. I mean you have the gender neutral Bible. The LGBTQ uh friendly Bible. And you look at it and and you say, well obviously that's not the word of God. But how far down that line do you have to go before you're going to say, okay, that's not the word of God? I just think there ought to be something in our heart and mind that we want to hold to the old truth. To the King James Version of the Bible is something that's important for us as a church. Well we gotta be cautious of, I don't think anybody here would have any things about some of these, you know, the Bonnox Bible and the the Bible of the street and and these things that are, you know, i written in hood language and all of that. But we've got to be cautious. When we're listening to people that are knee-evangelicals today, who are subtle and therefore far more dangerous, you see they read from the scriptures, they talk about their faith. But they're moving the landmark. They're moving the landmark. One degree at a time. You know, they'll say things like, well, we believe this is the Bible, this is the inspired word of God, we just don't take it literally. And they'll describe things in the Word of God like uh Jonah and the whale as something that was given by God. Oh yes, God gave us the story. But this is a it's to be uh believed in typology. It's it's teaching a picture of something. This didn't literally happen And they'll take many things like that in the Word of God and remove the literal interpretation of the Scriptures away. You've got to be careful about that. They'll say they accept the message, but not the actual words. Oh, I believe that the message that God wanted The overall message is what God inspired. The actual words were written by men, so it doesn't really matter the actual words. I mean What God wanted us to get is the message. Well, if we take this back and apply it to our text on the landmarks, that would be akin to saying, well, God put the landmark there, right there. so that you would have a general idea of where it was supposed to be. Well he said, don't move it. He said that's where it's supposed to be. Don't move it. I think God is powerful enough to to if he said this is the words that I want This is the words we should have. It ought to be something that to us is important. If I'm listening to a speaker or a preacher and they open a text and start reading it, and right away in my mind I say, that's not King James. I'm done. I'm done. I I don't finish listening to him. I find it very hard to read or listen to, and as a church, I want us to stand strong on this Beloved, to undermine the Word of God in any way is to literally be involved in the work of Satan. To undermine the Word of God in any way is to be involved in the work of Satan, whether you call yourself a pastor and stand behind the pulpit or not. It is the work of Satan. From Genesis until today, Satan's goal was to call in question the Word of God. He said, half, God said. He questioned what God's words were. And he's still doing it today in a very powerful way. with all of these other perversions that are out there. We've got a s we've got to stand strong here The mass adoption of every kind of version has been a masterful blow by Satan in our world. Listen, I want to have a grief study here at the church went thirteen weeks in a row with Brian. And uh we went through and I think it's very beneficial. I think it would be good for people. The problem is I can't get it in King James. So now I'm trying to figure out, okay, how can how can we change all of the text here? How can we take these workbooks and and And they're all preprinted. You can't order them in King James. And if we're gonna do it some way here at the church, and some people may look at that and think, well, that's crazy. Why would he bother with that? I mean we know the King James, this is just this is just an you know, we're gonna take this for what it is and and there's some aspects of that, but I want you to understand that when we're talking about something the church is going to put before the people and say, here, this is we've got some boundary lines that the next generation needs to know where the line is. And if we're if we're gonna bring in all of this other stuff and and and muddy the waters, the young people will be like Oh, maybe the King James not, you know, it's not that big a deal. I mean it's a preference, like they could do that, but it's okay if we don't do it. I want you to know it is important. And we want to hold that line. We need to stand and hold it no matter what. And this position is being attacked today It's it's amazing. You I'm not going to encourage you to do it 'cause it'll discourage you. But you you see online any church that holds to a King James Version, you have that on your website, King James only, I mean people attack it. They they're like, oh, you know, these people have lost their mind, you know, and and just they don't like it. All you have to do to be attacked today is stand where weak Christians stood a few years ago. In 2 Timothy 3. 12, the Bible still says, Yea, all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. You just live godly, you're going to suffer persecution. Well it seems today that churches have lost their mind. Every kind of wickedness is not just allowed, but even promoted in the church. People talk about, oh, that's what I believe. This is how I believe, or this is what I believe about that. You know, how did we get here I can tell you how. We cut loose the the anchor. We cut loose the anchor. The Word of God. That foundation, that that unchanging word. You know, I have here a tape maser. And if I was going to measure something, say I want to find out how long this pulpit is I hook this to the edge to an unmoving point. Hook it on there. And then I measure it. And find out, oh, it's forty-four inches. Oh oh wait, the the end moved. And you go back and anybody that's worked with the tape, you know that's so frustrating. When you're trying to hook it on there and and then you s get get all the way to the other side of the room and then it comes off and you're like, oh and you go back again and you you're like, you know, call your wife, can you hold the other side of this tape so it doesn't move on me? Why? Because you can't establish everything in the Word of God is measured. Everything in our life is goes back to the anchor. The anchor is the word of God. The word of God is where we get that foundational truth of salvation by grace in Christ It's in him and him alone. We get the that baptism is by immersion. We get the blood atonement. We get the truths that we hold dear as found in the Word of God, the unchanging word of God. And this needs to be something that we hold to and that is precious to us. Beloved, we also need to hold to the line of God's house. In Hebrews 10. 25, the Bible still says that anchor, the unchanging anchor that doesn't move, still says, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together. That unchanging anchor says that we're not supposed to do that, that we're supposed to come together. We're supposed to be in God's house with God's family. Beloved, we as a people, and I'm talking about Christianity as a whole, has completely lost the conviction with regards to church attendance. They've lost the conviction that it's important and that God wants us in his house. And I'm not talking about the world. The world has never loved God's house The world has always stood against the things of God. I'm talking about God's people who have lost the conviction that this is where I'm supposed to be. You know, COVID very politicized. And and it's uh it's a hot topic and everybody falls on every side about COVID and and you you You can't say one thing one way or the other because of all the the debate and and and you're this or you're that and and you're not concerned about people or you're overly concerned and all and all all of this You know the the the terrible thing about COVID is not that the borders shut down. The terrible thing about COVID is not that people had to get vaccinated or not get vaccinated. It it's not that uh you couldn't go to restaurants or that you know you couldn't uh or you had to wear a mask. The terrible thing about COVID is that church is shut down. And I don't mean just churches close the doors, although sadly some churches have shut down, but I'm talking about God's people, for some reason, have decided that the teaching of the Word of God of us to not forsake the assembly of themselves no longer matters. And we can just stay home from church. We can just skip church and they appease their conscience. At least I hope they have a conscience that's under conviction when they're not in the house of God, but they appease their conscience by substituting streaming Streaming is not being in church. Beloved, there is people that risk life and limb. They literally risk being put in prison. To be able to go and worship with God's people in countries all over the world. They risk being beaten, they risk being tortured, they risk being put in jail, and they do that to gather. Because God's church is supposed to gather. Well, how are we as Americans all of a sudden because of the possibility of maybe getting sick and and listen I'm I'm I'm not throwing COVID out the window and I'm not saying COVID is not uh there's not a chance that you would catch it and there's situations that that people are dealing with and they have cancer and they're they're at risk and And and those things I'm not talking about that COVID didn't kill anybody, but what I'm saying is on the possibility that I might get sick. And if I get sick, I've got a ninety-eight point nine five percent chance that I'm gonna survive it, but on that 0. 2% of a chance I'm going to stay home from church. I'm still going to go shopping. I'm still going to go to the to go to the restaurants. I'm still going to go to the stores. I'm still going to go to the DMV. I'm still going to go do everything else I need to do in life, but somehow God's house can be put aside and I can just stream God's house and that's okay I want you to understand something, beloved. You don't go to church just for you. That you go to church, beloved, that you can, when you gather, you exhort one another. You don't you say, you know, going to church, being in God's house, it's not just for you. You know, you may have been streaming for a long time, and I I love you, but I'm trying to help you. The fact of the matter is, is there's some of God's people here that you're discouraging because you haven't been in God's house in a year And they're wondering, are they part of our church anymore? Are they part of our church family? We don't even know You don't go to church just for you. You go to church for everybody else in church. Now, yes, church helps us, praise God. We get a lot out of it. And listen, streaming is not the same as being in church. If watching something on on the screen is the same as being there, then watching a cooking show is the same as going to a good restaurant. You don't have to go eat tonight because you know what? You got you watched Chopped. Mary and I watched a bunch of chopped last week. The things they have to cook with, oh my goodness. It's not the same. Things that are different aren't the same. And you can't say, okay, streaming service is enough for me. We need to have a conviction in our heart, something that we believe. Listen, I we streamed the services last week because we were on an island, and you know what? It was going to cost at least $40 to get a taxi ride to go to a church if I could find a church. And I don't have any guarantee that the church I found would be any good. So we streamed our service. And even that I felt guilty about. I'm like, this is not right. I know why you do it, man. It was awesome. Sunday morning, get up 15 minutes before church is supposed to start. In my t-shirt and my shorts, sitting on the couch with a Coke because he can't find Mountain Dew on the island. A Coke and a coffee. You know. Pastor Star's talking about all of his books, and I think, well this is okay. He's just talking about books. I can run to the restroom right now Go to the restroom, come back, sit down. I mean that church was over? Okay, hon, what do you want to do? Ten minutes later we're on the beach, man. That's awesome. But it ain't church. Right. Folks, I'm trying to say we need to have we need to hold the line. We we need to show the next generation that that this is important. That this is what God wants for us, and so this is what we're going to do. How is it you're going to teach or show your kids that God's house is important? It ain't by streaming it. It's by making it a priority of your life. You say, this is what we're going to do. This is where we're going to be. This is what God wants us to do. It's a conviction and we're gonna hold to that line. If you're not sick, you ought to be in church. I mean if you're sick and in the hospital you can stream it. If you got a fever, listen, you you know we've been doing this long enough. We're coming up On a ridiculous amount of time we've been doing this, I can't even, you know, since the beginning of 2020, March 2020, I guess we're out two years almost that we've been dealing with this. So you know we've been really gracious and really patient and we've been telling you if you're sick, stay home. We don't want you giving it to anybody else. But listen, if everybody that's sick is staying home, then if you're healthy, you ought to be here Everybody that's sick should be staying home. You don't want to spread it around. And you know, I think there's times maybe that in the past Because of our conviction of being in church, that we came to church and we probably should have stayed home. I know I'm guilty of that. There's times maybe I put some other people at risk of getting a cold because I had a cold and I came anyway But you know what? It's about time God's people get that conviction in their heart and they get back to God's house. We need to hold that line strong. You're showing your commitment to Christ when you Allow pitily things to keep you from God's house. Beloved, God loved the church and gave himself for it He died for the church. He gave himself for the church. He established this as one of the three institutions. This is what God loves and values. It ought to be high on our priority list. This, the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of truth. Make church a priority. And not just the church services, but the church program. Whatever's going on. Let me just say that anybody that calls Hunt Valley Baptist Church their home, this is their church home, or their members here, or they attend here faithfully, and if somebody asks them, where do you go to church, they say Hunt Valley Baptist Church. None of them should miss Anniversary Sunday. Not only is it printed on a calendar, which given you at the beginning of the year But you pretty much know, I mean, our anniversary is in April 24th, and it's going to happen towards the end of April every year. Nobody should be scheduling their vacation for the last week of April. It's an important Sunday for your church. The church program. You should say, you know what? I mean if somebody came to you and says, hey, I've got an all-expense paid trip to St. Thomas Do you want to go? And you say, yeah, I'm in. And they say it's it's uh April 20th through the 26th. And you say, Oh, I can't go. You know on the calendar that this is an important date for your church. Where do you put the priority? It's something that you ought to value. Again, you don't go just for you. You say, well, it's not that important to me. I don't mind missing that day. But what about everybody else that put all the work and effort in? to making that a big day. And they've been praying that God's people would come out and that visitors would come out and that God would do something great. And everybody's working together for that day. And you scheduled your vacation that day. It just shows where your heart is. You ought to you oughta want to be part of the program. And I listen, you know I just took a vacation. There's nothing wrong with taking a vacation. We gotta get away and it's fun and it's nice But you've got the calendar. Try and schedule it a time when there's not something big going on at church. I mean we only have three or four or five big days a year. I mean let's be really generous and say there's 12 big days a year. That means you got 40 other weeks that you could fit your vacation in. But you wouldn't have to miss one of those. Just make it a priority is all I'm encouraging you to do. God's house. The program of the church. This is how we hold the line. We also need to hold the line on holy living. I can tell I'm what I'm saying is not real popular, so it's getting awful quiet and uncomfortable in here. So we'll move on. We can talk about holy living without getting uncomfortable, right? We can touch on that. Turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. First Peter chapter one, familiar verses. You guys know these. The Word of God 1 Peter 1 verses 13 through 16, he says, wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober. and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children not fashioning yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy. So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. He tells you there. He says, hey, don't fashion yourselves according to the former lust in your ignorance. He's saying, listen, your ignorance is not even an excuse. You say, well, I'm not even sure, or I don't know that that's in. He says, listen, ignorance is no excuse. God is holy. You are supposed to be holy. And God has saved your soul. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are supposed to be new. We're supposed to get saved and our life is supposed to change. Amen? Things are supposed to be different now that I'm saved and on my way to heaven and I'm a follower of Jesus Christ instead of follower of this world Our life is supposed to be different. There is an expectation by God that God's people will live holy lives. Now, it's not popular and it's not pleasing to those that have tickling ears, but it's still required by God that we live holy lives. It needs to be a pattern. It needs to be a habit, a way of life that you live that is holy. Every aspect of your life, every day, everything you participate in is holy. There should be a way about you that stands out in this wicked world. We're not to be conformed to this world, amen. But transformed by the renewing of our mind. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We have a new life in Christ, and we're supposed to live like it. It's amazing to me how this world has shaped so much of Christianity. I have People, friends that I've known for years and years, some of them Bible college graduates, some of them people that I knew in churches when I was growing up And I've watched them on Facebook and such, and I've seen them take their life where they once stood, the things that they once believed. And now that's gone. They didn't hold the line. Just by their presence online, you can see the kind of lifestyle they're living. And you can't tell anything different from their webpage than you can from the average lost person's webpage. It shouldn't be that way. We should be different You know, it's amazing. Last week we were in St. Thomas. We enjoyed ourselves. We had a great time But even in St. Thomas, long ways from the church, there's still things as Christians that we don't do, that we don't participate in. We didn't eat dinners in the bars. More than one place we walked into and says, no, we're not eating here. It's too barry. It's too too much of a worldly atmosphere. I'm just not interested in sitting in that. I'll just go hungry before I'll sit in that and be a part of it We don't believe in mixed swimming, so we didn't go down to the beach where all the girls and guys were all down there together, hanging out naked. We we we Some of you are thinking I'm I'm talking about a nude beach. We didn't go there. Do we need to teach on what the Bible says about nakedness? The Bible is very clear. Nakedness is from the shoulder to the knee. So anything you're showing in between, you're revealing nakedness. That means women walking around in a one-piece bathing suit and a guy walking around in shorts with a shirt off, they're both showing nakedness We don't go down there. We went down to uh Megan's Bay. Sent a picture to Miss Lisa because Miss Lisa and Dan were there a while ago And we went down to Megan's Bay and we looked out there. We went to the overlook first. We're way up on the mountain and overlook we could see Megan's Bay down there and it looked like all the way down on the end There was nobody down there. So when we got dropped off from the taxi, we went out and we hiked through the jungle. This is what we did on Valentine's Day. So we hiked through the jungle to try and get to a place on the beach where there was nobody So we could be out there for a few minutes. We were out there for a few minutes and people started making their way that way and so I said, Hey hun, you want to go back another hike through the jungle? Uh let's go. We went on another hike, we did some other things But you know it's amazing to me we're out there and we'll be hanging around with people, talking to people at dinner, or uh riding in a taxicab with somebody somewhere, or we went on a kayak trip with with an older couple and uh we were out on the ocean kayaking and that was fun. But it's amazing these different people how their conversation drastically changes when they find out I'm a pastor. Beforehand they're talking about the the rum that they had and all the shops, you know, and and that they they're talking about, you know, they're cussing and they're saying these other things and and describing all this stuff but and then they're like, well what do you do? I'm a I'm a Baptist preacher. And they're all of a sudden their conversation changes Why? I mean we had people at the resort there uh we're leaving, they're like, We're praying you have a safe trip, goodbye. We're like, what? Why isn't it that their conversation that way with everybody they're with? Christians shouldn't be adapting to the world. There should be something different about the way we live and how we act and where we produce I mean we're sitting in the restaurant and bowing our heads and praying. Living a holy life. And in this increasingly wicked world, it gets harder and harder. And the contrast gets greater and greater. But you ought to have a conviction in your heart about some things and say this is what God wants and and if I can't go to eat at that restaurant, then I can't go there. That's not that important to me. It's more important that I'm pleasing to God I'm not going to participate in this activity because if I do it, I think I'm not going to be pleasing to God. And you set that boundary in your life and you live a holy life and it's a life that's a testimony to those around you. I had people asking me about my church. They're like, hey, if we ever come to Baltimore, we'll visit you. You know, that we did give some your invited tracks to those folks. Here you go, here's the address Have you ever come that way? But you know that's not the majority of Christianity. Majority of people that call them Christians fit right into the world real well And it shouldn't be that way. We ought to live holy lives. Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. It's shocking how far the line is moved in this matter of holiness. Even in churches, they've come to the idea or thought that as long as you preach the gospel and tell people about Jesus that whatever else you do doesn't matter. The Bible is still full of thou shalt not. And it's still full of thou shalt. And as God's people, we need to hold the line. We need to be like Job, who lost it all, but in losing it all, he said, there's one thing I'm gonna hold on to. Listen to this. Job 27, verse number 6. He said, my righteousness I hold fast. And will not let go. My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live That's a strong statement. You know whose heart reproaches you first? Your own. When you do something wrong, your heart comes right away and says, that was wrong How many of you men ever been talking to your wife and you got in the flesh for a minute, said something you shouldn't have, and then your heart says, that was wrong? And you're like, no, no, no. I mean you don't want to admit it, right? You're like, no. That was not wrong. I am justified in my response to her. Because she said this or whatever, and in your heart you know you're wrong And and the Holy Spirit's got to beat you up for a little while before you come back and say, hey, and I'm sorry. I I was wrong. But for Job to say that his heart shall not reproach him as long as he lives, he said, listen, my righteousness, if there's anything I'm going to hold on to, I'm going to hold on to my righteousness To the point that my own heart will not reproach me. God's people need to live holy lives. It's hard to do today. We're in stark contrast with this world. But that's what God wants for us. He wants us to be holy. I know why they do it. I know why people let the line go. 'Cause it's easy. Because it's fun. Because it's comfortable. It's hard. You know, I wanted to be on Megan's Bay there and watch the sun s watch the sunset. It's supposed to be one of the top ten romantic places in the world. That's what I was planning to do for Megan's Bay, but people came around and said, Well, we gotta go, hon Listen, Christians, the great saints of old, the strong, the strong men of the past, they're passing off the scene. Those those that really held the line, I'm talking about people that I heard preach things like this. There are not many of them around anymore. We've got to hold a line. So that we can pass to the next generation what's been passed to us. So they'll get the same thing If we let the line go, the next generation has no hope. I know people are drawn to the churches where there's a watered-down gospel and entertained services But I pray, beloved, that uh folks of Hunt Valley Baptist Church would be a people not looking for the next big thing, but looking and longing for God. Longing to know and to please God most of all. The Bible told us that in the days of Noah, it was is going to be in the last days. We're in wicked days. We know that. Yes, it's dark. The devil's on every side. The wickedness of the world is closing in, but that's all the more reason that we should stand. and hold the line. Don't move the landmarks. We can't accommodate this world and no neither do we help this world if we move the line. We're not helping them We've got to hold high the banner of cross and keep the line where God set it. Revelation chapter 3, verse number 11 says, Behold, I come quickly. And hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown. Hold that fast that thou hast. Keep it. Hold the line.