With things, go with me if you would to Acts chapter nine this morning. Acts nine appreciate the theme as Pastor contacted us some months ago about the opportunity to uh uh not only with coming for the conference but for the detail of the theme And I love preaching and teaching verse by verse through the scripture. That's my my preference. But uh Jesus and the multiples of others in the Bible were topical preachers as well and dwelt on different subjects So there is no right or wrong. I don't believe in how to do that. But this matter of holding the rope, I want to use an illustration that we find here in the book of Acts. This is Saul, who became Paul. He is gets saved in this chapter in We could say a miraculous manner, and yet how many of us were saved this morning? Would you raise your hand in testimony How many of you consider that you were saved in a miraculous manner? Yeah. Amen. That's the only way we can be saved is by the miracle of the gospel and the blood of Jesus Christ. If you're not saved this morning, if you do not know Jesus Christ as your Savior, someone here would love to take the Bible today and show you how you could trust Jesus Christ. As your Savior. He will save you. He will take away your sins. He will give you heaven as your eternal home. And he will transform your life here on earth. That's what the Bible is all about. And so Saul gets saved. There's some circumstances and things that I don't need to take time in because of time. And other people, as we spoke of earlier this week, That undertook for him. The testimony of Stephen we referred to that rung in his ears, certainly, from his uh young in his young life and Stephen's testimony at his martyrdom, this man Ananias, that's mentioned in this chapter, who goes Mm, as probably any of us would go to this severe persecutor of Christians with a reputation of jailing or killing them. and goes yet as a disciple of the Lord and takes and goes alongside of him and disciples, baptizes, and takes Saul into these next steps. God then opens the eyes of Saul physically, who had been blinded, and we find then, let's pick up there in verse 19. Chapter 9, verse 19. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus So he's in Damascus. Damascus is there in Syria. Brother Sasser, thank you. I always want to say settles. Brother Sasser referred to that area today in Syria and of course the severe persecution of Christians that's going on even right now as we speak. in that land. But Saul was there. There were some disciples there. There was not an organized church yet per se. But yet a group of believers that were there seeking to serve the Lord Jesus, seeking to be faithful. And it says in verse 20, and straightway He preached Christ in the synagogues that he is the Son of God. But all that heard him were amazed and said, Is this Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem and came hither for that intent that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests But Saul increased the more in strength and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him. But their laying await was known of Saul And they watched the gates daily uh day and night to kill him. Then the disciples took him by night and let him down by the wall in a basket, and from that point Uh Saul journeys to Jerusalem. Barnabas takes him up there and introduces him to the believers and the disciples and so forth, and the story and testimony goes on. But I want to focus on this point. this time, this missionary, uh, this sent forth evangelist as we will follow in his life later. in Acts thirteen and on of the church and how at this point, even early on, the persecution came, the difficulties came, uh, as he spoke out. You know, when you preach, speak Teach, testify, share, stand for Jesus Christ uh persecution will come. You can talk about God, you can talk about the Bible, you can talk about church You can talk about religion. You can talk about all things like that. But when you start bringing in the Lord Jesus Christ, uh, that'll light a fire, one way or another. And that's what took place there with Saul, and we find him threatened, if you read it in detail, it's a plot, literally. groups of people that were plotting and watching day and night looking to kill him. And this small group of disciples Most of them, I'm sure, of course all of them are nameless in this situation. And yet they go, they exercise their faith They gather resources, if you would, at least boy, that's a pretty good sized basket, Pastor. Uh we we live in in Africa. We know the abilities of people to weave and sew baskets and things that hold large amounts, but for a man-sized basket That's going to hold up to be lowered down several stories outside of a city wall in one of those old cities there in the Middle East and some ropes Uh I don't think they, you know, got some fishing twine or something, or somebody had a kite string. Uh they had to have some substantial ropes there. and enough people to counterweight him as they sent him down that thing uh uh in the side and night, I'm sure, and and he was able to escape and go on his way. took some cooperation, if you would, amongst those people. We'll touch on these thoughts in a moment, but we see this story, and it's a simple little story, and yet it illustrates Very well some factors that we see through the rest of the New Testament and the church epistles regarding the church regarding us as believers and our holding the ropes for those who go forth, whom we send forth to other lands on our behalf to go and share the gospel of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for the privilege to be here this morning for you raising up Hunt Valley Baptist Church in this place. Father, we thank you for those who've trusted Christ as their Savior, that have been, and seek to continue holding the ropes for others that they have sent forth. represented all these flags this morning, and Lord willing the endeavor to see other lands reached by people that would go forth from this church. as well as those that would be sent from others. I pray that you'd help us to get a hold of that truth Be spoken to by your word. Help us to be submissive to it today. And Lord, to find ways that we can grab on. That we can hold on, that we can even take a greater grip, other ways that we can be involved in holding the ropes and sending forth more with the gospel. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We see Saul saved. We see him called. And then, I guess you could say point number three, under attack. Excuse me. Thank the Lord for some disciples. None of us here are self-saved individuals. You know, we hear that term of self-made man. And there's a lot of uh talk of that, no such thing Number one, you didn't come into this world on your own. Okay. Number two, we as Christians, only but by the grace of God are we saved. And the same is true for this matter of missions, this matter of sending forth missionaries. There was Saul there. I don't know all of the circumstances. I don't read into the Bible and try to let us imagine what it might have been or those types of things. Just read the Bible. You know, you go home this afternoon, read through these passages. Go home, read what Brother Mike preached in Sunday school, meditate upon it, think about it, ask God to show you things that are written right there in his word. And get down in the nitty-gritty into our own hearts. We see these disciples they undertake for him. They just didn't say, well, woo-hoo! Saul, hey, you know what? These guys are trying to kill you. Good luck. Okay? Okay. No. They took responsibility They felt responsibility for a fellow believer. Not because he was a Pharisee of the Pharisees, not because he knew multiple languages, not because he had a fantastic, I'll say, salvation testimony experience, or any of those things. I'm sure they were all fearful in some ways and some degrees, just like any one of the rest of us. And yet, somebody decided to get a basket. Uh it was probably one of their own baskets. Somebody decided to get and come up with some ropes and this plan. And just as much, excuse me, watch out now. We can focus on the enemy's plots And all the details and the intricacies of how they come up politically or financially or religiously or whatever to come up with all of these schemes and different things. to war and fight against Jesus Christ and so forth like that and against his church and against us as believers. But you know what, my friend? Jesus has plots of his own. Here it is. Okay? Here's his whole scheme. His whole plan. His whole message from the beginning to the end. It's right here, my friend. I don't have to get all worried and fretful about Senator so and so and what he or she said or what this financial uh enemy of the United States is doing and all of that, and oh why is he financing all of these things and everything. No. Let's take it to the Lord That's what you're doing here. That's what this week is initiating. This is your business meeting, Hunt Valley Baptist Church. About what God would have you to do this next year in reaching over 8 billion people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Okay? That little this little little card there that you've been given, that's just a little tool of the overall and I'm using the the Bible term here, plotting, the planning, the the means by which you as a church can prayerfully, biblically, Holy Spirit-led be utilized by the Lord to give something, to supply a basket, if you would, to bring a rope if you would, to lay a hand on some ways and means by which you spiritually and physically can help these that you have already sent As you have helped us these years, as you have helped the disasters in their land, as you have helped the Smiths in Estonia and helped so many others throughout these years. Hey, you know what? The world needs more They need more from you, just as much as some of you went out yesterday and knocked some doors and gave out some John Romans. And y you might say, we had a few doors known, Brother Aaron, that uh you're talking and went, knocked your speaker off and everything. They didn't want to hear it But you know what? There were others, even if it was through their ring doorbell, hello, somebody there, you know And they weren't even home. They were on their phone somewhere else. And why they told us they weren't home, I don't know. It wasn't a good idea. Don't do that if you have one of those. But anyway But you know what? They said, yeah, that's great. Just hang that on our door. And have a blessed day. Wow, uh that doesn't happen every day. But you know what there are people out there, there's people, uh a lady out there, Baha'i Faith, we met her yesterday Believes in Baha'u'llah and all the things of Baha'i. And she was well versed in it. I mean, she came out the door, she walked come outside in the kind of drizzly yuck there and and and I've talked with us for a while, but you know what? At the end of the day, she wasn't argumentative. She wanted some ladies from the church to come and talk with us. Uh and most of all, she willingly took the John Romans out of that sleeve and opened it up And it promised, yes sir, promised that she would read that book of John Okay. But you can get that far with the witness, my friend. You know what? The word of God will not return void. Okay? And that's what we want want to be doing here in Hunt Valley. That's what we want to be doing in Atoka, Tennessee, in our church. And yet that's what we want these missionaries that we're holding the ropes for, that we're sending forth. We want to uh uh help them, equip them, help make them more effective in those places by many different means. so that they can share that same gospel and give the truth out to those people that perhaps have never heard. And be saved. They held the ropes. Can you see them there? Lowering Saul down the wall. I don't know how big, but uh Saul wasn't a big man As far as, you know, he wasn't Goliath size or something like that, or even King Saul size from the Old Testament. In fact he was they they scripture even talks about that his stature was, you know, he was a short guy like me, probably Okay. And and and and s but I so I don't know if his weight, I don't know if he you know liked a lot of uh the treats and the fellowship hall after church every night, you know, or what, but nonetheless, there was pressure there. Pressure to hold that ropes, pressure to let him down. Can you see us? Can you see us there? Put yourself on the rope on the roof there, Pastor You know, that night middle of the night. You know what had happened today in 2025? I know what would happen. Oh oh my cell phone. Oh Meanwhile, there goes all why because that cell phone, that cell phone, man. I mean nothing nothing ranks above that cell phone going off, all right? And I'm being facetious a little bit. But they had to be concentrated on what they were doing. They had to give thought. Why? Because that man's life was at stake. Their own lives were at stake. And when you think about it, as they were letting him down, if by the grace of God and their giving and their efforts, He didn't make it. How many people around the world would not have heard and received the gospel of Jesus Christ in those coming months and years? I don't put that all to his credit. There was a group of believers on that church, on that roof. Holding those ropes, letting them carefully down. They planned it. It was the right timing. You know, this conference. Pastor didn't get up this morning and say, hey, surprise! Everybody pull out your wallets Uh we need to support missionaries. We're gonna have some guys go through. It's the guys with the glocks there, you know. Uh yeah, that and they've got a bag there and so everybody empty, put the money in there, because we got to get these missionaries out. No, this is time. There's preparation. Most of all, there's opportunity to share biblical principles and truths with each of us as believers so that we can carefully do what? Pray over what God would have us to do. I'm not here this morning preaching to you to do something on our behalf or something. Thing. Our our local church does the same thing as you're doing this morning. In fact, our local church started its conference today. Typically we're there for that conference. Typically Greta's doing the kids and we're having events and the participation and so forth. But we get to be here with you all this year doing these things, participate. But you know what? There's a card from us. There's prayers for us. What are we going to do through our church to send forth missionaries around the world? And my past my past you know, it starts with the pastor. Andy Murray taught that the key to the missionary problem is the pastor. Okay? Your pastor has a heart for reaching the world for Christ and reaching other places, and that's contagious. It should be. Let us pray, give, send, hold the ropes, go. How can we do that quickly? Let's go to Acts chapter 13. We see Saul there, who becomes Paul. He journeys from Damascus, being thankfully let down by those ropes and helped by those disciples. He goes to Jerusalem. He gets threatened. His life gets threatened in Jerusalem. Even in Jerusalem, the believers again, the disciples, it says, took him And they took him and they sent him, they put him on a boat, basically, and sent him to Tarsus so that he would not get killed. And that's where he is when then Barnabas uh uh involves him in a mission trip, and then the church at Antioch develops. And they uh together, Barnabas and Paul, are there in Antioch ministering, serving in this new church plant, maybe three, four, five-year-old church plant, and we find them there then in Acts chapter 13. Verse one. And there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers, as Barnabas and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Mannion, which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch. And who? Ah, there's Saul. There's that guy going to become Paul. And as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them They sent them away. So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. And we see the illustration, so to speak, of holding the ropes beginning in actuality in this young church, this beginning church, this baby church of Those who were a little more experienced in the Lord, those who the Bible describes them as prophets and teachers in that congregation, what was that congregation as a whole doing It says they were ministering. They were fasting, which of course includes uh includes praying, that they're serving the Lord in this church. And as a church, this church at Antioch was serving God. Not just these ones who were listed, but that group as a whole, they're faithfully praying, fasting, ministering, serving. And they're active in that. And then in the midst of those activities of service for the Lord, who speaks? The Holy Ghost speaks. When was the last time the Holy Ghost spoke to you, believer? Hello? Now I'm not talking about an audible voice. I'm not talking about some spooky vision in the night. Right here. When was the last time the Holy Spirit spoke to you particularly? That's how you ought to be praying. Lord, show me what should I give? What should I do? How can I hold the ropes for these that have gone forth? How can I hold the ropes in such a way so that more can go? Excuse me, how can I perhaps be one for which the ropes would be held? Hello? and go forth to these other places. The Holy Spirit still calls in that manner. And the Holy Spirit said Separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work whereunto I have called them. Who was the Holy Ghost talking to? Hello. Sorry, I got one. The church. Okay. Just read the sentence. He's not talking to Paul and Barnabas there. I mean they knew. Paul already had a calling to the Gentiles from God, but here comes the particular act and the particular sender. Okay? We have served with, served, been served by in our 33 years in missions, the vast majority of those by Fundamental Baptist Worldwide Mission of Memphis, Tennessee Uh it's uh forty forty years, right? Yes, forty years old this year. In forty years of ministry How many missionaries do you believe that Fundamental Baptist Worldwide Mission has sent around this world? Somebody give me a guess. Oh, Pastor. Exactly. Zero. Why? Because mission agencies and missions don't send church don't send missionaries. Even if they think they do. The authority of the sender is solely in the Holy Spirit of God in and through the local church So thus, if missionaries are going to be sent, it starts right here The training starts here. The praying starts here. The fasting starts here. The ministering starts here. How many ministers do we have in the service this morning? Would you raise your hand? I got one, I got two. Okay? Somebody get three. Somebody give me the definition of the word minister. Servant. Alright, no anybody else serving God in here this morning? Oh. No, that's not a play on words, my friend. Excuse me. And I'm not getting on your case, but folks. Every one of us as believers this morning ought to be ministers of Jesus Christ. We are the called servants of Christ. Oh, it wasn't Paul and Barnabas, and they were the ministers, and everybody else was sitting back saying, ooh, ah No, the Holy Spirit of God spoke to them as a church. And God called them. And he called the church to send them. And he called them to hold the ropes. for them as they went. That's the picture. That is how God has ordained this matter of missions to occur. So young people, it is not a second-rate thing to yield your life and minister and serve God in some foreign land with some foreign people My friend, we are the heathen that were gloriously saved by the grace of God because missionaries came here. What are we doing holding it back from them? What are we doing looking and saying, well, uh, I don't really want to get involved in that, or the reluctance, or so forth? No, the opportunity. The privilege that is not a hyperbole, that is not a play on words, that is not me trying to put a guilt trip on you, my friend. It is not just a joy to serve Jesus, it is a privilege to serve Him I cannot, I cannot. As I read missions history, we look at and Brother Mike referred to it a little bit, but you read David and Mary Livingston's diaries And you read those diaries and the miles and thousands and tens and thousands of miles walking and on horseback and in ox carts and all of those things and their children being taken to heaven and the malaria taking their lives early and all of those things. And yet Livingston wrote and he said, it's not a sacrifice How can the king who died for me, anything that I would do for him, be a sacrifice? No such thing, Michael. And so, thus, as we look at this matter of holding the ropes for these that were sending, and us being sent, what an honor we have to do that. How can we do that? These sent them forth. They were sent by the Holy Ghost. They were sent by the local church. Church, are you praying Our time is going, and so I just give you a few passages to jot down, if you wish. Not only the preparing and the sending, but boy, the New Testament. Let's take 1 Thessalonians 5. 25. Brethren, pray for us. That's not a cute little phrase just for everybody. That's a missionary writing to a local church that he has had part and parcel in, and he, by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God. is exhorting them. Brethren, pray for us. Thank you for your prayers. We thank you We do not count that lightly. It is not only an honor, it is absolutely necessary. We need your prayers. Boy, do we have the the uh means by which look at these things. What do we call these things? Okay. Not refrigerator magnet holders, right? No no, these are prayer cards, right? They're to generate prayer for the Hardecker family in i i in the Philippines They're to help us to remind us to pray and to pray specifically. And you've gone a step further. Thank the Lord for that. Boy, you got your what do we call this Prayer bullets and prayer lists, and within this prayer list there's a whole page that your church has put aside, your pastor, others have put aside and labored, and they've not only put the names of the Missionaries there. But they've put the husband and the wife, the teams that are out there together serving God, and they've given you the field and they've given you the a detailed thing for which to pray Pastor said this. He was the one just this morning talking about what we need to pray specifically. Have you prayed? Have you prayed for Dan and Jennifer Armakos in Myanmar? Huh? Have you prayed detailed for oo law win? Ooh, you might say, Well, I can't even pronounce that. Well that's okay. You can say, Lord, pray for that. I don't know if it's a man or woman, but pray for them. They're recovering from brain surgery. You know what? The Armakosts need you to pray for that for them. You say, how can I hold the ropes for them, Brother Gordon? There it is. We sang that this morning in regards to if you're laid aside from service, body-worn with toil or care, you can still be in the battle. In the sacred place of what? Of prayer. Okay? Did we just sing that this morning? Or is that what God would have us to do? We have all of these means, all of these tools All of these advantages. Let us grab a hold of the rope for them in prayer. You're grabbing a hold of the rope for them in giving. You're praying about that what more missionaries could go and do and what the means by which to do it to get more Bibles out there and more literature and Go to that next village, go over that next mountain, go through that next river, open that next church, all of these different things, and other people that would beg and ask you to send them They're going, Gary and Lisa Zadarsky leaving this Lord willing next uh in April, going to Poland At 57 years old, going there to learn a new language, and all of the challenge, are you praying for them? The government paperwork, the intricacies of a land that is on the edge of the so the the of Russia and all of those uh uh disruptive things that are going on, all the reasons why they shouldn't allow missionaries into that country even though they're a quote unquote open an open field Pray for them. Hold the ropes for them. Give and boy. Send others. God wants us to undertake. And those are some of the ways in which we can do that. Lastly, communicate with them. Communicate with them. Boy, the Bible is full of these things. Paul talks about it in Philippians 4. He writes to the church in Macedonia, to the church in Philippi, and says, ye communicated with me only. Only church that Jerusalem didn't communicate with him once he got thrown in prison that time, other ones that he didn't hear from big old Ephesus, that was way a great big church and all of that, but little Philippi They sent to him, they wrote to him, and it says they sent to him again, over and again, to meet his necessity. That's not just a historical pretty things. That's examples for us as churches to fulfill today. God wants us to do more. Over and above. Pastor, use that example of the Corinthian church there in 2 Corinthians. My friend, study 2 Corinthians chapter 7, 8, and 9. That's the matters of faith promise missions. I like the term grace giving But if you don't study the context of Acts, Romans, 1st and 2nd Corinthians and the other church letters, because the giving of the Macedonian churches that is the example for Corinth That they're referred to over and over again. And it says in Acts chapter 8, and they first gave their own selves unto the Lord. And then unto us, unto the missionaries there that were sent by the grace of God. And they gave themselves physically, they gave themselves financially, they gave themselves spiritually, they held the ropes. And Corinth was only able to undertake and be exhorted in that manner in 2 Corinthians, because they had experienced the Holy Spirit. Revival. Not a mention of that in 1 Corinthians in a carnal worldly church that is self-centered on their own lives and ministry. Not gonna happen. It's not until they repent and had revival in Second Corinthians. I exhort you, my friend, take it to the Lord in prayer on your knees today. How can we hold the The ropes I'll illustrate and we'll do the road patter. If we would stand to our feet for invitation, please