The message that has gone forth in song today is going to go very well, tie very tightly. with the thought that I have for you this morning. I have a very simple thought, but it's going to take a couple of minutes laying some foundation to get to it. Uh we on Thursday nights have been studying the book of Job. It's been a deep dive into the story and the life of Job and what God was doing and what Satan was doing and what his three friends have been doing and so uh I wanna maybe apologize a little bit to those that are here on Thursday nights. Uh because I'm again this morning going to be turning to the book of Job. If you would turn to Job chapter number one to begin. I'm going to do a little bit of review because there's probably at least half of the audience here that's not part of Thursday Night Bible study. I need to go back through and lay down the foundation for them. But even those that are part, although we're going to get up to Job chapter 19, which is where we left off this last Thursday night, there's One thought that I have from Job chapter 19 that I did not cover, that I did not address on Thursday, and we're going to get to that thought I'm going to share that thought with you and we'll be done. If you'll just bear with me for a few minutes, those that You know, we're gonna have to endure a little bit of review and let us lay this foundation for everybody and bring everybody up to the same place, and then we will uh apply it for us today. We want to see, first of all, here as we get into the Word of God in Job chapter number one, beginning in verse number one, we see Job's character. Job, the Bible says here that he was a perfect and upright. He was one that feared God and eschewed evil. This is the man that we're looking at. He was doing right and He was living to please God most of all. The question I have for you is, who are you living for? What is your objective? What is your goal? What is it you're trying to achieve or attain in this life? number one ambition to glorify God as it should be for the believer, or uh is it to acquire a certain level of status socially or to acquire a certain level of status economically. But what is your focus? Job's number one focus was to honor and please God. He loved his family, and most of all, he was concerned that his family would have a right relationship with God. We see that in Verse number five, if you move down, and we're going to move quickly for these cup first couple chapters, but he says in verse number five, And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about that Job Sit and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings, according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Beloved, Job was very concerned about the spirituality of his children. the spirituality of his family. Let me just encourage you, mom and dad, and and maybe implore you to be concerned about the spirituality of your family. This is of utmost importance for every father and for every mother to let the spirituality of your children weigh heavy upon your heart. Job said, Man, it may be that my children have done something wrong. It may be That in their hearts, maybe they're not even aware of it, but in their hearts they've sinned against God. They've defied him. And so Job was concerned about this. It says here that daily he went and offered sacrifice for the spirituality and the condition of his family. Are you that concerned about your family today? Let me encourage you. Job did everything he could do to make sure his family was on the right track and that his family had a right relationship with God. Are you doing everything you can to make sure your family has a right relationship with God? Are you personally daily walking with God, reading your Bible, spending time in prayer, lifting the names of your children up before God? Are you consistently and faithfully coming to the house of God and bringing your children to church? I can't tell you the number of parents over the years that I've heard talk and they they they've said, well, uh, you know Little Johnny didn't want to go to church last Sunday. Well, you know what? It's not up to little Johnny. Do you ask little Johnny if he wants to go to school on Monday? Do you ask him if he wants to go to school on Tuesday? No, you get him out of bed and say you're going to go to school. Why is it when it comes to spirituality we say, oh, they get to just do whatever they want? No, you're the parent. You should be dictating to them, telling them this is important This is what you need to do. I would rather you let them sleep through school on Monday and get them to the house of God on Sunday. They're going to be okay if they don't have a uh one particular lesson on history or one particular lesson on math. But they really can't miss what God might do in their heart or life in one particular Sunday. You don't know, but that might be the Sunday that your son or daughter decides to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and have their sins forgiven and instead of spending eternity in a place called hell, they'll spend an eternity in a place called heaven Listen, this thing's important, and it ought to be important to every parent. It was important to Job. He was a man of godly character, and he was concerned about the condition of his children. He had such exemplary character, beloved, that God holds him up as a champion of the faith. Look at verse number eight. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job that there is none like him in the earth earth? A perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. He says, Man, Satan, you're running to and fro through all the earth and you're looking at all these things, but listen Here's a godly man. Here's a man that's going to stand no matter what. Here's a man that's dedicated and faithful and committed to the things of God. And you can see it in how he's living. And I'll tell you what, Satan, just look at Job. Look at my champion, this man of God. Can we be a champion for God today? Boy, it would be great if God could look down at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and he would see on the second pew or the fifth pew or the back pew or in the auditorium or maybe even in the sound booth, but up here in the auditorium, he could find a champion for him. Boy, it would be great if God looked down and said, Boy Satan, have you considered my servant and plugged in your name there? Somebody that was just fully committed and wanted to serve God and do right and God could hold you up as a champion for him God held him up as a champion, but then we see Satan's charge. Boy, Satan comes and he accuses Job of having nothing but selfish motives He says, well, of course, Job is serving you. I mean, come on, Lord, just think about this. You've provided for him. You've protected him. You've prospered him. All of his animals, you've allowed them to multiply exceedingly. And look at the wealth that you've given him. And boy, his crops Every year you give him the rain he needs and the sun he needs and his crops come in in abundance and boy the possessions and the homes and the family. Look at how you blessed them, boy. Does he says, did God serve does Job serve thee for naught? He's saying, boy, he serves you because you've been so good to him. Basically he's saying, listen, God, you bought Job's loyalty That's Satan's charge. Satan says to him in verse number 11, he says to God, he says, put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. Satan's objective was to take this champion of God and do something to him that would cause him to look heavenward and to curse God to his face. And I don't understand why. I can't give you an answer as to why God would allow this to happen to a man who was upright and loved him and followed him and was faithful to him. But God in his infinite wisdom may be for our edification, but he allows Satan to come and to touch the life of Job. So we see Job's calamity. Satan, in just a matter of a few verses, in just a matter of a few hours, Satan comes and he takes all that Job has in this world. If you know the story, you know that four messengers come and one messenger after another. As soon as one barely finishes speaking, the next one comes and you can read through that passage of scripture, but Job loses all of his animals, all of his livestock, his uh cattle and oxen and sheep and camels and All of them are gone, many of these animals that him and his family have raised and and and generationally they they they've birth to children and they cared for these little infant animals and and grew them up and these animals that they cared for and took care of, he lost them all. He loses his household and his servants, all of the servants that he had, all of the caretakers in the fields and the caretakers in the barns and overseeing the animals and the caretakers in the home, all of those servants he lost them all. That messenger barely finishes speaking and another comes. And if what had happened already wasn't bad enough, we know the story of Job continues and Satan attacks Yob's children. The Bible says that uh great wind came and uh corners of the house fell down and His children were gathered together for some type of celebration with that many kids they maybe were having a birthday. I mean you're gonna have a lot of birthdays you have that many children, but they were maybe who knows what they were doing, but they were having a celebration And in the midst of that celebration, everybody gathered together in one home, and the house falls down, and all of his children perish. I'm heading somewhere. We're gonna get there in just a minute. Stay with me In verse number 22, we see in all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. God looks back at his servant Job and he he he he looks at Satan and he says, hey, hey, did you see it? I told you Job would be faithful. I told you Job wasn't gonna deny me. I told you Job would stay by the stuff and he was gonna do right Boy I wonder if something came into our life, how hard would it be for Satan to get us to current our back on God Wouldn't something simple, just a little storm, a little heartache, a little sickness, a little a little uh your vehicle breaks down or your roof gets a leak in it or whatever, and all of a sudden you're like Oh man, life is not fair. I don't know why God's doing this to me, and we get all mad and we curse God. No, in the midst of this the Bible says Job cursed God not, that he did not charge God foolishly Job continued and remained faithful in the midst of this great tragedy. God says, look at him, Satan. He stood. He's true through and through. Boy, I can see our Heavenly Father God just being excited about it. And he says, boy, I'm going to record this in the pages of Scripture for all of eternity for all men to be able to read the story of this man But Satan's not done. Satan comes and says, boy, Job hasn't known any personal pain. Now beloved, I don't know how to even describe the pain that Job would have been feeling at this point. with the loss of all of his children, with the loss of all of his life's work. His home and family and all all of these, everything up to this point that he had invested his energy and time and effort in is all gone. I can't imagine the the pain he's going through, but Satan comes and he says, boy, uh Satan, Job hasn't known any real pain. If you let me touch his body, the Bible says skin for skin, boy, you touch a man's body and he'll curse you to your face. And again, I don't understand and I don't know why, but God allows in his infinite wisdom Satan to come and to attack Job. Look in chapter number two and verse number seven. You can read these verses in between here on your own, but we see that so went Satan forth from his presence of the Lord and he smote Job with sores, boils from the soles of his feet to his crown. The situation physically that w w that attacked and plagued Job was was not just a cold, not just a fever. The all of the elements taken together were so uh straining and taxing on Job's body. He had these boils that uh oozed, plus the the Bible says that he had a that that his body put off a a putrid odor that that men could smell as he approached them because of the decaying flesh and he describes in pictures here the idea of him happening to take a piece of potcher to a piece of uh old clay and and scrape off the the boils to try and clean his own wounds and they were from the bottom of his feet to the top of his head. I you know sometimes when you're trying to get some sleep and you just can't get comfortable in any place, in any spot, everywhere it hurts. And and Job was in this situation. He ended up going outside the city and sitting down in a in a ash heap because he had nothing in this world and nobody to comfort him and nobody to care for him. He had lost it all, and if that wasn't bad enough, his situation was so bad, the Bible says that he was unrecognizable. His physical stature and who he was had been so afflicted with pain that he was just a shell of the man he once was. I can imagine with all of this he was unable to eat and he probably lost a lot of weight. I don't know what all it was that transpired, but I know that when Job's three friends come to see him, they say Job was approaching and they looked and said, We they didn't even recognize him. They didn't even realize it was Job coming. His situation was so bad. And in the midst of all that Satan had one more tactic in reserve. You remember Satan's objective was to get Job to curse God And in all this, Job hadn't cursed God yet, and so Satan sends in his backup. Satan has put his own words in the mouth of Job's wife. And Job's wife, who should hold his hand, Job's wife, who should be standing with him, Job's wife, who should be caring for him and helping him through this tumultuous time, comes to him and says, Why don't you curse God? And die. Job's three friends that come to try and provide comfort for them. Job looks at him and says, Boy, miserable comforters are ye all. They just accused him of being a hypocrite. They accused him of being living in sin and trying to hide it so nobody else would know about it. They said, Job, finally you're getting what's yours I'll tell you what, Job, what's happening here is it's evident to all of us you've been living in sin, you've been hiding it, and now your chickens have come home to roost, buddy. Job sitting out here innocent of all these accusations didn't understand or know what was going on. Here's the thing that I've been trying to get to this morning. Can I tell you that Job didn't know why this was happening? Job didn't understand it. Job didn't have a behind-the-scenes look like we do. Turn your Bibles to Job chapter number 19. The intermeeting chapters here are the discussions between Job and his friends, and we've dug into those on Thursday night. But Job is going through all of this great pain and He doesn't know, he doesn't understand why it's happening. There's nothing in his life that he could point to and say, okay, this is what I did, or this is why I'm going through this. He could find no answers for his problems Day after day he sat in pain there on the ash heap and he didn't be wasn't able to explain. His his friends came and said, Well, this is why it's happening, but all he could do is say, No, that's not why it's happening, but I I can't tell you why it's happening. All Job had was questions and he didn't have any answers. He looked all over and could find nothing. In the midst of his greatest pain, the Bible says he even looked and he couldn't find God. He said, I looked in front of me and I looked behind me and I looked beside me. I looked all over, and in the midst of all of it, I not only has my wife deserted me, and not only are my friends miserable, comfortable, and not only am I here all by myself. But in the midst of all this I look around and it's as though I can't even see God. What I'm saying, beloved, is Job had no answers. He didn't know why. He just didn't know How many people have you heard say, boy, if I could just knew why I might be able to understand it? If I just knew why, I might be able to endure it If I just knew why, but Job didn't know why, but can I show you something? Look at verse number 19, I'm chapter 19, verse number 25. He says, For I know that my Redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth. Beloved, here we see Job's comfort. I want you to understand that Job knew that his Redeemer liveth in the midst of it all, when he had no answers, and he had had all he had was questions. There's a lot of things he didn't know, but what he knew is that his redeemer liveth. And my thought for you this morning in the title of the message, and I won't be long, but stay with me for a couple more minutes, is this when you don't know what you don't know, you better hold on to what you do know You better hold on to what you do know. There's a lot of things in life you won't have answers for. There's a lot of things that'll leave you questioning. There's a lot of things that maybe challenge your faith But in the midst of that, you better hold on to what you know. Hold on to what you know Job didn't know why his animals had to die. Job didn't know why his house fell down upon his own children and killed them all at one time. Job didn't know why his servants all had to perish. What did they have to do with it all? Why would they have to go through this? Job didn't know why his body was afflicted with such tormentous pain, ailment upon ailment. He didn't know why his friends were so harsh and cruel to him, or why his wife had turned on him. In the midst of it all, he says, I don't know, but this I do know. I know that my Redeemer liveth. Beloved, when you reach the point in your life that nothing makes sense, when you have more questions than answers, you need to hold on to what you know. I'm saying, beloved, is when the love of your life is taken from you, whether it's expected or not. When you, in the stillness of the night, find yourself all alone in a home, and all you have is questions. And you wonder why we couldn't have we had a few more years? Boy, he was serving God, he was following God, he was doing the work of God. What could have he accomplished if he would have been able to just keep going? And you wonder why. There's a lot of things you don't know, but can I tell you you need to hold on to what you do know? Many of you are probably familiar with the story of Johnny Ericsson Tata. She was born actually right here in Baltimore, the youngest of four. She was a fun, loving child who was very active. She loved riding horses and Enjoyed going on long hikes. She was an active tennis player and loved swimming. And on July 30th, when she was just 17 years old, she dove into the Chesapeake Bay. Into a place that she thought was much deeper than it was. She struck bottom and fractured her spine. This vibrant young athletic lady in just a moment was turned into a quadriplegic She had to go through two years of rehab just to be able to function as a quadriplegic. And she says during that time she went through great times of depression and great times of anger and time and time again asking the questions, why? And she said, through through it all I heard her yesterday give a testimony of how that God when he looks down at earth he sees individual events and he looks and he sees that and he says, Boy, I hate that. I hate that. Johnny had to go through that. I hate that she has to be a quadriplegic, but when he he takes a broad view and he sees what's happening in all of time and eternity, he understands at the great tapestry which he is weaving And he sees it and he loves what comes out of it. And Johnny said, Oh, God hated that I had to be a quadruplegic, but God loved the miraculous thing he's done from that time till this Beloved, what I'm saying is when all you have is questions and there's things you don't know, you better hold on to what you do know. Do you know this morning that you know that you're on your way to heaven Do you know your sins are forgiven and that you have a heavenly Father who will never leave you nor forsake you? When things are bleak and dark, hold on to what you do know. I don't know why. Sunday night. After church, a young Christian mother was on her way home from this congregation Standing at a bus stop with her baby, Jeremiah. An innocent child. His whole life in front of him. I don't know why a relatively young Christian Would have to endure this, but a police chase that got out of control and a vehicle run up onto the curb and ran over her child Tierra had to reach down under the vehicle and pull her child from under the car, still crushed inside the carriage that he was in. Less than an hour later, I was at shock trauma, standing in an emergency room there with her and tons and tons of police officers and standing there with the doctors when they pronounced Baby Jeremiah's time of death. I was standing with Tierra when she. Fell to the ground, and her world collapsed around her I went down to the ground with her here, Tierra and I on the floor in the emergency room, and all these doctors around, and everybody is quiet. And she looked at me and with the cry that only a mother whose heart has truly been broken can have, she said, Why? Why did God take my baby I don't know why I looked in her. I said, I can't tell you why. But what I do know is I know that God loves you. I know that God loves Jeremiah. I know that Jeremiah's in heaven right now. I know that you can trust your Lord and your Savior when I'm saying at times in your life When you don't know where to go, when you don't know what to hold on to, when everything looks dark, you better hold on to what you do know. Hold on to what you do know. And if you're here this morning and you don't have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, you're walking through this life without any nothing to hold on to. You've got nothing to hold on to at that time of loss. You've got nothing to hold on to when things are dark, then there is no answers. Job said, There's a lot of things I don't know, but I know, I know that my Redeemer liveth I know that when the worms that are right now eating my body are all done and this body is gone back to dust, I know that I'm going to see my Savior face to face Beloved, do you know that? No matter how bad things get here on earth, do you know that you're gonna see him one day? Boy, over in the book of John, there was a blind man, and everybody had a lot of questions. Everybody had a lot of accusations And there was a blind man there and they were saying, Boy, his father sinned or his mother sinned or somebody his ancestors sinned and this blind man said, You know what I don't know about all that. All I can tell you, what I do know, is I know that once I was blind, but now I can see But I'm saying, beloved, and this is good preaching if you've ever heard anything, is you better get a hold of some things that you've got settled in your heart and mind that you know beyond a shadow of a doubt. You have a father in heaven that loves you. And I don't care this morning if Satan stands up on your shoulder and says you're all alone You've got nobody in this world. There's nobody that cares for you. I want you to have it settled that you know, that you know, beyond a shadow of a doubt, your heavenly father loves you Beloved, the cross that stood up on Golgotha stands as a testament of the love of God who gave himself for you. There is no greater love than this. Then a man laid down his life for his friend. And you better get a hold of that because Satan's gonna take you through some dark times, and you're gonna need something real, something powerful, something to hold on that will carry you through Do you know it this morning? Stand with me if you would, with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. In 1 John, he says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know That you have eternal life. Listen, I know that God loves me. Even when it looks dark, I know that He loves me, for God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. There's things, there's promises in this book that God has given me, and I know them to be true. And when things are dark, I've got to hold on to what I know You might not have the answers this morning, but do you have some things that you know that you can hold on to? As if Yannis plays, if God spoke to you, you come.