From that and kind of headed in the right direction and and it just seems like they're they're doing well except when you tend to observe that person or have extended interactions with that person, it seems like there's a lot of times that there is conflict with that person. Like where where does the conflict come from? Why it's like there's a there's an issue over here and There's an issue here and there's a problem here. And what is it that's generating these different areas of concern? You sometimes will have family members who will love one another and express their love for one another, but then it is though the smallest little thing And there's a huge eruption. Even in a church house, you'll have in God's family, you'll have church members who express their love for the church and their love for their brothers and sisters in Christ and and uh they of course love one another in the Lord Uh and it seems like things are going well, but then uh if there's just a small, you know interaction or there's something very minimal in the grand scheme of things happens and and then one of them is extremely upset. I mean you would you would think you shot their dog because they're they're so been out of shape about something that happened and and What I'm trying to kind of get down to is there's there's something missing, I think, in a lot of our relationships. relationships in the church, relationships in the home, relationships in society. There's an element, I believe, that has kind of maybe drifted to the sideline as far as priority. And it has allowed this conflict and this spirit to arise and it seems to continually rear its head because this element is missing. And what I'm talking about tonight is the element of honor. I would like to speak to you this evening on honor that brings harmony. Honor that brings harmony. We have been, of course, in the book of Exodus, and we just covered this morning the Ten Commandments and number five. Honor thy mother and thy father. You know that that command in the Word of God, which is the first command with promise In our text this evening that we will spend a majority of our time, I'm going to give you a lot of other scripture, but Ephesians chapter 6 and verses 1 through 4, we see the command to children, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayst live long on the earth, and ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and the admonition. of the Lord. We know that in the husband and wife relationship we have likewise ye husbands dwell with them according to knowledge, giving Honor unto the wife. So this evening what I would like to speak about, I've got three points for you. First of all, is just reiterating or maybe giving you clearly the principle that's found in the Word of God regarding honor. Of course we have that parental Child relationship that we've already mentioned. We have the husband and wife relationship, but can I read for you some other verses that are in the Word of God that maybe are a little less thought about, or we don't maybe consider them, but in Matthew uh chapter fifteen and verse number four, he says, For God commanded, saying, Honor thy father and thy mother In Matthew 19, 19, he says, honor thy father and thy mother. In Romans 13, 7, he says, render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute. Custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. In 1 Corinthians 12, 23 it says, And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, Upon these we bestow more abundant honor, and our uncomliness parts have more abundant comeliness Romans 12, chapter number 10 says, be kindly affectionate one to another, in brotherly love, in honor. Preferring one another. So we've walked through a bunch of relationships and we're not done here, but you see we've we've talked about the husband and wife relationship. We've talked about the parent child relationship. We've talked about the governmental and citizen relationship. We've talked about the uh relationship of of boss and and servant or master and servant relationship. In 1 Timothy chapter 6 and verse number 1, he says, Let as many servants are under the yoke, count their own masters worthy of all Honor that servant master relationship in 1 Peter 2 and verse number 17, he says, honor all men. Love the Brotherhood, fear God, honor the King. So he says that you're supposed to honor all men. There is a spirit that should be present in the heart of the believer, this uh in honor preferring one another, the preferential treatment of other people that do unto others as you would have them to do unto you this giving honor unto whom honor is due, and having that kind of a spirit where we honor others. Leviticus 1932 says I mean there's a whole lot of different relationships addressed there that we are to give honor. And it really is a spirit that should be present in our heart to give honor to other people. It is a principle that God has for us. I want you to know that honor proceeds from a correct attitude. It's when we have the right attitude, when we have the right humility, that we will have the spirit of giving honor. You know, it's awful hard for you to give honor to somebody else when you're full of yourself. You're not going to be very likely to give honor to somebody else when you think they're less than you are. When you think that you are that much more superior than they are So your attitude is incorrect, and therefore you're not going to have the spirit or the attitude of giving honor unto them. It ought to be something that we have in our mind. And we strive to try and and give honor to other people. We don't like even doing that today. Why? Because we are very self-centered today. When you have the correct attitude, that's gonna control your words. It's gonna control your actions. Honor is the missing ingredient in society today. I'll tell you what, everybody in society today wants to be honored. There's a whole society full of people that want to be recognized, they want to be promoted, they want to be put on the top tier, they want to be uh uh applauded, they want to be acknowledged for their work They want to, what's the word they like to use today? Affirmed. They want to be affirmed for their their their you know their attitude or what they've accomplished at work. Want affirmation that they're doing a good job, you know. They want to be re Everybody wants to be honored, but how many are ready and eager to give honor to somebody else? I want you to understand, beloved, the principle that we have for our theme this year to sow bountifully, it works in every part of our life. If you are one that never gives honor, it's very likely you won't receive honor. There's sowing and reaping, and it applies to every area of our life. Matthew chapter 7 and verse number 12 says, Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do you even so to them. For this is the law of the prophets. But the mindset, the attitude that's prevalent in society today is honor me, honor me, honor me, honor me. Without any thought or idea of, listen, no, I don't need to be honored. Let me honor somebody else. Let me let somebody else go first. Let me put somebody else before me. Let me find a way to give honor. You see, beloved, honor proceeds from the correct attitude, and it will produce a controlling action. When you have the correct attitude, it'll produce an action, something that's going to come from you that you know you will. You know, there's some the older generation in here. You know, I can come up to some of the young kids in here. And uh they're sitting on the pew. And I'll come up talking to them and they're like, yeah, yeah, okay, yeah, good talking to you. Okay, bye. But you know what the older generation does when I walk up to them? They stand up. I'm talking about people of Brother Merle's age. I tell them, don't stand up, I don't want you to hurt yourself. No, no, no, just kidding. No, no. I'm saying they they have something built into them. I can't even get them to stay seated. I'm like, please. I mean I just want to say hi. And you don't have to stand up. But this no, I'll start walking up and they'll stand up. No, no, please don't. Well, it's it's just something in that older generation is built into them. You don't just stay seated. Somebody walks up to you. And and you show that respect. What I'm saying is when you have the right spirit or attitude, it produces an action that comes out in what you do and how you treat others. I'm saying it's missing in our society today and it's impacting our relationships It's impacting our work uh situations and the atmosphere in the church sometimes, to esteem others better than yourselves. So the principle is all through the scriptures, and it should affect all of our relationships. I would like you to see the procedure How do we honor? First of all, I want to say to you tonight that honor should be, should be deserved. Okay, it should be deserved. I ask you, uh you know, we said it already, people today boy they just want to be recognized for everything, right? Want to be applauded and patted on the back, but they haven't done anything yet. I mean they're they're fifteen years old, they're not even out of high school, you know, or they they just graduated from college and they want to be appointed CEO, you know, or whatever. And y you gotta earn your stripes It used to be something that was understood, but nowadays they're just, oh no, uh, I'm here. Uh, you know, well, la ti-da. Uh but people want to be recognized. Well, it honor should be deserved. In our passage of scripture here, in verse number four, he says, And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. Can I tell you something that will provoke your children to wrath? is when you demand respect but don't deserve it. That's in every situation, the boss That comes in late all week and then he rips your head off because he because you showed up late one morning? You don't take that very well. Because why? Because they want honor they haven't deserved We got to be careful as parents that we do set the example, that we are an example to them That honor that we're asking for is deserved. And now let me just say here that There are many individuals that you're excited for the excuse to not have to honor somebody. See? Now I don't have to do it because they don't deserve it. Amen. Well Let me just say I I don't see anywhere in here especially when it's talking about children obey your parents and honor them, I don't see anywhere in there where it says if they deserve it. You understand it's something that we're supposed to do to all men. And just because somebody else's has somebody else has a failure, it doesn't give us a pass to not do what we're supposed to do. We are still disposed to do what's right before God and let God deal with the outcome We don't use that as an excuse to have a bad attitude or use it as an excuse to not honor when we should be honoring because they quote unquote don't deserve it. No, we're supposed to do it. Now, it should be deserved, especially in those authority servant and father. son or mother-daughter or you know that that type of relationship. I if you want to provoke your children to wrath, you just demand something that you're not doing. Don't ever let me see you pick up one of these kids. I'll I'll tan your hide, you know. Boy, if I ever catch you with a beer, you're in trouble. That that doesn't work. You want honor from them, you have to deserve it. Honor should be deserved, honor should be developed. This passage of scripture says, bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You see, beloved, I think that by and large honor is missing in our society because we've stopped teaching it in our homes. We've stopped instructing the kids and showing them what it means to honor and how we honor one another. I know that it's a command, and I know that they're supposed to do it regardless. I know that it's a principle, and we've already established that, but parents, we must work to develop it in them We do it first by being an example, showing them how to honor somebody. This bring them up in the nurture. That word nurture means tender, loving care. In tender loving care, being an example, lovingly, caringly guiding them. But the word admonition of the Lord is authority with strength. Authority with strength. It means teach them. Means instruct them. Mean what you say Teach them what honor looks like. I appreciate the parents here that uh their young children You know, when I spa stop and say hello to them, the parents understand that a a child should respond to an adult. The parents say, wait, Pastor speaking to you, you need to respond. That's good. You're teaching them to honor, to not just disrespect adults when adults come up and begin to speak to them and that takes work and you have to discipline and you have to train that. But listen, you respond when an adult speaks to you. Let me encourage you to keep that up. And let me exhort you to don't make excuses for them. Here's the one that I hear a lot. Oh, he's tired. No, he's not. He's disrespectful. Tired is not an excuse to be a brat. You say, yeah, it is. No, it's not. No, it's not. It is if you've allowed it to be an excuse, but don't make excuses for them. Say, oh, he doesn't feel good. That's why he's disrespectful. No. Don't you're making an excuse for yourself is what you're doing because you don't want to, as a parent, take the time to train. And so you're going to say, oh, they're tired. We're going to let this go. We're not going to take time to train right now. We're not going to take time to show them what they did wrong. We're just going to let that go because I don't want to take time to do it. We need to teach them to honor. You need to seize those opportunities. It doesn't bother me as a pastor as much as it ought to bother you as a parent. This has to be dealt with. We've got to take the time right now when they're young to shape them, to mold them. Seize those opportunities. And listen, as soon as you think you have it figured out, the next time pastor comes up and says hello to your child, he's not going to answer I understand that. You could have been working on this at home every day for the last week and you thought you had it done and as soon as pastor comes up, they're going to turn their head the other way. That's just an opportunity to train. That's just an opportunity to teach. It doesn't bother me. I'm willing to try and help. I want you to be able to help and instruct them and bring them along so that they understand. The idea is that you have to use give some effort. When we fail to teach them what honor looks like, we're setting them up to fail. Proverbs 30, verse number 17 says, the eye that mocketh at his father and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out. He says, Listen, when when a child is disrespectful, mocks mom and dad Listen, there's there's something the the the Satan, the consumer is going to come and take that away. They're going to have be challenged through life. What does honor look like? Honor means you obey with a good attitude, kids. It's not just that you do it. And and adults at work. We're talking about honor. If we're using the children and the importance for us to teach them, but this is something that impacts our whole life. Honor in the workplace is is when your boss gives you a job, you do it with a good attitude. I I've told you before uh uh about the manager at Walmart and uh when I when I was a kid One day he was coming through and I'll never forget it as long as I as long as I live because it impacted me. I did not think I was doing anything special. But it shocked him. He came through with a district manager and he says to me, he says, Caleb, get a broom and go go sweep the parking lot. And I said, okay. And I went to go get a broom. And he says, that's what I'm talking about. It doesn't matter what I ask him to do, he's happy to do it. And he called me back and he says, I'm just I'm just joking, you don't have to sweep the parking lot. I have to say I was glad I didn't have to sweep the parking lot. But I just I figured he's paying me I do whatever he asked me to do. I mean that's just it's he's g he's the one we're signing the check. I do what he's asked me to do. And and to me I didn't ever know any different and I I was shocked the longer I was there the more I learned. uh you know people in the break room talking about I ain't doing that. I don't get paid enough to do that. I'm like, you get paid, don't you? I said you you agreed to work here, didn't you? uh you then you get paid enough to do what they're asking you to do because that's what the job is. Honor is obedience with a good attitude, not just getting it done and grumbling and complaining the whole time. But getting it done with a good attitude. Your boss will appreciate that and that's why when I was gonna leave my boss asked me to stay and said if you'll stay If you won't go to college, I'll put you in the managerial program. Why? Because he wanted me around. He saw something there, a good spirit that he could work with, and it's something that benefited and blessed me Honor is obedience with a good attitude. Honor is listening when others speak. Proverbs 15:5 says, A fool despises his father's instruction, but he that regardeth reproof is prudent. Proverbs 23:22 says, Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. Hearken unto, listen, when your father speaks. Kids, you oughta stop what you're doing when mom and dad speak. You know, you're you're you're sitting in there Playing your game and mom and dad come in and say, Hey, uh can you can you do this? and you're just like And the and the only way mom and dad know that you're alive is your fingers are still moving. And and they're like, they gotta try and get your attention to say, Did you hear me? And you're like, yeah, I heard you. No. Yeah. Just I think it was just Saturday night. I walked into the dining room and Timothy was on the computer and he was playing a game. He was sitting had his headphones on. And I walked into the room and I said, Timothy, You put the game controller down, took his headphones off, and put him down, and says, Yeah. That's honor. He was in the middle of playing a game with all of his cousins. They're all online, they're playing each other, and I'm sure that I just cost him that game When I walked out of the room he's probably like, man, oh But that's what honor does. And you have to teach that. You can't just as a parent grumble and complain and be mad that it's happening. You have to correct the problem. You have to show them what honor looks like and say this is how you honor mom and dad. Honor communicates respectfully. Say yes, sir. No, sir. Yes, ma'am. No, ma'am. Parents, you have to inspect what you expect. Kids will do whatever you allow them to do If you allow them to be disrespectful, they'll be disrespectful. It's human nature. You have to inspect what you expect. If you're trying to teach that in them. Get them to communicate respectfully. Kids don't call adults by their first name. Honor means you recognize their age and their authority and who they are by referring to them as their in their last name. That's what honor does. Kids need to be taught that. Kids, you don't interrupt an adult when when they're talking, even if it's mom. I've told a couple of people this way this last week, so I don't remember if I told you guys. If I did, I'm sorry. But when Mary and I were on uh Our little getaway up to Lancaster. We're in the lobby of a very nice hotel that you guys sent us to very beautiful, big plush And there's a mom and a couple of kids checking in and grandma's standing there and there's about a four-year-old child standing next to her going, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom, and whacking her, and she's trying to get checked in And she's just ignoring him because she's used to this. It doesn't bother her. Well the child was not getting the attention he wanted, so he went over to the counter and grabbed all the brochures from the hotel and threw them in the foyer. And so mom looks at him and says, That's it. Now you're going back in the stroller. Kid was too big to be in the stroller in the first place. But that's the only way she could control him Now the kid didn't get in his roller. The rest of the time he did what he wanted to do. Did mom just threw a thread out and didn't follow through. But what I'm saying is he was trying to get mom's attention and would not patiently wait for her to complete what she was doing. Kids, you wait for mom and dad. Mom and dad, that has to be taught. You have to say don't interrupt an adult. An adult, not just me, don't interrupt an adult when they're speaking. You you come up and patiently wait. You stand there, they see you, they know that you need something, and you wait until they acknowledge you. That has to be taught. And don't allow them to interrupt you because it's not teaching them anything. You need to teach them to wait. They are not the most important person in the world. Okay. When you tell everybody else they have to wait to respond to a four year old, you're saying this four-year-old controls my life. And it shouldn't be that way. You should control the four-year-old's life. So you tell the four-year-old to wait. And he will wait patiently, and if he has a problem with that, he needs some encouragement. Okay? You know what I'm talking about. By the way, you kids, you need to stand up when you're spoken to. Especially an adult. I said it, the older generation, I can't get them to stay seated. I'm walking up to them, I just want to say hello, and boy they stand up and they say hello pastor, you know, whatever. And some of you kids, uh uh I'll come up and Don't even think about it. You just stay seated. You need to learn to honor. This is not just for here or in church. This will help you in every area of your life. But it has to be taught, parents. We have to instruct them. This is what honor looks like. Honor expresses gratitude Honor expresses gratitude. It acknowledges, you see, pride does not want anybody to get any credit besides me. Pride does not want to, well, I'm not going to give them the satisfaction like they really did something big for me. And I so I ain't I'm not saying thank you to them, like let them think they actually helped me. That's pride. An extreme problem with pride. We were just in Pin Pensacola Melissa, how many times do you think mom said thank you to me while we were running around Pentacola doing all these different things? She said, anytime we went anywhere, anytime we bought food, basically anytime we did anything. Mary very rarely misses an opportunity to express gratitude to me because I'm such an amazing guy. So there's no no question there, not a problem. Uh we know that isn't true. It's because She loves me because she appreciates what's done and she wants to express that. Honor expresses gratitude, recognizes when somebody else does something for you, whatever that might be. And just show appreciation. Just say thank you. And that has to be taught, parents. Honor is timely. What I'm saying is, do you understand it's disrespectful to be late? It's disrespectful to be late. Honor shows up on time. Why? Because it is showing that the other people present are important enough that I'm going to be there on time so that I'm not making them wait. It's disrespectful for me to show up ten minutes late. If there's six people there and I show up ten minutes late, uh I've wasted an hour of their time. It means I don't care about them. My time is more important than the rest of them. So honor is timely. Honor is considerate of other people. I'm going to honor them. I'm going to honor by showing up on time and showing that I appreciate that they're there. Honor anticipates wishes. Considering or thinking about other people. What would they like? You know, parents, you're doing your children a different dis a disservice when you make everything in life about them. What they want to do, where they want to go, what they want to eat for supper. You know, Mary and I would decide where to eat, and I didn't care whether the kids liked it or not. If they don't like it, they can be hungry. Because dinner was for us. They can eat the leftovers. They're kids. And and my kids are mostly normal. So mostly normal. I'm saying they they survived What I'm saying is don't make there's a mindset in the world today that everything has to be about this little child and we gotta shape oh is this what you want? Oh we've got to cut your toast just so so you'll eat it We keep we keep a dog for somebody that their dog will not eat their food unless it's in a certain bowl. I said a dog will eat the food if it gets hungry enough. Whatever bowl you stick it in, when that dog gets hungry, he's gonna eat it. They're like, no, she won't eat it unless it's in this bowl. I'm like, okay, well then she's not gonna eat, you know I mean, I don't know. Now now we're carrying somebody else's dog. I'm not saying that, but I'm just saying some people are that way with their kids. Everything is about them. It's got to be perfect. They don't like their toast unless the the stuff's cut off the crust is cut off or whatever else. Listen, kids, you need to be considerate of them. Think about what would mom want. Oh, mom's gonna make dinner, she needs a table set. Honor is anticipating wishes. Thinking ahead ahead and saying, boy, this is what she would like, or this is what dad would like, and I want to try and do this for them. Anticipating wishes, thinking about others. Honor magnifies strengths and minimizes weakness. Honor magnifies strengths and minimizes weakness. We all have problems. Your mom and dad aren't perfect. They're going to have weaknesses that you could look at and you could say, this is a problem in my dad's life, the problem in my mom's life This is a problem in my pastor's life. This is a weakness. Honor minimizes weakness and maximizes strength, especially as they get older. As our parents, my parents, that age, do you understand weakness starts to show up? Frailties. Honor doesn't make a big deal out of mom and dad's frailties. Honor respects and loves them because of all the years of love and investment in our lives And so we we honor them and we minimize that weakness. Oh don't worry about it. Listen, I saw my you talk about being an example, I saw my mom cleaning up after my dad's mom who lived with us for three and a half years And she came to the place where she could not control herself very well. And very often she wouldn't make it to the restroom and there would be a whole line down the hallway in our house. It would be in the carpet. It would be in it would be on the bed because she couldn't get up fast enough. It would be, and this was several times a week that I saw my mom on her hands and knees cleaning up this mess. Because and and and she said, and of course my grandmother was you know, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry, and you know, crying again about it. And mom is like, listen, it's okay. It's okay. Come on in here. We'll help you get cleaned up. Went back in there and cleaned up the hallway again. What I'm saying is you minimize the weakness and maximize the strength. That's what honor does. But the opposite a lot of times what we want to do. Let me give you the last thought here. The product. What what what do we benefit from this? I want you to know it impacts all of society, as so goes the family, so goes the church, and so goes society. When we fail to teach this in a home, it impacts all of society, it impacts everything. The family is the very fabric of our society, and we have got to get back to teaching honor in the home When the home breaks down, everything else breaks down. When we honor authority in our lives, it's honoring God. Because God has ordained all the authorities that be. It is what God has asked us to do. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do with all thy might. What you do, do as unto the glory of the Lord. Do all that you do for the honor and glory of God. And it brings honor to God when you are obedient and do what God wants. In the passage of Scripture that we looked at, there's a couple of promises. We know that this is the first commandment with promise to honor thy father and thy mother, that it may be well with thee, that thou mayest live long on the earth. Wearsby said this. It's very insightful. Let me read a paragraph what he said about describing these two promises. He said, it was to the children of Israel, but Paul expanded on that promise in the New Testament. It will be well with him, and he will live long on the earth. This does not mean that everyone who died young dishonored his parents. He was stating a principle when a child obeys their parents in the Lord They will escape a good deal of sin and danger, and thus avoid the things that could threaten or shorten their lives But life is not simply measured by a quantity of time. It is also measured by a quality of experience. God enriches the life of the obedient child, no matter how long they may live. Sin will always rob you Obedience will always enrich you. So what he's saying is that second part, that thy days may be long, but also that it may be well with thee. What he's saying, when we honor, there's something that because we're being obedient to God, it enriches us. In our mind, we think we're giving honor, and so we're giving something away. But what God says is you're gaining something. You're being enriched because you're honoring others. Beloved, it is a blessing that pays dividends for a very, very long time. As I began, I said, there is a principle of sowing and reaping that takes place. You know kids, one day you're gonna have kids that treat you how you treat your parents. And you know, parents, one day your kids are going to treat you how you treat your parents Because there is such a thing as sowing and reaping. We've just had Mother's Day. We're but a few weeks away from Father's Day. Can I read for you a letter from a lady who was hurting? And I'll bring this to a conclusion. She said, when my husband died ten years ago, that was a shock. But an even greater shock has been the reaction of my four grown children. I knew that there was no hope of getting my husband back, but I was hoping at least to have a relationship with my children. I don't require that much from my daughter or my son, just a bit of communication. Just a phone call. But as it is, I could go for six weeks at a time and never hear from any member of my family. Four children and eight grandchildren And no one has the time to call. I notice that when they do call, it's because there's some reason. It's never just, Mom, how are you doing today? Mom, are you okay? They know that I have Parkinson's disease. They know that I'm a diabetic It's not that they don't understand that I have different kinds of treatments I'm going through, but it's as though they never want to hear about those things. I think it's because they don't really want to be responsible for me. I really can't think of any other reason why they wouldn't call. I can't share my joys. They simply ignore me. They have cars, but I never see them. There's so many things about my life they don't even know. There's a whole group of kids there that didn't learn what it means to honor. To honor mom To call, to check on her, to say hello, to see how she's doing. And we are going to reap what we sow. Wherever we're at in this, honor can bring harmony to many relationships. We ought to look for opportunities to honor other people. And honor, preferring one another. It simply means to put somebody else before you, to honor them. Hey, you can have this seat. Oh, let me grab the door for you. I like it when I go into a shopping center and they have the automatic doors. I always tell them, hey, let me get the door for you. We walk in. They're like, oh yeah, I appreciate it. And I said anytime. You know, glad to do it But just letting other people go first, just just honoring people. People are shocked by that. They're like, wow, like, oh, okay. I mean it's it's getting more and more rare. And so it's more and more precious. When people do it. So let's be people that do it. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed