All right, we of course are in the book of Ruth. Ruth and uh have been walking through this basically verse by verse and just an opportunity to uh dig down into the Word of God a little bit and glean uh uh pun intended We are in Ruth chapter two. We'll be looking tonight at verses seventeen through twenty-three. This dramatic story in the book of Ruth opens up And the story progresses in a That's going to be the result, and that's what we see here. Limelech of his own volition moves down into Moab, a place that they shouldn't Widow and uh it progresses uh in a painful way that just continues as their two sons also pass away and leave their new brides, Ruth and Or Orpha widows as well. In this strange land and having nothing else to be there for, Naomi decides to lift up her eyes and she looks back towards home. She looks back to where she came from. And thinks in her mind, well, maybe I should go home. And the Bible tells us that she heard that there was bread in Israel, and all of a sudden she learned the famine was over, and so she heads home and of course This story that began with hardship that moved a heart heartache quickly will see to Tonight it brings hope on the horizon as they get a glimpse of the providential care of God. into town and uh they're they have no means of caring for themselves. They do know that God's uh means of taking care of the poor is available to them and Uh Naomi explains this to Ruth and tells her to go to glean and she says, Can I go? She goes and she gleans in the fields and God and his miraculous uh direction and leading takes her to the field of Boaz, where she is provided for and protected under the watchful eye of Boaz. Now Boaz makes his interest in her, his particular interest, in this young damsel, this young Ruth uh he makes it known in a very special way because his kindness is way beyond normal compassion. Somebody that's just saying, hey, uh let them glean in the field and you know don't be too picky about it. We see clearly that he says, Hey, she could come right up here and glean in the field She can come up here and glean while the reapers are still reaping. You don't kick her out. Let her go ahead and do that. Not only that, I want you guys to drop some handfuls on purpose. Enough to care for themselves, and certainly probably a lot of worry and concern in their heart and minds, but then here in the matter of one day, hope is on the horizon In the matter of one day, and beloved, as we look through the pages of Scripture, we see a little boy who is just a shepherd out in the field caring for his sheep. It was nothing special. Nobody even knew him. As a matter of fact, when the prophet came, they didn't even bother to call him. They left him out there. And the prophet said, You got any more sons? And he said, Well, there's David, but I mean he's out caring for the The difference one day can make. One day David was an errand boy, he was just Fulfilling an errand for his father and he was on his way to the battlefield and there he was just gonna carry some food to his brothers and pass on a message from dad. And get a message to take back to Dad, but then in a matter of a day he goes and he is the hero of Israel. What I'm saying, beloved, is wherever you're at and whatever trial you're facing, please hang on because one day can make all the If you just hang on one more day, beloved, you don't know what God might bring on the scene and what change might take place and what might break free in your life to bring you hope on the horizon. Just the difference that a day can make, and that's what we see here in our text. I want you to see we're going to walk down through this beginning in verse number 17 through the end of this chapter. Chapter here tonight, we see first of all the reserve that is there for the busy. The reserve that ends up in the bank account or the pocket or In under the mattress, wherever you want to say you want to put your reserve, but we see the reserve that's available to those that are busy, that are hard workers, that are getting the job done. We see in verse number 17 and eight eighteen She gleaned in the field until Eve, and beat out that she had gleaned, and it was an about an epha of barley, and she took it up and went into the You see, beloved Ruth got busy. She was out there working in the field. She gleaned In the field. She did what she was supposed to do. She did what she promised she would do. She got busy working to care. Hey, they didn't know that Boaz was going to be They didn't know that God was going to direct her steps to such a magnificent, prosperous day, but she went out to work in the field. She went out to do what she could. And beloved, God did the rest. Amen. God did the rest. She went and got busy. Beloved, God blesses hard work. And uh even the manna that God provided in the wilderness was not just dropped in their tents. It was something they had to go and gather, and they had to do so every day. God expects us to be gatherers. God expects us to be workers. She went and worked in the field, and she gleaned here an ephah of barley. Now an epha is roughly Somewhere between thirty to forty pounds uh by today's standard. That's a pretty good bushel uh of barley that she had there. Now it says that she did so until E Eve. She kept at it. She didn't let the kindness and the uh you know the Boaz's generosity like, oh hey, God and drop some things on purpose. She didn't say, oh man It's only one o'clock. I've already gleaned all that I can. I mean I've already got a good amount for today. I'm done. I'm going home. That's what we do She went and worked all the way till Eve. We see her industry here we see her persistence or consistence uh consistency in just laboring and and accomplishing something hey Then after she labored all day, till Eve, which I imagine was dusk at least, we see that she beat out that she had gleaned. You see, she took what she gathered, and now there is work to be done. That wasn't the whole job. It wasn't just gathering it. Now she had to take that and carry it to the threshold. Or to the place where it was going to be threshed. She had to take time and beat this barley stalk until the seeds would drop out. And uh the implication here is that this was something that she did manually. There was not they I'm sure that they had uh places where they had uh you know grind grinding stones and mule driven things and ways of doing this that might have been easier, but the implication here is that she beat it out, that she did it herself. And so she took this and she took the time to beat this out, and then you would have to do the, you know, like we've read in the scriptures about this Separating the wheat from the chaff. They tossed that up and allowed the breeze to catch the chaff and blow it away and kind of get you down just to the what And then from my reading and study they would have to go through and pick out the little stones that may have gotten into the There. And only then do you have barley that's ready to turn into bread. This barley that they were harvesting here really was typically used for feeding animals. Animals. It wasn't until they got to the wheat harvest that the harvest would have been what would normally feed people. However, uh to feed the poor and others they allowed them to come and gather this and turn this Into meal as well. According to my research, that is estimated to be between an hour and two hours worth of work that she put in. After dusk, in order to get this job done. And then she would have to carry what would be about five point eight gallons So she got a basket filled it up with this, five point eight gallons of barley, pretty good bucket, and carried it. I don't know how far it was, but the Bible says she carried it into the city. You know let me just take a minute and apply this. something from God? Can I tell you there's probably going to be some work involved? You want the power of God on your life? There's going to be some effort involved. It's not just going to come because you thought it was a good idea. It's not just going to come because God has given us a promise that It's there and then it's available. No, it's there and it's available, but you and I have to work for it. We have to labor in the word, we have to labor in prayer, we have to labor in our walk with God in order that God might bless that. Yes, it's still a miracle. Just like God providentially providing for her through the care and concern of Boaz, that was a miracle, but she still had to go get it. She still had to labor for it. You want to see souls saved, beloved, they're not going to just fall in your lap. I mean, I don't know, but in the entirety of your life, you might have one person look at you and say, What must I do to be saved? I mean, it it just doesn't happen every Friday You know, that you you gotta be pursuing that. You've got to be prepared, you've got to be ready, you've got to be he that goeth forth weeping and bearing precious seed shall doubtless Come again. It takes effort on our part, beloved. If you want to have a family that loves and honors God, it takes work. It takes labor. It doesn't just happen. You've got to be persistent and consistent. You've got to love and you've got to lead and you've got to live You see, beloved, there's some gathering and some threshing, and there's some carrying the load alone before you Some people over the years have come into this building and coming in after the fact they They've looked at it and they've said, man, this is amazing. Wasn't it just something amazing that God gave you this building? And the answer to that is yes. Praise God for the miracle. But can I tell you it didn't just happen? There was some people of God that committed to pray and to fast and to seek God that God would do the miracle. There were some people that faithfully gave out of what they had at that time to do what they could do, and they sacrificed for a period of time And continued to sacrifice when when it was just a dream, there was no reality, there was no vision, there was no answer, we didn't know what was going to be, but we just trusted God and we began to step out and seek God for God to do something. And now we get to enjoy it. But it took labor. It took some work. Oh, there is the little story of the little Red hen. The little red hen went out scratching in the field and found some grain. This wheat should be planted, she said. Who will help me plant this wheat? Oh, not I, said the duck. Not I, said the cat, not I, said the dog. Then I will, said the little red hen, and she did Oh, some wheat grew tall and yellow. Who will help me cut this wheat? said the little red hen. Oh, not I, said the dog. Not I, said the cat. Not I, said the duck. When the wheat was cut, little Redhead said, Who will come with me and thresh this wheat? And oh, the duck said, Not I, and the cat said, not I, and the dog said, Not I When the wheat was threshed, little red chin said, Who will take this wheat to the mill for me and help get this milled so that it can be turned into bread? And oh the dog said, Not I, and the cat said, not I, and the duck said, No. Not I. When the wheat was milled, she took it home, turned it into flour, and little red hen baked some bread. Yeah. All of them. They come in and they say, Oh, look at this blessing. Where did you get that bread? Well, how did you get that blessing of God on your life? How did you get to see this magnificent thing in your life? And sometimes people look at from the outside and they see your life and they say, Oh, you've got it all, but they don't see the labor in prayer, they don't see the time in the Word of God, they don't see you seeking and sacrificing for God to do something And beloved, if we want God to do it, it's going to take some labor. We see her laboring and we see her rewarded for it with some reserve. Beloved, when God gives you what you need Is not just what you need. He blesses us above and beyond. And there's some reserve left over so that we will have the capacity to bless somebody else. Man, when when you are so concerned consumed and concerned about just being able to pay your life bill, you don't have money to be able to be a blessing to somebody else But when God blesses you and takes care of that need, it opens the door for you to be able to be generous and look and see. You don't even see somebody else's need when you're so consumed with this little thing right here. But beloved, when we follow God and we labor and do what God asks, He blesses us beyond measure, and it opens the opportunity for us to be able to be a blessing, a conduit for God to help Meet the needs of others, and I'll tell you the joy in that is is amazing, thrilling to see God do that. She had leftover, she had reserve. She says after she was sufficed. Everything she after she had what she wanted, after she was good, she says, man, I've got some reserve here. Take this back to Naomi. We'll let Naomi enjoy this as well. We see the reaction of the blessed here in verses number nineteen. twenty. Verse number nineteen he says, and her mother-in-law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned today? I mean she came in with all this five point eight pounds of barley, a pretty excessive amount. And she saw that and she's like, whoa, where did you glean today? Oh, and and where rottest thou? Blessed be he that did Take knowledge of thee. She showed her mother-in-law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man's name with whom I wrought today is Boaz. We see Naomi's curiosity here with the question about where did she glean. Naomi sees this abundance and is surprised and Is amazed at the generosity of somebody. You see, beloved, just as a way of application here, the big difference is where you gleaned We know Naomi's testimony. Naomi's testimony is I went out full and came back empty. You see, where she went to glean was the wrong place. But you contrast that against Ruth's testimony, and Ruth went out empty and came back full. And Naomi says, Man, where'd you glean today? I tell you, beloved, where you glean is What's notable here in this verse is the amazing transition and change that begins to take place in the heart of Naomi. We see her here use a term that she hasn't used this far. You see, thus far in the story, Naomi's tone has been that of bitterness She describes her life as being empty. That God had dealt bitterly with her. Call me Mara. That's her tone and yet we see her use a word here, blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee. Amazing. She uses this word blessed. You see, she begins to get a glimmer, a little bit of hope on the horizon, a change in her spirit. Out of her mouth now proceeds the word blessing. She begins to be able to see the hand of God. Look at verse number 20. And Naomi said unto her, daughter-in-law, Blessed be he of the Lord. So she understands, not only did somebody Provide this, but ultimately it was the provision of God. It was the Lord that directed it What I'm saying is that, beloved, when you return to God, those things that were once bitter, it may take a little bit of time, but God will take you to the The place where you begin to have hope again, where you begin to see his hand again, you begin to see his provision again, and and we see that change in Naomi's spirit where she begins to recognize blessed. She even acknowledges here how her husband who has passed away Is being honored and being blessed because their needs are being met, because God is concerned about them. And Naomi said unto her, This man is near of kin unto us One of our own next kinsmen. Wow. She sees God's hand in a real way, and Recognizes that name that had long been forgotten in her mind. That name of Boaz. She didn't even Consider it, but she says, Where dost thou glean today? And Ruth tells her, I gleaned in the field of a man named Boaz, and then all of a sudden it clicks. Oh, Boaz! Ruth, that's our kinsman. That's somebody that could. Do you know what this means? I mean, Ruth, do you realize that he's our kinsman? I mean, and he's he's wealthy and he's got the means and the Capacity, you know what he could? He could redeem us. He could be our kinsman redeemer. Oh man, we hit the jackpot today. Wow, praise the Lord. She just begins to see God's blessing on them and say, look at what God did. Beloved, if you'll hang in there for one more day, you don't know what the difference will make. What God God will do in a day when He'll bring you across the path of somebody, or He'll meet that need, or He'll answer that prayer. All of a sudden, Naomi Who hadn't seen a sunny day in a long time saw the sun come up. Her heartache is gone, and hope is on the horizon. Her bitterness has turned to blessing. If you're in the place that you can only see hardship, if you're in a place where you feel that hope is gone, It doesn't matter how empty you currently are. God is just behind the cloud. He is there. And he longs to meet your need. If we could just get back to the master, get back to gleaning in that field. We could see like Boaz who became her provider and her protector. Our Boaz, our kinsman redeemer, the Lord Lord Jesus Christ will do the same for you. We see thirdly here the resolve of the believing. The resolve of the The believing. In verse number 21 through 23, we see here, and Ruth the Moabite just said, He said unto me also, Thou shalt keep Keep fast by my young men until they have ended all my harvest. And Naomi said unto Ruth, Her daughter-in-law, it's good, my daughter, that thou goest out with his So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of the End of the barley harvest and of the wheat harvest and dwelt with her mother-in-law. You see, beloved, they were convinced of something That Boaz had the capacity. They believed it's not something that was one hundred. closer Redeemer than Boaz, but they believed the possibility was there. Can I tell you, beloved, when we believe it will change our actions? When you really believe it will change your actions, we see the resolve here of Ruth and Naomi to stay in the field to continue. I mean there's a lot of other fields around. You could go to a lot of those, but they're like, no no, don't go to any other fields. We don't want to open the door of that. We don't want to even go down that road What we want to stay in this field. We want to stay right here. Why? Because he could be our kinsman redeemer. He could. I mean what's possible? The hope that's there. Boy, we're gonna stay at it. You know, there's been times In my life, where I believed a particular investment was worthwhile. And I was willing to sacrifice current Comfort, maybe sacrifice current needs in order to make an investment. Like maybe my wife needed a car and instead we invested somewhere. I'm just saying there's times where you look at and you say, wait, there is a thing here that could be very, very profitable, and if you believe in it, you're going to do something about it. And that's what Ruth and Naomi did. That resolve changed the actions that they were going to do as they bring this chapter a conclusion Ruth communicates to her exactly what Bo has said. And then Naomi said, okay, you stay Right there. You do what he said. You stay there with his maidens. You work in that field. And we see her stay there not just through the barley harvest, but all the way through the wheat harvest. Now, according to my study, that would have been sometime in April till sometime in June. That's how long she continued day by day In the fields, along with the other gleaners, just pursuing and hoping Looking for a glimpse of Boaz on the hillside there, trying to find and see if the possibility was there, but just hoping and praying that it might come to fruition. Exercising some faith. You see, she didn't just sit at home and wait for him to She continued for months, day by day, faithfully in the field. This is the hope that drives them in a hope that we have of what God can and wants to do for us. But we're not going to do it unless we believe. We're not going to have the resolve unless we believe that it's possible. So, beloved, tonight I wonder, do you have hope? Have you been in a place that you've been living? Looking for it? Have you been laboring to see God do it, or been just waiting for it to happen Are you resolved to see it come to pass and willing to continue to be faithful until God does it? We see the simple application here of the Lord of the harvest, our Lord, says, Lift your eyes unto the The field. They're white are ready to harvest. And he calls for laborers, said, Would you would you go into the field? Pray therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would Send forth laborers. The harvest is there and it's plentious, but are we seeing a harvest? I think it may be because we're not in the field We're not laboring much in it. We could look back at verse number two of this chapter, I believe it was And Ruth says, let me go into the field. Let me go into the field. I wonder how many of us would be asking God Let me go into the field. Let me go labor to see what God might do in and through us. We need to remain faithful until the harvest time is done. Until the harvest is done. She worked till Eve and she kept going until the end of the wheat harvest. Bible tells us the night cometh when no man can work. Our time on earth here is going to be done. We're not long for this world. So until then, we're supposed to be continually, faithfully laboring, serving the Lord in the harvest. And in the midst of it, we see some lessons here about how God will take care of us. God will provide for us. He's there. In just one day, our life can turn around just like that. Oh, I know oftentimes we look at that from the hardship standpoint. We look and say, man, one day, I mean one accident and all of a sudden I don't have a car or I I have broken my legs and I can't walk or one phone call. And you we realize how quickly things can change for the worse, but you understand It's also the other way because God is still on the throne. And just one day God can bring an answer, God can bring a solution, He can give victory, and that quick, if we We just remain faithful. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed