In the uh stage of life where they're looking and considering uh that part, that plan, the the option. Uh when I spoke on that, the young people who were 10 years old are now 16. Uh those who, you know, are 16 or 15 are now 21. And uh if you recall at that time, those of you that were here, it was on a Thursday evening that I spoke on this. Alicia was 14. And I was speaking and I made a joke about Alicia and that in a short twenty-six years she'll be able to consider uh getting married. I mean it's just right around the corner for her And uh but it's hard to believe Alicia was 14 at that time and literally it seemed like it was so far away. Like it was hardly I was giving the thoughts, but really for me or for any of my kids it was not something that really needed to be considered because it was so far away. We really don't have to think about that And now pray for me because it's here. That time is upon us and she is uh actively begging God for no I'm not gonna say that. She's she's okay, but she's she's looking for God's will. And uh, you know, wants God's will. And she's not alone in that, in that stage of her life. There are a number in our church, and it really is I think about how quickly that time passed There is a whole nother group in here that are approaching that time. And I know, I mean, I look back here and see Brother Sister Ayler. They're like, listen We don't need to know how to find our life's made. Amen? You've got that settled. It's not something you're wondering about However, I want you to know that you, as the older generation, as those that have been married for a number of years, you will be called upon to give counsel to give guidance to the next generation or to those that are around you. And they'll ask you, is this a good guy or is this a good girl or should I be considering this person? Or What can I do in this? And I want you to know there'll be some thoughts here tonight that we cover that you can put down regardless, and you can help the next generation. You can help those that are coming after you to make wise decisions. In this matter of finding the person that God would want them to be married to. Further, I've had several questions in recent days that really solidified in my mind that it was time to share these thoughts again. As a reminder to all of us, and to help those who have reached that stage of life. Now, every generation faces challenges related to marriage. The threats to a biblical view and A Bible-based home are increasing daily. And people are approaching this step of life, this most important decision of life really outside of salvation probably the most important decision of life that you're gonna make and they're they're they're approaching it far too flippantly. They're coming to the marriage altar wholly unprepared for the institution of marriage and the life that they're committing to. Those considering marriage today may wonder how do I find life my life's made? How do I know that I found the right one? How do I know that that's the one? I mean I my heart has gone pitter patter. Does that mean that's the one? Oh, I can't stop thinking about them. Does that mean that's the one I'm supposed to be with forever? Well, after a current study dying done by the University of Chicago, they are considering changing that old statement, love at first sight, to love after 172 days. Because they have determined that is how long it takes one to make up their mind about a relationship They, after much scientific study and research, they have determined it takes 172 days for you to decide that's the one Now, what I only throw that out to say, listen, out there in the world, there is so many ideas about what to do with regards to finding your life's mate. And it would be, I believe, as much as you know about the world, because I deal with marriage counseling, I deal with premarital counseling, I think that I could shock you tonight at things that young people are being told. in preparation for marriage. It's mind-boggling. But I want to tell you tonight, if you hope to or would like to have a happy marriage, then you better do it God's way. God is the founder of this institution, the home, marriage, and we want to do it in a God-honoring way. In our text in Genesis chapter 24, there's recorded for us the miraculous story of Isaac, this beloved son of Abraham. How God brings to him a mate for life. There's three major events in the life of Isaac. First of all, you come, I know you know the story and you understand that Isaac was a promised son, that he was a miraculous birth. uh given far after the normal time of life for a lady to have children, but God gave it as an answer to prayer and as uh a promise that he would do So God, he had a miraculous birth. Then you know the story, of course, about Isaac and how he was miraculously saved. Because his father, in obedience to God, took him to the mount and was going to sacrifice him there because God had commanded him to, and God was testing his heart to see if he would wholly trust and follow God. He he did and God provided himself a sacrifice and saved Isaac. He was miraculously saved. And then here we have a story about how he was miraculously brought together with the one whom God wanted him to be with. That one. And I just I'm not gonna spend time here and but I want you to know that every one of us God gives life. And every child, every life is a miraculous thing. It's a gift from God. The world has gotten to the place where they take life so flippantly, they obviously are killing babies by the millions. Do you find somebody in a home that has gone four, five, six, ten years praying that God would give them a child? And see if they don't value that miracle of birth. Every life is a precious, miraculous gift of God. Secondly, I want you to know that if you've got a life and it's been given to you by God, not only that If you're here tonight, I believe by testimony, the majority of us have put our faith and trust in Christ, and we have been miraculously saved. Not only have we been given a miraculous life that God breathed into us the breath of life and allowed us to live here on earth, but he has saved our soul from an eternity in hell and given us eternal life, and we have been miraculously saved. And that ought to indebt us to him It ought to allow us to further consider the life we have as an opportunity to serve and honor God and do what God wants, not what we want. And as we yield to him, God will direct our steps. You could, and I certainly would encourage you to read the whole of Genesis 24. Although for the sake of time, it's 67 verses. We're not going to read it tonight. We will look at many of the verses and kind of enough for you to get a picture of the story. But it might be interesting to you to kind of read it as it progresses and see God's leading in this miraculous bringing together of Isaac and his wife. It is an amazing fact when you think about that in the pages of Scripture we have entire nations. that rose and fell, or kingdoms that rose and fell in just a few verses. God says they came, they lived, and they died. And here was a whole generation of peoples. And yet here God took 67 verses. To give to us this powerful story of how he leads in the life of his people And how important this is to him. This dramatic and vivid count of how a bride was secured for Isaac. So I want you to see several things tonight. First of all, the provocation for a mate What is the motivation? What is the reason? Why would somebody seek to get married? In Genesis 24, verse number 12, he says, And he said, O Lord, God of my master, Abraham, I pray thee. Send me good speed this day, and show kindness unto my master Abraham. He was praying and seeking God's will regarding this mate This this he was going to search for a mate and he said, Lord, I want you to lead. I want you to direct. We want this to be part of your plan. Abraham sought after God's will. Beloved, it should be part of God's plan for you. Now I'm not going to take time. I have a whole section of notes. The last time that I spoke on this, I I took Two messages that were almost an hour long. And I'm going to cram it into one message tonight. So we're going to get it done. And we'll try and get it done in less than an hour. What I'm saying, I gotta leave some stuff out, but there's a whole section here on the fact that uh it might be God's plan for you to be single. There is purposes, there's reason, and sometimes it is God's plan for you to remain single. You need to know what God's plan is for you. And if you would like those notes, I'd be happy to email them to somebody or send them to you. If you think you you're praying about seeing if that's what God wants for you, maybe uh those would be a help to you, I'd be happy to go but we're not gonna go into it right now. But you need to know God's plan for marriage. It is a sacred and holy thing and should be viewed as such. For some today, this world has cheapened it. The world has taken the institution of marriage and made it so cheap. Made it a a just a a practical thing, like oh we're just gonna get married because it'll improve our tax status. Hey, it's expensive to live around here. If we just get together, then we could live for half the cost. They've they've cheapened the institution of marriage. It might just be a practical consideration, splitting the cost of living or other practical matters. It might be a physical consideration. Sometimes people get married because they're just tired of being lonely. Tired of being lonely. There's another whole section here on the idea of contentment. You understand, beloved, contentment is being content with got with what God has brought into your life, and many times the aspect of contentment is addressed or looked at in with regards to physical things, with regards to, you know, oh, I don't need a new car right now. But it is just as much a fact that we are to be content with what God has brought into our lives. in this matter as well. For you to pine over the fact that you don't have a mate if it's not God's plan for you, is you are being discontent. With what God has given you, and it's no different than me whining and complaining every single day because I don't have a Tesla. You say that's not the same thing. This is a matter of the heart, and it's so much more important. It's the same thing. It's being discontent with what God has brought into your life. It is the same thing. And you want people to coddle you and comfort you and hold you up and cry with you because you are discontent with what God has brought into your life. If that's you, you need to confess that is sin and get it right. And maybe if you were content with what God brought, he would allow you to take that next step. But it is a serious thing. We need to be content with what God has given us, and there's another whole section of notes that I'm skipping. When should somebody consider this idea of dating? No, I I'm not going to get hung up on the different terms today. There are some people that, you know, just the term dating and and boy, nobody should be dating. It ought to be courting. Call it what you want, building a relationship, establishing whatever. You know, there's people that get way bit out of shape. I'm not gonna stress about that. Uh But the idea of building a relationship, when should that happen? I just want to throw this out for you parents. This world today has got this all messed up. Okay. Children should not be talking about or looking at or considering. You should not have nine and ten year olds passing notes about how much they like each other. You say, Oh it's cute, uh she loves him and he loves her. Yeah, and you wait till they're fifteen. When they have allowed their heart to go to the point of marrying somebody, what I'm saying is they feel they love that person enough to be with them for life. But they're not ready to be married. They are going to act like they're married, even though they're not married, and that's why you have so many young people losing their purity. So when should you be looking at building a relationship? When should you be considering uh you know allowing this to take place? When you are ready, the only place, the only reason to date, the only reason to Communicate on that level is because you are considering them for a mate. You're ready to be a husband, you're ready to be a father. Caleb, are you ready to be a husband? Are you ready to be a daddy? Then you have no business talking to girls in that kind of way. Because you're not there yet. Now Caleb's just under that age where he's pretty pretty easily to say no, you know He's just passing, you know, the age where girls have cooties, you know. Just getting into that. But the pro the problem today is you have fifteen and sixteen year olds that are acting like they're ready to be married, but they're not. And parents, this is your responsibility to control that relationship. To understand the way that you build a relationship is through communication. That means your 16-year-old girl or 16-year-old boy should not be texting nonstop with another boy or another girl Because that relationship is going to be growing to a point where it is beyond where it should be as a 15-year-old. So you have to limit that communication. Now it was not near as hard when we were kids Because there was only one phone in the house and it was on the wall in the kitchen. And it had a 67-foot cord on it that you could walk all the way around the You know, go sit down in the living room. But you couldn't take it into your room. You couldn't have any private conversations, you know, all of that. So Because cell phones are so prevalent today, kids can communicate with one another in a private way which builds intimacy which should not be taking place in the heart of a young person. So, when should you be looking for a mate when you're ready to get married and have kids? Before that, listen, I'm a guy and I understand, and I was a teenager. And you enjoy the accompaniment and the attention of a young lady, and you're attracted to them, and that's a natural part of life, and I understand that. But it needs to be controlled so it doesn't go too far. You gotta be very careful and cautious with that. And parents, that's our responsibility because The foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. A child does not know what they don't know. And it's your job to keep them from walking off a cliff that they didn't realize was there. Okay? Um So the motivation, the reason to get married, here, what is the provocation there for marriage? Well, the provocation is because it is God's plan for you. It's God's plan for you. And you know that. And so you're seeking God's plan. God's plan. May be for you to be single, but God's plan may be for you to be married, and you're seeking and content with whatever God's plan is. Now look in verses 13 and 14. In verses 13 and 14, he says, Behold, I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. And let it come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink. And she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels to drink also Let the same be she that thou hast, what's the next word? Appointed. Let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac. I believe God has an appointed person for you. Amen, Sir Johnny. Amen. God has an appointed person. There are a lot of guys out here that are bums. Amen. And there's a few guys out here that are really good guys. You can't marry all of them. She's ignoring me. She's fervently writing, yes, I'm getting all these notes, feature, I'm getting it down. I'm not looking at you right now There but there is one that is God's appointed person for you. And the world has cheapened this and they've dramatized it with all of our the Hollywood influence and You know, we we've got to have that moonlight sonata playing in the background and the candlelit dinner and everything has to line up and it's love at first sight and there's bursting fireworks and This d the the the heart just goes and that's what's gonna happen and you'll know it's the one. That's not true. Now there will be feelings, there will be emotion, there will be love. But what you've got to understand is God has an appointed one for you. The biggest question is, boy, I just want to be happy. I want to have a good relationship, then you better find the one God appointed for you. It's not just taking whoever or whatever comes along, it's finding God's appointed person. And that means you have to be in God's will, in God's plan. You get married, beloved, because God because you have found God's appointed person for you. So the provocation for a mate is you know it's God's plan. And you have found God's person. So where do you find that person? The place to find a mate. Where do you find a mate? Look in Genesis chapter 24, verses 3 and 4. He says, and I will make thee swear by the Lord the God of heaven. And the God of the earth, this is Abraham talking to his servant, he's going to send his servant to go find us made. He says, I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven. And the God of the earth that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell, but thou shalt go unto my country and to my kindred and take a wife unto my son Isaac. You need to look in the right place to find your mate. Let me give you a truth that's gonna knock your socks off. It's very likely you will find the mate you end up with where you're looking. It's probably gonna happen. Where you're looking, you're gonna find the one you end up with. But the goal, beloved, is not just to find one to end up with. The goal is to find God's appointed one. That means you need to look in the right place. In this story, Abraham felt it was vital. It was of utmost importance. He said, I'm going to make you swear. I'm going to make you promise. That you will not find a mate for my son among these heathen that I'm living with. You go to my country, find a mate among my people. Beloved, it's a Christian's duty, a Christian's responsibility to only be looking for a mate. That's a Christian. That's a Christian. What happened to Samson? And Samson went down to Timnath where he was not supposed to be. You see, he was looking in the wrong place. And he saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And he came up and he told his father and his mother, and he said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughter of the Philistines. Now therefore get her for me to wife. You see, he was looking in the wrong place and his heart got captivated by a woman from Timnath. And it's very likely that your heart will get stolen away. and taken by somebody that is not the appointed one when you're out looking in the wrong place. You need to set up a barrier, a guard, something that is a is a wall for you and you say this is not the place that I'm looking for a mate you may say boy that's a pretty sharp guy right there But this is not the place to be finding a mate. So you got to put up a wall and say, I'm not gonna, this is not consideration. This is not even something I'm looking at. You need to consider where it is that you're looking. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 6. 14, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness? With unrighteousness, and what communion hath light with darkness. Now, this verse can be applied in a lot of ways, and there's people that have taken this verse out of context and applied it much further than biblically interpreted it can be There can be some application. But here, very clearly, he puts the line of demarcation on believers and unbelievers. Believers and unbelievers. In the Old Testament, it was against God's law for them to yoke together a clean animal and a unclean animal. It was against God's law for them to do that with an animal. Why in the world are there Christians doing it as people? And I know they say, oh, I I'm gonna get him saved later. I'm gonna get her saved later You are in for a world of heartache. Now, I praise God for those in here who have been brought to Christ later in life And where you're at, listen, God's not as concerned as where he where you've been as he is with where the direction you're headed. Okay, it's not about, I know there's different life circumstances here And everybody's a little bit different. You got saved and we're still praying for the rest of your family. We understand that. That's not what we're talking about. But for Eli to be down at Giant here in about four or five years, maybe he's working at Giant And him to see some girl at Giant, that's pretty attractive to him. He's getting a little interested in her There ought to be something in the back of your mind, Eli, and the rest of young people. This is not where you find a mate. This is not an option. I don't even need to consider this. I need to shut that off. Because that's not the place to look. You've got to put up a barrier, put up a guard, because you'll you'll get down that road, Eli, and your heart will be get pulled away like Samson's or Solomon's heart was turned by his wives and concubines. You've got this one you're interested in. And then your heart takes over and this goes out the window. This is gone. And your mom and dad who have all kinds of wisdom and they'll be telling you, listen, Eli, this is not the one for you. And you'll be like, you just don't know her like I do. She's a good person. It's too late now. So you gotta put up the guard, put up the barrier, only look in the right place. A believer Should not be looking for anyone or even considering someone that is not saved and an active participant in a good church. I'm not just talking about somebody that's saved. We're talking about being equally yoked. Now here I'm taking this application a little bit further. The demarcation is believer-unbeliever. But you believe you ought to have a walk with God. You believe you ought to be in church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Thursday night. You believe God wants you to love and serve Him with your life. You know, there's a lot of people that claim salvation that think it's okay just to go to church on Easter. Okay, you've got a lot of difference there in your beliefs. Right. And as a Christian who wants to please and honor God and find the one appointed for you, I don't believe God would have somebody appointed for you that does not value and appreciate God's house. And by the way, they should be there long before you ever consider them. Yeah, right? Yeah. I was telling the uh homeschoolers, the homeschool co-op that this is a ministry for the members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. This is not open to whoever. I said there'll be people out there as you find as you communicate and talk about and say, oh yeah, I'm a member of homeschool co-op. They'll be like, oh, I want to be a part of that. And they want to come and be part of the homeschool co op, and you can tell them, we would love to have you. First, you got to come and be a member, an active participant of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We would love to have you. Why don't you come to church? Because this is a ministry for our church family. But you know there will be people, I guarantee it, there will be people that will come to church. At least once or twice just because they're interested in a homeschool co-op. They want to put their kids in a co-op. And you know what? I hope they come and I hope that they hear the message of the gospel and they get saved and they become active participants and then they can enroll. But they will do that only because they had an interest in the homeschool co-op. Do you know that if you have a guy that's interested in you, that he will come to church for you? No doubt. For a while. But if it's not part of his life when you met Don't think that after you get married, that's gonna stay. He's g- the chasing is done. He's done chasing you. He's gonna go back to who he was. And who he was was somebody that did not follow or seek God. And he'll go back to that and you'll be carrying the kids to church by yourself and wondering why your husband won't go to church with you. You look for somebody. You look where do you look for a mate? You look for a mate in God's house. Now it doesn't have to be in this God's house. You say, Pastor, I'm looking around and the pickings are slim. Okay? There's not too many options here. Uh what am I supposed to do Listen when you you are following God's plan. We had somebody in our church that went on a missions trip to Africa. And in Africa, they met somebody that was an active participant in a ministry, in another ministry. in America and God brought them together in Africa from our church. What I'm saying is you're following God's plan. God will lead you to the right person that He has appointed for you. And he can put you together. God's been putting people together for thousands of years. He knows how to do it. He knows how to do it. Now I'm gonna throw this out and you're gonna remember this, a couple of you, uh, that I would not recommend you look on the internet. I know there is exceptions to the rule. Um here here's the thing. Is there is there good people on the internet? Yeah. There's good people on the internet. Is there, you know, could you possibly find somebody that loved God and wanted to serve the Lord on the internet in some website? Yes, it's possible. But you could also find some good food in the trash can out here. Okay, but you're probably not gonna go weed through all that trash to find a little bit of food that's edible, are you And that's what you're doing online. There's thousands and thousands. I mean you just consider you see the Bible says the prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. That's what happens. You need to think about the inherent risk. I mean, how many stories have you heard about somebody that met online and they were either raped or killed or abused or whatever. The internet is not the place to find a mate. Could you possibly find somebody there? I want you to know it's possible. Um but I would not recommend it because of the inherent risk. You foresee the evil, and so I think God could bring you together without the internet. Now in God's miraculous way, He may use that as a tool, as some would testify. Those of you that don't know, we have a couple that met online. Now they're in marriage counseling every week, but but we're working through it. Amen. No, just just kidding. They're they're not. So the place that you would want to find uh a maid is in God's house. In a in a church of like faith in practice. Not just somebody in church, but somebody active in church, involved in the ministry, serving God. Somebody that you could call up their pastor and talk to their pastor about them. Get their pastors' advice and thoughts on on this individual, whether it's the guy or the girl. You know, you can trust God. Look in Genesis 24, verse number seven. He said, The Lord, the God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, which spake unto me, and that swear unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land. And he shall send his angel before thee. And thou shalt take a wife unto my son from Them. He says the God who has promised me all these things will go before you and he's going to direct your steps. He's going to lead you in the right way. As long as you're following and seeking him, the angel is going to go before you and he will bring you to the one that's for my son. And I believe that you and I can trust God. To bring us together with the one that God has for us. Let's go to the last point. Skipped a whole nother section of notes. The process to finding a mate. What is the process? Genesis chapter 4 and verse number 12, we've looked at this verse already. But he said, O Lord, God of my master, Abraham, I pray thee. You need to pray. You need to pray. Seek God's face. Seek God's plan for you. Ask your Father. Matthew 7:7 through 11. Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. That passage there on asking and receiving from God. God wants to give you the desires of your heart. There's nothing wrong with you saying, God, this is a desire that I have. Now what I believe is that if you are truly submitted to God, He will one of two things, He will give you the desires of your heart. Or he will give you a new desire. So God will give you a desire that's in line with his will, or God will give you the desire that he has in your heart. It could be a God-given desire. And you pray and talk to God about it. Because God wants to provide for you and give to you. Hey. He says there, if ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? You say, boy, I sure would love to have the appointed one for me. Are you praying for it? Are you asking God for it? Saying, Lord, I want your will. I want the one you've appointed for me. I want to submit and yield to you. I want this and and let God direct your steps. Delight thyself also in the Lord and He shall give thee desires of thy heart. Are you delighting yourself in God? In Genesis 24, verse number 21, he says, And the man wondering her, wondering at her, held his peace, to wit whether the Lord had made his journey prosperous or not. I'm going to say here that he had to wait patiently. He kind of waited to see, is this the one? Maybe this is the one. Seems like a pretty nice lady could be a good option. But he waited patiently. Are you waiting patiently to see God bring that person? You know that you and I can make things happen and call it God's will? We can make it happen. Oh, God brought us together. I only had to call him 97 times I only had to go to his house seven times when he didn't invite me. Uh you know, God brought us together. We make it happen and say, oh look at this miraculous thing that God did. Are you waiting patiently and letting God do it? Because God will. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall Strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, wait on the Lord. Are you just waiting on God? Say I've been waiting, preacher. I've been waiting and I feel like I've been waiting long enough. I know I know. But trust God. And you just see that you need to continue to pursue God's way. In verse number 27. Chapter 24, verse number 27. He says, And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth. I being in the way, the Lord led me to the house of my master's brethren. I being in the way One day I want to preach a series of messages on the way. The way of a Christian. There's really a lot of things that God does for us as believers when we're in the way. Way. Where we're the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. God may have a person that He wants to bring you together with. You know what? It could be the child of a missionary that's passing through, wasn't even scheduled to be here, and he just shows up on a Thursday night, and you guys meet and you begin to talk. And miraculously, God bonds your guys' hearts together and puts this, God brought you together. But what if you decided, ah, church ain't important. I'm going to stay home tonight. You weren't in the way. And you missed what God had for you. You know such a clear picture of this is Jacob and Rihanna. And how uh you know, they're both looking and waiting on God's will and kinda, you know made it through college and and God didn't really put them together with somebody yet and wondering what might be God's plan and and I was supposed to go To this thing in DC and the plans got changed and ultimately last minute I said, you know, Jacob would enjoy this. He would like this, and I call him up and say, Hey, would you like to go And he he said, sure. What if you'd have said, nah, it's gonna be hot. I don't think I'm interested in walking around down there and doing that. And it's not comfortable being a witness to strangers. You know, I I don't know if that's for me, preacher. I I don't think I'm gonna go. He would have missed meeting Ryanna that day. But because of God's directing the steps of a good man and just yielding to God and saying, yeah, I think You know, I considered asking three or four other people about going on that day. Mary and I were talking about it. We're like, what about this person? What about maybe this person would enjoy that? No, I think he's gonna be working, he's not gonna be able to do it. What about this person? Ultimately we said, oh let's call Jacob and see if Jacob can go. God knew. God knew. Who needed to be there And God can do that for you. But you've got to be in the way. You've got to take this Christian life seriously. You can't just hit it once uh once a month and say, Oh yeah, yeah, this is important to me, but for the rest of the month I'm gonna do whatever I want and expect God to direct your steps and for you to be in the way and for God to bring this together You've got to pursue God's way. You find God's will when you're in God's way Obey them that have the rule over you as part of being in God's way. You know God has given your parents as Guide. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. I know we have people here at all different stages of life. But I want you to know I don't see anywhere in the scriptures where based on your age you can dishonor your parents. I think there's still a measure of that of you should value and appreciate your parents' opinion. And you say, well, they're not happy about this person. You better be careful. God has given you appearance to help protect you. If it's God's will and you're in God's way, I believe that if you just submit and say, okay. God will change your parents' heart. But if you fight against them and do your own thing, it's mind-boggling kids some stupid stuff. they do. You know, you you want to just go get married against your parents' will. They told you they don't like this person. They don't want you marrying them. And you just do it. And then what the day after you're married, you want them just to pretend like nothing happened. You want them just to love you like like nothing. Just come over and and be you know be grandma and grandpa as soon as the kids come along and and act like like you didn't defy them and go against them and marry them It's crazy. You what I'm saying is you're setting yourself up for a heartache, a lot of turmoil in your family down the road. So part of being in the way is following God's plan and that's honoring and respecting your parents. Giving them the liberty to help guide you in that relationship. We're not going to take time to read it, but in verse 51, her father said, um, okay, you can take her about Rebecca. So this is time. You you can take her. And then in verses 58 to 61, she submitted. And she said, okay, I'll go. At the direction and the leadership of her father, she said, I'll go. Because of God's plan. God has also given you a pastor. In Hebrews chapter 13, verse number 17, he says, Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, that they might give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief. For that is unprofitable for you. Now, I I'm not even comfortable talking about this stuff, but literally, God has given you a pastor to help protect your children. His job, his responsibility is to watch for your soul. And if you're reaching that point in a relationship where you're considering somebody to take that step or go down that raid, you ought to talk to your pastor. You ought to say, hey, here's somebody I'm interested in. This is where we're at. What are your thoughts? And weigh heavily the thoughts that he has for you. One day you might be in his office begging him to pray because she's walked out on you. Or he's walked out on you. And he will. But what I'm saying is you might be able to avoid that heartache if you just heed some advice. All right, can I fly through some some this is a very practical message tonight, but can I fly through some things, uh just practical things that you should look for in a meeting? All right. Got your pin out, Sir Johnny. Melissa was already ready. She beat ya. She was ready to write 'em down. So what a lady should look for in a mate. First of all, you know he should be saved. You need to look at how does he treat his mother. How does he treat his mother? It's very likely that he will treat you in a similar manner. How does he treat his mother? So you need to pay attention to that. Does he respect her? Does he honor her? Does he value her? Does he carry his Bible? Does he serve in ministry? You know, or to see somebody that for one reason or another just doesn't have time. Oh, I want to do it, but I just can't find the time You know, he's a single guy. It will never ever in his life be easier to serve God than it is right then. It's only gonna get harder. As soon as you get married, it gets harder. And then as soon as you have kids, it gets harder. And you have more kids, it gets harder. It never gets easier. And if he can't find time to do something for God when he's single, You better understand he isn't going to find time later. Is he seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness? Seeking first the kingdom of God. Does he talk about spiritual things with you as you begin to build your relationship? Does he ever speak about about spiritual things? Can you talk about church, God, and the Bible? He should be a hard worker. Amen. If he can't keep a job, you you need to walk away. I'm just telling you. If he's twenty-three years old and he's had twenty-three jobs You do not want any part of that guy. He does not know how to work. He does not know how to persevere. He should be able to work. How does he keep his appearance? He should be attractive to you. That's a He's got to be attractive to you. He's not an angry man. Not an angry man. The Bible tells us make no friends with an angry man. Listen, let me tell you something. There's there's a real problem here with this. You see you you you begin to let your heart go. The reason that it takes 172 days, according to the scientists, for somebody to determine if that person is the right one or not, is because it takes 172 days for For you to determine that they are who they are is basically the gist of the article. The idea is that anybody can put a show on for a while. Can pretend for a while. But after a certain amount of time, the true person's gonna start to come out. And here's what I'm saying, ladies. If you find a guy that he after a while you guys are coming out a out of giant and something happens and he slams his cart, just loses it and slams his cart into the car and just get blows up. And you're like, oh, he's not normally like that. He's normally a really sweet guy. He's normally really loving. No, you just saw who he was. You just saw the truth of who he was. You can make an excuse for him or whatever you want, but that is who he is on the inside. He's been hiding it all this time. And after you get married He's going to be ripping cabinets off the wall when he's not happy with you if he's not hurting you. You want to, because your heart is already pulled that direction, you want to make excuses for him. Oh, he's not normally like that. He's normally really kind. I mean, he's really sweet. Unless anything happens against him, then he blows up. So you shouldn't be an angry man. You should watch for that. You should watch for those things. Is that coming out? It should be someone committed to purity. And it should be someone that knows how to handle money. If you're you're dating somebody or look considering somebody and you find out that he's got ten thousand dollars in credit card debt Sorry. He's not the one for you. He doesn't know how to handle money. And you think it's gonna get easier? It isn't gonna get easier. Okay, what should a man look for in a woman? Obviously, she should be saved. She should love God and have a sensitive heart towards Him and His will. She should be a hard worker. We see in our story here in Genesis 24:19, Rebecca drew water not just for him, but for all his animals. That's a lot of work. You know ladies, is it a hard job to keep house? It takes a lot of work to do all that laundry and and to to just be a mom and to homeschool the kids and it's hard work. And a lady needs to be willing to get down and do it, to get the hard work done, to do what's necessary. If you, young man, Lucas, if you ever meet somebody that's really beautiful and all she's worried about is how she looks, that's not the one you want. Because looks are gonna fade and then you're gonna be married to an ugly bum. And you don't want that. Listen, when when uh when the looks are long gone, at least she's still a hard worker. Amen And that's what's gonna count. That's what's gonna count. She's still gonna be putting forth the energy and effort to care for you and to care for the kids. And to keep the house and to to maybe maybe get out and work if it's necessary. If you can't supply for the home all of your own, a lot of people in today's world have both uh husband and wife both have to work. And She needs to be a hard worker. She should take care of herself and her things. But this is not what should be most important. to her. If you find a girl that can't get dirty, I would walk away. Now that's not what girls should be looking for. Girls shouldn't be, oh I want to get in the mud. That's boys. That's not what girls should be looking for, but she should not mind mind pulling weeds. She shouldn't mind getting dirty. Because that's part of life. And you're gonna regret it if you get stuck with somebody that All they want to do is their nails and their hair. Um she should be giving. Generally have a generous spirit. She should be able to cook. And she should be attractive to you. In Genesis 24, verse number 16, it says, She was very fair to look upon. She was pleasing to the eye. God made that part of our attraction to one another. Praise God. You don't have to look for the ugliest person in the world. world to marry. You can find somebody that is attractive to you, that you like you look and say, man, that would be awesome. Wow. Praise the Lord. That would that would I mean that should be part of it. You should be attracted to them. We're going to uh to wrap it up here. These are just some practical thoughts on how to find your life's mate. Things that tidbits of information that I think would be a help to anybody. that's at that place. Valuable, important things that would keep somebody from making a real mistake if you just take these things to heart