But anyway, I'll invite you right now to open your Bibles to the book of Matthew chapter 9. Matthew chapter 9. And I am aware. Of the hour. I got my watch over here and everything. And I know it's Wednesday and everybody's tired because this just the Wednesday willies. I call it the Wednesday willies. You just feel like that, you know Oh Thursday. See, I'm on Wednesday mode. Yeah, you guys are different as did Thursday. Amen. Yeah, it is Thursday. It's the Thursday troubles. Amen. So I'll get you out early tonight. Amen. All right. Let's do this. Matthew chapter nine Matthew chapter 9, verse 35. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom. He and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Verse 36. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them. I want you to Highlight that thought, underline that idea. He was moved with compassion He was preaching, teaching, and healing. And people were coming over to see him. They wanted something from him. You can't blame people I mean, if you have a healer and you have something you want healed, period. But Jesus saw beyond that and saw them for what they were. Matthew describes it, because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then he said unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he will send forth laborers into his harvest. I want to preach to you tonight a short message on how to develop the heart of Christ in you. How to develop the heart of Christ in you Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. And Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for this wonderful crowd, Lord, your people. We thank you, Lord, for the memories we share. We thank you for the wonderful times we've had with them. We pray for Pastor as he's away, protect him, Lord, guide them, give them safety as they travel about, making memories, Lord, as a family. And we thank you, Lord, and congratulate all the grads, Lord, and those that are going to be grads in the future. We ask for your hand of protection and guidance upon the young peoples. Lord, and uh this church in particular, Lord, we love Hunt Valley. And this is a lighthouse, Lord, a candlestick, a golden candlestick in your eyes. Keep them strong. Keep the light burning bright, Lord, in this day and age. And we pray that you glorify yourself through the word in Jesus' name. Amen and amen. The book of Matthew is more than a biography of Christ. If you like to read biographies, usually biographies end with death. But Matthew is not a biography. Matthew is a gospel. And it's a gospel because it ends with the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Matthew's thesis is to present Jesus Christ as the Messiah. And fulfilling. That's really one of the major phrases in the book that he fulfilled this or that he fulfilled that. And there's nobody else on earth who can do these things except for Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the one, the only Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. As you read the book of Matthew, you'll come to discover there are five major discourses or sermons. In Matthew 5, 6, and 7, it's the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus shows us what kingdom life is going to look like when he rules and reigns as king in Jerusalem someday. There's a sermon on missions in chapter 10. And we're right in chapter 9 right now. But before he launches into missions, he has to get his disciples together and show them and teach them. What is the engine behind missions? And I want to share that with you tonight. Then in chapter 13, the third sermon is the mysteries of the kingdom of parables, the kingdom parable mysteries And if you're ever wondering why is the world such a mess, it's because we are living today in Matthew chapter 13. I love Bible prophecy. I'm not going to be teaching on prophecy tonight. But if if you would just take time to read Matthew 13, you'll come upon the parable of the wheat and the tares. And that is exactly what we are experiencing today. There are many, many people who say they are Christians. But deep down in their hearts, they never had a personal relationship with Christ. They never did call upon the name of the Lord to save them And they really don't care about the things of the Lord. They may look like a Christian, but they don't they don't have that personal relationship with the Lord. And so we have that in Matthew 13. Matthew 16, 17, and 18 is a sermon on the church matters and things about the church. It talks about church discipline and that kind of stuff. And in Matthew chapter 24 and 25, we get back to that prophetic theme again, the Sermon on the Mount of Olives or the Olivet Discourse, where Jesus describes the end of the world. And all the things that pertain to his second coming. Now, Matthew here takes us to Matthew. We're in Matthew chapter 9. before the Sermon on Missions and what his initial mandate was to the church. This is what you would call in Matthew 10 the Go Knot Commission. Because he tells them to go into the villages of the Jews, but don't go to the Gentiles. You've got to present the kingdom first to the Jews, and so on and so forth. So but here in Matthew 9, I believe Jesus Christ uh gives us the the the the the motivation and the power behind missions And it begins with the heart. Interestingly enough, it begins with the heart. Jesus looks at the multitudes. Matthew calls it multitudes. You could tell he's a financial guy, money and uh uh quantifying things, multitude. Mark is more of a servant. He says, much people. But he describes them as uh fainting. Fainting. The people were fainting. The idea of fainting is that they're worn out, they're collapsing, they're fatigued, they're tired, and they're weary. Sounds just like the day and age we live in today. And then he describes them again as being scattered. That's thrown away. Rejected or cast off. And you will know that the people were scattered because nobody was shepherding them, nobody was calling them to gather. Nobody was doing the work of, hey, let's assemble, let's let's get together instead of fighting each other and wasting each other out and casting off each other broken relationships. All around, abound. Sure you see sin here, and sure you see sinners here, but I want you to see the Savior. For the Bible says that when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion. The word compassion simply means suffering alongside another. Have you ever experienced that? Grabbing hold of somebody's hand on their deathbed and just sharing that moment with them and hurting inside for them? That's what compassion is. Compassion is when you share in the hurt. You can't solve their problems, you can't help them. But you can be there for them. And you can pray over them. And you can shepherd them. Just like the Lord Jesus Christ does. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. That's the heart attitude of Jesus Christ. He never is about scattering people. He's always about bringing people along. And if we're going to be anything like the Master, we're going to have to have a heart inspection and we're going to have to develop the heart of Christ in our hearts. So I'm going to give you these Four simple points. Number one, in order for you to have the heart of Jesus, first of all, you have to have a changed heart. You have to have a changed heart. Jeremiah chapter 17, verse 9, you probably know it. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? So the Bible describes the heart of the natural man who is without Christ. This is what we what our hearts were before Jesus Christ. We're naturally deceitful. We're desperately wicked. Oh, but Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 26 says this: A new heart I will give you. A new spirit I will put within you, and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh. You cannot have the heart of Christ without first having a changed heart. I don't know what your heart condition is tonight. Y'all look mighty fine and good. Everybody looks good. Amen. You may not feel good, but you sure look good. And may things may not be going good, but y'all still look good. But one thing for sure, if your heart hasn't been changed, you need to repent and trust in Jesus Christ as Savior. And the wonderful thing about it is if you come to Him, He'll take you in. A changed heart. Number two, a checked heart. A checked heart. This is that constant, daily, everyday heart check. Let me ask you a question. Did you prepare your heart for the Lord tonight? Go over to 2 Chronicles chapter 19. There's a lot to criticize King Jehoshaphat for. But in 2 Chronicles chapter 19 and verse number 3, we find A commendation, a word of commendation for this king. 2 Chronicles chapter 19, verse 3. Here's what the Bible says: Nevertheless, there are good things found in thee. In that thou hast taken away the groves out of the land and hast prepared thine heart to seek God. And he's not the only one. Ezra is another one in Ezra chapter 7, verse 10. Look at Ezra chapter 7, verse 10. That priest Ezra Ezra chapter seven, verse ten. For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it and to teach it in Israel's the statutes and judgment. So preparing your heart. You know today's grace will not help you for tomorrow's trouble. Sometimes we live from Sunday to Sunday, but we need a reminder. Sunday's grace is good for Sunday. You need Monday's grace for Monday. And we have to make a constant daily heart check. How's your heart doing Is your heart fixed? Is it established? Is it firm? As the Bible talks about. Look at Psalm 57, verse 7. Psalm 57, verse 7. Psalm 57, verse 7, David says this: My heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. That just means that his heart is established and firm. He's going to walk with God today. Is your heart fixed? Are you trusting in the Lord? Do you cast upon Him all your cares? What does it take to distract you from following the Lord? A heart check isn't a daily thing. It's an everyday thing. Psalm 112, Psalm 112. And uh let's see here, verse 7. Psalm 112, verse 7. He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord. So when you hear bad news Doesn't it make your heart sink at times? You know, I mean you hear just horrible, terrible, wicked, evil tidings, and it makes you tremble, and you just wonder to yourself. How how how's this gonna work, Lord? Maybe a bad doctor's report. I don't know, maybe you know the bank is low, the balances are not right, or whatever. I don't know. But the key is this: he shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is fixed. Check your heart. That's a daily thing. Number three, you need a cultivated heart. A cultivated heart. This is a heart that is loaded with biblical convictions. And by that I mean there are two things to this. Number one, you have to be able to read the Bible. Just to read the Bible. And I'm not talking about studying the Bible. I'm just talking about plum reading the Bible There's a great need for us to know the Bible and to read it. Even when we get to the parts where it's like, you know, the names and the the cities and the names and it's like whoa, you know, what's the detail here? I mean To us, it means really virtually nothing, but uh what a reminder that God knows every single detail of things we don't even care about. But it's a big deal to God. And he put it in his word. And you know what? You may not understand it, but I don't understand how soap and shampoo cleans the body. But when I take a bath in that water, a shower in that water, I get a whole lot cleaner. And I don't even need to know the chemistry of it and all the oils and all that nasty stuff. It's like reading the Bible. You may not understand everything, but as you read the Bible, you get cleaner. Because sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. A cultivated heart is a heart that reads the Bible and is a heart that studies the Bible. So God gave us 66 books to study. How are you doing in mastering the Bible? You know, when I was a Catholic, It was only the priests who knew the rituals and the rites and the scriptures. They were the only ones. We call it priest craft That the priest is the only one who could interpret the word correctly, and so on and so forth. But when I prayed to receive the Lord as my Savior, I discovered something. The Holy Spirit of God that lives in the pastor is the same Holy Spirit of God that lives in my heart. And he is the greatest teacher. And he'll take you through his word and show you things and teach you things and bring things into your remembrance. And pretty soon you'll have an answer when you consecrate your heart to the Lord. You'll have a hope, an answer for the hope that is within you for people who are seeking. God and things like that. And uh you're not a good disciple until you start discipling others. And don't we don't believe in priest craft. You know what? Some, I look forward to the time when the believers in Tuktukan can know the Bible just as much as I. Just as much as I do. Because then they can be the preachers and teachers, and God could use them in a mighty way. But we need a cultivated heart that believes in biblical conviction We need to believe that sin is sin. That the wrath of God is the wrath of God against sin and sinners. We need to really believe that man outside of Jesus Christ is lost. Whether he wears a loincloth or whether he's wearing a tuxedo, a man outside of Jesus Christ is lost. We need to believe that hell is real. That the lake of fire is real. I know some preachers that used to believe that hell is real. And then they got this crazy universalistic mindset that says, well, in the end, God's gonna just let everything go and it's all gonna be good and all that. You don't you're not reading the same Bible. There is a hell to shun, and there is a heaven to be gained through Jesus Christ. You need to believe that Jesus Christ is the only way that lost sinners can gain salvation. The forgiveness of sins, justification being declared righteous because of the blood of Christ, adoption into the family of God through through the Lord Jesus Christ, the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit of God. Our responsibility as the sons of God and children of God, we all learn all this by reading and studying the Bible. You have to fill your heart with the Bible if your mouth will speak about it. You see, the Bible says this: out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh. And so cultivate that heart with the Word of God. Last, you need a communing heart A communing heart. There has to be a heart that is in communion with God. Did you notice what Jesus said to his disciples? He said, Well, look at the fainting. Look at the scattering. And you know what he says? What they're supposed to do before they go preach Adam and knock on their doors. You know what he said for them to do? He said, pray. That's a communing heart. When your heart is praying and communing with God, prayer is priority. Now there are a number of Hebrew words for prayer and a number of Greek words for prayer, Old Testament, Hebrew, Aramaic, New Testament, Greek. And I think there's about 15 to 18 different words for prayer. But there's one thing in common with all those variants of words in the Hebrew and Greek. They all have one thing in common, and that is simply this. And it defines what prayer is: asking. You know what prayer is? Just asking God. Let me ask you a question. Did you ask God for anything today? Oh, a communing heart. Notice he said to pray before they go. You know why? Because if you go without praying, you won't accomplish anything spiritual. You just guarantee anything we do in the flesh is the touch of rust. But if we get in the spirit of prayer and we go in the commute with a communing heart, Seeking the Lord, asking Him to fill our hearts. Prayer there then makes the difference. You know what happened to the disciples? They started praying because Jesus said, pray ye, ye, second person plural, corporate word, ye, all y'all, southern. All y'all. All y'all what? All y'all pray. That's why Wednesday night, um by Thursday night is so important. Because uh you gather together to pray. And you know what happened? They became the answer they were looking for. God transformed them and used them in the work. And so if you if you know the engine of missions, it's really the communing heart with God. Ask God to send you to the right person. Or ask God to send the right person to you. Ask God to give you the right message for the right opportunity to speak to them about the Lord Ask God to empower that message so that as you speak to them, that maybe the Holy Spirit of God would open their eyes Ask God to continue on carrying the work of the Word of God in their hearts as you leave or depart or move on. Because you never know what will happen when you plant the Word of God in their hearts. Some plant, some water, but God gives the increase. By praying more, you don't work less. And somebody, old preacher, said this, pray and work and work and pray. How about it tonight? Can you honestly say that you've had your heart changed? Have you checked your heart daily? Are you cultivating biblical convictions? And knowledge in your heart. And do you have a communion heart tonight? Think of those things. And at this time we'll ask the pianist to come and play.