Well we uh seems like currently right now there's been you know just a lot of people dealing with loss. Uh there are several in our church who in recent days have dealt with their own loss. But the crane is here tonight and uh still uh very fresh and very raw and uh dealing with the loss of his dear wife uh and he is not alone in our in our congregation uh In the last six or seven months, those that have experienced that. Of course today we laid Connor to rest. Uh not Connor, Connor's mom. I hope Connor got some rest, but that's not Connor's mom to rest. They're dealing with that. There, of course, Nancy is sisters very close to uh passing away and and in hospice care right now. Um in in light of all of this, um, you know, the fact of the matter is is uh the end of our life is gonna come at some time. We don't know when our race is going to be done. And so I would like you to turn your Bibles tonight to Acts chapter 20. Acts chapter 20. Beloved, as sure as we have started in this race, the race of life, which people today like to call the rat race. As sure as we've started, we are going to come to an end. There's going to come come an end. Regardless of one's faith or the lack thereof, the end is coming. We know the Bible says it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. But the Bible says there is something possible for the believer. And that is to not just get to the end, but to finish the chorus that God has set for them, and to do so with joy. Would you look at Acts chapter 20 and verse number 24? The Bible tells us here in Acts 20, 24, but none of these things move me. Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my chorus with joy. And the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify the gospel of the grace of God. Beloved, the fact of the matter is, is many start, but only a few finish. That is true in the Christian life and is It's true in every aspect of life. You can think about a marathon where there are at the starting line. Hundreds Maybe even like the Boston Marathon might have like a thousand people standing there w with excitement waiting for the gun to go off to to start running. But when it comes to the finish line, there are sadly uh a tremendously lower number that reached the finish line The fact is, is how we start is important, how we run is important, but the greatest important is how we finish. Not just getting to the finish line. But it is possible to finish your chorus with joy. Vincent Lombardi once said: the quality of a man's life is in direct proportion to his commitment to excellence. Regardless of his chosen field of endeavor, I firmly believe that any man's finest hour, his greatest fulfillment To all he holds dear is the moment when he has worked his heart out in a good cause and lies exhausted on the field of battle, the victorious Giving it 110%. Reaching the end, reaching the finish line, having completed or finished the course that was set before you, and doing so with joy. That is the desire that I have in my heart. I know it's the desire of anybody that is thinking, that's contemplating or looking down the road is to finish their course, but not just to get to the end, not just to endure until the finish line. But to do so with joy. That's what I would like to talk to you tonight about is how to finish your course with joy. How to finish your course with joy. I do have a lot of ground to cover. We'll see how this goes, but first of all, I want you to know that you need to follow the plan. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I may finish. What's the next two words? My chorus. My chorus. That I might finish my chorus. The fact of the matter is, God has a chorus for you Paul said the same, very similar statement in 2 Timothy 4 7. He said, I fought a good fort, I fought a good fight. I have finished my chorus. I finished my chorus. God has a path and a chorus specifically laid out for each of you. We need to stay on the course that God has for us. We can't just get to the end and say, okay, well I've made it to the end. If we're going to get to the end and and do so with joy, like Jesus Christ. reached the end of his life and said, I have finished my course. I've done what the Father gave me to do. We've got to complete the course that God gave us to do I read today in the LA Times, it was an article written some time ago, so I don't know exactly when it happened, but there was a race where all of the runners were supposed to reach a particular place. It was a cross-country race, and there was a spot on a golf course where they were supposed to turn left and go up what was the most steep and treacherous terrain of the entire course. However, it was not clearly marked. One of the front runners did not see the flags for the turn and kept running straight. Well, there were 128 racers. The front runner went that way, and 125 of the racers followed him right off the chorus. Only five of the of the hundred and twenty-eight actually saw the corner And he when he saw it, he called and said, You guys are going the wrong way. You're going the wrong way. And he tried to get them to come back, but they were already committed that way. And some people probably thought, well, he doesn't know what he's doing. Everybody else went this way. And they ran they they they followed the crowd and went that way. That's just a little quick thing you need to be sure who it is you're following. They they went off the track and There was there was some one of the fastest runners knew the knew the track and knew where he was going, uh but he came in in like a 118th place or something like that, uh because The 123 that went off the course didn't do the hill, and therefore they reached the finish line early. When they found that out, of course they were the 123 were disqualified. Because they didn't follow the path. We've got to stay on the path that God has set for us. It is a personal path that's laid out for you. A course that God has for you to run. A purpose and a plan for your life. I want you to understand how important this point is. Caleb and Stephen and Lucas, would you guys help me tonight? So you guys have a course to run. What we need to understand, beloved, is sometimes We feel like, okay, we're in this race, and only one receives the prize and our competition streak comes out and we're we're we feel like, okay, I've got to run and beat these other guys But the Christian life is not like that. The race we're in in the Christian life, everybody's path is different. Everybody's path is an individual path So Lucas, what you're going to do is you're going to go your path, you're going to go down that aisle there, you're going to go out the back door, you're going to go through the fellowship hall, you're going to come through the office entrance and come back to the front right here. Don't go anywhere yet Okay, uh Caleb, what you're gonna do is you're gonna go in this room right here. You're gonna go up the steps, around through the Baptist tree, come out, out that door right there, okay? And that's your path. And Stephen, you're gonna go out that door right there. When you get to Chihuan Road. No. Uh you're gonna go you're gonna go out that door, you're gonna go around, you're gonna come in the front door and come back to right here. So you g don't run. We don't want to run the church, plus you understand that the Christian life is an endurance race. It's not a sprinting. It's you're racing against yourself. Finishing your chorus is to get to finish your chorus You're not trying to get there before somebody else. So you guys can go in a brisk walk, but you know don't don't crush it. But go run your individual race. See the key principle that I want you to understand is that each and every one of us have our own individual race to run. We need to stop comparing ourselves among ourselves. A lot of times we look over at somebody else in the church and we'll say, boy, I wish I had their path What their life seems so much easier than mine. It doesn't seem it seems like something wouldn't be really that hard. And boy, if I could do if I had their life, boy, my life would be a lot easier. But you think uh We've got to stop comparing ourselves. Each of us have a path to run. So you guys can wait just a minute. Caleb apparently got lost. Here's the thing. Aren't you glad tonight that you didn't have Paul's path? You had the shortest path. What happened? Yeah, see I went in there this afternoon and I put a whole bunch of junk in the way You see, sometimes we think, man, if I had that shorter path, I could do really good. But you don't know what kind of obstacles that believer has had on his path. You don't know what kind of struggles that they faced, the things that God put in their path before the race began. You are thankful tonight that you didn't have to run Paul's path. In 2 Corinthians 11, he says, In labor is more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prison more frequent, and deaths often Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes, save one thrice. I was beaten with rods once, I was stolen thrice, I suffered shipwreck in a day and a night. have I been in the deep and journeys often in perils and of water and perils of robbers and perils of mine own countrymen and perils by the heathen. And he goes on describing that's the path that God set for Paul We're thankful tonight that we don't have that path to run, but how many of us have been disgruntled about the path that God has us on? On the course that God has us to run? We were looking at it and wishing we had some other path we could take. The fact of the matter is you guys just stay here a minute. I'm going to have you go again in a minute because I want to build this illustration out a little bit. The fact of the matter is, is everybody's path has some uphills and downhills. It's a provided path, the put path that God's where God sends, He sustains There's some uphill battles that you have to face. There are times in your life that you get to coast downhill. I love it riding a bike. When you get to go downhill and you don't have to pedal, you can relax and the wind's blowing by you and you get to enjoy that breeze and it's so nice you don't have to work. And even on the flat ground when you can pedal and you're making progress. But isn't it so frustrating when you have to climb a hill and you have to even if you have gears and you can go to a lower gear, but you're pedaling so much And the bike's just barely moving. It's just barely moving. And you're like, man, I'm working so hard to get nowhere. Life is like that. Sometimes the path that you're on is going to have some uphill battles You can enjoy the downhill, you can enjoy the flat run, the days of progress and advancement, but all of life is not going to be that way. Whatever path you're on, you can know that God will enable you to get through it. You understand, beloved, there's been times in my life I didn't think I was going to make it. There's been burdens and troubles and heartache that I've faced that I thought there's this too much for me. I can't I'm not going to be able to do it. But you know what? God brought me through. God brought me through. I was able to succeed because where God leads, God enables. And God has set you on that path, and that's a path for you to go on so you know that God has that plan for you. And he will give you the strength to get through it. You are not under the punishment of God. Sometimes we feel like, man, God must be mad at me, or man, God must not be paying attention. Why am I going through all of this? Job wasn't under the punishment of God, but that was the chorus that God had put Job on. God has a purpose and a plan for everything that He brings into our lives, but you have a path that you are supposed to run. I want you guys to go again. Go again through your path. God has a plan for you. Some of you have lost loved ones in recent days. Some of you have been through some great Physical challenges, some uphill battles. Some of you have been through and gone Through the unnatural heartbreak of the loss of a child. That shouldn't be something a parent has to go through. What we don't know is the day that God's gonna say, your path is done, your race is run, you finished your course, you can be seated. His race is done, theirs is not. We don't know when the day is going to come that he's going to say, hey, you're done. But until then, we've got to stay on the path. We've got to keep on the course. And how are we going to keep going on the course? Why don't you guys be seated just a minute? I'll probably have you go again. We'll see. We've got to keep on the course. So we see here in our text, first of all, that there we need to follow the plan. He says, there I've finished my chorus with joy. Not only that, we need to we need faithfulness in spite of problems. Back up to verse number 19. We saw already the things that Paul endured, but we see here even in this text, if we back up to 19, he says, serving the Lord with all humility of mind. and with many tears and temptations which befell me by the line and weight of the Jews, and how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have showed you and have taught you publicly and from house to house Testifying both to the Jew and also to the Greek repentance towards God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. Understand, beloved, he was saying, Hey, I have been faithful to teach and to preach. I have been faithful even in the face of temptation. Even in the face of hardship, even in the face of trial, I have been faithful. Why? That I might finish my chorus with joy. If we're going to get to the end of our lives and have joy We get to the end of our days and know that our race is run, but we have joy in our heart. We have got to be faithful even through the temptation. Faithful even through the trial. Faithful even in the hardship. Struggles are a part of life. Paul understood, beloved, that the race was not the reward. The reward would be coming later. Finishing his course with joy was the goal. In spite of great hardship, persecution, and problems, he continued until the end. Beloved, we have got to stop feeling sorry for ourselves. We have got to stop babying ourselves. Stop letting the storm overwhelm us. Realize that struggles are a part of life. It rains on the just and the unjust. Everybody endures hardship on their path somewhere. Some days are sunny and some days are stormy. That's what life is. We need to learn how to go through that and remain faithful. It doesn't mean you're going to be bouncing off the wall so excited every day about what's going on. There's some days that are a struggle, but you learn to be faithful through that. It is beloved a personal decision. The pastor asked his church, one of his church members, how uh she was doing, and she said, Well, I'm doing pretty good under the circumstances. And he said, well what are you doing under there? It's a personal decision. You decide if you want to abide there. If that's where you want to stay, if you want to allow those things to overwhelm you or if you want to turn it over to God and remain faithful through it. God has designed us to be overcome overcomers. We are to be overcomers We know that the Course is from God. It's personally laid out for us. And so what comes on the path through the Course of Life is necessary. Learn how to live above your circumstances. Continue even when it's rough, and let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. We've got to keep going. Too many just quit. They just quit because it got hard. They quit because it got uncomfortable. They quit because a storm came. Because it wasn't as fun as it was in the beginning. Is I get I get a little concerned when people that come to the church here when right off the bat they are just Booming with praise. When they walk through the doors and they've been here once or twice and and everything is so amazing and and oh this is exactly what I've been looking for, and they're full of praise for me as the pastor and I mean, hey, that's awesome. But you know what I've seen in over ten years of doing that? Those kind of people usually don't last very long. They usually hit the road within a few months. Oh, I thought everything was amazing. Everything was exactly what you were looking for. But then a few months down the road when somebody hurts their feelings in the church or they find out that we expect of the church members a a a or we preach and and encourage, exhort. uh holy living and separated lives and and not to embrace the world but to follow after Christ wholeheartedly. I don't know what it is, but something in the in the course of time they say, ah, this is not for me, and they they're gone. We need to learn how to keep going. Wellington said the secret of the British Army was that they had found the ability to fight five minutes longer than anyone else. You see, that's all you got to do is hang on five minutes longer than anyone else. Just hang in there a little longer. And you'll win. And you'll be victorious. And you'll come through. So we need to be faithful in spite of the problems. You need to focus on the prize. But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy. The prize Focus on the prize. Paul was not going to allow his priorities to get out of balance because he had a goal. He had a desire to finish his course. I'm fifty years old and I know for some of you that's very young. Well, I know in a month. Okay, I'm not quite there. I'm I'm quickly approaching that, right? Getting fifty. And I'm looking at, okay, I got 20 years of ministry left. You know, I look at that and think, that's not that long. That 20 years is not that long. And and I I just think about The changes that could take place. You know, the fact of the matter, beloved, is I do not know that God would say. In my mind, I want to serve here another 20 years, but God may say next week, Pastor Caleb, your race is done. In my mind, I got 20 years of service for God left. And I'm looking down the road for that. But God may say, Caleb, your chorus is run. Your time is done. The path that I had for you is complete, and now I'm calling you home. We don't know when that is, we don't know when our course is going to be done. But we've got to keep on focusing on the prize until we get there. Only one way to keep the priority right, and that is to focus on the prize, on the goal. 1 Corinthians 9, 24 through 27 says, Know ye not they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. So run that ye may obtain. So run that ye may obtain. Are you running the ways to win? You see, i run that you may obtain. Are you in this thing to get to the finish line? To get to the finish line with joy? He says, and every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. He said, if you're going to run that you may obtain, if you're going to run with the goal of actually succeeding, then you've got to Uh hey, you're gonna have to be temperate in some things. You can't stay up if you're gonna be a successful distance runner, you can't stay up all hours of the night and expect the next day to have any strength to go running You've got to determine now it's bedtime. You can't uh eat whatever you want to eat and and just eat trash all the time. No, if you're gonna run that you may obtain, you say what do I want to obtain? So here I'm gonna eat like this so that I can Build the muscle I need. I can get the stamina I need. They say carbonation is terrible for your joints and all that. If you're going to be a runner, you've got to get off the carbonated drinks. It's just adjusting so that you may obtain. Well, I think Paul says a very similar thing if you attribute Hebrews to Paul, which Might as well. We're not positive who wrote it, so we'll give it to Paul. The terminology and the language is very similar, but he says in Hebrews chapter 12, 1 and 2, wherefore seeing we are also compassed about so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and sin which does so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus the author and the finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despised and ashamed, is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. There's so much in that that I just read. I mean you see here the laying aside of the weights. The weights and the sin. Beloved, it makes it a lot harder to run when you're carrying around extra weight. You gotta if we're gonna finish our course with joy, that means we're gonna run that we may obtain. That means there's gonna be some things we say, you know what, this is a wait. You know what? This is a sin. I need to get that out of my out of my life. It's going to hinder me from being able to run that I may obtain. It's going to hinder me from finishing my course with joy. I want to finish my course and get to the end and do so with joy. That means I've got to lay some things aside. Have you ever, in an effort to get in shape or to improve your physical fitness, have you ever had the opportunity to use ankle weights? Just wear 'em, maybe you just wear 'em around the house. If you're really energetic, you wear 'em jogging or walking. But just wear them around the house. You wear those around for two or three hours and you take them off and and you're going like this. Your you're like your feet feel so light. It's like all of a sudden it's like, man, I didn't realize like You're used to picking up that extra five pounds or whatever the weights happen to be, and you're you you take them off and all of a sudden your feet are so light. One of the reasons so many people are Christians are struggling in this Christian life is they're carrying around a bunch of weight they're not supposed to have. It's hindering them from running. That they may obtain. We're going to finish our course with joy. We also need to learn to forget the past. Philippians chapter 3 in verses 13 and 14 he says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth into those things that are before. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Again, that same type of running goal and ambition that's being described here. And it says, you know what, you gotta forget about yesterday. You gotta forget about the past. There's nothing you can do about it. Satan's going to do all he can to bring that up and to hinder you or to hold you. You've got to forget past failures. Don't let that dictate past failure does not dictate future success or failure. You do that by the decisions that you make. But Satan likes to hold that past failure over your head. But you know not not just that, Christian, we need to learn to let go of past hurts. If we're going to finish our chorus with joy, You have got to let go of past hurts. Life is too short and too precious for you to be nurturing and hanging on to some hurt, some way that you were mistreated or abused or accused or you know what whatever it is Listen, God has forgiven us of everything. You know, there's brothers and sisters that can't even get together. They can't even get together for a holiday or for Christmas or for Thanksgiving without a whole war breaking out. Because of past hurts, because of problems. We have got to learn to let go of it. Just let it go Forgetting those things which are behind. If we're going to finish our course with joy, I know that you've all met people that are older, reaching towards the end of their days. And you've met some, like Lois Stevens, whose heart was just full of joy. Who just was loved God and loved people and just enjoying her days. Even with the physical challenges she had, just always a smile on her face, always the joy of the Lord in her heart. And then you've met some others who were bitter and angry. They knew God too, and they had the same Lord and the same opportunities, but for some reason something happened in their life and their bitter at their children or they're angry at their church and they uh they don't care for this and they can't stand that and this place has terrible food and nobody ever comes to I mean everything's a problem. They're just full of anger and bitterness. They're going to end. They may not have finished their course, but they certainly aren't going to do it with joy. I want to get to the end of my days and finish my course with joy. Less charge by you just learning to say, you know what, it's not worth nurturing this thing. Picking at the scab. Keeping the wound open. You need to let it heal. You need to stop digging it up and mulling it over in your mind, over and over and over and over and over again. Reevaluating it. For the last week and a half. I've kicked myself 150 times and I've just I've I've thought through every possible scenario of what I could have done different To not have that mess in the foyer that we see every time I come in here. It just every time I walk in, it bugs me. So I'm preaching it myself. Forgetting those things which are behind. It's down. It's glued to the ground. There's nothing we can do about it. I brought my boys over here at midnight last night. Said, we're going to cut that carpet up and we're going to turn it around. We started cutting it. I said, I think we can do it. We can have it done by 4 a. m. And so we came over, we started cutting the carpet, we started pulling it back. We worked on it for a while and I said it ain't gonna happen. It it was too arduous to get up. It's gonna tear the carpet up getting it up because we glued it down way too good. But getting it up is gonna ruin it. And then we don't have any extra. So we had to put it back down, re-seam the seams that I cut open. You can't tell, but I mean you can tell because it's facing the wrong direction, but you can't tell the seams when we move. But I'm telling you that that has just bugged me to no end. I've thought about it and thought about it. I'm trying to go to sleep last night. In my mind, and I'm like, what could have we done different? How could have we changed that? How did I miss that? Just over and over and over again. You know what? Some of you are doing that with some relationship problems, with some people. You're just nurturing it, you're just bathing it, and it's killing you. It's robbing you of all your joy. And it's your own fault. You say, no, it's their fault. No, it's your fault. fault. Because you're the one that's nurturing it. You're the one that's stirring it up all the time inside your own heart and mind. Turn it over to God and let it go. Life is too short. Forgetting those things which are you've got to forget the past. Let me give you a couple practical things and then we're gonna bring this to a close. You need to find joy in the present. This is just practical things. Learn to enjoy life. You know variety is the spice of life You need to learn how to enjoy many different things. You see the person that can only have fun doing their favorite thing spends most of their life unhappy. I'm only having fun if I get to do what I want to do. Parents, let me encourage you, teach your children to participate in the games that everybody's playing. Because life is not about them. They need to learn to have fun doing what everybody wants to do. You say, well, I don't really like kickball. Well, who cares? Learn to like it. Learn to enjoy it because why? Because other people enjoying it. And it's not just about what you want. But you know what as adults we need the same thing. We need to learn how to be able to enjoy more than the one thing that we like. I don't really like fishing. It's not really my favorite thing. But I would enjoy going fishing with any one of the men of the church. To spend time together, to to go and I mean that's what they enjoy, and I would enjoy doing it with them just just for the fun of it. Learning how to enjoy stuff because somebody else enjoys it shows that you care more about other people. That you're willing to do that for them. The enjoyment of others should be important to you. Don't have fun at other people's expense. That's not fun for anyone. Learn to embrace the dark days. Again, just some practical thoughts I've got it down here, but learn to embrace the dark days. When you can view the dark days correctly, it'll provide correct perspective for the sunny ones. You see, here's the thing. When you have a whole lot of sunny days in a row, you begin to take them for granted. You begin to just think that that's the way life is. But I'll tell you what, you spend a week in the hospital? on your back, you start to get a whole new appreciation for just being able to stand up. For just being able to to sit on the porch and watch the sunset. You know, uh several have commented recently about my back and it's For to me it's really, really good. I I'm uh obviously I still have issues. But uh it's r I I I look at it and say, man, I I am so blessed beyond measure. that I could still work on carpet. That I can still get up and go do things and and when you go through something like that, it begins you just to be able to Go without your eyesight for a little while and you'll enjoy seeing a flower. Flowers that you've walked by every day of the week for the last two, three weeks and you never even notice, but all of a sudden Man, look at how beautiful that flower is. Look how beautiful that sunset is. A simple note of appreciation from somebody is meaningful. Why? Because when you've walked through some dark days, you've learned how to put them in perspective, and it gives you a correct perspective for the sunny ones. Often those who experience the greatest measure of joy are those who have gone through the greatest measure of sorrow. Because they appreciate and they embrace the day of sun and the joy and And those things and they they they all they they're living in that moment and experiencing it and they're thrilled by it. Why? Because they've gone through sorrow, they know what the pain is. And so they're thankful for the simple things of life that many other people would just think are routine. On the way to the funeral today, I listened to Clarence Sexton preach a great message by the same title from the same text. I would encourage anybody to listen to it. My message was already written. I just looked up the reference and saw he had preached a message from it, and I wanted to hear what he had to say. I would encourage you to hear it. But listen. He gave a story about Curtis Hudson that had reached the end of his life, and Curtis Hudson was in the midst of a battle with cancer. that ended up eating his body, he said his body was so deformed at the close of uh at the conclusion of his life that they couldn't have an open casket. because of the damage the cancer and the chemotherapy and all did. But Clarence Sexton said I was there Shortly before his death, and he gave a lot more details to the story, which I don't have time to share, but he said, I asked Brother Hudson If God had answered his prayer for joy, and he said, I am right now the happiest I've ever been in my life. He said, I have more joy right now in the midst of all this pain and all this suffering than I've ever had in all my days. And how is that possible? Because it's not about the circumstances It's about your relationship with the one who gave you the course, who set you on that course, and knowing that and being able to finish your course with joy. And as I listen to Dr. Sexton preached that message. I thought, Dr. Sexton's finished his course. He's at home with the Lord now. His race is done. His time to live, his time to run is is done. You and I don't know when God might come and say, okay, stop. You've finished your course. We reached that time. I want to still be running. I was gonna have you guys run for the whole service. But I'll let you sit down. Here is where I was going to stop them. Say, okay, when God calls me home, I want to still be running. I want to finish my course with joy. High in the Alps, there's a monument that has been raised in honor of a guard who perished while trying to rescue. some stranded tourist. Inscribed on the monument is his name and the words he died climbing. He died climbing. I would like to die running Finishing my race. When God said okay, you're done. Then that's when I'm hoping to stop. The songwriter said, I'm pressing on the upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day. Still praying as I'm onward bound. Lord, plant my feet on higher ground Lord, lift me up and let me stand by faith on heaven's table land. A higher plane than I have found, Lord, plant my feet on higher ground. Beloved, I hope that tonight my goal was to stir in you a desire to finish your race, but not just finish your race, but to do so with joy. To do so with joy. And give you some principles from Paul about how to do that. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?